Da,  of
The World Bank
F0R OmCIL USE ONLY
/t,/ 2,43?v-o,/QZ
NRet No. P-3620-LINI
REPORT ANDRE
OF OHE
PRESIDENTP OF THE
IR ON   BAM  FMO RECONSTRUCTION AD DEVLOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTI  DIRECTORS
ON A
POOSED ON
IN AN ANDMUN EIVALNT TO 15*2 MIION
TO THE
NIGERTAN NTONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION
WM  THE GUARANEE OF THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
OR A
GAS TECNICAL ASSISTANC PROJECT
February 23, 1984
| ioce hmm am ha ua dhui dlsibui. in may be used by hm%&ut ay ine pefammaine sr
IdW I    ecI dtilu If   -t my ad .buwke  ibdci  withue Wed Bmk _mdmdo.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
COrrency Unit - Naira (N)
Calendar 1982     December 1983
US$1                       -              0.67             N 0.75
Hi (100 Kobos)             8            US$1.49            US$1.34
MEASURES AND UNITS OF MEUREHENT
1 gigawatt-hour (GWh)          -        1  illion kilowatt-hours (kvh)
1 kilometer (ki)               -    -   0.62 mile
1 megawatt (NV)                -        1,000 kilowatts
1 ton of oil equivalent (TOE)           43,000 standard cubic feet of gas
ubd                                     Million barrels per day
BSCF                           -        Billion standard cubic feet
BSCFD                          -        Bllion standard cubic feet per day
NSCF                           -        Thousand standard cubic feet
NNSCFD                         -        Million standard cubic feet per day
TSCF                           -        Trillion standard cubic feet
Note:   One standard cubic foot of gas is the amount of gas at sea level at
60F contained in one cubic foot of space.
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
EIB3                    - - Eropean.Investment Bank
ELP                     -      Escravos-Lagos Pipeline
LNG                     -      Liquified natural gas
LPG                     -      Liquified-petroleum gas
NEPA                    -      National Electricity Power Authority  -
NGL                     -      Natural gas liquids
NNPC                    -      Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
FISCAL YEAR OF NNPC
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
NIGERIA - GAS TECHNICAL ASSISTALNCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMNARY
Borrower:                    Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC)
Guarantor:                   Federal Republic of Nigeria
Amount:                      US$25 Nillion equivalent, including capitalized front-
end fee.
*     Terms:                       Payable over 17 years, including 4 years of grace at
the standard var'able interest rate.
Project Description:         The main objectives of the project are to support the
formilation and implementation of Nigeria's national
gas policy and development, to assist in preparation of
the first major infrastructure project in the gas
sector, and to help strengthen the country's
institutional capacity to develop gas resources.
These objectives would be achieved by providing (a)
engineering design, procurement assistance, review of
detailed engineering by contractors, and initial
construction supervision for the Escravos-Lagos
pipeline (ELP) project; (b) asststance in establishmeat
of NNPC's Gas Unit, including training, organization,
and management and operating assistance for the ELP
system; (c) engineering services for future gas supply
expansion in the western delta area, for feasibility
studies for recovering natural gas liquids from f ared
gas and gas streams, and other gas and liquified
petroleum gas (LPG) engineering studies; (d) marketing,
pricing and tariff studies for gas and .PG; and (e)
assistance to NNPC for corporate planning, information
systems, capital budgeting and project evaluation.
The principal ben fits of the project would be adequate
preparation and efficient implementation of the
proposed ELP project, which has high economic priority
and is an essential element of any future gas
development strategy; its instl'ntional development
impact in the gas sector; and Identification and
preparation of other priority projects in the sector.
Project risks could arise frnm delays in implementation
of studies and training programs, as well as
difficulties in administering such a large technical
assistance operation. However,the timing and
combination of components were designed with close Bank
involvement, the preparation of major project
components is advanced, counterpart coordinating units
are being formed and intensive supervision efforts by
Bank staff will be devoted to this project.
This dou h  ba raricthed distbfion and my beused by rcipients only in the peromaneof
theiroirid dutiws Its Oontents mYnqtnoftoew be dbdsd wiathout WorldBnk audwrizatkn



Cost Estimate: 1/
Foreign         Local      Total
-US$ million
Engineering design, procurement assistance,
and review of detailed engineering for ELP                 6.80            2.80       9.60
Assistance in establishment of NNPC's Gas Unit,
including training, organization, and
management and operating assistance for ELP                6.60            1.65       8.25
Engineering services for future gas supply
expansion, and other gas and LPG engineering studies       3.00            0.75       3.75
Marketing, pricing and tariff studies for gas
and LPG                                                    1.30            0.30       1.60
Assistance for NNPC's corporate planning,
information systems, capital budgeting and
project evaluation                                         2.00            0.50       2.50
Total Base Costs                                        19.70            6.00      25.70
Physical Contingencies                                 2.00           0.60        2.60
Price Contingencies                                    3.24            1.40       4.64
Total Project Costs                                     24.94            8.00      32.94
Front-end Fee                                          0.06             -         0.06
Total Financing Requirements                            25.00           8.00       33.00
Financing Plan:
IBRD Loan                                               25.00             -        25.00
NNPC                                                                    8.00        8.00
Total                                            25.00           8.00       33.00
Estimated Disbursements:              Bank Fiscal Year    1985    1986    1987
USS million-
Annual                                                   13.0    7.0       5.0
Cumulative                                               13.0    20.0    25.0
Rate of Return    : Not applicable
Appraisal Report  : No separate report
Map               : IBRD 17140, June 1983
1/ A total of 1,660 man-months of consulting services would be financed under this
project. Cost estimates exclude taxes.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED GAS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN TO THE
NIGERIAN NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORPORATION WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) with the guarantee of
the Federal Republic of Nigeria for the equivalent of US$25 million to help
finance a gas technical assistance project. The loan would be subject to the
*        standard variable interest rate. The proposed loan would be amortized over a
maximum period of 17 years, including 4 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The civilian government of Nigeria was replaced by a military
government on December 31, 1983. The assessment of the Nigerian economic
situation in this report is based largely on the work of a Structural
Adjustment Loan appraisal mission of October 1983, a Public Expenditure Review
mission of May 1983 and an economic mission of May/June 1982. The findings of
the Bank's 1982 economic mission were more fully reflected in a Country
Economic Report (No. 4506-UNI) which was distributed to the Executive
Directors on August 15, 1983. A Bank economic mission is now expected to
visit Nigeria in February-March 1984 to review the current economic situation
and the economic policies of the new Government. Annex I presents selected
social and economic indicators for Nigeria.
Background
3.       Nigeria, with a population of over 90 million in 1982, is the most
populous country in Africa. Among sub-Saharan Bank members, Nigeria accounted
for about 45 percent of gross output and more than 60 percent of regional
investment in 1980. Its GNP per capita is estimated at about US$820 in 1982,
which is twice the average for sub-Saharan Africa. While Nigeria, as a major
oil exporter since the early seventies, enjoyed a substantially improved
resource base from increased oil revenues, it still remains at a very early
stage of development in terms of socio-economic indicators, in which it
compares with other sub-Saharan countries.
4.       Following a civil war and 13 years of military rule, a new federal
constitution was adopted, and an elected civilian government came into power
in 1979. This government (led by President Shagari) was reelected by a wide
margin in August 1983 and his party obtained a majority in both houses of the
National Assembly. How-ever, the Nigerian military took over the government in
December 1983. The justification given for the coup was the extremely
difficult ecor-'uic situation faced by Nigeria and the apparent inability of
the civilian government to come to grips with the economic situation. The new
military government is led by General Buhari.



-2-
Macro-economic DeveloPments
5.       Nigeria has been undergoing a rapid socio-economic transformation
since the upsurge of oil prices in 1973-74, which dramatically altered the
country's resource positioa. During the seventies, Nigeria's development
strategy was based on sustaining a high rate of growth and diversifying the
economy through the resources generated Dy the oil sector. The principle
objective of the policies pursued by the Nigerian decision-makers was to
translate the large oil revenues accrued--about US$100 billiLa in current
prices during the 1973-81 period-into investments in economic, social, and
physical infrastructure. While there have been some 'non-economic' invest-
ments and waste, significant development gains were made in both economic and
social infrastructure. Transport infrastructure, particularly roads and
ports, expanded considerably. Power generating capacity tripled, and refining
capacity more than quadrupled ;ince 1973. Manufacturing grew at an average
annual rate of 12 percent during the 1973-81 period although there was a
highly distorted investment structure. There also has been a rapid spread of
education at all levels; ln particular, the primary enrolliuent ratio which was
about 35 percent in the early seventies has more than doubled.
6.       Developments were not as positive in some other areas.  In
agriculture, although data available are highly questionable, our best
estimates are that overall output remained virtually stagnant during the 1973-
81 period, with production of grains increasing at the same rate as the
population growth rate, but production of root and export crops declining
substantially. Within a decade, Nigeria became a major food importer (US$2
billion of imports in 1981). This was caused partly by sudden and rapid
growth of public expenditures, which outpaced the growth of public revenue,
and which, along with a dramatic expansion in domestic demand, resulted in
high rates of inflation. Inflation coupled with an appreciating domestic
currency pushed up domestic costs of production, thus putting the commodity-
producing sectors at a disadvantage vis-a-vis imports and non-traded goods.
This encouraged diversion of resources from commodity production to services
(including trade and construction). Both agriculture and industry became
high-cost- producers. Trade and exchange rate policies, which were formu-
lated in response to frequent swings in oil export earnings, were largely used
to dampen inflatioaary pressures or ration imports rather than to provide
appropriate incentives to domestic production. This was partly due to the
fact that, as a result of the fluctuations in the world oil markets and their
impact on the balance of payments and government revenues, Nigerian policy-
makers were preoccupied with short-term crisis management. This diverted
attention from formilation of longer term policies to reduce the country's
dependence on oil and to strengthen the domestic productive sectors-
7.       The Fourth Development Plan (1981-85) was prepared in 1980 when the
world oil markets presented a favorable outlook and oil exports for the year
2uoanted to $25 billion. The plan, accordingly, reflected an ambitious
investment program. It Aid not envisage, however, the sudden downturn of the
world oil markets in i981. The sharp decline in oil production by about one-
third (to 1.43 mbd) and oil revenues to $17.7 billion, changed the short- and
medium-term prospects for the Nigerian economy significantly. The Government,
during most of 1981, was reluctant to come to grips with the situation and



continued to count, along with most observers of the oil markets, on a quick
recovery of the oil situation. As the oil market deteriorated further,
imports continued to rise as importers sought to beat the likely impending
shortage of foreign exchange. Consequently, the current account balance in
1981 showed a deficit of about US$5.5 billion, which had to be financed by
drawing down foreign exchange reserves and external borrowing. By the end of
1981, foreign exchange reserves had declined to US$3.9 billion, almost one-
third of the level at the end of 1980, and equivalent to only two months of
imports. Like the balance of payments, public finances were also strained,
since oil revenues account for more than 80 percent of revenues of the Federal
and state Governments. The Federal Government kept its expenditure level in
198i largely intact by deficit financing, amounting to about US$6 billion.
The state governments found it more difficult to cope with the sudden
shortfall in revenues, since they had been rapidly increasing their
expenditures and had limited access to domestic credit. The sharp increase in
their e.penditures had resulted largely from a change in 1981 giving them an
increased shsare of oil revenues and increased financial responsibility for
their development programs. aced with a financing gap, some state
governments resorted to borrowing abroad on a substantial scale. By the end
of 1981, outstanding external debt (including undisbursed) of the state
governments was about US$4.5 billion - slightly more than one third of the
country's total external debt.  Despite the increase in imports and the
attempt to maitntain the level of government expenditures, growth in the non-
oil sectors declined considerably. Along with the substantial retrenchment in
the oil sector, real GDP declined by 5.2 percent in 1981.
8.       In 1982, the oil markets continued to be slack, and Nigeria's oil
output declined further to an annual average level of 1.29 mbd. This coupled
with a softening in oil prices resulted in the value of oil exports declining
to $12.9 billion. Faced with declining oil revenues and mounting foreign
exchange shortages, the Government, in April 1982, took a series of measures,
including: (i) increasing import duties and quantitative restrictions; (i)
restricting imports through introduction of an advance deposit scheme; (iii)
tightening customs administration; (iv) cutting back capital expenditures
about 40 percent including stopping of all new projects; (v) increasing
gasoline prices about 33 percent; (vi) increasing interest rates 2 percent;
(vii) placing a $350 million ceiling on each state government's external debt;
and (viii) restricting capital transfers abroad. These measures were
primarily intended to arrest the further deterioration in the domestic and
external financial situation, al-hough elements such as increases in interest
rates and the price of gasoline also reflect the Government's intention to
redress widespread price distortions in the economy. In addition to these
measures, the Government pursued an exchange rate policy which resulted in a
depreciation of the naira of 19 percent against the dollar and 5 percent
against the SDR during the period 1980-82.However, these various actions were
not successful in reversing the trend in imports, in part on account of the
high level of import approvals during the first quarter of 1982, prior to the
April measures. The current account deficit reached US$7 billion in 1982.
This led to a further drawdown of about $2.3 billion in foreiga exchange
reserves to $1.6 billion at the end of 1982. In addition, arrears in payments
of short-term trade credits of about US$4 billion developed during 1982.
Although payments on longer-term borrowing remained current, this had a



sharp adverse effect on the availability and cost of external borrowing as
well as on the continuation of normal trade transactions.
9.       During 1983 oil exports declined further to an estimated
$11 billion. However, by this time the economic stabilization measures,
coupled with import controls, began to take effect and imports of goods and
services were reduced to about $13 billion - a reduction of 35 percent in
current prices and more than 40 percent in real terms from the levels attained
in 1982. This was financed in part by additional trade arrears of $1 billion
(net of subsequent reschedulings - see paragraph 10 below). The decline in
import levels was accomplished at a major economic cost. The GDP declined by
an estimated 4.5 percent. Inflation was estimated at between 20-25 percent.
Capacity utilization of domestic manufacturing industry declined to less than
50 percent, and shortages of goods were experienced throughout the economy.
Adjustment Policy Issues
10.      At present, the Nigerian economy faces two critical issues: first,
management of the short-run financial crisis and stabilization of the economy;
and second, longer-term bsructural adjustment of the economy by stimulating
productive sectors, lessening dependence on oil, and generating a wider re-
source base. With regard co the short term, the additional measures that the
new military Government took in January 1984 to control imports and domestic
expenditures may help to arrest a further deterioration of the external and
internal financial situation. However, there now remains the need to
eliminate the external arrears, particularly in view of the requirement for
substantial external borrowing in the near future. Discussions with major
overseas creditor banks resulted in the rescheduling of the arrears owed to
these institutions (for confirmation of letters of credit) of about
$1.8 billion accumalated prior to August 31, 1983. Repayments are to be made
over a period of 31 months starting January 1984. As a result of this
agreement, the commercial banks will likely make available to Nigeria a
revolving trade credit of about USS1.0 billion. The remaining documented
arrears (estimated at about $5 billion as of end December 1983) are largely
private non-letter-of-credit arrears incurred under -open-account' inter-
company import financing (partially guaranteed by Export Credit Agencies).
These also have to be rescheduled, and the arrangements to do this are
underway. The IMF, which has been asked to examine the possibility of
assisting Nigeria through an Extended Fund Facility (EFF), is taking the need
for such reschedulings into account in putting together a financing package to
meet Nigeria's minimal external financing requirements for the period 1984-86.
11.     While a rebound in oil revenues would help Nigeria to overcome the
current crisis, it will not resolve the structural issues facing the economy.
More vigorous and consistent policies, beyond the measures taken to restore
financial stability, will be needed to bring about structural change. The
chief requirements comprise: (i) further incentives for efficient export
promotion and import substitution, including appropriate exchange rate,
tariff, and credit policies; (ii) complementary steps to strengthen the
balance of payments through judicious management of foreign borrowing and
external reserves; (iii) continued control of aggregate demand through
prudence in monetary, fiscal, and wage policies; (iv) improving the



composition and implementation of public investment to increase its
efficiency; and (v) taking steps such as raising interest rates and improving
tax collection, to increase private and public savings and investment. The
Government is currently discussing all of these policy issues with both the
IMF and the Bank.
Prospects and Financing of Development
12.      Although Nigeria's exportable crude oil surpluses are expected to be
significantly reduced well before the turn of the century, the bulk of its
foreign exchange resources will continue to come from the hydrocarbon sectors
during the next twenty years. This will probably inelude liquified natural
gas (LNG) for which a major production facility is estimated to come on stream
near the end of the decade and some petrochemical as well as oil exports.  To
maintain a momentum of growth, major structural changes are needed for
adapting che economy to lower levels of oil export earnings. In the short-
run, the volume of Nigeria's oil exports is likely to be determined by the
uncertain conditions of the world oil markets rather than by the deliberate
extraction policies of the Government. It is projected that oil production
would rise to 1.5 mbd by 1986, from its level of 1.29 mbd in 1982.
13.      Terms of trade are expected to deteriorate somewhat in the short run,
and then to improve beyond 1985. However, gains from terms of trade will not
substantially alter the longer-run resource picture or the need for structural
adjustment.
14.      External borrowing requirements in the short- and long-term will be
substantial in view of slow improvements in oil export revenues, the need to
clear payment arrears, and the requirements of major ongoing projects. In
subsequent years (1984-86), the overall deficit is likely to remain large.
Thus, the balance of payments prospects for these years are particularly
troublesome. Large claims on foreign exchange earnings are due in 1984-86,
essentially on account of trade arrears and repayment of public guaranteed
debt. Even under conservative assumptions with respect to imports and
investment, borrowing requirements for the period 1983-86 are estimated at
about US$11 billion. Since the level of reserves is already quite low,
further drawdown can no longer be used as a source of finance for the deficit.
Thus, quick disbursing external borrowings are needed to fill the gap.
Estimates of future debt service ratios have had to be revised upwards in the
light of lower forecasts of oil production and prices and, more importantly,
of the arrears.  The debt service ratio, which has been quite low until
recently (around 9.6 percent in 1982 and 20 percent in 1983) will increase
substantially. If all trade arrears were liquidated during the 1984-86 period
on terms similar to thcse being rescheduled, the debt service ratio would jump
to 35 percent in 1984 before declining to 33 percent in 1985 and 27 percent in
1986. However, it is likely that the trade arrears would be rescheduled over
a longer time period--the government is currently negotiating to reschedule
them over six years with a grace period of two and a half years-in which case
these debt service ratios would be lower. Beyond 1986, the debt service
ratios are likely co come down to 20 percent (with a conservative assumption
of oil production of 1.5 mbd) or less. Thus, while recognizing that Nigeria
has a short-term debt problem, our judgement is that Nigeria is creditworthy



- 6 -
for medium- and long-term borrowing, provided sound economic policies are
pursued by the Government.  Indeed, increased lending that would disburse over
che next few years w1hen the debt service ratio is sharply increased and thus
import capacity sharply reduced, would be a vital component of the economic
reform and recovery program.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NIGERIA 1/
15.      Bank and IDA lending to Nigeria as of September 30, 1983 amounted to
US$2,380.6 million (net of cancellations). The amount of these loans and
credits disbursed as of September 30, 1983 was USS1,068.5 million, leaving an
undisbursed balance of US$1,312.1 million. Agriculture accounts for about
48 percent of total commitments; transport, power, and water supply together
for about 36 percent; and education, indus,ry, urban, and thc post-war reha-
bilitation loan for the remaining 16 percent. There have been only two IDA
credits to Nigeria, for US$35.3 million; both are fully disbursed. IFC has
made five loans to borrowers totalling US$17.3 million, and six equity invest-
ments totalling US$4.9 million. Of these amounts, US$5.7 million have been
repaid, cancelled, or sold. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank
loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments.
16.      As a result of the abrupt decline in earnings from oil, public
revenues have fallen sharply, causing many of the ongoing projects to run into
serio'xs counterpart funding problems. This issue is particularly acute for
some of the state-level agricultura). projects. The Bank, the Federal
Government, and the relevant state governments have taken various measures to
alleviate the situation. The Bank has agreed to the reallocation of proceeds
and revision of disbursement percentages to speed up disbursements, and the
Federal Government has established a development loan stock scheme providing
supplementary loans for agricultural development projects in the states. As a
result, the prospects for state funding of Bank-assisted projects are now
brighter.
17.      In view of the efforts made by the Nigerian authorities and the
serious foreign exchange constraints projected for the coming years, we
propose to continue to respond positively to the Federal Government's request
for additional financial and technical assistance. However, such assistance
would not be fully effective dithout changes in the country's macro-economic
and sectoral policy framework. The Bank is therefore considering, as a
priority, fast-disbursing assistance aimed at supporting specific macro-
economic and sectoral policy initiatives; this includes, in the first
instance, -the Fertilizer Loan approved by the Executive Directors on
September 13, 1983. The Bank is also considering a request from the
Government for a structural adjustment loan.
1/ This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report
for the Small- and Medium-Scale Industry Project approved by the Board
on January 17, 1984.



18.      Provided appropriate policy changes are undertaken, an expanded Bank
lending program would aim primarily at the urgent diversification of Nigeria's
economy to reduce its excessive dependence upon petroleum as a source of
foreign exchange and fiscal revenue. At the samc time, the Bank would con-
tinue to support efforts to raise the productivity of the lowest income groups
and thereby diminish the incidence of absolute poverty in Nigeria. As in
recent years, the Bank would continue to provide major support to agriculture
and rural defelopment, with particular emphasis on institution-building and
transfer of technology. Theae objectives are in line with the Federal Govern-
ment's priorities under the Fourth Plan, which places considerable emphasis on
agriculture, and emphasizes the need to use the proceeds of the country's oil
revenues to increase the productive capacity of the economy, and thereby raise
the standard of living of its population, particularly the rural poor.  The
Bank would similarly support eff-orts to stimulate a well-balanced and inte-
grated development of Nigeria's industrial sector. This approach would entail
a combination of intensive sector work, policy dialogue with the Government,
as well as Bank assistance for industrial projects in crucial subsectors.
19.      Projects in agriculture and industry together should account for a
large share of Bank lending in the coming two or three years. Effective
support for the commodity producing sectors will also require strategic
investment in production-related infrastructure. There are good opportunities
for the Bank to make a significant contribution in energy, water supply, and
highway maintenance. Similarly, there is a strong case for continued lending
for education. In this context, vocational, technical, and teacher training
would be given special emphasis. Finally, the Bank would support the Federal
and state governments' efforts to spread the benefits of growth to the social
sectors. It is envisaged that some of the pressing problems of rapid
urbanization will continue to be addressed through a number of urban
development projeccs focussed on the needs of the urban poor. The Bank is
also considering a request from the Federal Government to assist in overcoming
the country's health problems, and has started a dialogue with the Government
on population issues.
20.      Although annual disbursements have increased from US$52 million in
FY1978 to nearly US$167 million in FY1983, Nigeria's disbursement performance
has lagged behind that of other countries in the region. In the last three
years, undisbursed balances have progressively increased and now stand at
55 percent of the US$2.4 billion in loans and credits approved. One of the
reasons for this development is the rapid expansion of the Bank's loan port-
folio since 1979 as well as the fact that a number of large loans, with
relatively large, planned disbursements during the early years, were extended
during this period, mainly for agricultural projects.  In many cases, however,
disbursements have been slowed by long delays in loan effectiveness and insti-
tutional and management problems. Recently, the inadequate counterpart
funding of projects by Federal and state governments, resulting from lower oil
revenues, has further slowed disbursements. The disbu:sement record in agri-
culture has been mixed. At least until recently, disbursements have been
generally faster in the case of integrated agricultural development projects,
but substantial shortfalls compared to appraisal projections have been
regiscered in the tree crop, forestry, and livestock subsectors. Similarly,
education and power projects have been particularly slow in disbursing. The



- 8 -
Federal Government, with the assistance of the Bank's Resident Mission, is now
carefully monitoring loan disbursements with a view to identifying problems
early and taking corrective action. Also, the Bank has recently agreed to a
series of measures aimed at accelerating disbursements under both ongoing and
new projects (para. 16). These efforts are beginning to show results.
PART III - THE ENERGY SECTOR
Background
21.      In early 1982, the Federal Government, concerned at prospects of a
major shift in the domestic consumption of oil products and a sharp drop in
oil revenues, invited the Bank/UNDP to assess the issues facing the energy
sector. In particular, the assessment identified policy options for gas
utilization, analyzed investment priorities, provided a framework for
technical assistance, and provided advice on the implementation of energy
programs. The subsequent report, "Nigeria: Issues and Options in the Energy
Sector, was distributed to the Executive Directors in August, 1983. The
proposed project, which was identified during the assessment, will follow up
on several of the key recommendations of the energy assessment report, and
provide an opportunity to continue the dialogue with the Government on
sectoral issues. The section below on the energy sector is based on the
fLndings of the assessment report.
Energy Supply and Demand
22.      Nigeria has substantial and diversified energy resources, including
oil, natural gas, hydro potential, coal, and fuelwood. Since the first
commercial discovery of oil in 1956, Nigeria has become one of the world's
leading oil-exporting countries. Proven recoverable oil reserves, onshore and
offshore in the Niger River delta, amount to some ten billion barrels and
undiscovered recoverable oil reserves may total an additional eight billion
barrels. Gas reserves are estimated at about 85 trillion standard cubic feet
(TSCF), including about 43 TSCF of associated gas. Recoverable undiscovered
gas reserves are estimated to be in the order of 65 TSCF, about two-thirds of
which probably would be nonassociated gas. Nigerian gas, particularly
associated gas, is rich and its exploitation would yield considerable
quantities of liquified petroleum gas (LPG). In addition, a heavy oil band
extends from the Benin border in the west to Benin City (see IBRD Map No.
17140).
23.      Nigeria's available electric power capacity was rated at about 2,400
MW in 1982, primarily in generating plants of the government-owned National
Electric Power Authority (NEPA). A significant amount of captive private
generating capacity also exists, mainly as back-up for NEPA. The country's
substantial hydro resources total about 11,500 MW in technically feasible
potential. Carrent installed hydro capacity, however, amounts only to about
760 MW, with installations totalling an additional 1,115 MW now under
construction and projects for a significant amount of new hydro capacity are
under study. The feasibility of any new hydroelectric power projects of major



size should be evaluated vis-a-vis other potentially cheaper power sources,
particularly gas.
24.      The  bost recent estimates of proven, indicated, and inferred coal
reserves range between 270 and 980 million tons. Output reached a peak of
more than 900,000 tons per year in the late 1950s. Interrupted completely
during the Civil War in 1968-69, however, production never fully recovered and
amountec. to only 114,000 in 1981. While potential annmal consumption and
output could total as much as one millior tons, the proper role of coal, vis-
a-vis the use of other energy resources, still needs to be evaluated.
25.      Firewood and charcoal are the main fuels utilized by the country's
*        rural population, supplemented by crop residues and dung in the dry Sudan and
Sahel regions. While the supply of wood fuels is generally ample in the
forested regions of the south, increasingly severe resource constraints are
being encountered in the dry central and northern regions of the country.
26.      Total annual energy consumption in Nigeria is estimated at about
16 million tons of oil equivalent (TOE); commercial energy accounts for about
60 percent of this total. Petroleum products make up about 80 percent of
commercial energy consumption, while the rest is accounted for by gas
(15 percent), hydro and coal. Electricity consumption, while extremely low
for a country with 85 million inhabitants, has incr_eased sharply in recent
years, reaching about 4.9 GWh in 1980. Consumption of petroleum products rose
at an annual rate of about 18 percent from 2.7 million tons in 1974 to 7.5
million tons in 1980. Together, gasoline and gas oil account for over 70
percent of total petroleum consumption in Nigeria; kerosene, mainly used as a
household fuel, accounts for another 17 percent The rapid growth in demand
for petroleum products could seriously affect Nigeria's future ability to
export crude petroleum; and the Government ha - therefore, come to recognize
the importance of substituting gas for liquid fuels to meet domestic needs of
large-volume power and industry users whenever technically and economically
feasible.
27.      The outlook for use of LPG in Nigeria's households and transportation
sector also appears promising. Nigerian refineries have the capacity to
produce over 300,000 tons of LPG per anrum, and possible expansion of basic
and cracking capacity could increase this to about 450,000 tons per annum.
Additional quantities of LPG could also be extracted from natural gas
streams. Although the potential domestic market could reach about one million
TOE per annum over a relatively short period of time, a substantial amount of
the LPG now being produced at refineries is being flared because of inadequate
market penetration. The proposed project would include LPG marketing studies
(para. 62).
Energy Prices
28.      Inter-fuel Prices. Energy prices in Nigeria are determined by the
Federal Government throdgh parastatal entities such as the N±gerian National
Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the National Electricity Power Authority.
While prices of some energy products, principally electricity an-. gasoline,
are close to their economic costs, fuel oil and gas oil prices are low



- 10 -
relative to their border values. LPG, on the other hand, appears overpriced
at the retail level, making it noncompetitive with alternatives such as
kerosene. Inter-fuel price realignments will be needed partly because of
substantial subsidies on kerosene, gas oil, and fuel oil. Such price
adjustments would help shift domestic demand toward relatively abuxndant and
cheaper energy sources such as natural gas and LPG, as well as help maintain
petroleum export levels. The energy assessment mission has recommended, among
other things, that domestic energy prices should be gradually adjusted to
reflect the economic cost of supply for gas and LPG, and the corresponding
value in world markets for petroleum products. The Government agrees, in
principle, on inter-fuel price adjustments to reflect economic costs and to
encourage substituting the use of gas for liquid fuels, and to promote markets
for gas and LPG for the future. These issues are being further discussed with
the Government by the Bank and the IMF. In addition, depending on the outcome
of these discussions, the Bank would pursue energy price adjustments in the
context of the proposed major loans for the Escravos-Lagos pipeline (ELP)
project and the power sector.
The Gas Subsector: Strategy for Development
29.      Resources.  In contrast to highly developed oil resources, natural
gas resources have barely been utilized. Nigeria's 85 TSCF of proven gas
reserves, which equals some 17 billion barrels of oil in energy equivalent
terms, exceeds Nigeria's proven oil reserves.
30.      Only a few nonassociated gas fields are being used at present, and a
substantial amount of the associated gas produced is flared. Associated gas
utilization in Nigeria is a complex issue. Although significant quantities of
associated gas could be used to meet domestic requirements, the cost of
gathering associated gas is relatively high in view of the large number of
small, widely-scattered reservoirs requiring expensive gathering facilities
and the need for compression and treatment facilities. The Government's
policy of putting out all the flares  reflected in its Decree 99, issued in
September 1979, will have to be implemented flexibly and selectively. Gas
reinjection would be justified only in a few cases where required for pressure
maintenance. Since associated gas production varies with oil production, it
needs to be backed up and supplemented by secure nonassociated gas sources.
Natural gas supplies for the domestic market will, therefore, consist of a mix
of associated and nonassociated gas which will vary over time and will have to
be optimized periodically.
31.      Projected Domestic Gas Demand. Nigeria's natural gas consumption in
1981 totalled about 68 BSCF, which represents only a small portion of
potential internal demand. Over the past 10 years, gas sales have grown at a
rate of about 33 percent per annum albeit from a low base. About 95 percent
of total sales in 1981 were made to NEPA's Sapele plant (about 700 MW, steam
gas-fired). In late 1981 deliveries started to the Delta Steel complex at
Aladja. Virtually all other industrial customers are located in the Port
Harcourt, Aba, and Afam area. Sales have been made from fields close to
plants and, accordingly, no major pipeline system exists (para. 35).



- 11 -
32.      With an aggressive market development program, annual gas consumption
could reach 250 BSCF by 1987, over 400 BSCF by 1992, and up to about 600 BSCF
by 1997. In the first instance, gas markets would be determined largely by
location of power plants and would be concentrated in the Lagos and delta
area. The next priority after power would be large, then medium-size,
industrial plants. The power sector master plan, to be updated by NEPA
consultants (Tractionel) under the sixth Bank-supported power project (Loan
2085-UNI), will address the issue of hydro vs. gas for power generation and
could result in building gas-fired plants in place of several proposed hydro
projects. This would increase the market for gas above the estimates
mentioned above. In the commercial aad residential sectors, only customers
located close to trunklines and laterals serving the power and industrial
sectors would be served initially.
33.      At estimated demand volumes for the late 1990s in the domestic
market, Nigeria's proven nonassociated gas reserves alone would last some
70 years; proven and possible nonassociated gas reserves could last about
140 years. Thms, important gas export projects could be pursued without
endangering the long-term supply of gas to the domestic market. Natural gas
could be exported as liquified gas (LNG), by pipeline to neighboring
countries, converted to chemical products or, indirectly, used in processing
or conversion of other products. A one-BSCFD capacity LNG project is
currently being studied by Government consultants.
34.      The success of the market development program referred to above will
depend largely on the ability of the Government and NNPC to address the issues
identified during the energy assessment, namely to build the necessary
infrastructure, Implement pricing policies which would encourage inter-fuel
substitution on an economic basis, and develop its institutional capacity to
manage the gas system efficiently. The proposed project addresses several
aspects of these issues.
Infrastructure
35.      Nigeria's present gas pipeline system is limited.  A 16-inch pipeline
(8 km) has been in operation since 1977 to supply 120 MMSCFD of gas to the
NEPA electricity-generating facility at Sapele (see IBRD Map No. 17140). The
system, which is operated by NNPC, utilizes both associated and nonassociated
gas. A second Sapele pipeline (18-inch, 38 km) to provide 150 MMSCFD to NEPA
from Oben was commissioned in December, 1982. A combined, associated and
nonassociated, gas system also operated by NNPC and rated at 60 MMSCFD-
capacity, serves the Aladja Steel Mill with 14-inch, gas pipelines. An old
distribution system operated by Shell supplies Aba, Afam, and Port Harcourt.
Construction of a pipeline (24 inch, 200 km.) from Warri to the Ajaokuta Steel
complex is close to completion.
36.      Nigeria's highest priority gas project is the ELP system.  This
project would consist of a gas gathering pipeline system in the west and south
of Warri, a treatment plant at Warri, and a transmission system to provide gas
from the western delta to the Lagos area - which is Nigeria's largest market
(see para. 37 and IBRD Map No. 17140). The pipeline system would have an
initial delivery capacity of about 600 MMSCFD, sufficient to meet projected



- 12 -
demands during the early years of operation. The project is estimated to cost
about US$880 million, of which US$630 million would come from external
borrowing. NNPC has approached the Bank, the European Investment Bank and
potential suppliers to discuss financing. The Bank could make an important
contribution to the efficient implementation of this project. The economic
rate of return for the ELP project would exceed 30 percent.
37.      The ELP project will be the backbone of future gas development in
Nigeria. While the project has been under consideration for a number of
years, its implementation has been repeatedly delayed by serious problems,
including inadequate technical and economic studies and project preparation.
These issues have been discussed with the Government and are being satis-
factorily resolved.  In 1982 qualified consultants-Pencol from the U.K.-
were hired to prepare the engineering for the ELP project and tender documents
for turnkey contractors. Between September 1982 and April 1983, Bank missions
held technical discussions with .NNPC and Pencol to better define the scope of
the project, to ensure that enough basic engineering had been carried out to
obtain good responses to the bids, and to ensure that the packages proposed
would be integrated and attractive to suppliers and export credit agencies.
The packages now comprise: (a) the associated gas and nonassociated gas
gathering pipeline system in the west of Warri, the corresponding field
compression/dehydration stations, and the gas treatment plant at Warri
including an administrative complex and utilities; (b) the nonassociated and
associated gas gatheri,g system in the south of Warri, including some field
compression/dehydration stations; (c) main 36-inch diameter, 347 km. pipeline
from Warri to Lagos; and (d) telemetry and telecontrol system, including both
coaxial and microwave systems. Packages (a) and (d) would be tendered
following Bank international competitive bidding (ICB) guidelines.
Prequalification documents have already been prepared with the assistance of
the consultants, reviewed by the Bank and found satisfactory, and bidders
prequalified in accordance with Bank procedures. Bidding for the main supply
and construction contracts is underway, with the main contract awards expected
by late 1983 and early 1984 (see Annex VI). The immediate objective would be
to prevent the burning of costly fuel oil by supplying gas to NEPA's plant at
Igbin (1,320 KW projected capacity, steam gas-fired, located near Lagos),
which is scheduled to come onstream starting mid-1985. Substantial work still
remains to be done under the Pencol contract prior to construction
supervision, including preparation of tender documents for package (d),
evaluation of tenders for packages (a), (b) and (d), negotiation of main
contracts, vetting of detailed design, and procurement supervision. The
activities under the Pencol contract up to initial construction supervision
would be financed under the proposed loan (para. 57). Close involvement of
the Bank in these activities is con;idered importa-at to enszre satisfactory
preparation and implementation of tbe ELP project.
Gas Prices
38.      Government officials have indicated that natural gas pricing to final
consumers would probably be set with a uniform tariff schedule nationwide.
Within the areas to be served by prospective pipeline systems, the range of
delivered costs to power plants and large industrial installations appears
narrow enough to permit implementation of a unified tariff schedule by NNPC



- 13 -
without resulting in serious economic distortions. Industries located in
marginal areas might be required to contribute toward capital costs of
pipeline construction as a way of discouraging connections that are nct
economic.
39.      Associated gas at the flare point-which has no alternative use-may
be collected by NNPC free of charge. Ownership of nonassociated gas, however,
is still unresolved, and the matter has developed into a pricing issue.
Resolution of this issue is a prerequisite to the development of Nigeria's gas
reserves and will require some time to resolve since it must integrate
information still to be developed on markets, cost of infrastructure, and the
mix of associated and nonassociated gas. The Government is aware of the need
to arrive at realistic pricing policies both for the suppliers and the
consumers (para. 28). The proposed loan includes assistance for setting up a
gas tariff structure (para. 61).
40.      Daring loan nego_iations, NNPC and the Bank discussed and agreed on a
schedule for comnletion and implementation of gas purchase agreements with
producers, as well as gas sales agreements between NNPC and the major gas
users (Annex VI). Satisfactory gas pricing arrangements for major gas
suppliers and customers would be a condition of the Bank's participation in
the ELP project.
Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC)
41.      Organization, Functions, and Staffing.  NNPC was established in
April, 1977, as an integrated company designed to facilitate the Government's
participation in control, management, and development of the country's oil
industry. The Government holds the majority share (roughly 70 percent) of the
Corporation in joint ventures with foreign oil companies in exploration and
production. NNPC also does exploration on its own, although on a relatively
limited scale. It owns and manages three domestic refineries and has an
interest in several petroleum product marketing companies. It is also charged
with enforcement of petroleum sector regulations through its Petroleum
Inspectorate. NNPC's seven Board members are appointed bv the Government.
Its eight General Managers, reporting to a Managing Director, are responsible
for personnel and administrative services, finance, project engineering,
product pipelines and marketing, commercial transactions, marine and
transport, exploration and exploitation, and petrochemicals. (See Annex IV
for the NNPC Organization Chart.)
42.      NNPC's senior management is satisfactory, strengthened by several
General Managers who have had previous industry experience. However, NNPC
need_ assistance in training of middle management, professional and technical
staff, particularly in the gas subsector (para. 44).
43.      NNPC's Projects and Engineering Division, which has a staff of about
235, is responsible, among other things, for implementing gas pipeline
projects and would be the implementing entity for the ELP project. Once
completed, the gas pipeline would be operated by NNPC's Commercial Division,
which is in charge of NNPC's Gas Unit. At a later stage, it is likely that
responsibility for all gas operations would be transferred to a national gas



- 14 -
company, the establishment of which is being discussed as part of a possible
restructuring of NNPC into a holding company and several subsidiaries.
44.      So far, NNPC's Gas Unit has operated only small, isolated gas
systems. During the next few years, it will have co develop a staff and an
organizational structure capable of handling the gas development program
planned around the ELP projact.  NNPC has commissioned SNAI, a large Italian
gas operating company, to prepare a technical assistance proposal. The
proposal would include arraagements for adequate management, operation and
maintainance of ELP, and a training program to be implemented during the ELP
construction period in order to ensure that qualified operators are available
and that adequate systems exist when the pipeline system is commissioned in
late 1985 and early 1986. SNAM is capable of providing technical assistance,
training and secondment of staff required by the Gas Unit.  SNAM's proposals,
including training requirements and qualification of the trainees, had been
submitted to the Bank and were discussed with NNPC during loan negotiations.
Assurances were obtained during loan negotiations that, as conditions of loan
effectiveness (Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement), a firm of consultants or a
gas utility company satisfactory to the Bank would be retained by NNPC and a
core group would be established in NNPC to implement the proposals discussed
above. These activities would be financed under the proposed loan
(para. 58). The consulting firm would, during the period of implementation,
propose to NNPC in consultation with the Bank, alternative organizational
struccures for the evolution of NNPC's Gas Unit beyond what would be initially
required for the ELP project and existing systems. The Bank would be given an
opportunity to comment on NNPC's reorganization plans for the Gas Unit, prior
to implementation (Section 3.02(c)(iii) of the Loan Agreement). One of the
first priorities for the consultants will be to hel- NNPC to set up a small
group within the Gas Unit to monitor the series of gas marketing studies
(para. 62 and 63) and ensure their efficient implementation.
45.      Financial Situation.  Since its establishment in 1977, NNPC's staff
has expanded almost twenty-fold. In addition to managing state participations
in oil production, it now has entered refining and marketing as well as
exploration on its own. In the process of growth and diversification of
activities, however, little attention was given to the development of
accounting, budgeting and internal auditing systems and procedures. Audited
financial statements have not been issued for several years. NNPC's financial
managers are in the process of setting up accounting and budgeting systems and
hiring accounting and auditing staff. Uniform financial reporting and
accounting practices have just been instituted for NNPC's joint venture
partners. The magnitude of the task is enormous and will take several years
to complete. NNPC is presently working with Price Waterhouse (U.K. office) to
strengthen accounting systems, train staff and establish more commercially-
oriented procedures. NNPC would require additional assistance to further
develop its corporate planning, cost monitoring, and capital budgeting
procedures. NNPC and the Bank have agreed that consulting services would be
required to assist NNPC in setting up, in stages, an effective corporate
planning, and information and control system, including staff recruitment and
training. Assistance in this regard would be provided under the proposed loan
(para. 64).



- 15 -
46.      NNPC's external auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, are preparing the
198i audit report, which will be submitted to the Bank for review by April 30,
1984 (Section 5.04 of the Loan Agreement). Audited reports for 1979 to 1981
were recently completed and have been submitted to the Bank. These reports,
which are qualified for reasons mentioned above, show that NNPC's assets had
increased rapidly from about N4.7 billion at end-1979 to about N7.2 billion at
end-1981 (see Annex V). NNPC's long-term debt at end-1981 amounted to only
N53 million.  Total equity at the end of 1981 was about N4.7 billion.  NNPC's
equity account, however, varies substantially from year to year due to
transfers of NNPC's oil sales proceeds to, and capital grants from, the
Federal Government.
47.      Total revenues in 1981 reached about N9.1 billion, of which about
N7.6 billion was due to crude oil sales and about N1.3 billion from sales of
petroleum products. While crude oil sales are directly transferred to the
Government, proceeds from sales of petroleum products are for NNPC's own
account and are used to finance operating and other local expenditures. After
payment of petroleum profit taxes, royalties, company income taxes and
mandatory transfers, NNPC had a surplus of about N665 million in 1981. As a
parastatal entity, NNPC has limited control over its surplus, and the surplus
is usually turned over to the Government as addditional transfers.
48.      NNP;''s Investment Program. NNPC's capital budget (Annex V) is
financed by ~he Federal Government and falls within the Government's National
Development 'lans.  The Fourth Plan (1981-1985) included 16.3 billion (about
US$10.5 billion) for NNPC, of which almost 50 percent was allocated to NNPC's
share of joint venture investments in petroleum exploration, development, and
production. Most of the balance was allocated to petroleum projects for the
domestic market. NNPC's investments in joint venture petroleum projects for
1981 and 1982 have been within 10 percent of the original plan estimates.
Because of financial constraints, however, the allocation for domestic
projects is being revised downwards. The high priority of the gas development
program, including the ELP project, has been confirmed in a public sector
investment review, which is being carried out by the Bank in cooperation with
the Nigerian Government.
49.      Since NNPC's resources are likely to be more constrained than in the
past, the formulation of its investment program will require considerably more
analysis and a better assessment of priorities based on economic
coasiderations. NNPC is not ready, at present, to perform this role and its
staff will require considerable assistance, as well as support by senior
management, to establish the capability to appraise projects and establish
their relative priority. This process will take time, however. As a first
step, NNPC with the help of qualified consultants to be financed under the
proposed loan (para. 63), will establish guidelines and procedures for project
appraisal and will train project economists to become the core of a future
project evaluation unit. Results of this work would be reviewed no later than
March 31, 1985 (Section 3.04(b) of the Loan Agreement).
50.      NNPC has not used foreign borrowing extensively to finance its
investment program. However, the decline in oil revenues has limited its
access to Government funds and it is now anticipated that NNPC will have to



- 16 -
borrow USS630 million for the ELP project during the Plan period (1981-85) in
addition to about US$500 million for other projects. Should NNPC require
assistance in mobilizing financial resources from export credit agencies and
commercial financial institutions, the Bank would be prepared to discuss co-
financing arrangements in connection with the proposed ELP project.
Role of the Bank
51.      Bank involvement in Nigeria's energy sector has until recently been
limited to the power subsector, to which six loans totalling US$402.5 million
have been made. The main objectives of the Bank in the power sector were to
contribute to consolidation of sector development and operation through
establishment of NEPA, to help make NEPA financially viable by tariff
increases, and to strengthen the competence of staff through training.
Although progress has beea made toward achievement of these goals, serious
weaknesses affecting reliability of the system remain. The energy assessment
report addressed these issues and remedial measures are being discussed with
the Government and NEBA.  The report also emphasized the importance of giving
careful consideration to basing iuajor power expansion largely on the use of
natural gas. In the future, in addition to assisting the development of
domestic gas infrastructure, the Bank is also exploring the possibility of
providing assistance to help develop the export of liquified natural gas.
52.      Pursuing the energy assessment mission's recommendations on gas, the
proposed gas technical assistance project aims to: (i) ensure adequate
preparation and efficient implerentation of the ELP Project which is the most
important infrastructure investment required to ensure gas development on a
large scale; and (ii) build NNPC's institutional capability to supervise
construction and to operate the ELP facilities, and to plan for future gas
development. Initial steps would also be taken under the project to
strengthen NiPC's overall budgeting and resource allocation systems and
procedures.
53.      The proposed project would be the initial step required to provide a
framework for NNPC to undertake the long-term effort required to develop
Nigeria's gas sector, and may lead to a long-term relationship between NNPC
and the Bank. In a period of financial uncertainties wher. the availability of
funds in NNPC for foreign expenditures may vary considerably from year to
year, the assurance of Bank financing for the foreign exchange cost of the
studies required to support policy and project development will ensure that
continuity and priority for these activities are makntained. The role of the
Bank. however, wili go much farther than being the provider of funds. It is
expected that, during project implementation, the Bank will continue to assist
NNPC and the Government in the analysis of the recommendations of consultants,
in monitoring the results of the various activities, and in defining steps for
implementation (Section 3.04(b) of the Loan Agreement). The Bank would also
serve as a sounding board for important policy decisions in the energy sector.
54.      The framework provided by the proposed project, as well as the
presence of the Bank in the early stages of the ELP project, will help
mobilize the financial and other resources required for that operation. By
providing funds for project identification and preparation, the proposed loan



- 17 -
would enable the Bark to have a greater impact at earlier stages of NNPC's
project cycle and to assist in the definition of investment priorities.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Origin
55.      Following the Bank's energy assessment mission in early 1982, and
several subsequent meetings between NNPC and the Bank concerning technical,
economic and procurement aspects of the ELP project, the proposed project was
appraised in April 1983. It is the first step in setting up the framework in
which a comprehensive gas development program could be formulated (paras. 52
and 53). Negotiations on the proposed project were held in October 1983.
Supplementary data on the project can be found in Annex III.
Project Description
56.      The project has the following main components:
(a) engineering, design, procurement assistance, and review of
detailed engineering for the ELP project;
(b) assistance in the establishment of NNPC's Gas Unit, including
training, organization, management and operation of ELP;
(c) engineering services for future gas supply expansion, and other
gas and LPG engineering studies;
(d) marketing, pricing and tariff studies for gas and LPG; and
(e)  assistance for NNPC's corporate planning, information systems,
capital budgeting and project evaluation.
These components are described in more detail below.
(a) Preparation and Hanagement of the ELP Project
57.      While NNPC's contract with Pencol (para. 37) regarding the ELP
project provides for supervision of construction, the proposed project will
cover costs only until the review of the contractors' detailed engineering has
been completed and construction of the ELP project has begun.  The proposed
technical assistance project would finance about 540 man-months of Pencol
services (including 130 man-months of retroactive financing from June 1, 1983
to the date of loan signing) for the basic engineering of the ELP gas system,
procurement assistance, and review of detailed engineering prepared by
contractors, up to initial construction supervision. The bulk of construction
supervision for ELP would be included in the ELP project, for which NNPC plans
to request a Bank loan.



- 18 -
(b) Establishment of NNPC's Gas Unit
58.      As previously mentioned (para. 44), NNPC will have to undertake a
major program to train staff and develop an organization capable of handling
the existing gas system and the major development programs planned around the
ELP project. A technical assistance proposal prepared by SNAM was submitted
to the Bank at negotiations. About 550 man-months of consultant services
would be provided under the proposed loan. The consulting firm would, during
the period of implementation, propose tj NNPC in consultation with the Bank,
alternative organizational structures for the development of NNPC's Gas
Unit. The firm would also be commissiobed to provide assistance through the
secondment of staff during the initial years after system commissioning to
help manage, operate and maintain ELF and the other gas systems.
(c)  Engineering Services for Future Gas Supply Expansion and
Other Gas and LPG Engineering Studies
59.      One of the major issues which has delayed the ELP project in the past
has been che determination of the optimum supply mix of associated and
nonassociated gas. Several studies have been carried out which indicate that
the issue is complex and has more than one solution, depending on the future
volume of oil production, LPG markets and anticipated market growth. The
technical and economic analysis carried out by Bank staff and consultants
indicates that the most reasonable approach is to develop the supply in
successive stages. The first stage for which the gas gathering and related
facilities are being planned, and which has been analyzed adequately, will
meet the expected level of project demand during early years of operation.
Additional fields would need to be tied in to meet the growth of demand
expected beyond that date. The proposed project includes technical services
to enable NNPC to carry out cost comparison studies to decide the sequence of
field development and to negotiate supply contracts with joint venture
companies. This component will also include a feasibility study for
recovering natural gas liquids from flared gas and gas streams, and other gas
and LPG engineering studies, including pilot projects, to be agreed between
NNPC and the Bank. A total of 250 man-months has been allocated for this
component.
(d) Gas Marketing Strategy, Pricing and Related Studies
60.      As indicated earlier, the rate of development of natural gas and LPG
will depend largely on NNPC's and the private sector's ability to develop
markets. In this regard, NNPC and the Government would require information on
potential markets, price strategies, incentives, etc., before they can map out
a marketing strategy that would maximize the economic benefits of gas over
time and form a framework for investment decisions by both the public and
private sectors.
61.      During appraisal of the proposed project, agriement was reached on
the following studies, and a tentative schedule for completion of tasks
(Annex VI) was agreed upon during loan negotiations:



- 19 -
(a) natural gas development plan along the Escravos-Lagos Pipeline,
including a survey of future power and industrial requirements
(size, location, timing), as well as an analysis of smaller
industrial and commercial markets along the transmission line
which would be supplied economically once the main pipeline is
completed (about 20 man-months);
(b) LPG development, particularly in the transport and
residential/commercial sectors, including implementation and
monitoring of pilot schemes (about 100 man-months); and
(c) pricing and tariff studies to assess the level and structure of
pricing for natural gas and LPG that would encourage consumers
to convert from liquid fuels to gas and LPG efficiently
(about 30 man-months).
62.      It is anticipated that these studies would be completed within the
construction period of the ELP project. Each of these should form the
framework for future development and include considerable economic/technical
feasibility work. Bank staff would be closely associated with implementation
of the studies and periodic meetings would take place with the consultants and
NNPC to ensure consistency and monitor progress. Additional studies to be
undertaken under the project may be submitted to the Bank up to June 30, 1984
(Section 3.04(a) of the Loan Agreement).
63.      NNPC will form a small group which will be in charge of:
(i) preparing terms of reference in close consultation with Bank staff;
(ii) acting as counterpart for the consultants and monitoring progress for the
studies; and (iii) preparing, with Bank staff, proposals for the
implementation of the consultants' recommendations. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that the establishment of this core group and its staffing
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness
(Section 7.01(b) of the Loan Agreement). A timetable for completion of these
studies was agreed during negotiations (Annex VI). No later than March 31,
1985, NNPC and the Bank shall discuss and review the results of these studies
and agree on an implementation plan for the preparation of future gas projects
(Section 3.04(b) of the Loan Agreement).
(e) Institutional Assistance to NNPC for Planning, Information
Systems, Capital Budgeting and Project Evaluation
64.      Assistance would be provided for the establishment of an effective
corporate planning unit for NNPC for financial planning and computer systems,
including staff training.  This component would also finance a program to
strengthen NNPC's capability to evaluate projects and establish priorities
within NNPC's overall capital budget and investment plan. Preparation of
guidelines and procedures and training of project economists and financial
analysts would be included. A total of 170 man-months of consulting
assistance has been included under this component. The results of these
activities and the implementation plans shall be discussed by NNPC and the
Bank no later than March 31, 1985 (Section 3.04(b) of the Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
Cost Estimates
65.      Total project costs are estimated at US$33 million, of which the
foreign exchange component would amount to US$25 million, or 76 percent of
total costs. The proposed loan would finance the full foreign exchange costs
plus the Bank front-end fee of US$0.06 mitlion; NNPC would finance all local
costs. Price contingencies for the foreign exchange component are based on
assumed inflation of 8 percent per annum in 1983, 7.5 percent in 1984,
7 percent in 1985, and 6 percent in 1986. For local costs, price
contingencies have been estimated at 15 percent in 1983, 13 percent in 1984,
12 percent in 1985 and 10 percent thereafter (based on the data of April 1983
for cost estimates). Allowance has been made for physical contingencies
totalling about 10 percent for all project components. The major cost
component -  engineering services for the ELP project -- is based on a
contract with Pencol (para. 57) which was selected by NNPC on the basis of
proposals by this company and two others. Pencol's costs of about US$18,000
per man-month are in line with cost for comparable specialized services, a
significant part of which has to be undertaken in Nigeria. The man-month cost
estimates for other major project components -- engineering services for gas
supply expansion studies for the ELP project, technical assistance for NNPC's
Gas Unit, preparation of feasibility studies for future gas and other
hydrocarbon projects -- are based on previous Bank experience with such
activities and are in the order of USM15,000 per man-month.
Project Implementation and Procurement
66.      The proposed project would be implemented by NNPC's Project
Engineering, Commercial, and Finance and Accounts Divisions over a period of
about three to four years. The Project Engineering Division would continue to
be in charge of preparation of the ELP project and Pencol would be the main
foreign counterpart and provide most of the technical services required. The
Commercial Division would be responsible for the consultants providing
institutional assistance to the Gas Unit, the feasibility studies on gas
marketing, and assistance in project evaluation. It is expected to rely
principally on SNAM, a large gas utility firm with experience in the
construction and operation of gas systems for these tasks. The Finance and
Accounts Division, with the assistance of specialized consultants, would be
responsible for the financial and planning advisers. Taking into account the
magnitude of this technical assistance effort, project supervision time of no
less than 30 man-weeks per annum would be provided for the period of
implementation of this project.
67.      All consultants to be employed for institution-building and training,
and for preparation of feasibility studies and detailed engineering for future
gas projects, as well as other consultants to be employed under the proposed
project, shall be required to have experience, qualifications and terms of
employment satisfactory to the Bank and NNPC, and shall be selected in
accordance with Bank guidelines (Section 3.02(a) of the Loan Agreement). The
completion date for the project would be December 31, 1986, and the closing
date December 31, 1987.



- 21 -
Disbursements
68.      Disbursements would be made from the loan account for:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of foreign
consultants; and
(b) 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of training and
related equipment.
Advance Contracting and Retroactive Financing
69.      As mentioned above, the contract covering the principal project
component--for engineering conceptual design, procurement assistance, and
related services for the ELP project--has already been awarded by NNPC to
Pencol following procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 37). The Pencol
contract amounts to about US$19 million, of which about 70 percent would be
foreign exchange costs. NNPC has requested the Bank to include in the proposed
loan up to US$6.8 million for the foreign exchange component of this contract
(up to initial supervision of construction) - which is the amount estimated
for eligible services remaining to be carried out beyond May, 1983. Pencol
has performed previous assignments satisfactorily on Bank-financed projects
and is acceptable to the Bank as a consultant for this project. Financing the
Pencol contract would allow the Bank to monitor closely the critical element
of engineering services for the ELP project. NNPC/Pencol contract provisions
have been reviewed by the Bank, and necessary amendments have been discussed
and agreed upon with NNPC at loan negotiations and the amended NNPC-Pencol
contract is now satisfactory to the Bank.
70.      Taking into account the factors mentioned above, the project would
include a provision for advance contracting to finance the foreign exchange
portion of the Pencol contract for eligible services performed after the end
of May, 1983, up to an amount of US$6.8 million. An additional US$2 million
of advance contracting would be allowed for institutional development which
requires a long lead-time. Taking into account payments under the Pencol
contract from the end of May to loan signing, up to US$2.5 million of
retroactive financing would be provided under the proposed loan (Schedule 1
paragraph 4(a) of the Loan Agreement).
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting
71.      Under its normal practices, which were reviewed during appraisal,
NNPC would keep separate accounts for the proposed project. These project
accounts would be audited in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Bank.
72.      It was agreed during negotiations that NNPC's audited financial
statements for 1982 would be submitted to the Bank by April 30, 1984
(para. 46) and that subsequent annual financial statements as well as the
project accounts, would be audited by independent auditors and the report
would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months after the close of
each fiscal year (Seccion 5.02(a) and (b) of the Loan Agreement). Beginning
August 31, 1984, NNPC would also prepare and submit to the Bank semi-annual or



- 22 -
more frequent progress reports on project implementation, project accounts,
and unaudited interim financial statements of NNPC (Section 3.05(b) and
5.02(c) of the Loan Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
73.      In order to improve utilization of Nigeria's energy resources, there
is a need to accelerate development of Nigeria's enormous gas resources --
which could play an important role in the country's energy future and overall
economic development. A major benefit of the proposed loan would be that it
would assist in ensuring adequate preparation and efficient implementation of
the ELP project, the backbone for future gas development, and make it possible
to identify and prepare other priority gas and LPG projects. It would help
develop Nigeria's institutional capabilities by helping set up NNPC's gas
unit, as well as by providing assistance to improve NNPC's financial
management and planning operations.
74.      The project risks that can be identified would be potential delays In
implementation of studies and training programs, as well as risks that
consultants would not be properly supervised given the magnitude of the
technical assistance effort. However, since qualified consultants have been
selected for key services, counterpart coordinating units are being formed,
and terms of reference have already been discussed and agreed upon with NNPC
on several other components of the project, care has been taken to minimize
these risks. Intensive project supervision efforts being programmed by the
Bank would also help lessen the risks mentioned above.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Nigerian National Petroleum
Corporation and the Bank and the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Federal
Republic of Nigeria and the Bank, and the report of the Committee provided for
in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.      Special conditions of the project are listed In Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the loan are that the
Borrower shall enter into a contract with consultants to assist the Borrower
in developing a training program, to prepare proposals for alternative
organizational structures, and to set up a group to monitor the studies under
the project, and that the Borrower shall establish a core group and assign
appropriate counterpart staff to work with the consultants on these tasks
(Section 7.01 of the Loan Agreement).
77.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 23 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
78.      1 recomend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachbuents
Pashingcon, D.C.
February 23, 1984



REST COPf AVAILAiLE                                               24-aSe 1of 5
sm9_er                    S.- O  F 
_,~~~~~~~~~~~~90- Swe                     g         92 63-4t
3=r*       $¢f              923.8               6      29t-                                            2
VW Mm cAr  t M  ')     2      .        *               X       0              72 -8 -3
cmemwo    la co_6 292.0
goo      or  5O1  iiNGM                                   70-0           *      9                       4S 3_
C 23 * 3, 16-~~~~~~~~ 3 z.
l196-7t                                           997 1                                            7Z,D
t e t58 ~~~~~2S0                   133-                                                      4 2- "9
_cs ST O AL          D L-                                 _.
65    IU AV  'Wf-2. 
TOSM                                                      4 ..               15-            ;a e
SAULF                          52        . .&                     ,
S"   sAM (FM tims            253         2. 
IrIIUL                                                                                 . .. Al(T M
''-                 72         6
(1969-n-:o. an.0 *2* 1                                              ''
''0          40                 L.



BEST CW^7Y IiVAILABLE
ANNEX I
- 25-                                                  Page 2 of 5
ICERLXA                - SOCIAL 1501CA.T0S DA-.A S$EET
XIClA                                8EFPME~  GROUPS (CW&CE     AVEUGES) /a
:nST                     CHaS1 IECEST ESTIMAE) lb
,lblblb                                 RIDGDULE  LN ODLS 
ISsi-      k;lo.- £StLgLUb= -     AFRICA S. of SAHARA    5. AfCA & 1ID EASr
AnsWsrnu cRULLIL%r eArluS
lLIARY:  TOTAL                    30.0       37_u        9d.u               972                     tb9.6
dALE                   :6.uJ       474J         ._              103.1                   10.8
FL.LL                  27_u.   0  -,-0                           8U 5                    72.4
SEC03;DAAY: TOTAL                 4-0         4.U        1e40               17.2                    41.7
MIL:E                   6.          6.U         ..               23.5                    52.8
ra-La                   1.0         3.0         ,.               14.2                    31.2
VOCATIOXAL (Z OF SECUWZAY)          4.8         d.5         3.1J/             5.2                     10.3
PtLPIL-TrEaCR uiTO
I&LIhARY                          30.0       34.0          ..              42.9                     31.9
SECO:;RY                          19.0       '1.)          ..              23.7                     f3.3
ADLT LIHNACY RAThE CZ)              15.I/e       ..        3.0               37.1                     43.3
PASSEScEa CMSlTdOUSgaS  KPP         0.6         0.9         1.4fL            18.8                     18.0
RAOLO gECEAVEtSS/l1OLSL'D PUP       24o        19S3        66,1              97.8                    t38.1
TV RECEIVERSITHOUSA=D POP            0.0        1.1         5.3               18.6                    45.6
dOlS?APEs (-JAILY CGEMAL
LZl-2CST-) CXL8LArIOS
PER tHOLSASD POPULATIOi            5.5        4S8          6-91f            1d.2                     31.0
CE,;;LxL AaL Arz:aAs±a/CaPIA                                04                U.6                      1.7
rorAM LAMat FUdar  (fleES)      217dlO      25992.0    3L635 u
FeL'uL  (nnCS4r)                 41.1        4U.6        3S9o              36.1                     10.7
AAtlCULTL:itE (2PCET)             71.0       62.tJ       54.0               56.d                    42.5
LsUUSTia (PEACiST)                1O0        14.0        19.U              17.5                    27.8
flATICLEATlwU IALE (P4JCEIT)
TU-AL                            S6Z.2       39'3        36.1               37.u                    25.6
MALL                              5U J       47.3        44.0              47.1                     45.4
FEUALE                            34.4       31.5        28.4              27.0                      5.6
£WOMAIC DEPENDESCY RATIO            1.1         1.2         1.4               1.3                      1.8
niEs or m:ran  r20
REcEIVED BY
RICUEST 5Z OF iJOSEIS...
SIdEST 2S1 OF IOiIEWS H O-IS---
LICMST 2O: OF HOUSEhOLDS S                                 .*
LAMEST- 4a; OF IOUSEIOLDS                       ..
POVEKf TAG   GROW
ESTL.azED ABSOLaTua POVEIRY lSCuSE
LEVEL (USS PEA CAP:TA)
lUABA:.                                        ..       696.U1k            534.2                   276.1
KliRAL                                                  341.0/k           255.9                    177.1
ESTINAfO BLATIVE PIVECCY L -W35
LtVEL (US  FMc CAPITA)
URBAN                              .,          .,       621.0/k           491.5                    400.0
tUB.                                .          .        20747wi           188.01                   283.3
ESTL1IATED POP. BELU ABSOLUTE
PcvE&TY IlQIE LEVEL CZ)
UR&A.                                                                         ..                    22.0
RURAL                                                      .                                        30.8
dOT AVAILABLE
iOT APPLICABLE
S 0 T E S
1a rhe group averages for each indicator are populat±on-weighted arLthmetic mans. Cowerage of countries ag the
Indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted. Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; Data for 1970- between 1969 and
1971; and data for - tst Recent Estimate  between 1979 and 1981.
Ic  1974; Id 1977; lc 1962; /f 1976; Ig 1972; Jh Including e-Morth Cameroon under British adinListratLon; Ii Certain
flelddof study previously classifLed under other second level education of vocational or technical nasure are now
reported under general education; Li 197S: /k 1982.
May 1983



BIEST COPY AVAILABLE
- 26 -                                                                    Page 3 of 5
td2121cmes -  mc    TM3222
112311  *2.291.421                 2                      1     bI .              1    a -1101.--.               ad.2 .1.91.  -F   ~ 3. 
,W  9W).  1. n t2.              492  2 - .7   o..             21 ---F21  a422                 .23       192.                               3 I 
E.=                               Si 9111   2... 2 -   14199c..99   2......  l .1    ll2  3t9  .1...... .3 -~ 3.4.937..  32    23 .3 h.
31.911 3.. W
am C   3hl. 9122  32W219   .3..13    .                  111   92 4-21   12.41    2.3. 193*tr 11.
19.- ma 1912  4.                                                                    29 -wlt     t m  291  92--     9..3.21.441140 by  -m  *1 391-m21
d--31..1   11.211- -               93321        ..111                       .49    W2   9i1          91  .111   .3.313.1~3   3
19    ftm 99                                                                  3...I.  W1.22l32 -2P- LT92  13323- 3141.  321
rw                                 WX-- 1444-~~~~~~~~~~2W   -331 4249  7221   233.4   .243131   W
lp   -    q     -'39........2213c1   1..                                      l3t.2393  .1..3.2..3291                      .3.. 391.  m
MI   uiiiLY.  1=       11  .13921 -p- 9.1           2l(29-3.1.:9.b3.2. 223. 12.91.1. .3...2991.9 s-2  2waLw  .232
190.190.[gma  9142                                                                       7l   .. .99I"&          . g pI-1u.1  3322421  391122.l1  291143.
391..5  -91921           3121  .212    ..213.3l  722.c...T11                                            .  .29u3. -.99) 9912* .32.7 1911   12429   1
1990. 19723. ma 1111 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                              -24 *. 1321.1  2 a.39    -W,-& 3111.1-19  9W31`1*t. ma 3939
RI   7- .                              .-1. Aim99. 4-2..14396                       9W912 1 -   .121 -1. - 732.1  -d -L 4.91c  .9413-g
4.11.                                                            332~~~~~~~~~~S-. 3.w911  4112414 97 231.       -4  -d-.
91*1. 3.1.1so  Tr-AL                                                                     dm..1  -323.. .9W-  .d19..1321
2Gm  2.2C    pl.u. 33J.t121  .3  %-."1  1191....it..1...                           .       .t1.  141   y-lu-t3   21442
31.      "S13.2. 1 - 3.7 b.2 22   --ug129 312   -3392.21.1W,                  271  ci. 1-      9     -            39..3..94331.
ci.   1       .S   .9.2c.12   1 2   .3.11.I. 3  7.)                                   31131. t.32.21.11.. 2-.1131  .xI9W~ .12912-22....
723. 139 Wp  I-LU fx  .-.112  3991-- 3. 2*93. -W.1                              1.29934  1
2-.1.3.2P-W31- .2211t11! 9114.-1 3.1.-1 12    -1 1.1  911                          W3    21.2-.12  3.-.11249399      ...232  1   2.
31929 III 91919312921 113     1=     -LTa. maf-. 23 11 -____
2222   11*. 22222   *1   29*124 17.1132221173.1                         .11.  gtE ..3  .2.
4.21. 2 I    ahl22121.  129239.21.  91  11                                         3.1   9l      .9..1 -Pi-.2..  C323  212.1.1319 m   3.-IL
9.9*3122. .    123.3  122212 -        12- 917  13  22235                              21912311. 0I 23. 733%-27 1.2.                _ p23916. 2   .d3.
9  1.3.,11.33--a .21 m. 2  3 3953.42.7199                                          2113  1913199.92..:.3917  11...111.. f3491
-- .  23 p.1.521 1322 7.1  2232..132. 321.  4172912            2.3 U2.3224. 412L2.3t3.  -.9           I-3    -V -1-1.  .2123.. 222
2.221112  112 2. 3.912.1     -L..                                                      2.3.  1*2 ppI2. -..1 14-22.1       tl 9.911 .2"9 .1-1  WO  92C
ma22 m1.   .I. 312.12.2.  1.2  -Itl 21   2 .321.9   4412..1   2144
32.192. . 22... C..  I -  214..  0.1 C1) 3.*.r 1  (1-                            601291   392t 12- 1 9W132.1 ...s91    pt1    99*1* 92229t4..
w=.  131293mm2.2.-2   a  9m9.*  32..1.1211I R"=.3==231 931415 ALL                                                                      3 .3491.3          -d
01329329 321 23t 2911114    H 2   11939  3.3 2....3  .2 .-" 141--Pp Uc
9.13 31-9.1.23..; 1190.t19.0. ma 19W 4.2 -.                                                         p.L. P
3.9.1.1122; III.. 1319.-  £931 4.1..                          11333111191 191=11193 .ct 3.21..11-1 1.l. 39.  ma
.9  Krb ~ 6-~ 3199. 3t 249.31                       13 P *-L39 21                 11119  ba2.2.-  ft L
~ 3.92.4 11 .3 ..3.91..2..3912112 .g.-.121f 12                   3144.% , b.2..2.  9.11   1992    -W     I 41 -.91  .  39.1.  2.9-R    41
299291.                                                                       9 191193.  ..b-3.3.13 C1...22.) -9 32.1...  .2 9.421   -.-
31112 322.11 - 3.9  23.2.2  .2 133-4 .11.  --3122.   72212                     2.-.2.  92113.121.3  9.1.: ..9..--.23,349  .212
b..321-9 -9a                                  Um:Wf"S          .10 1211212*12LAM              . -  29133...  1.99   1.1.3   .l9                     .p912.
-my!33.2.2  .   .91219.394.11114123 mae                                                1..-41r 2123.9.21...  .9   2..   I
4.29.                                                                      142L11_ 39                         g        1p(9-           .   u1   b-f-
739  9312.193721311 b111  31.33-d - qt3..tl   - .3141. -SCf1.   22 (2-.133 -    - 121..211 91212.  p.-.c. 12-119931
.1121  ma 33.3.. 1. .2329. A1.3  .        91131  -11114 1021  2.14. 3234.             929.3*1.  191. 313  ma.191 .  -.. m
499111213   .1   9211j              a2...3  111a2.                                    111(1312 =        Id.-3.93 3.229 3 3.3d112t19  2222   ftm.329291.
7         Sc22    54 I.2.12   I739  3 u11 292131211.1  .12114-191222.292      99929.  .*239.29 -vLL-193 mat                                             
9113.c3.14-1 .11;  399195.392 ma  9W  429                                              -fe 312121.319m 1991 3IO',2-1b2-931a.2 1 V1.3.-2.21  I.
9.12 237.21-.  .. 2.9l  22 1 4.21.1 r24992.                                         3921223%3-Id.319(....3) -111. .1.. m   2...! -CI-  a3111
3113  3 _1.1.  .23412t1i-     r1.1 IS 3.L   .2.)932.. .   51..                       192 2970.a maccu   2913- .2 . 13b..   muut    29   .211.1.  .9
4.21.                                                               7219W 370701127(b31    "-.p-                 2
2.13.9 .2   d.791(3.W    112. 2991.; 1990. 97   a  93I.3                          93.11.141..
3.292    2.1293.2  29?  913.1£ ..1c  412102  12931.34W.114                        .1931.2. ...72. Kr.. "19-.li-2222 319ft2. 4.r9..m921
....-  1.12 P-P.. (--.29221..12.).221.2...31.1-3211911 13912  1~.2 .13L.1..2.  23' 21us,1.2.
.1.2-3  21129 3922213   *2 9122 191.p.1.21a.-d          -h    19.                                           f-2913.3.9   blab-21237  13*f 11..11. 1.31  22.  912.
r_21311   9            L122 -d21.9.213l2  122.          391 22 212 = .2L.9  33Cc1  19 10.9111-.,29131..R   .312
In~  91.1.17...91.34 93.9212*3 31123-A     1  -2330 2-911                  22M229IMI.3   33  2112   .232  3C   29   31222-21
_9.3._ 2. 291  192 2- 231*123.1j24.1  1332 112p 9.c12-  P             3               ma 3;.P.  - 121   *...1.129.m   29)a21.1
.29.2  13 93211.1-4.3113.. -t- -.p.4*4.331.913 -9  43
117 1121.4" 2. 21112313  -a 41.2a1.  .1 34*3   111.12       -31231  .2                                                 F--.c   ma 2121. a.9   11
9..3-. t.3   ma 2.22311.97 --23.91   l72           .323  . 2 31                                                   22322.124.1-171.w ma 331.21       .99213
w911. ma .219   ...I        29..29  9



- 27 -
AMN I
Page 4 of 5
ECOHONIC INDICATORS            -
GROOS 55ATIONAL PRWODUCT IN 1982                                      ANNU0L RATE OF GROWSTH,S Constant Prices)
US$ Mln. 1I/    S               1975-80                   1981 /2/              1982 /I
03P at Market Prices               71,402        100.0               3.5                    -5.1                  -4.8
Gross Domestic Investment          18,330         25.7               1.2                      S.9                 -1.4
Gross National SaVing              10,419         14.6               1.2                   -46.5                 -52.1
Current Account Balance            -7,341        -10.3                -                       -                     -
Exports of Goods,NFS               13,657         19.1               5.5                   -39.8                 -14.3
Imports of GOOds,NFS               18.743         26.2               6.3                     11.4                 13.0
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982
Value Added /1/                 Labor Force /3/               V.A. PER Worker
US$ Iln.         S                 Kln.          S                 USS           S
*iriculture                        16,038         22.4              19.6          59.8               878          40.2
-mdustry & Mining                  27,627         38.5               6.2          18.9              4,320        19T.5
Serv$ies                           28.086         39.1               7.0          21.3              4,012        183.4
Totalllverage                 71,751        100.0              32.8         100.0               2,188        100.0
GOVERNMENT FIK ACE
General Government                                   Central Goveroment
CS Kln.)       . of GDP                              tR NIB.)       S of GDP
1982 /1/  1982 1/:  1979-81 /4/                      1982 /I/  1982 /1/ 19t79-81 141
Current Receipts                   13,352     27.2          37.2                         7,341      16.0          21.5
Current Expenditure                 9,265      18.9          17.9                        4,866       9.9          10.2
Current Surplus                     4,08T       8.3         19.3                         2,475       6.1          11.3
Capital Expenditure                 8,785      1T.9         19.1                         T,173      14.6          15.5
Esternal AssistanceCnet)              ..         ..            ..                         264        0.5           0.4
NONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                          1976       1977      1978       1979       1980      1981       1982
(illi-on N Outstanding End Period]
Noney and Quasi Money                            5,732     7,439      7,873      8,409    12,133    14,147    15,409
Bank Credit to Public SectorCnet)                  551     2,309      3,T79      2,675     1,943      6,112    10,061
onok Credit to Private Sector                    2,423     3,465      4,605      4,673     6,508      8,569    10,086
(Percentages or Index Numbhrs)
Noney & Quasi Money as S of GDP                   20.7      22.9       23.1       20.8      25.7       29.8       31.4
General Price Index(1975=100)                    123.9     143.0      166.T      186.3     204.9      247.5      266.5
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                               21.T       15.4      16.6       11.8       10.0      20.8        7.T
Bank Credit to Public Sector                        ..     319.1       63.7      _29.2     -27.4      214.6       64.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                     34.8      43.0       32.9        1.5      39.3       31.7       17.7
Note:  All conversion_ to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during period
covered.
l11 Staff estimates. /2/ OffiCial estimates. /4/ Provisional.
/3/ The data i- derived from planning Uocuuents and refers to the number of 'gainfully employed'.
liptember  , 1 9oB
BEST G@PY IULBLE



o I
O^C   F PARS                    1980 IIIf  1981 12r  19B2 1311,S                                          96.9
gft Of gieial 80r t-67Xs37   07 6            18 ,2 48          Poa l g   P odu ct -s56 &is      b  6 , 05
nencr :apital Cnet)         a89    -1543    ~570...... .,    other                   ---        10l-8
Eror   Gand ds.%                  4 9,59   -3,320    _Z,486                    Tota         s687
Gpyr cnDAearic   z                        -653     o.0andi    R 31.198  IS
B^TE  Pamet E oe" t)           -3.259ain -56          -373                                                 ,ZZt 
fm982o 117.00 s                                    -1-t.341/ tffei  t
/0/er                          4,;1 -6<lds.         n %2 ~
.......      accout v¢nt                              358                                             1 st  .6 fft
anC                            T9           Sn9cDet   OC"   nit
BEST~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s                             Xo_Garnte Prvae eb    608



-  29                                           ANNUl!
1peg I f 1)
THE status OF iKll GROUP OPEATIOUS
A. STAZEEIST OF UX G90UP OPERATIONS IN SIGEA 11
(As of September 30. 1983)
Loan or                                                                 US$ N1US11
Creadt                                                          mount (Leem cInCmelat.m)
X_abr     Year   locrear    Purpoe                 tn                     DA _ini e
Twenty one loans and two credit. fully dtibursad             575.5       35.3
929      L973      Nigeria     Educatin                       5S4.0                17.8
1045      1974     Nigeria     Cocos Deelopeet                20.0                  0.6
1091      L975     Nigeria     Livestock                      21.0                  1.0
1103     1975      Nigeria    Rice Deelop_ot                  17.5                  2.0
t183      1975     Nigeria      l.M. Stat. Oil Paln           13.0                  0.2
1191      1978     Nigerla     E.C. State -01 Pal            19.0                 11.2
1454     1977      Nigeria    Agric. Dev. Lafis               27.0                  1.0
1455      1977     Nigeria    Agric. Dev. Aya.gba             35.0                  0.3
1591      197d     XiLgeria    Juc. Est. Seallbolder 011      30.0                  8.2
1597      1978     NIDS        Industrial Devlopmnt           60.0                 27.3
1667     1979      Nigeria     Agric. Dev. Uds                23.0                  7.0
1660     1979      Nigeria     Agric. De. Iletn               27.0                 14.0
1679      1979      tigeria    Forestry                       31.0                 *1.2
1111      1979     Algeria    Water Supply - Kaduna           92.0                 78.4
1719      1979     Nigeria    Agric. 4 Rural 'gc. Inn.         9.0                  7.0
1760     1980        6PA        Por La1o                     100.0                 82.0
1767      1980      Ni;erfa    Urban Developmnt - Rancil      17.8                 12.7
1838     19d0      Nigeria     Agric. Dew. - OyBo-Nrth        2B.0                 24.1
1854      1980     Nigeria     Agric. Dew. - EliLtt-Akoa      32.5                 25_S
1883      1980     Nigeria     Roads                         108.0                 ".3
1981      1981     Nigeria     Agric. Devw - isucht          13Z.0                 86.3
1982      1981     Nitgeria    Agric Dew. -  awne            142.0                115.0
2029      1981     Nigeria     Tech. Aseistaner-Agric.        47.0                 D.0
2036      1982     Nigeria     ;acer Supply - Anambra         67.0                 6L.4
2085      182      NEPA        Poer - Destributle            100.0                 97.9
21J5     1982      Nixeria     Agric. Dew. - Sokeoo          147.0                142.7
=   2299      1983     SIva        Industrial Devlopmnt          120.0                IZ0.0
2 2345        1984     Nigeria     Fertilizer [warc              250.0                250.0
totaj                                            2.345.3      35.3    1,312.1
Of whieh has been repaid                           254.0       3.6
Total Outstanding                                2.091.3      3i T
msount sold                       16.8
Of which has been repaid           16.8               0.0
Total now beld by Dak 4 IDA 21                   2.091.3      31.7
Total undLabured                                                      1,312.t
B. STAITEST OF IFC INVESETS
(As of September 30. L983)
Fiscal                                              Type of       Aest in US5 Sliee
Tear                                                sineses      Le    yjy         Total
1964. 1967.      Areva Textiles Ltd.               Textle Nfg.    1.0       0.6      1.6
1970
1964             N4geria Industrial                Dew. inn. Co.            1.4      1.4
DereLooet oank Ltd.
1973             Funt.. Cottonmed                  Teg. Oil        1.6               1.6
Crushing Ltd.                    Cruehiag
1973             Nigerian Aluminium                ALumianim       1.0      0.3   - 1.3
Extrusion Ltd.                   Proceeing
1974             Lifiaga Sugar                     Sugar                    0.         0.1
Etate,
1980             NM                                Txtils          6.2      0.7      6.9
1981             lkeja Hotel                      TlUrlm           7.5      1.5      9.3
Total Cross Comitments                           17.3     4.9    22.2
Less cancellationa                             1.5      0.1      1.6
Less sold and repaid                          Z26       1.5      4.t
Total CoaiBnt noa beld by IFC                    13.2      3.3    16.5
Undisbursed                                      6.5       1.8     8.3
* Noet yet effective
1/ The status of the projectes lsted in Part A ts deerlbed in a saepaat report on all DenIIDA
financed projects in executron, wthch i updated twice yerly and circulated to the Executive
Directors on April 30 and October 31.
2) Prior to exchange rate adjustments.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 30 -                             ANNEX III
NIGERIA
GAS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:           Six months
(b)  Project prepared by:                         NNPC and Bank
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:              September 1982
(d)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:              April 1983
(e)  Completion of negotiations:                  October 1983
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:               July 1984
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III - Special Conditions
1.       NNPC would submit to the Bank by April 30, 1984 its audited financial
statements for 1982 (paragraph 46).
2.       As a condition of loan effectiveness, NNPC shall enter into a
contract with a consulting firm or gas utility firm, satisfactory to the Bank,
and establish a core group and assign staff to work with the consultants
(paragraphs 44 and 63).
3.       No later than March 31, 1985, NNPC and the Bank shall discuss and
review the results of the various studies and activities financed under the
proposed loan, and agree on an implementation plan for preparing future gas
projects, gas pricing changes and for institutional improvement
(paragraph 63).
4.       No later than six months after the close of each fiscal year, NNPC
would submit to the Bank audited financial statements for such fiscal year and
audited project accounts (paragraph 72).
5.       Beginning August 31, 1984, NNPC would submit to the Bank appropriate
progress reports including semi-annual or more frequent progress reports on
the project (paragraph 72).
BEST COr ' !AILE



SAl IICINCM  AWCtYQC
5E=C
W(AVAILABLE



[ eEST COPY AVAILABLE
NICERIA
GAS TKCINIAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
NNPC
CONSOLUPATED 3ALANCE SER
(IN MILLION MAltA)
1979                           1980                             1981
Total Assets                                                                  4691                           5756                              7248
Flxed asets (of which joint venture participation)                          1868 (992)                     1908 (1188)                      3210 (A.G.)
Capital under construction                                                   736                            113                               210
Exploratton/drilling                                                          46                            131                               148
Other assets                                                                  10                             10                                 5
Current Aaset.                                                                2031                           2594                              3675
Stocks                                                                        90                            190                               393
Accounts receivable/prepayments                                             1279                           1480                              1794
Dank and cash balances                                                       662                            924                             1488
Total Liabilities                                                             3620                           1810                              2505
Current Liabilities                                                           3593                           1771                              2452
Contractors accounts payable                                                  67                             52                                60
iaExation payable                                                           2472                            907                              1548
Royalttes payable                                                            506                            322                               368
Government dutlea payable                                                    365                            294                                58
Other accounts payable                                                       183                            196                               418
Long-term Liability                                                             27                              39                               S3
Equity                                                                        1072                           3947                              4743
Capital grants                                                              1849                           2764                              2912
Capital reserves                                                             918                            920                              1716
Revenue reserves                                                             498                           1519                              2180
tret transfers to governrent                                               (2234)                         (1317)                           (2124)
Hlnority Interest                                                             41                             61                                59
4



NIOSIRA
GAS TKCBNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECr
INKOHE AND 81PENDITURE STATEINIT
(II HiLLION VAX")
1979                                      1980                                       1981
Joint Venture         Consolidated         Jolnt Venture         Consolidated         Joint Venture        Consolidated
and               Including                and               Including                and              IncludLag
Head Office          Subsidiaries          Head Office          Subsidiaries          Iked Office         Subsidiaries
Income                                       6831                                      10234                                       9101
Sales of crude oil                         5784                                       9074                                       7579
.,aLes of petroleu product                 1000                                       1104                                       1282
l1ead office income                          34                                         35                                         49
Othnr income                                 13                                         21                                        191
Expenditure                                   777                                        1023                                       1376
Direct production and handling               84                                        123                                         190
Dry holes                                    14                                           6                                         35
Crude oil and product purchases             207                                        265                                         306                             1
Refintng fees and expenses                   17                                          28                                         20                             w
Joint venture administration                101                                         263                                        299                             w
Head office                                  41                                          12                                         53
Depreciation (of which head office)         162                                        232                                         276
Freight insurance and other                 151                                          93                                        197
Surplus Before Taxation                      6054                   6110                9211                  9250                  7725                7244
PetroLeum profits tax                      3803                   3803                5993                  5993                 4977                 7725
Royalties                                  1277                   1277                2048                  2048                  1546
Government duties                           605                    605                 498                   498                   546
Income tax                                    -                     27                   -                    24                    28
Other                                         6                      -                    7                    -                     3
Surplus After Tax                             363                    398                  665                  687                   648                 670
(HinorLty interest)                                                (12)                                      (11)                                      (12)
Consolidated revenue reserves
balance at beginninL of year                                     1147                                       498                                      1519
Prior years over (under) provision
- taxation                                                       (1011)                                      294                                                    S
- royalties                                                        (25)                                        -
Preproduction expenses capitalized                                   -                                        52                                         -          P
Surplus for year above                                             386                                       676                                       660          X
Balance at end of year                                             498                                      1519                                      2180        0 ce
BEST COPV AVAILABLE



N{IGERIA
BES-T Copy AVAILASLC 
ae Technical Astistanc   Proiect
(in million natra)
4th Plan                  19lt                             1,32                        1153
Allocations         Budget       Expenditure         kdgat        Expenditurb          RudEet
(191-85)
1.  Exploration and Emloittaticn                                  3730               1042           997              1208             96               I0go-
Direct Exploration                                             730                147            01               120             69                 90
JoLnt Venture Capital Funding'                                1000                S9S           910              loSs            egg                OO
2.  REtnin                                                          502                200                             I7 1S                             117
VaWri Refinery Captatl Iprovemat                               72                 51              9               16               4                 13
Keduna   -                                                      94                 as            60                27              10                24
Portt atcourt                -                                  31                 31             21                5               1                  -
Export Reftnery                                                  5                  5              -                -               -                 10
HtNo  Port Harcourt Refinery                                   300                 25              -               25               -                70
3.  Pit_e11:i and Denotg                                            202                160           108                7S            71                  Ii
1aprcvcments to Pipeinue Depot and Pump Station                 46                 44             6                 3               9                11
6- llaktundi-Abujo Pipeline                                      44                15              1               26               -                21
Pipellne and Depote gtettnig  inatncial Obligations             94                 aS            lO0               40              66                32
Eaccavos-WariL Pipeline Phase III                                18                10            -                  6               -                 23
4.  Petrochemicals                                                  446                 60             5                97             35                165
Phase I   - Waret and Kaduna                                    96                 16              5               54              34                 i5
Phexe It  - Ste being selected                                 340                 44             -                43               1                s0
Phase 1I1 - Undetermined                                        10                  -                      -                        -
S.  Gas and LNG                                                    los6                228         _                    54            1sa                 n2
Gas Supply to Iuduttnios
(Mladje, Oben Sepsls  lapo AJsakuts. Ons)                780                124            14                30            111                 S4
LNG Plants                                                     295                 60             12                5               7                 14 ; 
LPG Filling Plants                                              1t                 10              -                3               -                  39
6.  Transport                                                        38                 34                              16              -
7.  Adminittratian and sunpert servies                              3111              167                               38             41                 81
So TOTAL                                                          632l               lo1o           1244             1561            1254               1613
Soutre:   WIPC



- 35                            ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 4
NIGERIA
GAS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Tentative Schedule for Priority Activities
Completion
Schedule
A. Engineering Activities PENCOL Contract
1.  NNPC/PENCOL contract signed                       December 1982
2. Preparation of draft tender documents
for ELP Project                                   March/April 1983
3.  Prequalification of bidders                       April 1983
4. Technical bids received from contractors
for possible Bank-financed components
(Package A: Western gas gathering system
and Warri complex and treatment plant) 1/         July 1983
5. Completion of evaluation of technical bids
for 4, above                                      October 1983
6. Price submissions on 4, above, received
from contractors                                  November 1983
7. Evaluation of contractors' bids, and contract
award recommendations for Contract A              December 1983
8.  Preparation of tender documents for Contract D  November 1983 -
(telesupervisory control system)                  Feburary 1984
and prequalification of bidders
9. Evaluation of bids for Contract D, award
recommendations, and negotiation of contract    March/May 1984
10.  Assistance in negotiating contracts with          December 1983/
main contractors                                    May 1984
1/ Contracts B and C (not to be considered for Bank financing) have similar
but somewhat different schedules; Pencol is also involved in these
contracts, which comprise the southern gathering system (Contract B) and
the Warri-Lagos transmission line (Contract C). Contract D (tele-
supervisory system) bidding documents are also being prepared by Penccol.



- 36 -                          ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 4
11.  Vetting of detailed design by main                March 1984/
contractors                                         June 1985
12.  Procurement assistance, including checking        April 1984/
of equipment and materials                          August 1985
13.  Construction supervision                          April 1984/
December 1985
B. Organization and Management of
Gas Unit Activity
r
1.  Approval of terms of reference                    October/
November 1983
2. Selection of consultants and NNPC
counterpart personnel, including list of          October/
candidates for training                             December 1983
3.  Comprehensive outline for training program        November 1983
4.  Signing of consultant contract                    March 1984
5. Initiation of technical assistance in
Nigeria                                           March 1984
6. Preliminary recommendations for alternative
gas organization structures                       March 1984
7.  Initiation of on-the-job and overseas training  April 1984
8. Draft report on initial phase of training
and organization, and proposals for ensuing
phase                                             September 1984
9.  Initial phase of training completed               December 1984
10.  Assistance in organization, operations,           January 1984/
and management of gas systems                       December 1987
C. Financial Management and Planning and
Project Evaluation
1.  Approval of terms of reference                    April 1984
2. Selection of consultants and NNPC personnel,
including list of candidates fur training         May 1984
3.  Signing of consultant contract                    June 1984



-37 -                           ANNEX VI
Page 3 of 4
4.  Initiation of technical assistance in
Nigeria, including on-the-job training           July 1984
5. Report on diagnosis of present situation,
including further training needs                 August 1984
6. Discussions of diagnosis report by NNPC,
consultants, and Bank                            August 1984
7.  Draft ensultant report and recommendations
on comprehensive financial management and
planning program for NNPC                        October 1984
8. Draft consultant report on corporate
planning, capital budgeting and project
evaluation procedures                            October 1984
9.  Approval by NNPC of agreed-upon financial
management and planning program                   November 1984
10. Final report completed and disonssion of
next phase of activities                         November 1984
11. Assistance in installation of initial
phase of financial management program, and       December 1984/
planning and project evaluation procedures         June 1986
D. Gas Pricing Study
1.  Terms of reference approved                      June 1984
2.  Consultants selected                             July 1984
3.  Initiation of work in Nigeria                     August 1984
4.  Price analysis of competing fuels                 September 1984
5. Draft report on interfuel pricing and
gas tariff schedule, including alternative
pricing scenarios and recommendations            November 1984
6. Discussion of draft report between NNPC
and Bank                                         November 1984
7.  Final report completed                           February 1985



- 38 -                         ANNEX VI
Page 4 of 4
E. Timetable for Remaining Studies
(Marketing. Engineering. NGLB. LPG)
1. Terms of reference approved                      June 1984
2. Consultants selected                             July 1984
3.  Contract signed                                 August 1984
4. Initiation  of work                              September 1984
5. Draft report                                     March 1985
6. Discussion of draft report between NNPC
and Bank                                        April 1985
7.  Final report                                    June 1985



E~ R
r~~ ~~~~ .- 's. r                                                                                        r
B- Kobb.      -               KINoo d
|eEN ~I G  E R                                                                 \  _"-
/                                       I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
/       -5          /       x      <G ,",   O   A N
/            \                                                    0Aui.. &.'                     A
A& E6A
I"  m                                                             A r R | C l | z 8t K A  0  N    A
MO               _-~ 0                                                              W- DN            -A     --   
Ok~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~£I
cl~~~~~~~~~~
A F R I C A                                              K~~~~~~~~~~~~W                         oss~~~
Lake
~~'  2  -.      7Sauu~~~~'                  / 1. E



16RD  17140
in.                                                                            !                -,, t , *  APRIL 19l
N I G E R                                                             ,'HCAD
N    ~,    -                                    _ IGE                              ,9g~   a           - , -~- \K\.-    -
l ' _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uoer--s   - . -   I  -,
-w ''cI'- 0                            Gb, G.-O
W.,d.l                     Axe    - Ax"
6 t  J   t        \    *    '. rn   CAMEROON
-  t_9/?       8         A      C        .      f                        u                              _
JS            j'            Nu                     1,   /                        <'\  ~~~CHAD
r-    SdN
-2I~~~~~ - 0 
-A r < t_i)                                     -   /                        < }  'E\
1\   Cz   -o~~~~~~ G   -a   r} R;   o    L   A    !              -UderContrutio
t-'    T                                                       ^ A                                  116IIU
L                 --- --                          /         NATURAL GAS PIPELINE SYSTEMS
,,  .//  ,
--                              P r       t c __    SBn  (              Natural Gas Pipeline System:
1at,.no Alas *b A  ok _                 .tl e              A      Existing
.I *-: -- -_   -Ots   Power                                        Under Construction
~~ J-F                                                              - -    Proposed
~~~~~~~~~~~~\ \,.. /. .                                                         Excisting Gathering System Areas
AjJ /             0MjrUes                                                           Proposed Gathering System Area
r,    k . t               _   Lagos Power Station at Igbin               3    Existng rrunk Roads 'A
Or Spele Power Station c                            Roitroods
A-d  Ih.    V                         (,P)  Delta Steel IGdmt                     <~       Rivers
b    -                    ®3  Ughelli Power Station cCI.f               Si    National Capitcl
3r)5   eE}                    ' ~~~~~Ajaokuta Steel Complex              0IAlP  State Capitltcs
-    t                               -  Abuja/Federal Capital City                -      Srate Boundairies
'                 j  71  Onitaha Power Strtion                                   ---Internatienal Boundaries
>   Y                          2)~~~~~~~ At,. Power Station lsw,u,
w J)                               9          Oron Power Station
IC  Onne Fortilizer Plant
AlAS     iI- Aa.-                                                  0                 i C C             200               300
Refineries:           I .
-~~ S v - =, _, 9~~~ Warri
,,^ ^ _,            9  ~~~~Port Harcourt         O              0t                           5              0
100                          200
~-.         ~                   Calabar IPenausa                                     MILES
x - S      _~~~n.32I



