Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLIL USE ONLY
Repot No. 12637
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA
GAS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2390-UNI)
DECEMBER 27, 1993
Industry and Energy Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Naira (N)
Calendar 1982        December 1983
US$I                 =      N 0.67               N 0.75
NI (100 Kobos)              US$1.49              US$1.34
MEASURES AND UNITS OF MEASUREMENT
1 gigawart-hour (Gwh)                             1 million kilowatt-hours (kwh)
1 kilometer (kn)                          =     0.62 mile
1 megawatt (MW)                           =      1,000 kilowatts
1 ton of oil equivalent (TOE)             =     43,000 standard cubic feet of gas
mbd                                       =      Million barrels per day
BSCF                                      =      Billion standard cubic feet
BSCFD                                     =      Billion standard cubic feet per day
MlSCF                                     =      Thousand standard cubic feet
MMSCFD                                    =      Million standard cubic feet per day
TSCF                                      =      Trillion standard cubic feet
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ELP   =   Escravos-Lagos Pipeline Project
LNG   =   Liquified Natural Gas
LPG   =   Liquified Petroleum Gas
MNPC =   Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation
NGC   =   Nigerian Gas Company, Ltd.
SBU   =   Special Business Units
TA     =   Technical Assistance
UNDP =   United Nations Development Program
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
December 27, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Nigeria
Gas Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2390-UNI)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Nigeria - Gas Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 2390-UNI)" prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with
Part II prepared by the Borrower. Part II highlights the need for procurement
seminars early in the implementation period.
The main objectives of this Technical Assistance project were to
support the development of Nigeria's gas sector, by supporting the formulation
and implementation of gas policy and development, the engineering consultancy for
preparation of the Escravos-Lagos gas pipeline (ELP), and technical assistance
to strengthen the country's institutional capacity to develop gas resources.
Because of incompatibility of the Borrower's and the Bank's
procurement practices, the two major project components, financing for
engineering design of the pipeline and technical assistance for the establishment
and operation of a Gas Unit to operate the ELP were canceled. These components
represented over 2/3 of the project's base cost at appraisal.  Studies for gas
development and marketing were only partially completed.
The project, identified in 1977, was only sent to the Board in 1984.
Loan signing took place two years after Board approval.   By that time the
engineering project components had already been completed, so the project was
reconfigured to include substantially more technical assistance support for the
Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC), primarily in operations not directly
related to gas development, including a strategic planning study of the
organization of NNPC, an updating of NNPC's computerized accounting system, an
information system masterplan, and staff training in auditing, finance and
accounting.  Of the original S25 million loan, $3.0 million was used for the
original project components, $5.6 million was used for the revised project
components, and $16.4 million was canceled.   The ELP was built successfully
without Bank support.
The Bank's performance was deficient.   Neither the objective to
support the ELP was met, nor did the revised component support the broader
project objective of promoting the development of the gas sector. Therefore, the
outcome of the project is rated as unsatisfactory, the institutional development
as partial, and the sustainability of project financed training and technical
assistance as uncertain. No audit is planned.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
NIGERIA
GAS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2390-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
PageNo.,
PREFACE   ..................................................    i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY                     ......................................   ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                 ......... 1
1.  Project Identity    .....................................   1
2.   Background    .......................................   1
3.   Project Objectives and Description    .........................  2
4.  Project Design and Organization  ...........................   3
5.   Project Implementation  .................................   4
6.   Project Results    .....................................   7
7.   Project Sustainability  ..................................   8
8.   Bank Performance    ...................................   8
9.   Borrower Performance    ................................   9
10.  Project Relationship    ..................................   9
11.  Consulting Services    .................................    10
12.  Project Documentation and Data    .........................   10
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ....... 11
PART m:            STATISTICAL  INFORMATION    .........................   17
1.   Related Bank Loans    .................................    17
2.   Project Timetable   ...................................   17
3.   Loan Disbursements   .................................    18
4.   Project Implementation    ...............................    18
5.   Project Costs and Financing    ............................    19
6.   Project Results    ....................................   21
7.   Status of Covenants    .................................   21
8.   Use of Bank Resources    ...............................   22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NIGERIA
GAS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2390-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Gas Technical Assistance Project
in Nigeria, for which Loan 2390-UNI in the amount of US$25 million was approved on
March 13, 1984. The loan was closed on December 31, 1992, three years behind schedule.
Only US$8.6 million of the loan was disbursed with the last disbursement made on June 7,
1993. The remaining US$16.4 million was canceled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Industry and Energy Operations Division of the
Western Africa Department, Africa Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I
and II) and the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final supervision mission of the
project in July 1992, and is based, inter alia, on the President's Report, the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements, supervision reports, consultants' reports, correspondence between the
Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.






- ii -
NIGERIA
GAS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2390-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Objectives. The objectives of the project were to: finance engineering and operational
services for the gas pipeline project; provide support and training for the institutional
strengthening of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC); and, carry out a
number of technical studies concerning the supply and utilization of natural gas and liquids.
2.   Implementation Experience. There were variances between actual and planned project
implementation. This was in part because the Bank did not finance the pipeline as planned
and because the procurement practices of the borrower, NNPC, differed in substantial
respects from those of the Bank. For the engineering and operational services of the pipeline,
the two practices could not be reconciled and the amounts allocated for the services,
approximately half of the loan, were canceled. The technical studies, and those for
institutional strengthening were undertaken after long delays and procurement difficulties.
Decision-making within NNPC was slow. The loan was closed on December 31, 1992, after
three successive extensions. When the last disbursements were made on June 7, 1993,
US$8.6 million had been disbursed, and a total of US$16.4 million, 66 percent of the loan,
had been canceled.
3.    Results. The engineering work for the pipeline was completed satisfactorily, although
not with Bank financing; the operational assistance was carried out as well, again not with
Bank financing. The two studies for supply and utilization of natural gas and LPG were
completed and were acceptable. The corporate planning study resulted in the reorganization
of NNPC into a financial core and nine autonomous business units; this change is proving
beneficial and may set the stage for future privatization of some activities. The results of
studies and training programs in accounting, internal audit, and computerization are yet to be
documented.
4.    Findings and Lessons Learned. Having the same loan contain engineering/operational
activities for the pipeline project together with institutional development resulted in a project
that the Borrower found difficult to manage. Matters did not improve after the pipeline
activities were canceled particularly as the emphasis shifted to reallocating the resources of the
loan rather than to reviewing to what extent the original justification of the project was still
applicable. On a practical plane, NNPC and the Bank encountered difficulties in reconciling
NNPC's flexible procurement practices with the Bank's more precise guidelines. As these
difficulties surfaced from the beginning and were never overcome, they influenced the whole
implementation of the project. Some of the conclusions that can be drawn from the
experience with this project are that: technical assistance for institution building ought to be
given before, rather than concurrently with, a large investment project; expert and central
management is needed to handle consulting contracts; the staff of a new borrower should be
given training in the Bank's procurement procedures; and when procurement does not follow
the Bank's guidelines, or when the costs are considered unreasonable, the Bank should not
continue to be committed to finance the full cost.






NIGERIA
GAS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2390-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part I: Project Review from the Bank's Perspective
1.    Project Identity
Project Name         Gas Technical Assistance (TA)
Loan No              2390-UNI
RVP Unit             Africa Region
Country              Nigeria
Sector        :      Energy
Subsector            Oil and Gas
2.    Background
2.1   Sector Development Objectives: While the oil sector in Nigeria was well developed
and was already a major contributor to the national economy, the natural gas sector was
merely at the conceptual stage when the loan was designed. Not only does Nigeria have huge
reserves of natural gas, but large quantities of associated gas are already being produced along
with the oil; most of the gas is being flared for lack of demand and because the cost of
gathering it makes it difficult to compete with the production cost of non-associated gas. The
objective of developing the gas sector is therefore to promote the utilization of natural gas and
of its by-products wherever this is economically justified, and especially as a replacement for
petroleum products. The incentive for this is that the petroleum resources of Nigeria are
close to being fully developed and there is reason to expect a drop in oil production by the
turn of the century.
2.2   Context: With the continuing expansion of the power sector and the establishment of
large industrial plants such as cement and steel mills, there exists a large potential market for
natural gas, both to serve new energy demand, and to displace petroleum products in the
domestic market. Gas by-products, chiefly liquified petroleum gas (LPG), can fill a growing
share of the expanding residential market; prerequisites are only that the prices be competitive
and the distribution structure be efficient. As natural gas and its by-products take over the
internal market, more oil will become available for export.
2.3   Linkages: The Gas TA loan was intended to be a $30 million adjunct to the $200
million operation that was to finance a substantial part of the gas pipeline project. The loan
would not only prepare and support the pipeline project but would also help Nigeria develop a
rational energy program. The May 1983 Bank, United Nations Development Program
(UNDP) energy assessment report had found that one of the highest priorities for the long
term would be to develop natural gas both as a new major fuel and as a substitute for
petroleum. The loan would also be used to provide continuing assistance for the development
of the Nigerian gas sector, such as in defining markets, in planning and project evaluation,
and in the design of future Bank assisted projects.



- 2-
3.    Project Objectives and Description
3.1   The project included consulting and training services for engineering and operational
components to support Nigeria's first major natural gas infrastructure project, and a set of
peripheral activities to build up the necessary institutional structure. The gas project was the
Escravos-Lagos Pipeline Project (ELP). The services were to include the engineering
activities for the pipeline, from design to construction supervision, and studies for the future
expansion of the pipeline network and of the new sources of natural gas. The institutional
component included corporate planning, budgeting and evaluation activities, gas supply
studies, marketing and tariff studies.
3.2   The stated objectives of the project were to: assist in the preparation of the first major
infrastructure project in the gas sector (the ELP project); strengthen the country's institutional
capacity to develop its gas resources; and, support the formulation and implementation of
Nigeria's national gas policy and development.
3.3    The specific goals of the project were to provide: (a) engineering services for the
engineering design, review of the detailed design work by contractors, procurement and
construction supervision of the ELP project; (b) engineering services for expansion of gas
supply, feasibility studies of recovery of natural gas liquids, and other related studies; (c)
support in setting up a Gas Unit within the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC),
including its training and organization, and assistance for the management and operation of
the ELP system; (d) general assistance to NNPC for corporate planning, investment
budgeting and project evaluation; and (e) studies for the marketing, and pricing of gas and
LPG.
3.4   Components. The major components of the project were:
(a)    Preparation of the pipeline proiect: 540 manmonths of engineering services,
including 130 maninonths of retroactive financing from June 1983 onwards.
This was to cover the basic engineering, preparation of tender documents and
assistance during the procurement process, and review of the contractors'
detailed engineering. Only the first part of the construction supervision was to
be financed under the T.A. loan, as it was planned that the bulk would be
financed under a construction loan by the Bank.
(b)    Studies for gas development: 250 manmonths for the study of gas supply
expansion and for other gas and LPG engineering studies. The construction of
the ELP implied the need to secure gas supplies for the long term, to identify
the sources and to plan for connection and treatment of the gas. Recovery of
natural gas liquids and LPG studies were corollaries of this main study.
(c)    Technical assistance to NNPC: (i) 550 manmonths of consulting services to
set up the Gas Unit of NNPC. The services were to include the selection and
design of an organizational structure suitable to handle the existing gas system
and its planned expansions, training of staff, and operational assistance during
the first years through secondment of experts; (ii) 170 manmonths for
establishing within NNPC a corporate planning unit with the capability of
evaluating projects, setting priorities, and drawing up capital investment



- 3 -
budgets. The introduction of computerized management information systems
was to be a part of this subproject.
(d)    Marketing studies: 150 manmonths for marketing, pricing and tariff studies
for natural gas and LPG, as well as pilot projects and studies of LPG
development.
3.5   The Bank attached great importance to implementing an appropriate institutional
structure. Accordingly, a condition of effectiveness of the loan was that a consulting or a gas
utility firrn be hired to carry out task (c)(i) above. A related condition was that a core group
would be set up within NNPC to monitor the various gas and LPG studies.
4.    Project Design and Oreanization
4.1   The technical assistance project as approved did include the major part of the
consulting activities needed to assist in the development of the natural gas sector, both in its
engineering and in its managerial aspects. The project was intended to be implemented as a
whole. Its main components were the pipeline engineering work, item (a) above, and the
setting up of the operations of the Gas Unit, see item (c)(i) above. The other components,
(b), (c)(ii), and (d), were peripheral activities and free-standing studies intended to improve
the operation of NNPC and of the Gas Unit, in administration, and in its planning and
development function. It could have been a unitary project if things had turned out as
planned, and if the Bank had been able to maintain a strong involvement in the pipeline
project. Due to the combination of circumstances which is described below this turned out
not to be the case.
4.2   The idea of developing Nigerian natural gas dates back at least to 1977. Two projects
of liquified natural gas (LNG) plants were under consideration but did not develop. The
project of a gas pipeline from Warri to Lagos arose shortly thereafter. The Bank supported
it, became actively involved in the feasibility studies in 1979 and prepared to consider the
financing of the project. Discussions on the cost of the project followed in 1980 and 1981.
In 1982 NNPC asked the Bank formally to participate in the financing of the pipeline and at
the same time the Bank began to define the technical assistance loan with NNPC.
4.3   The preparation of the pipeline project proceeded expeditiously. Tenders were called
and presented in 1983 and decisions on award were promptly taken by NNPC. Despite all
the planning and preparation, the Bank loan for the pipeline did not proceed due to a
combination of factors: one was that there was abundant suppliers' financing available to
cover the costs since Nigeria was able to guarantee repayment by earmarking part of its oil
production for the purpose; another was that the loan would have had to cover a
disproportionate amount of retroactive financing by the time it became effective and NNPC
was anxious to proceed contract negotiations in their own way rather than follow the Bank's
procurement guidelines.
4.4   The technical assistance loan was appraised in 1983 but was only presented to the
Board in March 1984 because the loan negotiations had to be postponed repeatedly. This was
due in part to the unavailability of NNPC representatives who were busy with other more
pressing commitments for the pipeline project. The fact that the Bank did not participate in
the pipeline financing weakened the conceptual base of the technical assistance project. It had
been conceived as a support operation for the pipeline and became instead an institutional



- 4 -
support project that was certainly useful but not as vital in NNPC's opinion as initially
planned. This weakened the influence of the Bank with NNPC.
4.5   As much of the Bank's effort had gone into the pipeline project not all details of the
TA project had been fully developed. Neither of the two main consulting contracts which the
Bank would finance retroactively had been examined in detail with NNPC and approved by
the Bank. Yet the execution schedule was both detailed and very tight; the basis for this
optimism is unclear. A potential conflict of interest was neither mentioned nor discussed.
Consultants had been selected by NNPC as sole source of the institutional work for the Gas
Unit; two of its associated companies were chosen in the fall of 1983 for the turnkey contract
to supply and construct the main gas pipeline. The circumstance of selecting companies of
the same concern for the two contracts possibly did not infringe against any existing Bank
guideline but it placed NNPC in a very weak negotiating position when it came to defining
the details of both contracts. The signature of the pipeline contract was delayed three years,
and in the end the consulting agreement between the consultants and NNPC was not cleared
by the Bank. The consequences for the project are outlined below.
4.6   The scope and scale of the project were appropriate for its objectives. The timing
however appears to have been somewhat late. The implementation of the technical assistance
project should have begun before that of the pipeline, and should have been well under way
when construction was started. As it was the loan became effective two years after
construction had begun and by then the context of the project had changed.
4.7   The institutional environment was not easy. The loan was made to a young institution
(NNPC was established in 1977), which grew rapidly in size but was still developing its
structures by the 1980s. New managers were installed as the organization grew; thus the
continuity needed for a smooth operation was not always there. Accounting and information
systems had yet to be developed, and funds for this were in fact provided in the loan. The
existing technical side, which included three oil refineries, was not dealt with at the time.
The institution had never dealt with the Bank before, and found it difficult to adapt to the
Bank's mode of operation, especially in matters of procurement and in hiring of consultants.
4.8   As indicated, implementation would have been easier if the technical assistance for
institution building could have been given to NNPC well before it embarked on such a large
project as the natural gas pipeline and its ancillary projects. Also, since the TA project was
implemented a little after the pipeline project, it was natural that it would become a second
priority for NNPC.
5.    Project Implementation
5.1   The Borrower and implementing agency of the Project was NNPC, a statutory
corporation wholly owned by the Government. During the course of the project the operating
departments of NNPC were reorganized into nine Special Business Units (SBU) at the
recommendation of management consultants financed by the Bank. One of these units is the
Nigerian Gas Company Limited (NGC) which is now in charge of the natural gas activities of
NNPC.
5.2   Under the original financing plan of the project, the Bank would finance 100 percent
of the foreign exchange for the activities of the loan, while the local costs would be paid for



-5-
by the NNPC. The financing plan at appraisal is reproduced below along with the amounts
actually disbursed.
Summay Financing Plan
(USS millions)
Source of                    Plan at                 : :: ala:
.. i .. ; . - . . ..... ,., .... . i   . ...  .-::
Foein Eangx:-
Bank                             25.0
NNPC                              0.0 --a.
Ll Currency
Bank                              0.0 ... 0.
NNPC_
- - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.          --.. ; -.  -.-.  . . . .   ...-
Tota Cost   :                    32.0 -       ::-    ::     .6J/:--
n.a - Not available
If Foreig  cost only
- . . .   , .   ...   .    -....



- 6 -
5.3   The resources of the loan were utilized as follows:
Comrarison of Allocated Versus Expended Resources
(US$ million equivalent)
StudylActivity                              As per Loan        Actal 11
Agreement        Expenditure
Engineering for Pipeline                        6.8            Not financed,
funds canceled
Gas and LPG supply                              3.0            0.9
Establishment of Gas Unit                       6.6            Not financed,
and its initial operation                                      funds canceled
Corporate planning,                             2.0            1.7
management information
systems, and project evaluation
Natural gas utilization study                   1.3            0.3
LPG utilization study including
pilot projects, pricing study for natural
gas and LPG
Front end fee                                   0.1            0.1
Uncommitted                                     5.2
Activities added during the implementation of the loan
Development of the cost accounting
system; training for finance and
accounting staff                                 -             3.9
Internal Audit staff training                    -             1.2
Petrochemical Study and search for               -             0.5
joint venture partners
Total                                           25.0           8.6
11 Estimates
5.4   The main variances of the project were that the implementation was delayed considerably,
and that the two major components could not be financed under the loan. As a consequence



separate cancellations had to be made amounting to approximately 66 per cent of the loan amount.
It is unlikely that these variances could have been avoided because after 1983 NNPC was more
interested in building the pipeline on its own terms than in utilizing the resources of the TA
project as originally intended.
5.5   Many delays were due to difficulties in securing Bank approval for consulting contracts
that NNPC had negotiated on its own. The first problem surfaced shortly after loan approval.
NNPC had decided to use a consulting firm which had already worked for NNPC on a refinery
and on other training projects to set up the Gas Unit, to give it operational support, and to
establish the 'core group' that would implement the TA project. The Bank did not object to this
sole source procurement nor did it have any observations on the consultant's proposal which was
presented to the Bank at the time of loan negotiations. Unfortunately when the actual contract
was submitted for approval it included a number of stipulations that were incompatible with Bank
guidelines. After two years (November 1986) of fruitless discussion, the problem was solved by
deleting this item from the loan and by canceling the $6.6 million allocated for it. NNPC then
financed the consultant's work from its own resources. This was one of the reasons why two
years elapsed between Board approval and loan signing. Furthermore, the hiring of the firm that
would set up the gas unit and the "core group" had been included as a condition of effectiveness
of the loan. This problem was a major reason for delayed project implementation.
5.6   Comparable difficulties were encountered with the contract with another consultant, an
engineering firm that designed and supervised the pipeline project (completed in 1988). The bulk
of the funds allocated for this contract, $5.3 million, were canceled in 1991 when it became
obvious that it was not feasible to reallocate the funds to any other component or study. The
Bank had objected to very high consulting fees and to provisions that left NNPC exposed to far
more liability than what is normal in contracts of this type.
5.7   While the risk of delays had been mentioned in the President's Report, the possibility that
NNPC's interest in the loan might wane was not contemplated at the time of appraisal. The Bank
tried to help NNPC utilize the loan resources for other related studies and activities but was only
partially successful because the decision process on new studies was so slow that they were
preempted by the mandatory closing date of the loan. The closing date had been extended by a
year thrice and could not be moved beyond December 1992. As a result of these changes and
cancellations, the scope of the loan was reduced to planning, accounting, organizational studies
and to training activities.
5.8   The studies and activities that were added to the program and that were completed during
the period of implementation of the loan included: (i) a petrochemical study to assess the
feasibility of petrochemical plants utilizing natural gas as principal input, (completed in 1987), (ii)
a search for joint venture partners for such plants, (completed in 1988), (iii) a training program
for NNPC's internal audit staff (completed in 1992), and (iv) technical assistance to the Finance
and Accounting Department of NNPC, including training for its staff (completed in 1992). These
activities cost approximately $5.6 million.
6.    Project Results
6.1   The project objectives were attained in part. Although not funded by the Bank, the
engineering for the pipeline construction was carried out successfully, the Gas Unit was set up
(and is now formally a subsidiary of NNPC known as NGC, and the engineering for the LPG
(butane) distribution facilities was carried out. The gas utilization study and the feasibility study
for petrochemical plants were completed and could serve as a useful basis for future projects.



- 8 -
The organizational and management studies and the training activities were completed as planned.
Their long term effects will only become apparent a few years hence.
6.2   Neither economic nor financial rates of return were calculated at the time of loan approval,
nor have they been recalculated now as they are not directly applicable in a technical assistance
project of this kind.
7.    Proiect Sustainability
7.1   The question of sustainability is not easily answered in this case as not all activities
produced results that could be measured. The corporate planning activity produced as a visible
result the reorganization of NNPC into nine special Business Units, each with a degree of
autonomy. NNPC became a financial holding company. This decentralization, although deficient
in many ways, would serve as the basis for improved performance of the sector in the future.
7.2   Training activities impart knowledge and experience to individuals who may or may not
remain in their post. Organization of internal procedures may have a lasting effect if the
procedures are accepted as NNPC's own and are maintained and enforced consistently or at least
until some better procedure is devised. The time needed for organization and procedures to
become part of a corporate culture is counted in years, and it is too early to try to assess to what
extent the studies have succeeded.
8.    Bank Performance
8.1   In 1979 the Bank decided to support a project, the ELP pipeline, that was both timely and
eminently reasonable in its outline. The Bank acted as a catalyst and the project was indeed
financed and built. The fact that it was three years late and that the Bank did not participate in its
financing does not detract from the success of the idea and of the project. It is moot to speculate
whether the pipeline could have been less costly, could have been completed earlier if the Bank
had remained involved, or operated more effectively due to Bank support for institutional
strengthening.
8.2   When it became clear that the bulk of the loan was no longer needed either for the pipeline
enterprise or for the establishment of the Gas Unit, the Bank made an effort to redeploy its
resources for other support studies in the gas field. The success of this effort would have
required an effective cooperation by NNPC and this was slow in coming. Hence the rather
modest results.
8.3  In hindsight it appears that there may have been a contradiction inherent in the Bank's
approach. Having recognized that a major effort of institutional strengthening was needed to get
the Borrower to operate successfully, it was overly optimistic to assume that NNPC could run this
effort unaided at the same time as it was busy with an infrastructure project larger than what it
had ever undertaken before.
8.4   Also, it was not recognized that the Bank's procurement procedures, especially those for
consulting services, could be an obstacle to speedy implementation. Neither the spirit nor the
details can be absorbed quickly by staff not used to them and unfamiliar with developed country
practices. As a consequence the Bank had to engage in protracted exchanges of telexes to achieve
compliance with its guidelines. Long delays ensued, and the borrower's staff may well have
grown discouraged by this. The Bank did hold procurement seminars in Lagos in January and
September 1988 and in April 1992, but it is not known whether responsible NNPC staff attended.
In any case, these should have been held at the outset of the Project.



-9-
8.5 Lessons Leaned. In general the cooperation between the Bank and NNPC was neither
timely nor effective and the two institutions did not seem to be attuned to each other. When it
became apparent that NNPC could get the pipeline financed and built without Bank participation,
after the processing of the investment loan was abandoned, and after a number of management
changes had taken place in NNPC, it would have been appropriate to review the fundamentals of
the TA Project. It appears that the loan was approved as originally prepared despite major
developments that had an impact on the original plan. Some of the conclusions that can be drawn
from the experience with this project are that: (i) technical assistance for institution building
ought to be given before rather than concurrently with large investmnent projects; (ii) expert and
central T.A. management is necessary to handle consulting contracts; and (iii) the staff of a new
borrower ought to be given training in the Bank's procurement procedures.
9.    Borrower Performance
9.1   The NNPC is a parastatal agency formed in 1977 by the merger of the Nigerian National
Oil Corporation with the Ministry of Petroleum Resources. It has been dealing with all aspects of
the oil business, from exploration to marketing, and has now entered into the natural gas field as
well. In oil production in Nigeria NNPC participates in joint ventures with several major
international oil companies. Therefore it has access to the latest technical expertise in oil
exploration and production.
9.2 The management was changed with some frequency, and was often in a learning mode
especially as concerns the Bank. As NNPC was then a new entity and had not reached a 'steady
state' of operation, it needed essential training as evidenced by the activities financed by the loan.
9.3 The function of the "Core Group" that was to implement the technical assistance project
was originally assigned to the Corporate Planning and Development Division. After the Gas Unit
was set up as a subsidiary of NNPC, there were two separate groups the Bank had to deal with.
Perhaps this contributed to the slowness with which decisions and reactions were received from
NNPC.
9.4 The project management function was new to NNPC probably because they did not need to
develop it for their joint ventures. The foreign oil company would bring its established practices
and mode of operation and achieve the desired result without need of other than a supervisory
input by NNPC. Managing and coordinating a number of separate consultants' activities, not an
easy task at the best of times, was probably outside their expertise.
9.5 The borrower did not comply with the obligation to submit progress reports and audited
financial statements. The Bank began to remind NNPC during the last two years of the loan with
little effect. This is not surprising since it was part of the objective of the project to help NNPC
to develop an appropriate accounting system.
10.   Project Relationship
10.1 The relationship of the Bank with the borrower was not close enough to achieve a good
implementation record. Contributing circumstances must have been some of the factors already
mentioned: that NNPC was a relatively new institution; that it had not dealt with the Bank
before; that the staff of the two institutions did not get to know each other well as both NNPC
management and the Bank task managers changed several times; and, the project was not vital to
the NNPC function of producing and marketing oil and gas, at least, not over the short term.



- 10 -
10.2 The relationship with the Government was formal. The Ministry of Petroleum
Development did not take a close interest in the project.
10.3  NNPC handled the hiring of consultants in an independent fashion. Contracts were
entered into without necessarily taking into account the Bank's procedures and observations.
11.   Consulting Services
11.1  The project consisted of a series of consulting assignments, either studies and supervision,
or training activities.
11.2  The two largest consulting contracts were not financed by the Bank in part because the
fees, which NNPC had accepted, were considered excessive. Attempts to have the consulting
contract revised were not successful and the funds were canceled thereby greatly reducing the
scope of the project.
11.3  High fee levels were encountered in another contract, later in the course of the project; the
Bank first objected, then relented. The level of fees charged by consultants in Nigeria appears to
be higher than in many other countries. This matter deserves further attention.
11.4 The technical studies were of acceptable quality after the observations of the Bank had
been included. The results of the strategic planning study and activities were good. Based on
recommendations of the consultant, NNPC restructured its activities into nine SBU's (Special
Business Units), which were intended to function as profit centres with a considerable degree of
autonomy. The premature terrmination of the consultant's contract by NNPC did not permit this
concept to develop the expected results. The reasonableness of the consultant's recommendation
is confirmed by the suggestion of the latest (1993) Energy Sector Assessment for Nigeria that
much greater autonomy be granted to institutions dealing with energy. The results of the
accounting and audit activities, including training, are not yet documented since the final reports
by the consultants are not yet available.
12.   Proiect Documentation and Data
12.1  The legal agreements were of the standard type and were adequate for the project. The
President's Report did not include a clear framework of guidelines for reporting by the borrower.
While this did not prevent the project from being implemented, it would have been useful to have
a system of reporting to suit the Bank's needs both for the supervision during project
implementation, and as a data base for the preparation of the PCR.



- 11 -
NIGERIA
GAS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2390-UNI)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part II: Project Review from the Borrower's Perspective
1.   Introduction:
The Gas Technical Assistance loan was approved in 1984, signed in March, 1986, but
became effective six (6) months later. The original amount of the loan was US $25
million but with the cancellation of US $6.6 million in June 1986 originally allocated to
the SNAM project for the organization, management and training of NNPC's Gas Unit
under Category 3A in Schedule I of the Loan Agreement, and another US $5.3 million in
December 1991 allocated to the Hydrocarbon Sector study, Pipeline Phase In and the
Butanization project, the actual amount left for disbursement came to US $13.1 million.
The agreement provided for a mandatory deduction of front end fee of $62,344 upon
approval. The loan has a 20-year term, including five (5) years grace period on principal.
2.    Obiective:
The loan was taken to improve various aspects of gas development and utilization in
Nigeria, ranging from providing engineering services, contract procurement, design and
supervision of the Escravos-Lagos gas pipeline project, to providing training and
consultancy services relating to the oil and gas business. However, after long delays
resulting from procurement difficulties and inability to meet the Bank requirements, NNPC
decided to finance those stages of the project on its own. With the realization that the loan
was no longer required for the ELP, new projects were identified for financing and, armed
with the approval of the Bank, reallocation of funds was done accordingly. Meanwhile,
the loan was approved and agreement signed based on the original plan leading to
considerable implementation problems.
3.    Components:
Components of the project differed substantially from the original objective, and below is
the list of components, actually funded under this project as well as their objectives.
3.1   Corporate Strategic Planninzg:
Arthur Anderson and Co., was engaged in August 1987 to upgrade the corporate planning
function within NNPC. This included the preparation of a 5-year strategic plan,
introduction of planning guidelines, procedures, data base, models and establishing an
improved mode of information flow within the corporation. It also included the
restructuring of the Planning Division, with job descriptions for the Planning Departments
and staff, and the training of Planning staff through attachment with well established oil
companies for industry experience.



- 12 -
3.2   Butanization Feasibilitv Study:
This study was carried out by CALOR Consulting Limited in 1987/88, with the objective
of:
1.     determining the market demand for the short and medium term and formulate an
optimal supply plan to meet market needs;
2.     determining the optimal LPG Bulk Distribution System, including the location and
sizing of LPG depots as well as method of bulk transportation from supply sources
to depots.
3.3   Petroleum Feasibility Studies:
Carried out by Stanford Research Institute (SRI) in 1987 to assess the feasibility of
establishing a gas-based petrochemical complex in Nigeria.
3.4   Search for joint venture partners for the Petrochemical Plant; this was completed by IFC in
1988.
3.5   Development of Cost Accounting System and Training of Accountants:
Peat Marwick, Ani Ogunde Consultants was engaged in March 1992 to review, update the
accounting systems and procedures within NNPC to:
-      computerize and establish a model for maintaining, updating and monitoring these;
-      to train accounting staff through exposure of participants to accounting practices in
the oil and gas industry to meet the challenges of the industry.
3.6   Training of Internal Auditors:
An agreement was signed with Peat Marwick, Ani Ogunde Consultants, effective March
1991 to review the organization and objectives of the department, methodology and job
administration for the department, as well as train about 30 identified staff on the job and
expose about 20 of them to auditing techniques in reputable oil companies overseas.
3.7   Gas Utilization Study:
BEICIP was engaged to carry out this study in July 1990. The objective of this was to
develop a gas utilization strategy for Nigeria, taking into consideration existing and
potential demand/supply as well as cost and pricing of gas. This contract was extended to
cover the study of the conversion of existing industries to gas. However, this could not be
implemented before the expiration of this loan and is not to be considered under a new
loan for the Escravos Gas Pipeline.
3.8  Information Systems Masterplan:
AW Consultants in conjunction with PE International, were awarded the contract to
produce an Information Systems Masterplan in 1991. The objective was to establish the
need for upgrading existing information systems, survey and specify user needs, specify



- 13 -
appropriate hard - and soft-wares, review the computer departments, as well as outline
procedure to maintain and update the system, in line with changing requirements.
4.    Other Components:
The underlisted components were to have been financed under this project but due to
reasons which would be discussed later, had amounts allocated to them canceled.
4.1   Study on the Optimization of Gas Fields:
This study was to complement the gas utilization study as it was supposed to address the
supply side of the Nigerian gas market. It was expected to examine, in critical details, the
optimization of gas fields development in Nigeria, to ensure that gas availability is
optimally tied to requirements for an efficient transition in the energy consumption mix.
Due to delays, this study could not commence before the expiration of the loan and is
now being considered under a new loan.
4.2   Hydrocarbon Sector Study:
This study was expected to address the Hydrocarbon Sector as a component of the national
energy mix but the component was aborted as the focus for funding changed, with the
Bank's recommendation, from the Gas Technical Assistance loan to ESMAP.
4.3   Pipeline Optimization Study:
This component was intended to review the overall logistics for movement of products
within the country, but along the line, the allocation was canceled since PENCOL had
been engaged to carry out a similar study and the $2 million available from the GTA was
grossly inadequate.
4.4   Butanization Phase II:
This was to cover the construction of LPG terminals and ancillary facilities at eight (8)
locations in the country. The main objective was to arrest the wasteful flaring of LPG at
refineries, meet the increasing domestic demand of LPG and facilitate the expanded use of
the product for domestic cooking, thereby arrest deforestation and desert encroachment.
The allocation was also canceled as the scope now became bigger and the available fund
inadequate.
5.    Results:
Apart from the gas utilization study and the feasibility studies for the Butanization and
Petrochemical projects, other components were not directly related to gas but general
upgrading of other functions within NNPC. The result of the project has been
tremendous. The strategic planning component, for example, resulted in the
reorganization of NNPC into nine (9) Strategic Business Units with some degree of
autonomy. The original consultants have also been engaged to implement the cost
accounting system and the information masterplan. Many NNPC staff have been well
exposed to international businesses in their areas of specialization. For instance, more
than 56 accountants and audit staff attended courses at the College of Petroleum Studies
and were attached to various oil companies for periods ranging from four (4) to twelve
(12) weeks.



- 14 -
Computerization is given priority in the corporation and communication between various
arms of NNPC is easier. A pool of knowledgeable staff in Accounting, Auditing and
Planning have been established with the ability to train other staff who did not have the
opportunity to participate.
The Gas Utilization Study has provided the required information for the demand side and it
is hoped that this will be complemented by the Gas Field Optimization Study, which is
now being considered in phases under the Escravos Gas Pipeline project.
6.    Disbursement:
Financial details on the components actually implemented under this project is attached as
Appendix 1, as against the original allocations listed under project financing in Part III of
this report.
7.    Problems Encountered:
Because of the change in the original components of the project, it took both the Bank and
NNPC several months to agree on the reallocation of funds. At a stage, NNPC
Management wished the final distribution of the loan to have been for physical
development projects rather than for mainly studies.
Difficulties were also encountered on the process of awarding the contract which had to
receive the Bank's approval at every stage, from the Terms of Reference, Scope of Work,
prequalification of contractors, bid analysis, to final choice of contractor/consultant. In
most cases, response from the Bank took longer than expected. In a particular case, it
took months for the Bank to complete its investigation and communicate its refusal to
NNPC's choice of an affiliated company (NETCO) as contractor.
From our own point of view, the Bank's procedures were sometimes cumbersome and
unclear. We suggest that the relevant guidelines should be communicated early to
borrowers and seminars held about twice a year by the Bank to enable borrowers
understand its procedures better and discuss specific problems with responsible Bank
officials. This would enable efficient utilization of such funds and minimize avoidable
commitment and interest charges. It is however encouraging that the Bank tried to act in
this line by holding a seminar for billing in 1992, during which participants recommend
that a similar session should be held for disbursement procedures and complained that the
duration was inadequate. In addition, special sessions should be held for new loans. The
corporation on its part, has learnt a lot from the implementation of the GTA and effort is
being made to streamline the procedures for effective loan utilization.
In some cases, difficulties arising from delays led to changes in fund sources for already
committed projects. For instance, the allocation for the Butanization and Pipeline were
canceled in December, 1991 because the NNPC was left with little or no choice than to
finance the components by internally generated funds. In addition to the sources of delays
enumerated above, the multiplicity of components also compounded issues. These led to
small values for contracts found unattractive by bidders. The corporation had also, on
some occasions, reviewed the scope of work and this always required fresh approvals from
the Bank.
Some components like the Gas Field Optimization Study was also, at a point, put on hold
while the corporation was undergoing some restructuring and policy reorientation. By the



- 15 -
time NNPC was ready, the scope had to be reviewed and broken into phases and by the
time discussion was completed with the World Bank, it confirmed that the component
could no longer be taken under the GTA in view of time constraint, and recommended that
it should be considered under the proposed Escravos Gas Project.
Finally, change of schedule officers, both in the Bank and the NNPC, have also militated
against project implementation. It normally took new staff a significant length of time to
get used to the Bank/NNPC procedures
Billing Procedure:
The Bank's procedure of preparing bills in different currencies made the processing of bills
very cumbersome. It is recommended that at the stage of negotiation, borrowers should be
informed of what options are available and the choice should be specific in the final loan
agreement.
The Amortization Schedule should also be reviewed as often as portions of the loan are
canceled so that borrowers are aware of what is expected to be paid. A typical example of
this is with the cancellation of US $5.3 million in December 1991; the Bank is yet to
revise the amortization schedule even at the time of this report, inspite of series of
requests from NNPC. (This should please be attached by the Bank as Appendix II to this
report). 1/
Disbursements:
When applications for disbursement are made, the Bank sometimes does not contact the
borrower early enough to specify reasons for dishonoring a particular application. We
advise that, apart from making early contact with borrower on specific applications with
problems, the Bank should also send details of payment at least twice a year. 21
Furthermore, evidence of communication gap which had always existed between Bank
Project Supervisors and the Disbursement Department became even more obvious towards
the end of the loan disbursement period.
Records of requests for a revised amortization schedule cannot be located in the World
Bank's files. A final amortization schedule will be sent to the Borrower as soon as
complete loan disbursements and cancellation data are incorporated in the loan records.
2/    Following standard operating procedures, statements of loan disbursements made by
the World Bank were sent to the Borrower on a monthly basis.



SIN    Component                Bcneficiary            Contractor/          Allocation         Foreign Portion          Confirmed        Expected Disbursement   Remarks
Consultant               (S)           of Contract Sum         Disbursement       Yet to be confirmed by
Bank
I    Upfront fee                                                             62,344                                     S62,344                                 Mandatory paynt to world bank
from source.
2.   l'etr',menical            Petrochemicals Sector   SRI INT.               0.3m               $342,115 I356,463.79                                           Completed in 1987.
Fcasibility Study
3.    Seorch l r JV Pagnnmrs   Petncilnmicals Sector   IPC                                       $lOO,0(0               S1 0000X0O                              Conpliccd inl 19185
for tUe Petrchemical
Project_                   _  _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _  _   __                       _  _   _  _  _   _     _ _  _  _  _   _    _ _   _  _    _   _  _
4.    Butanization Feasibility    PPMS                CALAOR                  0.3m               $215,280               5293,80          _                      Completed in 1959. Included
Study                                                                                                                                                     additional contract and feca of
$78,600.
5.   Gas Utilization Study     NGC                    BEICIP                 SlOOm               S1 05m               951,127.73             S40,868.18        Compieted in November, 1992.
6     Information Masterplan   Engineering and        AW Consultants          0.5m             St73,900 plus          S157,484.35              S34,780           Completed in January, 1992.
Computer Services     and P-E INT.                             Reimbursables          ($274,247.54)            ($52,170)
Section
7.    Development of Cost      FAD                    Peat Marwick           S4.00m             $3,905,000             $3,880,000                                Compkted in December, 1992.
Accounting System and
Training of Fad Staff
S.   Training of Audit Staff    Corporate Audit       Peat Marwick           SI OOnt            $1,175,000             $1,145,000              $30,000          Compkted in December, 1992.
Original approval was $675,000.
Additional approval $500,000.
9.    Strategic Planning and   CPDD                   AA & CO                Sl.9m                S1.65m              $73S,170.54            $609,224.55         Completed in December, 1992
Training of Planners
10.   Acquisition of           NGO                    Scientific                -                $136,760                                      $136,760          Software ia already purchased.
TGNET/Pipephase                                 Software
Computer Softwares                              Intercom
Simulation
Sciencea Inc
11.   Study of the             NAPIMS                 n/a                     53 Om                 n/                     n/e                                   Implementation could wu
Optimization of a"                                                                                                                                         commence before expimttion of
Field Development                                                                                                                                          loan.
Todal                                          S12.062M                                        $7,801,233.9        $S69,022.73
- Caocelltlon                                  S 1 I.900M
- Unwlocated                                   Sl.038M
Original Loan Amnount                          $25 .OOM



- 17 -
NIGERIA
GAS TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2390-UNI
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Part IIl: Statistical Information
1. Related Bank Loam or Credits
Loan Number and rTid, Yce of
Approval                                  Pumo s2tus
LN 3104-UNI Refunries Rehabilitation,     To improve operation of NNPC's    $5.5 million disbursed; alow
1989                                      refieries, including maintenancv;,    inpleneatin.
efficiency and utiliza     of
facilities; also environmental
management (US $27.7 million).
LN 3317-UNI Oso CondensaeL Field          For commercial development of      $62.4 million disbursed; pnojec
Development. 1991                         OS   offshore field by            execution proceeding well.
NNPC/Mobil to produce 100,000
bpd of condensate (US $218
million).
LN 3116-UNI Power System Maintenance,    To assist NEPA in rchabilitation of   $23.4 million disbursed sme
1989                                      8 power sations, 100 substations,    delay apparenL
960 km of HV transmission line-
(US $70.0 million).
2. Priect Timetable
htem                            Date Planned              Date Revised               Date Actual
Identification                                                                       1979
Preaaion                                                                             1982
Appaisl Minion                                                                       03/83
loan Negotiations               05/02183                                             10W83
Board Approval                  03113/84                                             0312084-
Loan Signatue with NNPC         07/02/84                   12?1S2                    03113186
Cwuatee A8rement with                                                                03/13t86
Nigeria
Loan Effoctivenes: 09/11/86
Loan Closing                    12/31/89                   12131/90                  12/31/92
12131/91
Loan Compklion                  05/31/88                                             12/31/92



- 18 -
3. Loan Disbursements
Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements
(US$'000)
1985  1986  1987   1988  I198    1990   1991   1992  I.3
Appraisal estimate           13.0  20.0  25.0    25        25     25     25      25      25
Actual                         0      0   0.13   0.93   1.15   1.49    1.9   5.84    13.1
Actual as per cent of          0      0      1      4       5      6      8      23     s52
estimate
Date of final disbursement: June 7, 1993
4. Project Implementation
Indicators                 Appraisal Estimate                   ActuaI
March 1983-December 1985       Financing canceled in 1991
Preparation of Pipeline Project
Studies for Gas Development    September 1984-June 1985       Completed in 1990-1991      . ..
Establishment of the Gas Unit   July 1984-June 1985           Financing canceled in 1986
Marketing and other studies    September 1984-June 1985       Partially completed



- 19 -
S. Pmiect Costs and Financina
A. Proiect Costs
Item                                        Aprmisal Estimate                        Actual I1
Lgol  Foreign  Total           Local Foreign  Tota
Enginecring design, procurenent
asistance, and review of                       2.80    6.80    9.60
detailed engineering for ELP                                                  (Bank funds cancllced)
Establishunent of NNPC'a Gas Unit,
and Managment aistanuc for ELP                 1.65    6.60    8.25           (Bank funds cancelled)
Enginering svices for futur
gas  ipply expansion, and otier                0.75    3.00    3.75           n.a.    0.90    n.a.
gas and LPG engineering studies
Marketing, pricing and tariff
studies for gas and LPG                        0.30    1.30    1.60           n.a.    0.30    n.e.
Petnrchemical study                            0.00    0.00    0.00           0.0     0.50    0.5
Assistance for NNPC's corpouut
planning, information s mte,                   0.50    2.00    2.50           n.a.    0.30    n.s.
capil budgcting aos accounig ste-
prjeot valuation and staff trning
Tatal Bas Cos                                    0     19.70   25.70
Physical Contingencies                      0.60    2.00    2.60
Price Contingencies                          1.40    3.24    4.64
Total Project Cosb                             8.00    24.94   32.94          n.a     8.5      n...
Front-a  Fee                                   -      O       0.06             _
Total                                          8.00    25.00   33.00          n. a.    8.6     8.6.
F1     i E gt iasun
/I Fortign costs only



- 20 -
B. Proiect Financing
Source                              Planned Loan Agreement             Fina I/
(US$ million)             (US$ million)
IBRD
Expenditure Categories-
Preparation of the ELP Project                 6.80                      0.0
Studies of feasibility of Natural
Gas and Gas Liquids projects                    3.00                      0.9
Technical Assistance to NNPC                   8.6                       6.8
Marketing studies and engineering
for gaseous fuels projects                     1.30                      0.3
Petrochemnical study                           0.00                      0.5
Front-end Fee                                  0.06                      0.06
Unallocated                                    5.24
Total Loan                                    25.00                      8.56
Cancellation effective June 25, 1986      US$6.6 million
Cancellation effective December 12, 1991  US$5.3 million
Cancellation effective June 7, 1993       US$4.54 million
1/ Estimates



- 21 -
6. Proiect Results
D. Studies
Puroose as Defined at Appraisal    Status         Imnact of Study
Gas and LPG supply      Define markets and sources      Completed         Favourable
Corporate planning and  Restructure the institution     Completed         Very suclesu
Project evaluation                                                        restucturing
LPG utilizmion std      Define markets and distribution  Completed         Quite useful
approach
Staff training (Audit,  Improve staff quality           Completed          Quite useful
Fmance, Accounting)
Petrochemical study     Feasibility of Petrocbemical plants  Completed     Quite usefl
7. Status of Covennts
Covenant                         Section            Deadline for        Status
Compliance
Loan Arreement
Repay interest and principal        2.07 & 2.08       Twice yearly         Not yet due
Hire consultmnts acceptable to Bank  3.02 (a)         During execution     Complied
Hire cnsultants to set up Gas Unit  3.02 (b)          During execution     CompLied
Establish a core group for project  3.02, (c), (i? and    During execution  CompLied; not
execution                           (ii)                                  financed by the
Bank
Obtain the Bank's comments before   3.02, (c) (iii)   During execution     Not complied
setting up the Gas Unit
Undertake studies only after core group   3.02 (d)     During execution    Not applicable
is established
Discu  with Bank recommendations of   3.04 (b), (i)    By June 30, 1987   Not complied
Part A studies
Prepare action plan                 3.04, (b), (ii)   By June 30, 1987     Not complied
Fumish specification and documents  3.05, (a)          During execution    Complied
Maintain records                    3.05, (b), (i)     During execution    Complied
Afford acce;s to sites and interim  3.05, (b), (ii) and   During execution  Complied
accounts                            also 3.05, (d)
Furnish semiannual reports and interim    3.05, (b), (iii) and   During execution  Not complied
accounts                            (iv)
Submit final report                 3.05 (e)          By Tune 30, 1993     Complied
Maintain adequate insurance         4.03              Continuing          Not applicable
Independent auditors                5.02(a)            Ongoing             Complied
Audited saements with  six months   5.02 (b) and (c)    Ongoing           Delayed



- 22 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Stage of
Proiect Cycle                                 Actul       =dt 
Through Appraisal                             86.8                1983 - 79.3
Through Board Approval                        48.3                1984 - 7.5
Board Approval through Effectiveness          26.6                1984 to 1986
Supervision                                   126.9               1987 to 1992
TOTAL                                         288.6               1983 to 1992:



- 23 -
S. U. of Bank Resources (continued)
B. Missions
Moal        Number of    Days in   SpecLalizarion                           Perform1nc       Types of
State of Proiect C-yclo                  Ya           Perons          Fteld    Re en cntea/                            Ru                ha
Tbmnh Apprnis
dentification                            03M              1            2       Elg                                        a                 --
dentification2                           05/7o            2            2       Eng t                                                      a
Identificatioa 3                         07r7t            1            1       Ope                                        as
lenitificatson 4                         otm              I             I      Eng                                        as
Idemification 5                           1217            2            3       Ope, Ea t                                                  n-
IdeAifi5cason 6                          02179            2            3       Op.                                        a- 
Prepaation I                              10l1t           4            3       Ope, Eng
2 Con                                     a               a-
Preparation 2                             10/SZ           3            3       Ope. Eng                                   n               o
Prwparaiion 3                             12/IS           3            3       2 Ope,ig oag
Prappraia 1                              011U3            4            6       2 Ope,2 Eng                                                OR -
Prsappnisl 2                             031/3            4            3       2 Opc,2 Eng                                a-
Anoraisal 'hxorsIh Board Approval
Appraisl                                 04/U             5            10      Opt, FLn, 2
Eng, Eca                                  Da 
Postapprial                              01154            3            6       Opc,2 Eng                                  a               -o
Board ADoroval Throuet EtTectivens
Follow-up                                04/5             3            3       Fin, Leg, Eng                            -Pocura
Supervisio
Supervision 1                             10/86           6            a       Ope, Fin,                                                1
Eco, 3 Eng
Supesionii2                              03187            2            12      Fin, Eco,                                              procure
2 Eng                                      I          ProUre
Supevision 3                             083t7            1            3       Ec-
Supervision 4                            091t7            4            6       Mainly for Refinery Rehabiliation
Superoision 5                             11197           1            3       Mainly for Refinery Rchbili]fiou
Supervision 6                            021e8            1            4       Mainly for Refinery Rehabilitatios
Superision 7                             0581u            2            7       Eco. Eng                                   2          :."-x     --
Supavision                               02/S9            1            3       Eng                                        3  ,,     ,, 
Supevision 9                             04/90            1            5       Eng                                         2 ---
Supervision 10                           05/91            2            2       Ope, Eng                                    2 :'     - 
Supervisiosl l                          07/92                        4       Ope +  eq                                  2 E -gs
It Specialization Ac-ny -  Op, - opertios o1Icer, Eco - economist, Eng - engineer, Fir - fiancial
taiys. Lg - bwyer, Con - cooshau
k/ Key to Pro*ect Satus:    I - stisf , 2 - minor problems, 3 - mjor pronbems



