Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8187
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
(CREDIT 806-IN)
NOVEMBER 21, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department IV
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



[.|ST F ABBLaU
AIC       -    Agro-Industies Development Corporation
CLS       -    Crop Loan Scheme
DOA       -    Deprment of Agiculture
DOH       -    Deparment of Horticulture
DOHPM           Depamment of Hoitcultmu  Plnning and Marketing
GOI       -    Govenment of India
GOJK            Govenment of Jammu and Kashimir
FAO/CP - FAQ/World Bank Cooprative Programme
HP        -    Himachal Pradesh
AP        -    Indo-Austalian Project
IDA       -    Intemational Developmnt Association
J&K             Jamnmu and Kashmir
JKHPMC  -    Janmmu and Kashnmir Horticulture Produce Marketing and Processing
Corporation Ltd.
NABARD  -    Natonal Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development
PPU       -    Project Preparation Unit
SAR       -    World Bank Staff Appraisal Report
SKUAST  -    Sher-e-Kashmiir University of Agricultural Science and Technology
UP        -    Uttar Pradesh
WB        -    World Bank



FOR OFFCAzL uSI ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Washington. O.C. 20433
US.A.
OlIked Of.cttw.wai
November 21, 1989
KENORANDUN TO THE EXKCUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on India Jammu and
Kashmir Horticulture Project (Credit 806-IN)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on India - Jammu and Kashmir Horticulture
Project (Credit 806-IN)" prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative
Program, with an overview memorandum prepared by the Asia Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
Ti documnt has a restd dibutin and may be used by recipients ony in the perfomncee
of their offci duties Its contents may not oherwie be dislosed without World Bank authoation.
i



INDIA                        FOR OFFIC4L USE ONLY
JAMMUI AND KASHMIR HOIRTICULTURE PROJECT
(Credit 806-IN)
PROJECT CDOMPL^ETION REPOHC
lable of Contents
Page No.
Preface                                                      i
Basic Data Sheet                                            ii
Evaluation Summary                                          iv
Overview                                                  viii
I.     INTRODUCTION                                                  1
II.    BROAD CHARACTERISTICS OF HORTICULTURE
SUB-SECrOR                                                   1
Area and Production                                           2
Servce Institutions                                           2
Marketing                                                     3
HI.    PROJECT FORMULATON                                            3
Project Reconnaisce/Identification                            3
Project Preparation                                           4
Appraisal                                                     5
Project Description                                           6
TV.    REVIEWOFPROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                6
Negotiations and Credit Effectiveness                         6
Project Changes after Appraisal                               7
Implementation Schedule                                       7
Physical Implementaton                                        7
Project Cost                                                  9
Project Financing and Cedit Allocation                        9
Compliance with Covenants                                    10
V.    ASSESSMENT OF JKHPMC'S PERFORMANCE                            10
Expected Scale of Operations                                 10
Actual Performance                                           I I
The Crop Loan Scheme                                         12
JKHPMCs Financial Position                                   12
Constraints Affecting JKBPMCs Operational
Performance                                                 13
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the ierforinance
of their official duties. its contents m&y not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Eap No.
VI.   PROJECI ePACr                                             14
14
Assess tfActualProiect mpa                               14
V1I.   BANK PERFORMANCE                                         15
Overall Peformace                                        1S
Supevision                                               16
Vm.  CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED                            16
1.     o inof Appaisal and Acl Costs
2.    Costs andComploau  as at June 1986 of JKHPMC Facilities
3.    JRHPMC O aons with Apples and Walnuts
4.    JKHPaC - TeDms of Ma g D            & Dem    Dircwts
5.    Ex       ncuredon App WalReseah Compoat
6.    Schedule of Dis     tu (Cu     e)
7.    Aoto of Cred Proceds



INDIA
JAMMU AND  AMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT (CREDIT 806-XN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Jammu and
Kashmir Horticulture Project in India, for which Credit 806-IN in the
amount of US$14.0 million was approved on April 25, 1978.  The credit was
closed on June 30, 1986, two years behind schedule.  The last disbursement
took place on February 12, 1987, at which time US$7.3 million was
cancelled.
The PCR was prepared by the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program and
the Overview and Evaluation Summary were prepared by the Asia Regional
Office.   They are based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report, the
Development Credit and Project Agreements; supervision reports; and
internal Bank memoranda.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower on September 8, 1989, for comments
by October 27, 1989, but none were received.



- il. -
JAAMU AND KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJICT
(CMi 06-1N)
PROJECT COMPIETION REPORT
Daic Dao Sb S
KEY PROJECT DATA
Actual       Col. 2 as
Apprall        Cuwreist          9
Estlmate      Esaimat*       of CI. I
ll]          [121            131
Total Project Cost ('SS milion)            27.6          21.81!           79
Crdit AmoU  (USS million)                  14.0            6.7            48
- Disbud                                  14.0            6.7            48
- Casucleld                                               73             52
Date Phya Compone  Compeed
Apple Cenes                             Sept 83        91/922/
Cold SwU                                SpL 83         91/922/
Waln utC;es                             Sep. 83        91/9221
M{aXu;xpartCe                           SepL 81        91/922/
Tra"A_Cmeatcenve                        SepL 79         1984
Etonamic Raw Of pAtum                         lkey negie 3/
CUMULATIE DISBURSEMENTS
FY JO FY 81   FY82 FY  3 FY 84 FY 85  !Y 86 FY 87
Appsa Esdmate (USS milL)                0S.3   94                     4       14.0  14.0  14.0i
Actul (UJSS milion)                    0.1    0.3    2.1    2.6       3.6    49    6.1    6.7
Actuals * of Appai sL (E()               33    21       40    27       26      35     44  48
Dao of Fina Dlseaut 12-Feb-87
PROJECT DAMS
Orlugnal Plan     Actual
OctNov. 74
Pap-tim (by Gowia _me)                               Aug-77    -
Appaisal                                             SeptL 77
Negodaui                                             Apr-78
BoardAppmval                                         18-May-78
Cedit Signng                                         17-Jul-78
CeitEffev s                           20Oct-78       6.Jam-79
Credit Closing                        30-Jun-84      30-Jun46
(saf" "Oka)
fill ma      r sn fS tMFlmn an   F a          EnO   r    M    IAU r2ML
Pu.anruIamI  17.7  17.1 2.1  5.6  -   _   _   _   _       _    _    _      _ 42.
Ae,reiugt   -    -   -  115.4  -   -   -   -  - -         - -   -   -       1 .4
N.6s*ImtI^t    -    -   -    .- - -           -   -   - -   -   -   -   5.0
6u"vw&emoa    -    -   -    *.6 22.1 1.6 1.8. 20.2  6.4  8.2 10.9 5.0  5.7  .6 U1.6
0tb.. -    -   -                                 -- -   -                  -.J
TmrAL    17.7  17.1 2.1  19.? 22.1 11.6 I8.0 20.8  6.4  8.2 10.9 8.0 5.?  .6 2.0



- 1il -
ISSION DATA
No.                  Ssooclllzallans T
Mis1n                    Dat       (t Pesn       I Field    Reprentd 41    8   6    TrW O Pvod     7j
Rec        St 0        OcVN@v.74 St        3          63
Appraisal               SepOot-77          6          174    a..AI,h.vng.
SupWvSln 1              Nov-76             4          24      ,t,                  1
S&Pboun 2              Jun-79              3          21       t,h                 1
Supevs   3             JuntJul-80          4          32      *.f.0                1           1          o
SupevIion 4            Jun-61              :2         16      trng.                2           2         T.0
SupeVbn 5               May-82             3          30      a                   a            2         u.o
SupevIi  6              Mar-83             1           4      a
SUP8Vl_l 7              Jul-63             1           6      a                    2           2         M.O
SupevIo a               Aug-44             2          20      *.a                  2           2         u.o
Supe.vsIo 9            Apr-6               1           65     a                   3            2         M.P
Swls_ lm                Oct-as             1           3      a                   3            2         M,P
supus InI              May-s               1           6      a                   3            2         M.P
OThER DATA
Borroww:                                          Goerment of Indi
F1a Yew of 8o0mr:                                 I Aprilo 31 March
Nam   t Caumn  (Ablarevltlon):                    Ruw p(R)
Exdp PaIe PbAl".:
Appr"s  Yes Avwqa (1977176):                   US$1 a Rug35
v"nIng Yas (19717 - 641                        US$1 * a Ft0
196 A rag:                                     U8$1 - Ast12O
*! SXeo ot prea was redce dwrig brmpemeteUn
21 Ukly aMnIlan at ms ao the tad_e In 16611.A tow tfilles Om rquf  s*1_t  wad
tobe   IIled my in tnl obe i  bI
3J lb* tIU-e_    pleI  so t r hve boe  We ue, ed tfw bmIl hae bee gerate
Deft b not _Avaer ro-eftnWon d Uv ERR. brA ftt I n m and* ne_a tve
41 a * eWkluf*lst* e -  mmAnI th. fu nb l w isyiLI   h a hutlaaftr     a a cei o*peddst
a' - spo40ullsk sVg -  'n new.
6I - Protes tre or Mnor Prlm 2   * Modmt Prmns 3 * Mpw Prolm
61 -Improving, 2a .StOy, 3 a Dilenrtg
7/ T  - TechnIcMl,M  Meni_. P a PaIIi,O a COr
81 Fallow-up msso  by IDA In May 1975 sad Jrway  1976. to ast
loal PaIl Prepwtn Unit In prepin  do prel.



- iv -
INDIA
(0dt 806 - IN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Inoducn
1.     The Jmnmu and Kashmir Horticulture Project was financed under redit 806-IN,
appVed in 1978. The proect amed at integrating collection, packdng, processing and
marketing for apples, waln:us,   hrooms and ther by-products by channelling these
activies throug a to-be-established Jammu and Kashmir Horticulturl Product Marketing
and Processing Corporan Ltd (JKHPMC). After an IDA reconnaissance mission in
1974, the Govent of Jammu and Kashmir (GOJK) established a project preparaton
unit which, assisted by consultants from the Agdcultumal Fmance Corpon     of Ind,
prepaed a draft praration report in 1976. The rport required repeated revisions untl the
final draft of late 1977 was appraised by IDA. Total project costs wem esdmated at Rs.
242.2 million (US$ 27.6 million), against which an IDA Credit of US$ 14.0 milLion was
negotated. It was expected that the proect would be completed by 31 Decembe 1983, and
the Cedit would close on 30 June 1984.
2.    bIplementadon began in 1979 after months of delay caused by changes in the
onlending charnel for the apple j ice plant component from ARDC (now NABARD) to the
Industrial Devdepnt Ba of Edit Because of considebly higher costs than
estmated at appraisal, the size of the project was scaled down by about 40%. Considerable
delays in establishing prect inas    occurred as a result of unfamiliarity with MDA
proement polcies (this was the fist IDA assisted project in Jammu and Kashmir),
review of cheaper altrnatives sinc the costs were higher than expected, and poor
management control over covrucin, ordering of equipment and its installation. After
two extensins, the Credit was closed on 30 June 1986, with a balance of US$ 7.3 million
that was cancelled.
3.    The first Bank assisted hordcultue project in India, for Himachal Pradesh,
estabished a new pastaal to offer growers an alternative (public sector) market channel to
thatprovidd by the traditonal trade. It aimed at lowering maketing costs, reducing the
wide swing in prces due to seasonal apple gluts, itApwving fruit quality and utilizing apple
culls.IThis commercially oriented parastatal was to maret fresh ruit through its own
collecdon centes, grading and packing houses, coldstores and transhipment centers, to
process fruit into apple juice concentrate, and to provide infrructure (roads, aerial
cablemays). Included in the project were also technical assistance, training of project staff,
andaprojectevaluation study. The project was cnfined to specific marketing
posarvest) probles in the apple industry despite the Govemnment's plea for assistance
for preharvest activities as welll.
'The Goverment of Himachal Pradesh had requested assistance for research into
bredstocks, public sector nurmseies to produce better quality seedlings, on-farm producdon
including equipment, agrchemcals, other supplies, and extension, as well as trsport,
storage(includlng cold stores), processing and marketing.



4.    Prior to the completion of the Hmachal Pradesh Apple Prcessing and Marketing
Project (Cr. 456-IN), GOI and the Bank felt they had learned many lessons and proceeded
with a sinilar horticulture project for Jammu and Kashmir. In addition to the above
components, the J&K project provided for: sawmills to produce fuit boxes; hulling/drying
and packing centers for walnuts; seasonal credit to growers; apple, walnut and mushroom
rseach; and sudies on apple, walnut and juice marketing. Excepting credit, no preharvest
component was included, although the reconnaissance mission had pointed to the need to
upgrade the planting material and introduce improved orcharding practices. Furthermore, a
component for low cost, on-farm storage included in the preparation report was deleted at
the time of appraisal in favor of large, centrally located cold storages. Also, a provision for
JKHPMC to provide advances to growers similar to those offered by the private trade was
drpped in favor of seasonal credit through banks.
hIplementation and Results
5.    The project got off to a slow start Effectiveness was delayed due to a change in the
financing channel for the juice plant and considerable further delays occurred during
implementation. Establishment of project infrastructure was protracted as a result of
unfamiliarity with IDA procurement policies (this was the first IDA assisted project in
Jamnmu and Kar), review of cheaper alternatives since the costs were higher than
expected, and poor managemznt control over construction, ordering of equipment and its
installation. Due to considerably higher costs than those estimated at appraisal, the size of
the proect was scaled down to roughly 60% of the appraised size. Basically, fewer
packcing houes, coldstorages and walnut hulling centers were to be constmcted and the
sawmill component was dropped. If account is taken for the reduced scale of investments
there was an estimated 45% cost ovenrun in rupee terms (20% in dollar terms).
6.    At Credit closing on 30 June 1986, only six out of seventeen packing houses, two
out of seven coldstores, and two out of eight walnut hulling centers had been
commissioned in the scaled-down project. The apple juice processing plant was not
financed under the project, because GOJK purchased an existing juice plant from the
private sector to be owned and operated by JKHPMC. The component for credit to
farmers was not used -.t alL The research component for apples and walnuts was partially
completed, while little work was done to support mushroom research. The marketing
studies were never undertaken. The PCR estimated that the all project facilities would be
complete by 1987/88. However, subsequent data have revealed that no further facilities
have been commissioned even though some were almost completed at the dme the Credit
was closed.
7.    There has been poor farmer demand for JKHPMC services. Consequendy,
capacity utilization has been low and the Corporation has incurred substandal losses.
Now, with a negative net worth, its financial position is a disaster, and the ERR for the
project is almost ceruinly negative. Banks have been unwilling to provide additional term
finance to complete the unfmished facilities, and GOJK has not provided funds for this
purpose either. Various factors are responsible for the low capacity utilization, the
pdncipal ones being:
a)  Growers were not motivated to deal with the JKHPMC or use its facilities.
Either they didn't perceive a benefit in using them, and/or they couldn't
market their fruit through JKHPMC or use its coldstores because they were
already committed to private agents from whom they had received
preharvest advances.
b)  There were only limited quantities of fruit of a sufficiently high quality to
coldstore really welL



* vi -
c)  The C aion was overy concemed with constuction during its early
yeas and little attention was given to developing a viable marketing
framworl. Theih staff was not truined in merchandising and they were
coained by baucaic procedures puting them at a disadvantage with
pdvate traders and preharvest contractors.
d)  The Corpon established for itself a poor reputation regarding prices for
the small quantities of fuit handled in the early years a situation that was
excploited by private traders. A misconception about the shelflife of apples
subjected to longterm coldstorage (that the apples would rot when taken to
the market) was also supported by traders not wanting to see their hold on
the pmduce diminished.
e) JKHPMC established a poor reputation in management, particully
financial management, which led to doubts by lending banks that it could
manage a major marketing operation, and made them unwilling to finance
working capital.
8.    Overall, JKBPMC has been unsuccessful in meeting the objectives set forth at
apaisal. It has not had the quality of management to ceate demand for its services and
opeate effecdvely. In any case, it is a moot point whether the corporation, as a parastatal,
could have been expected to compete with the private sector. Nevertheless, JKHPMC has
played a developmental role in stimulating awareness of modern handling infas e. It
also created awareness, particularly among smaller growers, of  pre- and
postharvst prtes through a crop loan scheme2 in which ferilizer in kind, custom
spraying, packuig matedal and maketing serices were made available to contacted
growers.
SustainWltv
9.    The project has failed to meet its objectives, and there is no evidence to suggest that
it will perform any better in the future. In order to make the JKBPMC a financially viable
organiztion the Government would have to inject additional equity to pay off the
accumulated losses and overdue loan payments of the Corporation, complete the unfinished
faciliies, and strengthen management considerably. With a program which ties up input
credit and later purchase of the produce from selected orchards the packing/gradirng houses
and cold storages established under the project could be utilized. This, however, requires
that the Coporation has sufficient working capital to purhase the fruit outright, and also
requirs a high degree of management Another option to utilize the facilities created under
the project would be to seli or lease them out to the private sector. Traders and farmer
groups have expressed interest in udlizing or tadng over the management of the cold
storages but so far no party has shown interest in the packing houses.
Fndings and Lessom
10.  The PCR raises legitimate questions on the project concept, namely the introduction
of an untried (in India) technology on a large scale by a newly established parastatal
o.rganization.it remains unclear how or when the facilites established under the project
(infraructure for apple grading, packing and storage, and walnut hulling and drying) may
be fully utilized. Lessons that emerge from the project are:
2The Crop Loan Scheme was not part of the appraised project. It was conceived and
implemented by JKHPMC during the project period.



- vii -
a)  The Bank and the Goverment should be more cadful to understmd
pnrdu   needs and the dynamics of the market place in the subsector.
b) Caution mas be exeivised when introducing new technology when its
acceptabiity to the proposed beneficiaries has not been established under
prvlig conditions
c)  If efforts to improe the profability of production and marketing are to
succeed, emphasis must be given to improving the quality of the fruit
produced and maintaining the quality through the maetng chain
d) By not including in the project, even on a small scale, the proposals for
developing on-farm storage and manual rather than mechanical grading, an
oppartunity was lost to ty out a lower level of technology.
e) Ihe choice of a public sector corporanon to market and process fruit and
culls appears to have been an error, especially consiring that fuit is a
perishable commodity which requires flexibilit in opeatng prcedue
f)  If maketing hvestments are needed they should focus on assistng the
idustry to become more efficient and competitive, by encouragig prae
ente= nurs to participate in an itegmted marketing process.
g)  S3tonger direct fanmer paricipation in the mareng process shoud be
encouraged. Establishing terminal iarkes closer to the producing aeas
and introducing uniform grades should increase growers' maket power.



- viii -
INDIA
WM AND3 KASH   HQMCa-mPOJE
(Qeif 806- IN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OVEPVIEW
1.    The Bank has suppored two horticultual projects in India The Hmachal Prdesh
Apple Processing and Marketing Project (Cr. 456-IN), approved in 1973, and the Jammu
nd Kashmir Horticultuml Project (Cr. 806-IN), approved in 1978. The prmise of both
projects WaS that the main problem a0ecting the apple industry was manipuladon of the
market by private mechants to the detniment of the growes Under both projects.
government corporations were set up to handle a small but significant potion of the crop,
thereby providing growers with an alternative market outleL Although most of the planned
facilities (grading, packing, cold storage and processing) were establshed, neither
crpoation has had much success in atracting farmer clients and oping its facilities on a
commercial scale. Both are heavily in debL Problem encounted by the corpratons
include weak management, inability to obtin sficient woing capital, dificulties in
obtaining high quality frut, percepion among the farmers that the cains pay low
prices, misconcepton among producers of the shelf life of colds  fri, difficulte in
marketing juice concentrate, etc.
2.    The attached Prject Completion Report, prepared by FAO/CP, was completed in
June 1987. With the benefit of two more years experience it stands clear that while the
PCR reflects project background and prncipal implementaion features well, it could have
drawn stronger conclusions on weaknesses in pject concept anddesign, and
recommendatons for the futre. It could also have questioned whether sipeviszon at
yeady intevals was adequate in view of the problems being experienced by the project
This project has substantially been a failur. Whatever positive contbutdons the project
has made to the hordculture subsector have been achieved at tremendous cost. In the
course of preparing for a follow-on hotdculture project for the North West Hill Region
(NWHR) in ia, recent missions have collected additional information on the status of the
previous projects and of the HPMCs in partcular. The JKHPMC juice factory is the only
part of the operatons that is impving; it operated in 1988 at 71% capacity utiization.
Notwithstanding their peiformance, the Coporation otherwise has not managed to attract
more fresh apple business from the farms; its financial situation has continued to
deteriorate to a point where its net worth is negative; it has more staff than is needed for
efficient option; and no further facilites have been comssioned, although some were
almost complete at the time the Credit was closed in June 1986 (neither the Banis nor the
State Goverment have been willing to provide the necessary funds for completing the
fahlities).
3.   In addition to the main constraints given in the PCR (5.10) affecdng JKHPMC's
perforance, ithe following have been importnt reasons why the famers have been
reluctantto use project packhouses: (i) most growers have small ohards and family labor
is available for packing, thereby avoiding additional transport and packing charges; (ii) a
concern that the fuit would get damaged during transport to the packhouse; (iii) cardboard
cawra (iriginally planned to be used in packhouses as part of more efficient opertions -
quicker paclidng) are twice as costly as tradidonal wooden boxes (Rs. 30/carton compared
to Rs. 16/box-- no subsidies are involved).
4.     JKHPMC attempted to increase udlization of the cold stores in 1988 by
advertsing in local papers and promotion at growers' meetings. The facilites were offered



- ix -
at a price of about Rs. 2.50/box per month compared to Rs. 5-7/box charged at the Delhi
maret Grower response was negligible. Their reasons for not using the facilides include:
(i) a concemn to get the fuit out of the valley before the end of December when the main
road south often gets blocked by snow and landslides; (ii) an immediate need for money
from sale of the fiuit; (iii), cold storage of apples in Delhi itself allows taking advantage of
marke price fluctuadons; (iv) low trust in the capacity of HPMC employees to operate the
facilities propery, and (v) a feelng that public sector services should be provided free of
charge.
5.    The main lessons from the two horticultural projects are threefold. Fimrd. if
efforts to improve the profitability of production and marketing are to succeed, emphasis
must be given to improving the quality of the fruit produced and maintaining the quality
through the marketing chaun ''his would immediately result in higher returns to the
produces Furthermore, the cost of cold storage, which enables a prolonged marketing
season, can be justified only if the frit is of high quality. Incidentally, the need for
preharvest support (planting material, nurseies, extension, etc.) was recognized in early
vers  of the preparaton reports for both projects, but on Bank insistence, was
subsequentlydroppo  Sedondy. stronger direct farmer participation in the marketing
process, interms of a more equitable share of market power and risk, should be
encouraged. P.resently, the fruit is sold on the farmers' behalf in Delhi, hence giving little
incentive to maketin intemediaries to move the fruit quicldy to reduce losses and
deterration in quality. Estabishng terminal markets in the producing areas and
introducing unifom gs and standards should help reduce the producers' risk. 2bkJLY
the saegy of imp ng the  rketing system by providing drect competition in the form
of a govrmemt managed maketing outlet has not worked. State goverment marketing
corporatins have not demonstrated the operadonal flexibility and business acumen
necessary to diecdy manage commercial horticultural opans in effective competiton
with a vigous private sector. If marketing investments are needed, they should focus on
ating the industry to become more efficient and competitive, by encouraging private
enh~preneurs to participate in an integrated marketing process.



-1-
INDIA
JAMMU AND KASHNMI HO=UCULTUR PROJECr
(Credit 806-1N
PROJECr COMEIP=ON REPOR
I. INTRODUCTION
1.1         Up to the early 1970s horticulture had remained a largely neglected sub-sectr
within the Govermment of India's (GOI) overall development sU=tegy, largely because of the
prsg need to increase the output of foodgains. However, there was recognition within GOI of
the ince of horticulture in dietary needs and to the economies of certain States, and the
consequent need for invesm    in order to achieve better regional balance in agriculure
development. In line with this, and at GOI request, the World Bank appraised the Himachal
Pradesh Apple Prcessing and Marketing Project in 1972 (Cedit 456-IN), followed by the
Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project in 1977 (Cedit 806-IN).
1.2         The Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project, the subject of this completion repoMt,
was initiated in recognition of the fact that the overwhelmig majority of the State's rual
population relied on horticulture as a major source of income. The project, which was the first
Bank group project in Jammu and Kashir (J&K), was aimed at prviding fruit growers with an
alenative marketing channel to that provided by the traditional privmate tades, tmugh the
establishment of a govemment-owned marketing and processing corporation (the Jammu and
Kashmir Horiculture Produce Makting and Processing Corpoation (JKHPMC)). It provided
funds for. setting up faciliides and services for apple and walnut grading, packing, processing and
marketing; fuit research; supporting mushroom development; seasonal credit to growers; training
and technical assistnce; and for undaking fruit markeng studies. Over a six year period
(1978f79-1983/84), the project was estmated to cost Rs 242.2 million (US$27.6 million).
1.3         The project was closed on June 30, 1986, after two one-year extensions.
Accordingly, the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme (FAO/CP) was requested by the
World Bank to field a mission to assist the Government of Jamrnu and Kashmir (GOJK) to prepare
the PCR. On arrival in Srinagar (in August 1986) the FAO/CP mission found that the Government
was pumsng with the World Bank a further one year extension of the project. Consequendy, it
was agreed that a PCR would not prepred till the project extension issue had been resolved. The
mission, however, was able to collect some data to allow an overall rewew of proqect
implementation, in support of an ongoing World Bank hordculture sub-sector review. Data
collectd and discussions held with the implementing agencies during the ,aurse of that mission,
and additonal data provided subsequendy by JKHPMC provide the basis for this completion
report. In addition, the PCR is based on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1890-IN); the
Development Credit Agreement dated July 17, 1978; and supervision reports and project files
(available at the World Bank's New Delhi Office).
IL BROAD CHARACTERISTlCS OF HORTICULTURE SUB.SECTOR
2.1         In order to review project frmuladon and its subsequent implementaton, it is
necessary to set out briefly the broad cr  of the hordculture sub-sector in Kashmir. This
chapter prsents the salient features of apple and walnut development since the mid 1970s (when
the project was appraised).
I



-2-
Area and Pfaducio
2.2         The project was situated in the Kashmir vallcy where over 80% of the state's fruit
pmduction is located, and which has a high potential for temperate fruits, vegetables and flowers.
The valley's natural superiority is demonstraued by the fact that it produces nearly 60% of the dtee
north-wes  hill State's (HP, J&K, and UP) total fruit production on 35% of the planted areas.
The total area under horticultural crops in J&K has increased from around 90,000 ha in 1976 to
nearly 150,000 ha in 1986. Most new plantings have been of the already domiinant crops, apples
and walnuts. Apart from almonds all others (including mushrooms) were, and remain ninor
crops.
2.3         A99& are the predominant crop of the state, representing 98% of total fruit
production. Between 1976M77 end 1985/86, the area under apples has gone up from 55,000 ha to
6350 ha, while production has gone up fom aound 300,000 tons to 760,000 tons respectively.
Red Delicious is the principal variety grmwn, and its prporton in tota production (around 45% at
prsent) is gVowing as it fetches higher pices as compared to the other varieties. The majority of
holdings are less than 1 ha in si  Whfle average yields have increased over this period, most
orchards continue to be managed with minimal inputs; very few growers use ferlizers, and crop
thinnng is strongly resiste. One disease (apple scab) and one pest (San Jose scale) have
serously affected the fruiL More so becaus of the former, fruit quality has been very poor over
much of thedcde. Other than orchard spraying, there has been no change since the mid 1970s,
n the cultal pces followed by grows While moe recently there have been some
povemens in fruit quality, the post-harvest problems have worsened due to the significant
incase in production, and the shortage in the availablity of transport
2.4         Walnuts are presendy grown on the equivalent of about 33,000 ha, as compared to
18,000 ha quoted at appraisaL They are gown as scaeed trees or in groups, often witin and
arund villages, and the above area estimates are based on the assumption that there are 75 tees
p  hectam Producion has howeve remaned unchanged at around 17,000 tons since 1974175,
uggestng both low productivity and a high percentage of non-bearing trees It is suspected that
the low production is on account of nearly all plantng  eing from seedlings, which has also
sulted in produce not being un=om, and of low quality. Returns to the growers are
consequntly low, and there is little incentive for making significant changes. This inevitably
hanicaps any processing and maredng efforts.
Service Insdtatons
2.5         The principal insdtutions servicing the horticulture sub-sector include the
Department of Hordculnur (DOH), the Dep     of Horticule Planning and Marketing
(DOHPM), the Agro-Indusuies Development Corporaion (AIC), and the JKHPMC which was set
up under the projec The Deparment of Agriculture (DOA) retains a small role in some
hortculture areas. Research is now the resposibility of the Agncultural University (SKUAST).
2.6         While the two departments of hordculture are essentially responsible for providing
extension as well as gathering market inteUligence data, there is an inevitable overlapping of roles.
Over, the decade, DOH has been pmoccWied with the distribution of fungicides for the control of
apple scab, and there has consequendy been a serious absence of a technical extension. The
DOHPM has mostly worked with the Cwoperative Societies; furthermore, its existence, along with
the setting up of JKHPMC, has required DOH to absolve itself of responsibilities for post-harvest
technology. This has also affected extension services to the growers, because both pre and post-
havest technologies for fiuit are intertwined in a manner which makes technology advances
.Inedenet



-3-
2.7         However, GOJK did introduce the Indo-Australian bilateral aid project (AP) in the
lae 1970s to demonsae technology of makeing thrugh packhouse cold stores. Initally under
directon of DOHPM and later the DOH both pre and post-harvest technology relevant to fit
production, storage and peservaton were demonstred to growers and agents. In temms of pre-
harvest opaations, the  P concentraed its efforts through a network of demonstration plots.
While succssful, there has been litde effort to extend the relevant cultral practices on a wider
scale across the apple orchards in the valley. Nevertheless, LAP made a sigpificant contribution to
JKHPMC, which used it extensively for staff training and advice, and finally adopted the
technology for its crop loan scheme.
2.8         The AIC amages and prvides industry inputs. For a period it managed the supply
of fungicides for orchard spraying. However, in 1986 this function was retumned to the DOHL
The new Agricultural University (SKUAST) was set up during the decade and its horticulure
reseach programs have yet to fully emerge. Consequently, the contribution of research to the
hortdculture sector has, so far, been minimal.
2.9         Lending banks have expeinewd poor loan recovery perfo    from the
agriculte sector, and have been wary of providing loans to growers, including those supplying
fruit to the JKHIPMC The cooperative sector is small, and generally not p ing welL
2.10        The private marketng systm, with its inom  cit argements, is still the
main servicing insdtution tO the J&K apple and walnut producers.
2.11        Apple maedng, vrtually in its entirety, is caied out by the prate sector
compisng forwarding agents, co=ission agents, wholesalers and ilers. An insi  t
amomI of the apples produced ane proceed. It is claimed that collusion among. and
exploitation of the weaker producers is coon pracdce. What is of concern and im  to
J&K is that while the maing system is "normal", this system also is normally devoid of
commitment to overall industy expansion and development. It must however, be acknowledged
tbat the marketing sysem has so farbeen able to absorb big increases in annual suLesof apples.
even though much has been of low quality. Unforamately prices have increased little if at all
while makedng costs have sen.
2.12        The common observation has been that the sector does not exploit the market to f
advantage because it does not attempt to regulate supplies, and develop a more effective storage
and distibution pater  At the same tUme, the consumes' attitudes to "out of season" fruit have to
be kept in view, and in partcular their misconcepdons about the quality of cold sored produce.
The proect through the etablishment of the JKHPMC, was designed to address these major
cnstraits   ch have wosned due to increased producton.
]IlL PROJECT      FOMLATTO
fmiec Reconnaissanlce/Identificatio
3.1         Soon after the Hmachal Pradesh Apple Prcessing and Marketing Project was
apprised in 1972173, the GOJK prepared a preliminy report poposing a similar project for J&K
State, which included facilities for packing and Processing fmit, otier market development, and a
substatial technical assisunce component. In its rview of the proposals, DA found that the
report did not consider sufficieny the problems of the horticultual sector in the State. It was felt
that a project which did not adess the production problems in the State along with the marketing
problems would meet with limited success.



-. 4 -
3.2         Following the review, an IDA reconnaissance mission visited J&K in October
1974, to assess the possiblity of designing and implementing an integrated horticultural project,
and to assist the State govenment in idenifying and preparing it. Among the prinCipal prblems
identified by the mission were: (a) poor quality of planting stock. leading to low yields and poor
fruit quality, (b) an indequately trained extension service; and (c) a well entrenched commission
agent system for fruit procurement and mareting, which gave growers low prices, thereby
discouaging tm from adopting better cultural pactices. At the same time it was recognized that
J&K had the basic ingredients for suwessfu commercial development of an integrated horticulral
industry, ie. suitable climate and land, and abundant cheap labor. In line with this, a possible
project was broadly identified, which was expected to include components for: (a) on-farm
development; (b) nursery improvement; (c) horticultral esearch; (d) establishment of a modern
mushroom spawn labratory, (e) non-mechanized simple storage facilides, and manually opeated
packing shedis (f) cameries and modern walnut prmcessing plants; (g) technical assistance and
trmg.
3.3         In making the above proposals the mission recognized that inspite of the need for
on-farm devopment and imovement, many fanmers were not interested in borrowing for this
purpose. In addidon, the mission observed that no survey or study had been undertken to
detenmine the potential size of the domestic market particularly for apple juice and concentrates, and
the intematonal market for walnuts. Fnally, the mission suggested that GOI and GOJK set up a
Proect Ppaion Unit (PPU) to undertake detailed preparation of the proposed project.
aiectP eaM01on
3.4         The Agricultural Finance Corporaton Limited, Bombay, supported by the PPU,
prepared the project, based on detailed guidelines prvided by the Worid Bank. A prelimy
raftrport was prpared, which was reviewed by an IDA mission in mid January 1976. The
principal concern expressed at that stage was about the possibility of over-production of apples in
the face of limited consurdemand, patcularly from 1979 onwards The mission found that
thre were inuff t data available on which to base reliable estimates of fure production and
demand for apples and apple products. Very litde was known about the consumers; furthemore,
there were no encoumging prospects of exportmng apples in significant quantities. Accordingly, it
that an indepth study be camed out prior to any furtier investment in the industry.
It was expected that the findings of such a study would provide guidance in developing a
coordined stategy for future apple producon programs in the three states of HP, J&K and UP.
3.5         While a rport on a study of the nantre envisaged above was not available to the
mission, it is understood that a study of the maiet for apples and apple p s was done by
AFC as part of project preparto  However, the prepaation report did not deal in any depth with
the issue raised above, as the proposals were aimed principally at developing a public sector
apple/walnut distribution and markeing corporation for existing and projected producion, with
only limited on-farm support for improving production. To this end, the repot proposed the
setting up of the J&K Horticultural Produce Marketing and Processing Corporapion.
3.6         The preparation report, which was completed in August 1977, proposed a project
including component for: (a) constructing 5,000 on-farm apple stores; (b) 25 apple grding-cum-
pacing cenues, of which 10 were to be mechanicaUly operted (each of 6,000 ton capacity), and
15 (each of 1,000 ton capacity) manually operad; (c) 20 walnut grading-processing centres
(each of 500 ton capacity); (d) two processing and canning plants, and one botting plant; (e) one
Suit shipm    centre; (f) a large mushroom development component, including a spawn
poduction latory and mushroom development centre, as well as the delopment of
m:usrm farms; (g) support for settng up JKHPMC, including a transport fleet; (h) creit to
gowers who entered into contract with JKHPMC, including term loans for orchard equipment;
and (i) technical assistance and tmning



3.7         The prncipal reservations ecpressed by the W.9 on the proposed project related to
project scale, which was considered to be too large. Due to shortagc of skilled personnel and the
diversity of the opaations proposed, it was fel that the JKHPMC would be senously over-
extended.
3.8         Based on the above preparation repo, a World Bank mission visited India in
September/October,1977 to appraise the J&K Horticulture Project. During apprasal, the project
was reduced in scope and size, though for apple giding and packdng, and for walnut processing,
the proposals werc more or less in line with those in the prepation repor. The pnncipal
diffeences were:
(a)  deletion of the component for on-farm storage. Instead, the mission proposed the
construction of cold stores, as it was felt that these would be needed for year round
apple mareutig;
(b)  prvision for only one apple processing plant;
(c)   a more modest mushmom component, aimed at research and pilot level field testing
of improved technology.
(d) increased size of the training and technical assistance component, as well as
intoducing a component for apple and walnut research.
3.9         The prncipal issues mised at the time of appraisal related to the following:
(a)  GOJK had suggested that the existing J&K Agro Inlustries Corporaion (AIC) be
considered as a possible project agency. The mission took the view that a new
poration be set up, as AIC had a history of poor management and consistent
losses. Furthermore, it was felt that the marketing of perishable fruits required
speciazed  nement, and the AICs existing activities bore litde resemblance to
the proposed project acdviis;
(b)  the mission pointed out that the Corportion would need highly capable
management which would have to deal with perishable coodities. compete with
the private sector, and handle complex technical problems; and
(c) since many growers used pre-harvest contracts to obtain cash advances, GOJK felt
that the Corpoaon should provide credit to customers in a similar manner.
However, the mission felt, and GOI agreed that banks should provide crop loans,
and the Corpomtion should be a lender of last resort only, in case banks faid to
provide satisfactory service.
In order tO addrss (b) above, it was agreed that the formation of the Corpotion, as wdl as the
appointment of a qualified Managing Direct would be conditions of credit negotiations. In
addiion, a large component for technical assistance and training was included to support the new
Corporation in the early stages.



-6 -
3.10        As appraised. the proect aimed to impove the apple mareting systm and to
provide processing and stpage facildes to ensure better rumns to growes and tO cater for the
rapidly increasing apple production It included the following components:
(a)  foirag 25 apple grading and packdng centues, of which ten of 6,000 tons
capacty and 15 of 1,000 tons; 17,000 tons cold storage; ten sawmills atached to
the larger ging and pacing centres to produce fivit containers; a fhuit
ans pment ce   and a 12,000 tons apples per year capacy juice processng
Plan
(b)  for walnu  14 hulling/drying and pacing cen, of which one 2,000 tons
capacity, one 1,000 tons capaciy and twelve 500 tons capaitr, and a 4,000 tons a
year procesing centre tO deal mainly with nuts for expor=s;
(c)  formushrorn, improved spawn producion and research facilites;
(d)  Rs 20 mdion seasonal credit to hep growers meet frut production and harvestng
expenss;
(e)  specalid cold stoage, laboratory and libary facilies to enable DOH to conduct
post-harven trials with ftuit;
(f)  three studies to improve apple, walnut and apple juice .arketig, and a project
evalution study, and
()  ninety man months consultants' time and 62 man months of overseas trainig to
support design and opatdon of pojct faciLides, and to help DOH and DOA
improve fruit and mushrom poductio
3.11        Over a six year peiod (1978-1983), the project was esdmated to cost Rs 242.2
million (US$27.6 millon). The JKHPMC was to be the main project executing agency. It was
also expected to perform the functons of an apex oanization for fruit growers' cooperatves.
The DOlH was to be responsible for lemendng the fnrt research component, wile the DOA
was to execute the mushroom rseah component. in addition, it was expected that DOH and the
Depanent of Hortculte Planning and Mbarktng (DOHPM) would play an important role in
suppordng JKHPMCs field and markig activities. With regard to credit arrangements, it was
expected that commrcal banks would anlend to JKHPMC for constructdg and equipping
facilies, while both commercial and coopeative banks would finance short-tem crop loans to
fruit grwers conacted to JKHPMC Refinance for credit opetions was to be provided by the
Agricultural Refnance and Dvelopment Corpoation (now the National Bank for Agriculture and
Rural Development (NABARD).
IV.
sgg"n and Credit Effegiaivns
4.1         Negotiations between (01 and IDA for a US$14 million credit for the project took
place in April 1978. The Bank's Board of Diectors approved the proposed IDA credit on May 18,
1978, and it was signed on July 17, 1978. Credit effectiveness however, was delayed on account
of changes in the onlending channel for the juice plant component from ARDC. as originally
proposed, to the Industrial Development Bank of India. The credit became effective on January 6,
1979.



-7-
Px= Ca.g._anA-asal
4.2         During implementation the scale of the project was reduced. This was on account
of considerably higher actual costs than those esimated at appraisal (see para 4.15).
Consequently, the sawmills component was dropped, while the number of apple grading and
packing centres was educed from the 25 to 17; the number of cold stores ftm 17 to 7; and walnut
processing centres from 14 to 8. The revised scale was based on the funds available for
completing the different components. In addition, the proposed apple juice plant was not fnanced
under the project. This was an account of the fact that GOJK decided against constructing a new
plant (as proposed in the SAXR), prefeing instead to purchase an existing private sector juice plant.
Institutional responsibilities tor executing some of the components were also changed during
implementation. The responsibility for disbursing crop loans was taken over by JKIPMC as
gwers were found to be reluctant to borrow from the participating banks given the requrments
that they should hypothecate their land to the banks as securty for the seasonal credit. he
execution of the fruit research component became the r nity of the Agriculural University
(SKUAST).
LMIUmDMentti  Schedule
4.3         It was expected at appraisal that the construon of project facilities would begin in
the second half of 1979, with all of them becoming operzt.onal by September 1983.
Complementary technical assistance and taining was expectd to be completed by the end of 1982.
i        fact implementadon of the project has been conseably delayed, and as at June 30, 1986
the majority of project fciiies had not been cmmisioned. The research components have only
been paially completed, while none of the studies proposed at appraisal have been undertaken.
The project, which was to have closed on June 30, 1984, was extended twice by the Waord Bank,
and closed on June 30, 1986.
Ph^ysical Implmenttio
4.4           iPMC Comnents. Observations in the early World Bank Supervsion
mission reports inicate that the implementation of the project was initiated under a strong and
enthusiastic senior mangement team recruited for the JKIHPMC. Land acquisition, which has
often caused sinificant delays in the implementaton of projects had proceeded smoothly.
However, as work progressed, various problems emerged which slowed down the pace of
implemention, eventually leading to the situation where the majity of project facilities had not
been commissioned at the time of project closing on June 30, 1986.
4.5         The table below summaizes the position, as at the end of June 1986, on the extent
to which physical implementation has been completed. Details are given in Table 2.
Appraisal  Revised                    Not
Itm.          IaD ts   _Targe   ComnssDIo         ComtmWssonfd
--(Number)-        -- (as at June 30, 1986)-
Apple Grading/
Packing Centres      25         17          6             11
Apple Transhipment
Centre                1          1          1
Cold Stores           17          7          2              5
Walnut Centres        14          8          2              6
Walnut Export Centre   1          1          -              1



-8-
With regard to overseas training, as against the 9 study tours proposed at appraisal, a total of 12
JIKHPMC officers went on study tours under the prjet Of these. 8 are sti employed in the
Corraion, Technical assince was availed of for the design of the JKBPMC facilities, as weil
as for management advisory and walnut opeaions.
4.6         Various factors have contributed to the overall delays which have occured in
completing the proposed faciliies Being the first WB project to be financed in J&K state there
was little prior expience in ICB tendering and bid evaluadon procedures. Furthemore, the bids
that were eceved at early stages (particularly for the cold stores and the walnut centrs) quoted
prices which were considerably higher than those estimated at appraisaL Consequently, some time
was spent on reviewing altemative cheaper designs. For example, it became apparent that the
drying equipment for the walnut centres (which  esented 80% of the total interationally bid
price for all equipment for these centres) could be produced locally from indigenous technology
and materials. This had to be investigated in detail, and ievitably caused delays.
4.7         Overall, while there were delays in completing the civil works part of the project
facities. these turned out to be less serious. The principal problems experienced in compledng
civil works on dme were largely on account of cement shortages in 1980/81 and 1981182. For
exmple, no cement was made available to JKIPMC between July 1981 and April 1982. StilL the
majority of the civil works for JKHPMC had been completed by 1983. The principal factor
esponsibe for the delays which have finally occuared in getting project facilities opaional relate
to equipmen ordering, and themafter its installation. There have been significant time lags
between completion of civil works, ordering and receipt of eqmipmemn and its final installation.
Instances of poor management control over the constuction activities are also cited in the Bank's
supnrvision reports. For example it was found in 1982 that some equipment which had actally
reached Kashmir had remained unopened in cmes, and in some cases had been offloaded at the
wrong sites. Ther were insnces of equipment having been received, but contracts for their
installation had not been awarded. In addition, disputes arose between JKHPMC and the cold
store equipment supplier. as well as the equipment supplier for the walnut centres.
4.8         There have also been difficultes in getting electricity supply connections for the
different sites as J&K State faces a shorage in its supply. While for the apple packhouses 12
KVA generators had been purchased, for the walnut centres the requirement is for 0.75 megawatts
of power foreach site, the supply of which is sti a major cause for concern.
4.9         Finally, JKHPMC has faced considerable delays in obtaining bank loans to finance
its investment program. Bank loans for the majority of facilities constructed wee largely available
from 1983 (see Table 2), with JKHPMC having financed eariier expenditures from the funds
received on account of equity contibutons. The credit problem has now become extremely acute,
with banks rfuing to provide further finance prior to a detailed review by GOJK of the
JKHPMC Discussions with NABARD revealed that the inability of JKHPMC to submit
acceptable documentation in support of loan requests has been the pnncipal reason for this
etdcene on the part of the banks. The accounts of JKHPMC have not been audited since
1980/81, and according to NABARD, audited statments of earlier expenditures were also not
available. Furthemore, the banks express concem that even the facilites completed have not been
significantly utilized. Another apparent impediment to the quick disbursement of loans appoved
have been delays in obtaining GOJK guarantees of the loans.
4.10        CM Producton Crdit This conponent was not implemented as originally
envisaged, as growers were reluctant to borrow from banks due to vanous reasons. Among these,
the principal ones were:
(a)  the reluctance of growers to pay commei   tserestrates for such credit. This was
parially on account of socialreligious factors (many growers are Muslim), and



-9 -
ptly because they obtaned inrest free cash advances from commission agents
(many of course realiz that agents recover irterest in another form, duing
subsequent rasactions);
(b) growers' views that loan application procedures were complicated and the
insistence of banks on land mortgage as collateral, and that farmers enter into a
contract, for selling their apples, with JKHPMC.
Subsequently, a crop loans scheme (CLS) was implemented through the JKHPMC, staring in
1984/85 which was only partially supported by the banks. As shown in Table 3, a total of 3,349
growers, covering 4,842 acres benefitted under the scheme over the two years 1984/85 and
1985/86. Data are not available on the total amount spent by JKHPMC on tne scheme; however,
draft accounts of JK1HPMC for 1985/86 show that Rs 9 million was due from growers, and Rs
13.6 million was due to the banks for amounts borrowed for the CS, as at March 31, 1986.
4.11        &womb C1m          The DOA mushroom component suffered many delays. A
pertinent factor was the untmely death of the initial consultant. Subsequently, two other
consultants were enlsted, and construction of a spawn producdon and bulk component
pasteization facility has been staroed
4.12        The facility is much larger than that poposed under the project, costing Rs 14.6
million (Rs 7 million for civil woris and Rs 7.6 million for equipment) compared with the SAR
esemat of around Rs 4.0 million. Furmore, the implementing agency has disregarded World
Bank tendering procedures and consultant's advice about risks iherent in bulk paste:rizaton. A
contract has been awaded on a turnkey basis, and work has commenced on the proposed facility.
The net result is to be a large centraized development to service the whole industry rather than
research support tO a distict development program. Staff appoinments, training, and all except
one cons    (marieting) have been completed.
4.13        Tne Horticulte research component was also delayed. Delays in recruiting
consultants and the subsequent transfer of all research work from DOH to the newly established
Agricultual University (SKUAST) conmbuted to the overall delay in implementing the
compnent. A large number of the training opportities have not been availed of, and one of
tht consultancies (codling moth) could not be arranged. The post-harvest research laboratory
and cold store were completed and operated on a pilot scale in 1985. SKUAST has applied itse!f
ethusiasically to the use of these facilities.
&WMec Cost
4.14        Table 1 gives a comparative satement of appraisal cost estimatm actual costs
incued up to June 1986 and expected total costs (including esmated cost of completion). These
are based on expenditure data prvided by the respective implementing agencies. When allowance
is made for costs to complete, the total final cost of the project would amount to Rs 228.5 million
(US$21.75 million). Tlis represents 94% (or 79% in US dollar terms) of the originally estimated
tosal project cost. If account is taken of the reduced scale of investnents for JKHPMC (as
compared to SAR proposals), and appraisal cost estimates scaled down accodingly, there was an
estimated 45% cost overun in Rupee terms (20% in US dollar terms).
4.15        Among the factors which have contributed to the cost overrun are significandy
higher average unit costs for consructing the proposed JKHPMC facilities than those foreseen at
appaisal (as shown in the table below), and delayed project implemenation during a period of
high in-'aton. The depreciation of the Rupee against the US dollar duing project implementadon
is reflected in the relatively lower cost overrun in US dollar terms.



-10 -
Average Cost Per Centr
-(~Rs Million)--
Apple Centres                   1.95             2.84
Apple Transhipment Centre       0.59             1.74
Cold Stores                    2.32              5.96
Walnut Centres                  1.61             4.14
Walnut Export Centre            7.96            17.29
4.16        Disbursement of the IDA credit has been vcyq slow (see Table 6). To a large
extent, the initial delays were caused by unfmilaity with procedus for claniing IDA
reimb umements for  penditures incurred. Against the US$14 million credit negotiated with IDA,
disbursements under the project toalled US$6.7 million (or 48% of total). Details of the allocation
c5 credit proceeds disbursed are shown in Table 7. The final disbursment was made in Febmary
1987, and the undisbursed balance of US$7.3 million (52% of tota) was cancelled. The principal
factors responsible for the low levels of disbursement are:
(a)  reduction in the scale of the prqject;
(b)  depreciation of the rupee visa-visthe US dollar, from Rs 8.75 = US$ at the dme
of appraisal, to Rs 12.4 = US$1 at present, combined with a project which had a
very low foreign exchange component (9% in SAR) in total cost;
(c)   vally no IDA funds were disbused for the juice plant (allocation of USS2.4
million), which was purchased and not constucted as envisaged at appraisaL
Disbusements aganst vehicles, equipment and materials for the apple and walnut
cens were only 57% of the amount eamarked (US$3 million); also, very little
was disbursed against the "crops loans" category (only 16% of original allocation
of US$1.6 million).
Complianc with Coyenants
4.17        As indicated in the final WB Supervision Mission report, most covenants have been
complied with, though delays were experienced n meeting the target dates in many cases.
HIowever, covenants relating to furnishing auited financial statements to IDA have not been
complied with JKHPMC accounts sinc 1981/82 onwards have not yet been audited; in addition,
audit certificates for the DOH (SKUJAST) and DOA component expenditues have not been
submitted to D)A since the stat of the project
V. AS.ESSMIT  iE HPM C'S PERFORMANCE
5.1         The Jammu and Kashmir Horicultural Produce Marketing and Processing
Corporation Ltd. was established in April 1978, with GOI and GOJK as the principal
shareholders. The Head office of the Corporation is at Snnagar. In addition, it has three
divisional offices (Ananmag, BarnuUa and Srinaar), a wanshipment centre at Jammu (not
operating yet), and a marketing office at Delhi. Under a Board of Directors, the Managing Director
is the principal executive offwice, total regular and consolidated staff at the end of June 1986 were
249.                                                                                       j



- 11 -
5.2         At apprisal it was expected that by the htmoduction of a new maketing technology.
JKHPMC would genrae profits from various operations, which would include:
(a)  purchase under pre-harest contracts and resale of apples and walnuts;
(b)  packdng and consigning apples on commission;
(c) customer services for the use of its apple packhouse/cold stores and walnut
processing centres; and
(d)   ganufacng and selling apple juice concene.
5.3        In estimating future JKHPMC income, the SAR assumed that it would take a period
of throe yeas for the apple and walnut cenres to reach ful opeatng capacity. The juice plant
would begin operations in 1982 and also reach full capacity opetion in three years. In
aicipation of operations being at full capacity by 1985. a full development rvenue of Rs 189.0 m
was prjected, which was expected to generate gross profits (before tax) of around Rs 30.0 m.
5.4         Ihe above results were based on JKlPMCs projected full development operattons
to include: (i) grading and packing 75,000 tons of apples; (ii) cold storage of 17,000 tons of
apples; (iii) processing 12,000 tons of apples into juice concentrat; (iv) hullng and drying 9.000
tons of walnuts; and (v) processing 4,000 tons of walnuts for sale/exporL It was assumed that
40% of the apples and 60% of the walnuts would be purchased, with the balance in each insmnce
being equally divided between commission sales and cusom   services. In maIdng the above
prections, it was expeted at appraisal that the pre-harvest support to apple production (in terms
of ds e controL, quality apple production etc.) would be undertken by the other agencies
involved in the sector. Overall, it had been expected that DOH and DOHPM would play an
important mle in supportng JKHPMCs activities.
Acual Perfom.alce
5.5         Actual operatonal achievements to date are smmrized   the table below, details
are shown in Table 3.
Aooles             Walnuts
YAs                          t     Cold CHandled
-(Tons La)-
1978179             440
1979/80           1,900              -            -
1980/81           4,500              -            1
1981/82           2,640             40            -
1982/83           1,520              -            4
1983/84           2,000             320          28
1984/85           5,660             200          13
1985/86           9,660             60            4
L& Derved from number of boxed handled (on average
20 kg of apples per box).
5.6         Ihe total volume of apples handled by JKHPMC over the past eight years is only
about 28,000 tons. The amounts handled annually so far repsent an insignificant percentagc of
the total apple marketed out of J&K Se (in 1985/86 J&K dispatched an esimated 535,000 tons



- 12 -
of apples). Of this smal quantity marketed by JKHPMC, almost none has been graded and
packed, or stared in the facils prwvided by the project. Also, only a negligible proportion has
been purchased outight These activities, ratherthan the consignment operatons, were expected
to be the pincipal revenue geneating activities for JKHPMC. The juice plant, which was
pu d in 1985/86, opeated for 59 days in that year. It produced a total of 276 tons of apple
concentmrte and 10 tons of aroma (using 3,225 tons of apple culls). However, marketing has
pwoved to be a problem, and at the time of the mission's visit only 150 tons had been sold. The
extent to which the plant will be operaed in 1986/87 was being reviewed, as no finm marketing tie-
ups with existing soft drink producers had beer negotiated.
5.7         By the end of 1983, JKHPMC Management had recognized that opertions as
originally planned would not be feasible, as (a) the prospects for geting quality apples for its
operations remained almost hopeless; (b) the small proportion of quality apples produced were of
such value to the traditional trade that attracting it into the new system of grading, packing and
marketing was unralistc; (c) the weak segment of the industry which JK1PMC was supposed to
help most was the outlying poorer apple gowers who were at the end of the line for Govement
extension services or pre-hanest contracr  The quality of thdr fruit was among the poorest of
all It was decided therefore to intmoduce the crop loan scheme (CLS), which was designed to
assist the weaker segment of producers.
Ime Cmro Loan Schefe
5.8         The CLS adape the Indo-Austalian demonstration package t the fruit
proc     t needs of the Corpoaion. It was formulated with two specific objectives:
(a) to procure fruit from orchards near JKHPMC facilities and
(b) to ensure the fiuit was of a sufficiently high quality for packhoure/cold store
operations.
Under the scheme, JKHPMC provided gpwers with inputs on credit, based on the procedures that
had been established in the demoation plots. These covered spray materials, spraying
machinery, ferdlizer and supervisory staff. Growers' orchards were successfully contracted by the
JM'- ICs field staff, and in 1984, seasonal opeations were mounted under the guidance of
consultant technical experts. A good crop of quality apples was consequently produced. The
scheme has covered 1,435 acres (1,031 growers) in 1984/85, 3,407 acres (2,318 growers) in
1985/86, and around 3,700 acres in the current (1986/87) season. It was wholly responsible for
JKHPMCs increased apple c         aoptions in 1984/85 and 1985/86, as shown in para
5.3 above. It has not been possible to extend the coverage of this scheme on account of the
reluctance of banks to prwide additional loan finance to JKHPMC.
JKHMCs Financial Position
5.9         The accounts of JlHPMC have not been audited since 1980t81. However, draft
accounts are available, which indicate that the Corporation is presently in a poor financial
condition, with large debts, significant accumulated losses, and so far very litde inrome generation
from its asset. According to the unaudited accounts for 1985/86, accumulated loss,.s as at March
31, 1986, amunted to Rs 58.5 million (US$4.76 million). Total borrowings frm the banks were
stated at Rs 103.1 mi'lion (US$8.4 million), of which term loans represented Rs 83.6 nillion
(US$6.8 million) and loans for the CLS and for short-tenn workdng capit.l Rs 19.5 million
(US$1.6 million). Against these borrowings, amounts overdue for repayn=nt included interest on
both, term loan installments (Rs 3.2 million), and the total amount advanced for the latter category.
IJteest due on tm loans as at the end of Marh 1986 is esdmated at Rs 15.8 million (US$1.25
million). Income generadon by JKHPMC has so far been negligible, as shown by the low levels



- 13 -
of operations discussed above. The provisional profit and loss account for 1985/86 shows annual
opeating costs (including depreciation and interest charges) of Rs 22.8 million, operating income
of Rs 1 iniUiori. other income of Rs 1 million, and a net loss of Rs 20.8 million. On present
estimates, and even with rescheduling of bank loans, Government budgetary support (through
additional equity contributions and other means) would appear to be essential to enable JKHPMC
to meet its obligations.
Constrints Affccpne JK HMs Oeaoal PEaformmu
5.10        In assessing the overall performance of JKHPMC in terms of its marketing
achievements, it is importat to recogize that the objectives set for it wete ambitious. JKHPMCs
major problem was its inability to obtain supplies of apples and walnuts, and the following are
considered to be some of the reasons:
(a)  growers were not mouvated to deal through the JKHPMC and its facilities. The
stronger and more proge ssive group did not need them, the weaker group had no
understanding of the services being developed. Also, in many instances the latter
could not escape the linked credit-contrar system even if they wanted to;
(b)  the JKHPMC was unable to convince growers tO baow for crop Production, nor
the banks to lend to farmers;
(c)  the Cption was overly preoccupied with completing te procurement and
oIsunmuction activities, and till recently, litde attention was devoted to developing a
viable markting fhrmework though which growers could be atracted in larger
numbers to its faclities; JKHPMC officers were not trained in merchanding.
Also in the field they could not escape bureaucratic procedues, which put them at a
disadvantage as compared to private pre-harvest contcts;
(d) the JKHPMC got a poor reputation regarding prices for the smanll quandties of
produce it had mameted in the early yez of the projecL Ihis was exploited by
prvate agents;
(e)  supplies of apples suitable for a packhouse opation were very limited due to the
poor quality generally. Furthermore, the existng mareng system, pardcularly at
the growers' end, dd notprovide significant incentives to maret uniformty graded
quality fruit;
(f)  there was a complete  oncepton about the effects of cold storage in the valley,
on the "market" or "shelf' life of apples when moved to the maiet from March
onward; and
(g)  the JIGPMC had established for itself, a poor reputadon in financial management.
This placed doubts in dte minds of lending banks that it could manage a major
marktng operation through the new systm. The problem has been compounded
by the fact that since 1982, there have been four Managing Directors of JKHPMC,
and the post of Finance Director has remained vacant for extended periods (see
Table 4).
5.11        In addition to the above factors, it is important tO recognize that the instituions
supporting the horticulture sub-sector in J&K, and which were expected to play an imporant
complementary role to that of JKHPMC. have, due to various reasons, been unable tO meet the
expections which were there at the tme of appraisal. No serious attempt appears to have been
made to bring the maretng of apples from Cooprative Societies (about 9,500 tons in 1986)



- 14 -
within the JKHPMC fold. As briefly reviewed in chapter II, there has also been a serious absence
of a technical extension program. both pre and post-harvest, which has resulted in the industry
being unable to produce apples of a quality suitable for JKHPMCs needs. Furthermore, with the
edconce of banks to provide additional working capital loans tO JKHPMC. the crop loan scheme
could not be operated in a manner and on a scale which would have better tesd the operational
capabilities of te facilides constructed, as well as the abilitv of the staff and labor of the
JKHPMC.
VI. 
Inended Imact
6.1         At appraisal, project benefits were expected to be derived from mor efficient
marketing of apples and walnuts through JKHPMC with resulting cost savings; better quafity apple
grading and packdng commanding an estimated 10% price premium  over conventionally grded
fruit; price premium on *7,000 tons of cold stored apples for post-season marketing; returns from
processing 12,000 tons of previously wasted cull apples into juice concenta and other by-
products; better processing of walnuts, lading to improved grade quality, estimated to yield a 10%
price prmimTr and reduced losses of an estimated 1,300-1,400 tons of walnuts which would have
spoiled uider conventional hulling/drying methods. Facilities constructed under the project were
expected to reach 100% capacity utilizaion, within thee years to be achieved in year 8 of the
project (1985). Based on the above assumptions, an economic rate of return (ERR) of 21% was
esdmated for the total project, and ERRs of 22%, 31% and 26% respectively for the apple trading,
wanut tading and juice plant components. The SAR noted tat JKHPMC managenal and
marketing acumen would be essential in achieving projected benefits.
Assement of A=  fri    je Imm
6.2         The size of the project has been consderably scaled down during the couse of
implementation. It is clear fmm the earlier chapters that project implemention is far behnd
schedule and the level of JKHPMC operations to date have come nowhere near those anticipated at
appisal. Farmers have not come forward in large numbers to use the facilities (even on a
consignment basis) which have been commssione. Of the relatively small quantities of apples
marketed through JKHPMC dunng uie past eight years, almrost none has been graded and packed,
or stored in the facilities provided by the project; and only a ngligible propomon has been
purchased outright. Consequently, as a marketing opion, the project has so far not succeeded
in generting the kind of opemtions and benefits which were expected of it at the tme of apprisal.
As noted in the Bank's final supervision mission report, the problem was compounded when the
quality of apples produced in J&K did not improve over the years, and even today remains not
entirely suitable for use in the project facilities.
6.3         Given past performance, it is not possible at this stage to make any rational
assumptions to project future economic benefits. There are no studies available to indicate farmer
atitudes towards JKHPMC, as compared to their atditudes towards the existing private markedng
systenr nor are there survey data available which would provide indications of the conditons
under which farmers would be willing to adopt JKHPMC as their preferred marketing oudet.
Most impoantly, the scale of future JKEPMC operations would depend on the strengths or
weaknesses of its management. It must be recognized that the Corporation has to gear up its
management to compete with an entrenched private sector in marketing a perishable connodity, to
give a price advantage to the growers. In the light of the above crumstances, any easement of
the economic rates of return estimated at the time of appraisal would, at this stage, be highly
speculatve.



- 15 -
6.4         Howev, despite the geneda poor achievement in terms of meeting the perceived
goals, the pwject has played an important development tole. Through its crop loan scheme,
JKHPMCdemonsd on a smal scale an effective system of extension to smal grower. Data
are not available on the total costs incumd by JIHMC on the scheme, so far, and the extent to
which recovies have been effected from the grwas. These data partcularly the latter, would
beimportant indetming the extent to which KHPMC should and more so whether it can
incrase the scale of this progm. However, the credit and technical assistn   provided under the
scheme has makedly improved quality and quantity of rit produced by its clients lead6in to
incrases in the farm incomes of the partcipatng fars 'he scheme has certanly made a
worthwhile contribudon to the obetes of increasing quality fit pmducion, which is crtical to
eventually bringing the packhouse cold soe facilides into use. While, the scale of operadons is
presenty too small to ensure a sigficant utiiion of JKHPMC facilities, the scheme has
publicized the Corporaton's activities, and the facilides that have been constructed. An important
factor has also been that due to the absence of adequate woring capial to mount the planned
operations on time, the CLS has not been fully tested as intended.
6.5         No such service as the CLS was available for JKHPMCs walnut operations. Pilot
hulling tials have experienced the problems inherent with seedling nuts, and trial and emrr will
play a big part in bringing the facilides into efficient use. At this stage, there is little to suggest that
nuts will be procured in reasonable quantities, or that problems of elecuicity supplies will be
overcome in the foreseeable fure, in oder to generate benefits on the scale perceived at appraisaL
6.6         Finally, the project has developed a significant asset of trned mnagers,
supervisors, staff and labor. It has also generated consideable debate among the growers, and the
sub-sector has begun enquiring about the prospects of cold storage, packaging, grade stadards,
and the spread of the maret season. In his regard, the options of JKHPMC albeit lied
have proved to be an imporant catalyst in the development process.
VEL EBANK PERFORMANCE
7.1         The project was the f&-st Bank/IDA financed operation in the State of Jammu and
Kashmir. It was targtted at an imporant sector of the State - hotcuture - which was the major
souroe of Ivelihood for the rural population. During the course of project formulation the
conceptual framework of the project moved from one amed at developing an integrated pacge to
addrss both the on-farm production and the marketing and processing aspects of horculture
developme, to one essentally aimed at developing a new channel for fuiit markedng and
pocessing. With the benefit of hindsight it is now obvious that the design of the project, as finally
appraised was ahead of itS dmes. In the absence of a production component. problems at the farm
levelassocied with ensuring the producdon of good quality apples still remain. In tenms of
insdttuonal arrangements, the decision to set up another corporation, instead of msucturing and
strnghening the capabilities of AIC, suggests that it may have been the easier direction to take; at
the same time, no attempt was made to ratonalize overall institutional responsibilities.
Consequntly, as the project progessed, JKHPMC found itself carying out some of DOH
extension functions (through its crop loan scheme), and DOH those of AIC (selling of fungicides),
while DOHPM has been the principal agency for servicing coopertives (which at apprisal was
expected to be one of the roles of JKHPMC). There was vtually no extension service, pre or
post-harvest Given this situation, the agencies were to some extent competing with each other.
7.2         Based on implementation experience so far, conclusions can also be drawn with
regard to one other aspect of project design. This relates to the scale of the project, ie. whether it
may not have been more appropriate to introduce the new technology on a smaller scale, initially
using more the IAP pilot project This would have allowed JKHPMC management to focus on a



- 16 -
smaler operation, in a more concentrated manner, without getting bogged down with the
numerous problems of procurement and installation which the larger progam entailed.
Fuhermore, a better understanding of the needs of the market was necessary prior to the
inumduction of new technology on such a large scale. As it transpired, the need for grading and
better packing across the whole sector was not recognized by the market, pardculaly the
contnlling agents at the terminal wholesale markets. Without changes at that level, the success of
the new technology was inevitably going to be limited In addition, the local shotages of power
supply which are affecting the likely future opeaions of the walnut drying centres were not fully
recogoized Finally, by not including in the project even on a smal scale. the proposals for
developing on^fann stoage and manual rather an mechanically operated apple gading facilides,
meant that an oppo2rtunty was lost to try out a lower level of technology thn that eventually
adopted.
7.3         A total of 11 supervision missions were fielded by IDA between November 1978
and June 1986. There was good continuity of staff between missions. and the frequency of the
supervsion missions was adequate. Most of the problems of project implementation highlighted in
this completion report had been brought out in the supervision reports. The mnssions made efforts,
trugh organizing meetings of relevant agencies, aimed at resolving some of the problems.
Cetain measres taken by IDA during the course of implemention, in particular the scaling down
of project size, were wholly justified. An area where supervmision missions could have contributed
better at ensunng more effective implementation, partcularly during the eadier stages, relates to
maing local sate agencies beter familiarized wih prcment procedures.
VIIL CONCLUSTONS AND lESSONS LFARED
8.1         The project was designed to provide physical facilities, raining, and through
JKHPMCb an altemaive technology and marketing channel to the entrenched private ma-rkeIng
system which was perceived as unlikely to cope with futue industry development, particularly the
expected big increases in production. The project was expected to benefit smaller growers in
pardcular, who were most prone to exploitation by the larger growers and merchants.
8.2         The JKHPMC managed to construct about 60% of the facilities and equip them, but
most have not been cossioned and brought into use. The Corporation has so far failet to
atact growers to its intended opeatons of frit pMent, cold sta, improved grading and
presentation, and marketing. Consequently, neither the project not JKHPMC have as yet made
significant progress towads achieving the broad objectives as originally perceived.
8.3         Conclusions that can be drawn at is stage are inevitably flavored by the general
question of whether public sect corporations can succeed in a highly complex indusuy, in
competition with a weil entrenched and organized private sector. Experience under the project so
far shows that due to vadous factors JKHPMC has been unable to compete effectively within the
existing private marketing system. Furthermore, once the decision to set up JKHPMC had been
take it seems that overall and sustained commitment which was necessary to enhance its chance
of success was missing. Ihis is particularly pertinent when it is recognized that JKHPMC was
charged with achieving objectives within a hostile enviroment of an existing entrenched private
makeing system. The leading gr"oers did not perceive the need for a new Corporation; instead
they viewed it as a threat to their pre-harvest contract operations.
8.4         Appraisal perceptions that the other GOJK departments dealing with horticultue
would play their role in addressing the producton problems did not matialize. There was no
cmprehensive development plan within which the roles of the different agencies responsible for
hortculture in the state were clearly defined. Consequently, there was little effecive cdinaon



- 17 -
of the project sector development generally. or of institutional support for the JKHPMC. Within
lKHPMC itsdf problems arse on account of poor financial management, and the relatively high
tunover in Managing Direcus in the later period of project implemenaion.
8.5         The project tried to establish a big and new commercial operation, which in
hindsight was too much to introduce over the period allocated. In funding further developments on
pernn.ial fit crops, projects may need to allow more gradual implementadon over a longer
8.6         Lessons which emerge from the implementation experience of the prject so far,
include the following:
(a)  caudon must be exercised in introducing a wholy new technology on a large scale,
when its acceptability to die proposed beneficiaries and under prevailing conditions
has not been established through smaller scale operations;
(b)  while there was clearly a need for a bette fnrt maketing system and the
intrduction of cold stores, the choice of using a public sector corporation to
address these problems is questionable, partdculady in marketing a perishable
commodity which requires flexibility in operatng procedus;
(c) to ensure the wider adoption of a wholly new technology introduced under a
projec it must be accompanied by a suitable promotion/incentive package to enable
an inidal brakough in achieving farmer accepmnce; the success of the project
was wholly dependent on JKHPMC being able to provide better prices to grower
and when this did not mateialze immediaely, JKHPMC found it difficult to
establish a sustainable relationship with gowers
(d)  the projection and phasing of likely futue benefits in a situaton where a public
sector agency is to be established to opert a new commercial venture must allow
for a longer learning period, particulaly when there are few people available with
the relzvant entepreneurial skills; it should not be expected that dte provision of a
large training progam will ensure the rapid development of the required experise to
run tie opeation; and
(e)  the importance of good financial planing and management should not be
underestimtd



I ND a A
JAMU A tV_"^S R H m1luLlURE PROJECI
iCredit 6000-IN
Cougo-Crton ot Anarlsasl end ActuAl Co-tL
...hllML*I- 1 Estlpata   .jV   EmoenditurOS_       Estlmgtid Total cgalgZ..     Actual as S X"1slk
UnIts  Is000   USgo000        Up to 30 June s0   UnIte  3s600   USS 000 *i Untts  Rs Cost  USS Co-
Annie P.UcCsJMJjM1                                                                       833         .          G         9a
GredinglPachign Collto 0       25    48.630      S.560            39.649          1    40.333       3.90b       00       e9        et
Cold Storag- FacIlIttes        1    39.440      4.505            30.532           7    4t,724      3.90J       41
Juice Concentrate Plant         *    34.220      3.910                 -  21       -          -          -       0        0
Seth- lustal         122.100    13.915            70.161                 90.05J      043I                 14        Oo
le.,lllng/Prplng OCue,.es.     5s   24.170       2.160            24.116           a    33.153      3.104       53      131       lot
l.a.n.l lentro                  I      7.960        901           13.521           *    11.293      1.401      lo1      217       154
bub- luIal            321630      3.610           31.631                 50.446      4 505               I51      i2J
ILAIUhO_nL CebbktL #                     690         To            1,740           I      s.740        375     100      295       2Ol 
Apple and Walnuts                      6.960        495            6.500 ai               7.141       623                303      l01
mushrooms _  nco. Pilot st.e,1e)       5.430        $to            7.300 it              14.600      1.140              269       184
Sub-lotal             V2-.390     I,45              ,oo600               21.741       .773               *75      1.5
i qnl.U. I A&.i a3.SIfa-3    6.300 S00               4.222                  4.222        42S                62
'~~salai SWAS        20.000      2.205  ~~~~~~~~~~~15.563 Il15.563                  1.215                94       SG
IELUUUEUL.UhLIJl.IJihl-fDI-IQ.I      41.000      5455            45.000 II              45.0s0      5.15                 94 
!fA    Cdf1-o       242,200    27.630      1' 3.143                    226.526    21.754                 94
j   Psce sond PMevle-l Cosetlss gncles hove bee#s roughtly alucated to tndIwvdu8l coste.
st  bot Implem@et.ed a propposed at appraisal.
stimated.  Os.tstandlfng Item Includes fIttIngs *nd delivarY of 2 refrigerattd vans.
51  A much le.o. *esentch unit boing constructed (us coopared to SAN proposals).
Uupenditwoes *epr-sent advance payments made tO contractor.
/  Replesoetsb awuuots outstandlno end due to S01 'r JKU as at 30.6.80 for loans taken
bt JMHPMC to tinslbce corop loans hIncd. power sprayers).
go  eepresentisg Issued and paid top share cap4tal. Share capital worth an additlonal
os,23 .1111o6e is poending allotment.
zi  l.,l,,sIS.s o*5l.bdtesI cests for completing physiCal structures.
31  Convwoslo" at awerage eOLhange rate over the period of Implementation.                                                        F



US1.1
JAL-imicuLTUIIE ekuL,IE
* tC.eu3 SS06-S
Costs . Camnlatiln.Statun 1.3 eJuine_tM9ot_.aJKHPNC fae4i"  l"'.
aasF1L.~  OCast lsi- It Ss n,                          ieO          11*
............. w so. t , 
Zabt,re                  6919           2.242         3.615          Sol         1980, 61166       6.122         Cg 6*I.u2d
DosOgalt                 3060           3.210         2.104          SOS         ISIS. USd66       1.11          Co6 s.Ioe,..s
"-h--por-        l606            3.414         2.500          553         1013. 15116{       6.653       
:raLJ;               1960           2.493         2.069          Sal         t993. notes       I S403                                 s
6190          2.402          2.626          Sal        1903. 05186        1.740              s
thnoeu o      .          6150          2.502         3.025           501         062. 65/66r       1.46               _
*-o1rpor-                198            2.72S         2.005          503al       1904S. 36/66   1.720                 3'
Trailpora                Igo4           2.532         23010          Sol         160146. a5106   3.320               5
Xanl*para                *Sol           2.796         2.435          Sal         0904188f. W5oe   1.437 
Tr-gore                  4994          2.912          2197          set         1994E6ffi  Was@  1.330        
ge-t                     1912           2.760          i629          Sal         19341l6. 1516   1.622 
Chabthenjan              6900           2.203         2.623          Joe      . l06o 36116         6.15          Cometslsoned
Patten                   1960           3.412         3.330          Jis         6032. 65166       3.694              to
Sumba$                   6360           2.440         2.160         JiS          3902. o5gle       6.641         Coe_isslon"44
Cboedhrloguwl            1900           2.020        23.12          Jug          6383. 051006      t.9S          CoM3se3o..ed
* erwab                 6960            3.520         2.662          A6          3062. 151.6       6.080         Coomtsaoned
C3hadure                 1003           3.624         3.161          .353        3064. 66          6.106              3
Sirgep"ure               1062           2.006        2.066          its          1945  60S04
a36.40) 11
man-hnm~~ _      t-r-
Jaw                                       Al          1.449         SoI l          -                -            completed *ii 1)3
t6.1405
Chaklhanj-n              3063          4.e90         5.955          is&         3983. 65460       3 635         CoamtsetoneaS
lBohrs                   l060          4.930         o.6oa          Sot         1904. o5gl6       3.726         Coe  ossi00nd
0000oh                   19930         5.034         5.740          Sal         1094. 566         3.152              I5
Souma$                  1902           5.025         5.640          jug         3064              4.020               At
Ramapoora                9032          5.063 s.335                  set         1984i45* 15/oS   3.034               at
andware                   3            0.0           6.000          Sol         3148/66. o5gle    2.061              5e
*ajpora                  3062          6.363         6.412          S3l          934#95. UOS6   3.006                2'o 8
1.1  .                              I        4j**32j 32                                   A.I._ M



Seormah                  1960           4.157         4.592          JM6           9dI, 85/66      2.024
*tndoO-salangem          I980           4.046          4.381          Jug         1982, 35s66       2.199
Chowdbrtgund             1990           3.304          4.174          Jug         0962. *5s66       2.189
mesas                    #990           3.659          3.99S          JBs         1963. S5SI6       2.491
Chadura                  1994   *       3.454          3.668          JMS         1983. USBSB       2.256
Aojpors                  1960           2.510          3.930          So         1984. 65/66       1.930
Tral                     1980           3.646         3.6b4           S5t         1954. OSI06       2.253
Achabal                  1980           4.130         4.695           Sa6         1994. 65886       2 G6a          CO_ SBSUS
DOa ft Ceastra
Quazlgund                1964          12.683         1.293           .0          1934/S5           9.920
Total                           42.1AU         OILAiM                                        2L34
437.631) 2/
1p AS approveU by NASAeD. excludtng tlec Cost of land (the letter Is included In totals above).
II S0 has not yet approved the scheme. and lsence aso disbursement. *o far.
Ii Sanitary fttIngs. slectrtftcotton and Inetallatton of tranatoraur *till to be completed.
i/ Electrltfcatlon and transformer installation to bo templeted.
I/ InntatlleSIon of tose machinery and electrificatlon to be Completed.
1 Aspects of c1vIl works. machinery Installation and electrificatlon to be completed.
Is Impenditures up to 30 June 1956.
I* 



INDIA
JGK HORTICULTURE PROJECT
(Credit 806-IN)
JKUPNC Operations with Apples and walnuts
Item                      Unit    1978179   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983M84   1984/85   1985/86
APPLE OPERATIONS
Crop Loan Scheme
Area                                Acres                                                                    1,435      3,407
6rowers under Contract               No.                                                                     1,031      2,318
Market Operations
Sales under CLS                     Boxes        -          -         -          -         -         -     283,000  483,000
Other Comission Sales                 0       22.000    95,000   225,000   132,000    76,000   100,000         -          -
Sales on Outright Purchase            "          -          -         -       3,000        -         -         -          -
Total Sales                               22,C*X)   95,000   225,000   135,0d    76,000   100,000   283,000   483,000
Of Total Sates:
i)   Carton Packed at JKPC"                    n.a.       n.a.      n.a.      n.a.       n.a.     14,000    10,000     4,000
ii)  wooden box  "      It                     n.e.      n.a.       n.s.      n.a.      n.a.      25,000    54,000    87,000
iii) Quantity Field Packed                     n.a.      n.a.       n.e.      n.a.      n.a.      61,000   219,000   392,000
Apptes Cotd Stored                                                            2,000               16,000    10,000      3,000
Gross Sales Value Realised            Rs'OOO       872      3,800     9,300     S,600      3,640     4,200    11,900    20,503
Gross Average Sales Value Per Box    Rs/box      39.64      40.00     41.33     41.48      47.89     42.00     42.05     42.45
WALNUT OPERATIONS
No. of Growers/Agents Dealt With       No.                                                   3        28        37          7
Green Walnuts Processed
- Outright Purchase                  Tons                                                          112        49
- Custom Service                                                                         14                             15
Dry Walnut Recovery                                                                         4         28        13         4
Source*  J.lItt



INOIA
J&K HORTICULTURE PROJECT
(Credit 806-1N)
JKIPNC - Terms of Managing Directors 8 Department birectors
Name                   Date of             Date                 Period Post
Joining          Relieved             Remained Vacant
Managing Iirectors
Mr. M. Habibullah              Feb. 1978        Jul. 1982
Mr. A. Hafiz                   Jut. 1982        Aug. 1982
Mr. N. A. Kamili               Aug. 1982        Apr. 1983
Mr. S. Shuja Hussain           Apr. 1983        Mar. 1986
Mr. 6. J. Nahvi                Mar. 1986
Director finance
Mr. R. N. Dawai                Dec. 1978        Nov. 1980         Nov. 1980 - Feb. 1983
Mr. M. L. Jain                 Feb. 1983        Dec. 1984         Jan. 1985 - Jul. 1985
Mr. U. K. Kiul                 Aug. 1985        Nov. 2985         Nov. 1985 - Aug. 1986                             N
Mr. Ramanathan                 Sept. 1986
Director Operation               6
Mr. A. Kar                       1978         Not Available
Mr. A. Hafiz                   Nov. 1979        Oct. 1984                    1/
Mr. M. Y. Mani                 Sept. 1985
Director Marketing
Mr. R. Anandum                 May  1979        Oct. 1981         Nov. 1981   Apr. 1983
Mr. M. Y. Wani                 Apr. 1983
Director Engineering
Ms. S. Shuja Hussain           Feb. 1979        Apr. 1983                   1
1/ The respective Managing Directors have held the additional charge of these posts
when they were vacant.



- 23 -
TabL 5
INDIA
JSK HORTCUL. PROJECT
(Credit 806-IN)
&MVitureS InMurred al DIe/WllrU  Retsearch Comomt
.Sh~                                              SAR 1/           Act
*........... (R00.... a
CiviL Wm"
Cous ctim of CA itoe, l      _ratory                 28.0             1,392.57
Custrtcticn of Library                               121.0              898.66
CA Cotd Store Ejimw,t
Refrgpratiat Eo4pi.it                                                   578.S
0G SEo  & Electric Truufoi19r i125                                       58.32
GJ  ul>yser/Otaor &    6rwro                                            671.49
PL;tlc Craet                                                             39.77
ftfH2mtsd vus Q wits) 2/                                -               l,ao.m
L;rstory Eaitt                                         481.2            2.8L89
Library
awks & Jowruls                                       2187               168.69
EqWAP                                                 77.0               98.12
Tedvhical Asistamice
Cotd Store Eirwr                                    131.2              36D X
Fmt"~R"ioLost                                    175.0              14G.M
Entaoist                                             87.3                niL
Training 8 St* Tanm 3/                                 367.5              22.50
TotaL Cost                                 2,137.6            7,923.51
1/ ExcLuing Price Cotingpcies.
2/ Estiae cos, which incl.W  aLL etrigaian ewiui 0Aich ha rat yet be
irutLLed
3/ Agairut 42 an .ut  of st* tears  pr o Pi in the SAR, 12 man w      tJot   be
i _ntd.



- 24 -
TabLe 6
J&LK HORrICULn.U PROJECT
(Credit 806-IN
ScheduLe of Disb.rsememts (Ctuuative)
Apaisai           ACtuAL         ActuaL as Percumt
IDA Fiscal Year                       Estin?e         Disbjsu'ns   of AcwraisaL Estiue
..U     S ftte)......... O   Lin ...... .... ...... m
1979/80                                0.3                 0.1                 33
1980/81                                1.4                 0.3                 21
1981/82                                5.3                 2.1                 40
1982/83                                9.6                 2.6                 27
1983/84                               14.0                 3.6                 26
1984/85                               14.0                 4.9                 35
1985/86                               14.0                 6.1                 44
1986/87                               14.0                 6.7                48
Date of FinaL Disbjruunit - Februry 12, 1987



- 25 -
TabLe 7
IMOIA
JSK HOCRW.U  PRE ECT
(Credit 8of6-w
ALLomaia9 of Credit Prwes1s
DwAisal         bma         fll.l JIdstIJrud
Cat!=_                                    ALLocaicDan    O1dr   Xe- of ALLocaio
.......... *... css ao
(1) Wle & 6ltmA Cottres
(a) Civil Wrlks                           3,10           2,395
(b) Vehictes, E*Aipi                      4,5 ZM573                  1,927       43
g Met ials
(2) DOwe Juice Pi cemsin  Pait
(a) CiviL Wwts                              3D             niL          m0       1m
(b) VehicLes, EApwt                       2,100             97        2,gM        95
& pte,iaLs
(3) MAhro., AML  I WA"  Ruset ch
(a) Civiltrks                               100            niL          100     1O
(b) VehicLes, 5Waip.-t  s0                                143          757        84
& etoriaLs
(4) Cro Lam                                   IAM              255        1,345       84
(5) Stdies, Tecticat Assiste                  1,              19          (24)       (24)
& Training
(6) LUaLLocat                                   5gm           niL          5gm       1
ToutL                           14,              6,73        7,2         52



