Documentof               FILE COPY
The World Ban;,
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1890-IN
INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 25, 1978
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture D Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =    Rs 8.75 1/
Rs 1.00          =    US$0.114
Rs 1,000         =    US$114.285
Rs 1,000,000    =    US$114,285.714
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
ARDC      -    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
DA        -    Department of Agriculture
DH        -    Department of Horticulture
DHPM      -    Department of Horticulture, Planning and Marketing
GOI       -    Government of India
GOJK      -    Government of Jammu and Kashmir
HP        -    Himachal Pradesh
IDBI      -    Industrial Development Bank of India
J&K       -    Jammu and Kashmir
JKH]?MC    -    Jammu-Kashmir Horticultural Produce Marketing and
Processing Corporation Ltd.
RBI       -    Reserve Bank of India
UP        -    Uttar Pradesh
GOI and GOJK FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a "basket"
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
beeni made at US$1 to Rs 8.75, which was the short-term average rate
prevailing at the time of appraisal, September 1977.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
JAMMu-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   BACKGROUND .........................................             1
II.   AGRICULTURE AND HORTICULTURE IN JAMMU AND KASHMIR ..             2
A.  Jammu and Kashmir ..............................            2
B.  Kashmir Valley .......        ..........................    2
C.  Institutions  ........        ..........................   10
III. THE PROJECT .12
A. Brief Description .12
B. Detailed Features .13
C. Implementation Schedule .20
D.  Cost Estimate and Financing ... I ................         20
E.  Procurement and Disbursement .,                            22
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .........................           25
A. Institutions..........                           .....  25
B.  Credit Arrangements ............................           27
C.  Coordination ...................................           29
D.  Engineering and Supervision of Construction ....           29
E. Training .......................................            30
F.  Reporting Requirements and Evaluation .... ......          30
G.  Accounts and Audits ..............     I   .............   31
V.   MARKETING AND PRICES ...............................            32
VI.   FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS ..............................            35
VII.    BENEFITS, ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND JUSTIFICATION ....            37
VIII.    RECOMMENDATIONS ....................................            40
This report is based on the findings of an IDA mission which visited India
in September/October 1977, comprising Messrs. G. Stern, E. Chobanian and
Ms. J. Stockard (IDA) and Messrs. J.G. Woodroof, L.B. Wooton and W.P. Mott
(Consultants). The mission was assisted by Messrs. T.K. Kasiviswanathan
(ARDC) and E. Ruderfer (Loan Officer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Schedule A - Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation:Project Lending Terms and Conditions
ANNEKES
ANNEX 1 - Text Tables
T 1  Actual and Projected Production of Apples in India .........
T 2  Walnut Production and Distribution .........................
T 3  Apple Grading and Packing Centers, Sites and
Production Catchments ....................................
T 4  Walnut Hulling/Drying Centers, Sites and Production
Catchments ...............................................
T 5  Experts Required for the Project ...........................
T 6  List of Stu,dy Tours ...........................
T 7  Implementation Schedule ....................................
T 8  JKHPMC Local Training Requirements .........................
T 9  Red Delicious Apples:  Wholesale Prices Delhi ..............
T ICI Prices for Indian Walnuts ..................................
T 11. Indian, USA and Chinese Walnut Export Prices ...............
T 12 Price Summary for Economic and Financial Analysis ..........
ANNEX 2 - Project Costs
Table 1. - Apple Grading/Packing Centers
Table 2 - Cold Storage
Table 3 - Transshipment Center
Table 4  - Walnut Processing Facilities
Table 5 - Juice Concentrate Plant
Table 6 - Research, Training, Technical Assistance
Table 7 - Summary of Estimated Costs
Table 8 - Projected Phasing of Project Costs
ANNEX 3 - Financial Analysis
Table :1 - Staff positions in JKHPMC Head and Branch Offices
Table :2 - JKHPMC Head and Branch Offices:  Estimated
Overhead Expenditures
Table 3 - Apple Grading/Packing Centers:  Estimated
Operating Costs Per Unit
Table 4 - Cold Storage:  Estimated Operating Cost per Unit
Table 5 - Apple Grading/Packing Centers:  Annual Income
Projections
Table 6 - Juice Concentrate Plant:  Estimated Operating Costs
Table 7 - Juice Concentrate Plant:  Annual Income Projections
Table 8 - Walnut Processing Facilities:  Estimated
Operating Costs Per Unit
Table 9 - Walnut Processing Facilities:  Annual Income
Projections
Table 10 - JKHPMC:  Annual Income Projections
-Table 11 - JKHPMC: Cash Flow Projections and Financial
Rate of Return



- 3 -
ANNEX 4  -  Schedule of Estimated Disbursement
ANNEX 5 - Economic Analysis
Table 1  -  Variable Production and Unit Costs for One Acre
Apple Orchard
Table 2  -  Economic Benefits to Apple Growers at Full
Project Development
Table 3  -  Estimated Economic Rate of Return to JKHPMC Apple
Trading
Table 4  -  Variable Production and Unit Costs for 10 Walnut
Trees and Return to Growers
Table 5  -  Walnut Processing:  Economic Benefits at Full
Project Development
Table 6  -  Estimated Economic Rate of Return to JKHPMC Walnut
Trading
Table 7  -  Juice Concentrate Plant:  Estimated Economic and
Financial Rates of Return
Table 8  -  Economic Rate of Return to the Project
ANNEX 6 - Related Data and Documents Available in Project File
List of Charts
Chart No. WB 18464  -  JKHPMC:  Proposed Orgazi8ation Chart
Chart No. WB 18459 - Implementation Schedule: Construction
and Equipment
Chart No. WB 18460  -  Implementation Schedule:  Consultants
and Study Tours
List of Maps
IBRD 13258 - Apple and Walnut Marketing and Processing
Facilities






INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
1.01      The project would be the first Bank Group project in Jammu and
Kashmir (J&K) and the second project in India dealing with marketing and
processing of horticultural produce. The Government of Jammu and Kashmir
(GOJK) had been considering such project for a number of years and project
preparation began after an IDA reconnaissance mission in 1974. GOJK estab-
lished a project preparation unit which, assisted by consultants, Agricul-
tural Finance Corporation, published a first draft preparation report in
1976 which required repeated revision. The proposed project is based on
an August 1977 revision of that report.
1.02      The proposed project would resemble the ongoing Himachal Pradesh (HP)
Apple Processing and Marketing Project (Credit No. 456-IN) which was appraised
in 1974. It supports establishment of a corporation to help growers market
apples by outright purchases, by marketing fruit on a commission basis or by
providing grading, packing and forwarding services. The project was a pio-
neering venture and encountered problems mainly due to delays in establishing
a corporation to manage the project and in the appointment of key staff.
However, over the past 18 months management and implementation have improved
and the project is now making satisfactory progress. 1/ The most encouraging
aspect is that increasing numbers of growers are using the services provided
under the project. The project transshipment center, which allows apples
to bypass the congested Delhi wholesale market, has proved a great success
and after only two years the operation handles 25% of the total HP apple trade.
in addition, project marketing operations have extended apple supplies even
to South India, where HP apples were previously not obtainable. The proposed
J&K project would benefit from the experience gained in Himachal Pradesh, in
particular in the areas of management and organization, fruit marketing, de-
sign of grading and packing houses and equipment procurement.
1/   Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project, Supervision
Reports, June 23, 1977 and December 6, 1977.



- 2 -
II. AGRICULTURE AND HORTICULTURE IN JAMMU AND KASHMIR
A. Jammu and Kashmir
2.01      The State is situated in the extreme North West of India and con-
sists of two provinces -- Jammu and Kashmir -- which are subdivided into ten
districts. Total population is five million of which 80% lives in villages.
Apart from the narrow southern plain and the Kashmir Valley, the terrain
is mountainous. Altitude ranges from 300 m to over 8,000 m and the climate
from subtropical to alpine.
2.02      The people of Jammu and Kashmir are among the poorest in India with
1974/75 per capita income of Rs 835 (at current prices) well below the national
avetrage of Rs 1,022. There has been little industrial development and apart
from scenic beauty and hydro-electric potential there are few natural resources.
Whi.le famous for tourism and handicrafts, both important contributors to the
economy, agriculture is the most important sector, providing the state with
half its income and two-thirds of its jobs.
2.03      Because of the rugged topography only about 6% of the land area is
cuLtivable and of this about 40% or 0.7 million ha is sown to annual crops.
Total area sown is 0.9 million ha giving a cropping intensity of 120%.  Hold-
ings are small (0.9 ha average size) and fragmented, making management, parti-
cuLarly of irrigation, difficult.  Rice, maize and wheat are the main crops.
Rice yields at 2 tons/ha are among the highest state average yields in India.
Maize and wheat yields are abqut at national average. Cropped area, produc-
tion and yields have changed little during the last ten years. To step up
production, GOJK is implementing programs to consolidate holdings, expand
irrigation and to encourage use of modern crop production technology. The
most important development in the agricultural sector has been a spectacular
increase of fruit production that would be supported by the project.
B. Kashmir Valley
Physical Features
2.04      The project would be situated in the Kashmir Valley, where 85%
of all fruit production in the state is located. This valley, about 130 km
lcng and 40 km wide, is situated in West Kashmir and constitutes about one
third of Baramulla, Srinagar and Anantnag Districts. The valley contains all
the cultivable soils of these three districts and provides a living for about
2.8 million peciple.
2.05      With a latitude of 34  N (about that of North Carolina) and an
average 1,600 m elevation above sea level, the climate is temperate. Summer



- 3 -
temperatures reach 35 0c and minimum temperatures in winter average between 0 c
and -5 0c for about two to three months, with much harsher weather conditions
and deep snow on surrounding mountains. Rainfall varies from 550 m per annum
to 950 mm in different parts of the valley but fluctuates annually by as
much as 30% above or below average. While there is some rain in most months,
about two thirds of the annual total falls between January and June. Relative
humidity is high, particularly in winter when it averages almost 90%.
2.06      The valley is an old lake bed, hence soils are alluvial.  About half
the soils are clay loams forming the relatively flat valley floor while the
rest are silty loams of former lake shore terraces known as "Karewa" soils.
The latter are elevated about 100 m above the valley with deep gullies often
separating the Karewa terraces. The valley floor is well watered by the
Jhelum River which is fed by numerous streams from surrounding mountains.
However, in Karewa areas water is scarce, even for domestic purposes.
Holding Size and Land Tenure
2.07      With about 560,000 holdings (60% of J&k total) on 390,000 ha land,
average holding size is 0.7 ha. However, half the holdings covering 15% of
the land are less than 0.5 ha, and almost nine-tenths of holdings accounting
for a little over half the land are less than 2 ha. Few holdings are more
than 10 ha. There are about 100,000 orchards in Kashmir. A few are large
scale operations but more than 75% of the area under fruit consists of or-
chards of 3 ha in size or less and about half the orchards are smaller than
1 ha. Most fruit farmers also own some land for food production, usually
slightly less than that under fruit. Typically, irrigable land would be
used for paddy and higher lying land for orchards. The vast majority of
farm operations are small and the proposed project should be particularly
attractive to small farmers. Most holdings are owner operated although
renting of some land, particularly by small scale farmers, is common.
Infrastructure
2.08      The nearest railhead is at Jammu, 350 km from Srinagar, the State
and Kashmir Province capital and about 250 km from the head of the valley.
Thus all traffic within, into and out of the valley depends on road transport.
There are about 1,800 km of black top, 900 km metalled and about 1,790 km minor
roads or motorable tracks in the Kashmir Valley, about 0.8 km per km of its
area. Most agricultural areas are served by a good road network with adequate
capacity for the foreseeable future. In addition, GOJK is extending the net-
work, particularly to the more recently developed Karewa areas. All parts of
the project area would have satisfactory communications.
Agriculture
2.09      Because of cold winter temperatures most land is cultivated only once
a year. Some 360,000 ha crops are grown on about 340,000 ha land, a cropping
intensity of 106%. Rice (160,000 ha) and maize (100,000 ha) are the main
crops -- other crops grown include wheat, oilseeds, vegetables and spices.



-4 -
Rice mainly confined to the irrigated valley floor gives high yields (2 tons/
ha) but, because of low and erratic rainfall, non-irrigated crop yields are
low. Maize and wheat yield only 0.8 tons/ha. Yield levels and production
have not changed much during the last decade but, as indicated in para 2.03,
GOJK is implementing a series of programs which should help lo raise grain
yields.
Tree Fruit
2.10      There iLs a long history of fruit production in Kashmir and many
temperate fruits including apple, walnut and peaches are indigenous. However,
large scale commercial expansion, particularly of apples, has taken place only
duri.ng the last two decades. A fruit tree census conducted by the Department
of E[orticulture (DH) in 1975 showed that 73,000 ha were planted with fruit
trees, (43,000 ha in bearing), consisting of 55,000 ha apples, 15,000 ha
almonds and 3,000 ha miscellaneous fruits including peaches, pears, plums,
apricots and cherries. In addition there are over one million walnut trees,
mostly scattered rather than in orchards, which take up about 18,000 ha of
land.
2.11.     Production of pears and stone fruit is still small and while some
is exported to other parts of India or sold to local canners, most of it is
consumed locally. Almonds find ready sale throughout India. However, because
of i.requent serious frost damage production fluctuates and the Kashmir Valley
is not ideal for this crop. The most urgent need for investment in the horti-
cult:ure sector relates to apples and walnuts, particularly to support post-
harvest operations. The project would assist in financing such investments.
Apple Production
2.12      Three states in India are important apple producers, HP, Uttar
Pradesh (UP) and J&K. Both climate and soils there are well suited for
apples which had been grown on a small scale for many years. However, over
the last ten years, production jumped from less than 100,000 tons a year to
nearly 700,000 tons. Out of total production in 1976/77, HP accounted for
about 260,000 tons, UP for 100,000 tons and J&K for 300,000 tons.  Because
many of the orchards are young and not yet in bearing, production should al-
most: double over the next ten years to reach a level of 1.3 million tons. In
J&K for instance, only 35,000 ha out of 55,000 ha apples are in bearing at
present and production there should exceed 600,000 tons by 1987 (Annex 1,
T 1). Planting has been particularly heavy in Baramulla District with 30,000
ha apples compared to 18,000 ha in Anantnag and 7,000 ha in Srinagar Districts.
There may be several reasons for the recent large-scale apple plantings such
as incidence of blast disease in rice, improvement in communications, profit-
ability compared to other crops and exclusion of orchards from statutory land
ceiLings for some years. Apples have become the main cash crop of Kashmir
wort:h about Rs 500 million per year (US$60 million). In addition expansion
of t:he crop has brought about the development of a considerable saw milling
industry (for apple boxes), and transport services.



2.13      Because of consumer preference, growers produce mostly red apples.
Delicious group varieties constitute 38% of plantings, Maharaji (a local
variety) 27% and a miscellany of varieties, mostly less productive or profit-
able than Delicious, constitute the rest. Average yields at about 10-12 tons
per hectare are low compared to other major apple producing countries, where
yields are twice as high. The reasons include low-yielding planting material,
inadequate fertilizer, diseases, and particularly biannual bearing. DH
research and extension services are working on these problems but would bene-
fit from more contact with horticulturalists in other countries, particularly
to evaluate recently developed fruit cultivars for possible use in J&K and
to study fruit thinning techniques.
2.14      Two major problems of the industry are apple scab disease and the
possibility of codling moth infestation. The disease, which disfigures
fruit and lowers yields, has become endemic during the last five years. DH
has introduced spray programs which control the disease and GOI and GOJK
are financing a vigorous control program which includes a subsidy for protec-
tive chemicals, provision of spray pumps for growers and a major research
and demonstration program. These activities are satisfactory and would be
supported by project study tours to allow local experts to evaluate foreign
work on scab control.
2.15      Codling moth is probably the most serious apple insect pest in the
world and is expensive and difficult to control. The insect has been known
to exist in neighboring Ladakh District for some years, but has not, so far,
spread to other parts of India. Its existence is a constant threat to Kashmir
orchards since infestation would necessitate a second expensive spray program
in addition to scab control and resultant costs could make apple production
unremunerative for many growers. Fortunately the chance of complete eradica-
tion of the moth in Ladakh seems promising and the project would help to
initiate an appropriate program (para 3.28 and 3.29).
Apple Marketing
2.16      As with production, apple sales have risen rapidly over the last
ten years and total sales for the three main producing states have increased
from about 60,000 tons in 1966 to over 500,000 tons in 1976 and are likely
to reach one million tons by 1987 (Annex 1, T 1).
2.17      Of the three states, J&K sells about half of the total quantity and
is likely to retain the same share of the market in future. The UP crop (about
10-20% of total sales) reaches the market in July-August, followed by the HP
crop from August to October followed in turn by J&K deliveries, which peak be-
tween October and December. Of the three states, J&K is furthest from markets
and thus has greater marketing problems than the others. Supplies peak during
four months, particularly when HP and J&K crops overlap. At that time prices
drop and transport becomes expensive. Increasing production will exacerbate
these problems. Only a small proportion of the crop, between 5% and 10%, is
put into cold storage for off-season marketing, which is insufficient to ex-
tend the marketing season significantly. Because of the long time between
harvest and delivery, fruit is usually overripe when it reaches cold stores



in major cities which, designed primarily for potatoes, cannot provide the
levels of cold temperatures and humidity necessary for apples. Consequently,
the quality of cold store apples is low. Development of properly designed
cold stores in growing areas is needed to extend the marketing season.
2.18      Main consumption centers are major cities, in particular Delhi,
Bombay, Calcutta, Hyderabad, and Madras, though in more recent years the
trade is also reaching smaller cities. On a nationwide basis, consumption is
less than 1 kg apples per capita compared to 10-30 kg in developed countries.
There should be adequate market potential to absorb increased production, how-
ever, consumption in the established major urban markets is close to satura-
ticin and sales must be extended into smaller urban and even rural centers.
2.19      Apple growing areas, particularly J&K, are remote from markets.
Srinagar is 800 km from Delhi and over 2,000 km from Bombay and Calcutta. Be-
cause of the difficulty in handling the large amount of fruit which ripens in
a short time, apples may be stored for up to 2-4 weeks in orchards and typic-
ally reach market 4-6 weeks after harvest. Transport time in the hot humid
plains (up to 350c) may be about three days to Delhi and up to ten days to
more distant markets. Consequently fruit quality in markets is low and spoil-
age is high. More expeditious handling, introduction of pre-cooling before
dispatch and cold storing part of the crop in growing areas would improve fruit
quality and reduce spoilage. Cull fruit, which amounts to about 20% of total
fruit production, is a matter of great concern to growers.  Marketing costs of
such fruit are too high to allow remunerative sales in fresh fruit markets and
most of it is left to rot in orchards at present. Processing for juice would
provide an outlet for culls and would enhance growers' incomes.
2.20      There are some large orchard enterprises consisting of more than
100 ha under fruit, which market fruit directly. However, the great majority
of growers operate between 0.25 ha and one ha of land each under apples, their
cash crop, and about the same amount of land under grain crops, which pro-
vides barely enough food for subsistence. Fruit procurement from thousands
of such small growers and distribution to distant markets is complex and
involves many intermediaries including preharvest contractors, forwarding
agents, commission agents and a series of wholesale and subwholesale merchants.
Because individual farmers have little knowledge about marketing, find it
difficult to arrange transport and sales and because they usually need cash
beEore the harvest, about two thirds of the growers sell their crop to pre-
harvest contracitors, many of whom are large scale growers. Such sales take
place soon after fruit set; farmers receive an advance and are paid the balance
in several installments. Partly because small growers have little bargaining
power and partly because contractors allow a high margin to cover risks, the
price paid to growers is low. Growers would benefit from more direct access
to market.
2.21      In this respect, the performance of fruit growers cooperatives is
encouraging. These were established mainly as an alternative trade channel



-7-
to preharvest contractors and consist almost entirely of small farmers. The
cooperatives provide credit to growers for growing and harvesting expenses and
arrange fruit transport and sale of fruit by commission agents screened by
GOJK's Department of Horticulture, Planning and Marketing (DHPM). Starting
in 1972 with two societies handling 25,000 boxes of apples, the number of
societies had increased to 42 by 1976 and, their turnover of 470,000 boxes
(a market share of 4%) in that year, was expected to double during 1977 to
about 8% of total out-of-state sales.  Average income per member per unit
marketed has been 15-20% above that of growers using preharvest contractors.
However, societies have no packing, or cold store facilities and large scale
expansion would be constrained by lack of an apex organization to organize
transport and sales.  The horticulture corporation which would be supported by
the project (para 3.02) would provide the services of such an organization.
With this, the promising fruit growers' cooperative movement should develop
into a major market force in J&K.
2.22      Poor grading practices contribute to the low quality of much of the
fruit in the market. Merchants do not trust grading practices of their sup-
pliers and fruit is regraded and repacked each time it changes hands in the
marketing chain. Fruit is packed into locally made wooden boxes containing
on average 20 kg apples. Despite minor variations in size and shape the pack
is reasonably satisfactory.
2.23      Forwarding agents arrange transport to markets mostly by truck.
In 1975/76, fruit and nut exports constituted two-thirds of the total load
transported out of the State. Formerly truck availability during the peak
season proved a problem, but this has been solved by a series of interstate
licensing arrangements and no further transport bottlenecks are anticipated.
In addition, since 1976, an integrated road/rail service has been developed,
which collects fruit, takes it to railhead at Jammu by truck where it is
transported either by special trains or by wagons attached to passenger trains
to Delhi. There, part of the consignment is reloaded into ventilated rail
vans which are attached to express trains to other cities. This service has
proved faster, and during the peak apple season, cheaper than road transport.
While it handled only 5% of the trade in 1976, its share is likely to increase.
2.24      About 80% of the total crop is sent to the Delhi wholesale market
for auction by commission agents, who sell mostly to wholesalers and charge
between 6% to 10% commission. About 85% of the fruit is then repacked and
shipped to other parts of India and reaches retailers after passing through
one or several subwholesalers. Because of the many intermediaries involved,
the marketing system is expensive. However, concentration of fruit in Delhi
is even more serious, causing delays and consequent spoilage which will become
worse with increasing crop size.
2.25      Delhi has always dominated the apple market.  it is the closest
major fruit market to apple growing areas and its merchants have pioneered
large-scale apple marketing. They maintain close links with preharvest con-
tractors and transporters and retain their hold on the market by financing
preharvest contractors and much of the industry's harvesting, packing and



- 8 -
transport expenses. Out of some 100 Delhi commission agents who deal in
apples about 20 dominate the trade. Growers suspect them of malpractices
including collusion with other commission agents, wholesalers and preharvest
contractors; of rigging bids and of wrongful downgrading of fruit. Such
factors as trader resistance to market regulation under the Delhi Agricultural
Production Marketing Regulation Act 1976, which embodies fair trading practices;
secret bidding; and close connection between some commission agents and whole-
salers, gives credence to at least some of the growers' suspicions. An alter-
native marketing outlet, particularly one which would be primarily grower
oriented and would sell fruit directly to all parts of India should give
gro-wers better returns and would provide healthy competition to the estab-
lished trade.
WalrLut S
2.26      Walnut, indigenous to local forests, has been grown for centuries
in Kashmir for nuts and timber and J&K accounts for practically the entire
walnut production in India.  The nuts are consumed locally and are exported
fromi India, while the timber is the basis for Kashmirs famous woodworking
industry. Following World War II, when nut prices were low, so many walnut
trees were cut down that GOJK instituted strict controls on felling.
2.27      Until fairly recently there has been little walnut research and
development work., Trees are seedlings which are grown singly or in small
groves in areas too cold, too steep or too rocky for apples. There is much
diversity in size, shape, color, shell, and kernel characteristics, which
handicaps sales in world markets. DH has now selected 32 strains which it
is propagating, mostly by seed, but also budding, so that new plantings
should give more uniform produce.
2.213     Both area and production were stagnant until 1972/73 when GOI and
GOJK started to finance a scheme to expand the walnut area by 4,000 ha.
Extra staff were employed by DH, nurseries expanded and plants, fencing and
ferltilizers suppLied to farmers -- many among the poorest in the State -- at
half cost. The target of 4,000 ha has almost been attained and DH, the exe-
cuting department, is planning to continue with a 2,500 ha per year planting
program for the foreseeable future.
2.29      There are about 1.25 million trees (18,000 ha) in the ground, of
which 0.75 million are bearing. Over 70% are in Anantnag District and about
15% each in the other two districts. There are no production records but,
based on records of sales out of the state, and allowances for local consump-
tion and spoilagie, estimated production is about 23,000 tons at present and
should reach 30,000 tons by 1987 (Annex 1, T 2). With average yields about
30 kg per tree, potential production from trees now in the ground is about
40,D00 tons per annum.
2.30      There are no major pests or diseases, but at least 25% of the crop
is lost through primitive harvesting methods. Harvesting of immature nuts,
retting for 10-15 days to loosen hulls, subsequent washing followed by in-
effective drying, causes staining of shells and discoloration and molding



of kernels. These losses could be largely eliminated by properly timed
harvesting and modern hulling and drying methods. The harvest season is in
September/October and nuts are frequently picked prematurely to catch the
relatively higher priced market for the local festival season in November and
for the overseas Christmas trade. Modern hulling and drying would speed up
post harvest operations and would obviate the need for premature harvest.
2.31      As with apples, many different agents are involved in walnut mar-
keting, including preharvest contractors (mostly large growers), intermediate
traders, forwarding agents, commission agents, processors, wholesalers, and
exporters. After hulling, most nuts are taken to Jammu (in the south of J&K),
the main center of walnut trade where the larger merchants operate. There,
nuts are bleached (to improve appearance) or shelled, packed and dispatched
either for local distribution or, through Bombay, for export. About 60% of
the crop is exported, mostly after shelling. Processing in Jammu is primitive
and prices achieved in export markets are among the lowest in the trade (para
5.13). Improved hulling, grading, and storage methods are needed to enhance
the competitiveness and value of Indian nuts on the world market.
2.32      The average grower has 15-20 trees in rugged country.  He may have
some sheep or goats, but little land for food production. Partly because of
past debt, partly because of the need for cash during winter for clothes and
food, most of the smaller growers sell their crop through preharvest contrac-
tors for about Rs 1 per kg nuts compared to Rs 6-7 per kg Bombay wholesale
price for unshelled nuts and up to Rs 9 per kg for thin shelled nuts (which
have a higher proportion of kernel). Harvesting, hulling and transport costs
are estimated at Rs 3/kg. As with apples, a farmer oriented marketing orga-
nization should be able to improve growers' incomes substantially.
2.33      Timber value may be up to Rs 5,000 per tree.  Because of indiscri-
minate felling in the past which seriously decimated the tree population,
GOJK has introduced legislation to control the cutting of walnut trees. How-
ever, felling licenses are now so difficult to obtain that growers frequently
sell trees to traders for cash on the spot, at a fraction of tree value, despite
the fact that such transactions are illegal. Receiving full value would help
impoverished smallholders to clear their debts and free them from obligations
to preharvest contractors. While the walnut tree population should be pre-
served, at least 10 of the present tree population is unproductive and should
be replaced by better planting material. GOJK agreed to review the licensing
procedure to see whether it would be possible to simplify the felling of un-
productive trees, without diluting safeguards against indiscriminate felling.
Mushrooms
2.34      The Kashmir Valley is well known for its large variety of edible
fungi which grow wild in its forests. Of these, Morel has been collected and
dried by local farmers for many years for export from India. The climate
is suitable for low cost cultivation of button mushrooms (Agaricus bisporus)
which are grown commercially on a large scale in other countries. Simple



- 10 -
growing houses could be used without expensive temperature/humidity controls
needed elsewhere and rice and wheat straw, the main components of mushroom
compost, are plentiful. About ten years ago GOJK's Department of Agriculture
(DA), to diversify farming and to improve nutrition, started mushroom culti-
vation trials. Similar work was carried out independently by the Srinagar
branch laboratory of GOI's Center for Scientific and Industrial Research.
2.35      Results were encouraging and DA established a mushroom wing with
sections for research, spawn production and extension and training. As a
result, in 1976 about 500 farmers produced 95 tons of mushrooms, mostly for
carning by local processors. GOJK wishes to expand production rapidly but
low yields and consequent high prices exp5cted by growers are major con-
straints. For instance, yields of 3 kg/m are half, and prices received by
Kashmir growers of Rs 11/kg are double those of Korean or Taiwanese low-cost
growers. Present production in India is adequate for the domestic market --
mostly airlines or five-star hotels -- but the high price paid to growers
inhibits development of a large-scale local market or India's entry into the
export market.
2.36      Despite these constraints, the potential for large-scale produc-
tion in the long term is good. Low yields are due to variable spawn quality,
and the less than optimal cultivation methods. Lack of pasteurization of
compost or mushroom houses causes yield reduction from pests, diseases and
competitor molds. These difficulties could be overcome by modern spawn pro-
duction facilities and expansion of research efforts, to introduce low-cost
melthods of germfree mushroom cultivation. The project would help GOJK to
provide appropriate services and facilities in support of the development of
the mushroom industry.
C. Institutions
Ministry of Agriculture
2.37      There are three departments in the Ministry concerned with horti-
culture, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Horticulture, and
the Department of Horticulture, Planning and Marketing. DA is mainly con-
cerned with food crops but is responsible for vegetable production including
mushrooms. Its mushroom wing (para 2.35) comprises 66 technical staff, for
research (9), spawn production (11), and grower training and extension (46).
While research needs to be expanded (para 2.36) training and extension arrange-
ments are adequate. Each new mushroom grower can attend a three month part-
time course and each grower is visited by a well-trained extension worker at
least twice a week. The service would be satisfactory to teach new technology
which may result from intensified research.
2.38      The Department of Horticulture, formerly part of DA, was established
as a separate department in 1964 but, to ensure close liaison, the Director
DA has doubled in the role of Director DH. DH is responsible for extension,
research, pesticides distribution and plant nurseries for tree and bush fruits.



- 11 -
The extension wing employs over 1,200 technical staff in the three project
Districts and provides intensive and effective services. As the tree crop
area expands staff is augmented automatically. The department also has a
46 man research staff operating on two stations. While doing good work,
senior staff would benefit from contact with leading foreign research workers.
Research is primarily production oriented and there is a need for post-harvest
research.
2.39      The Department of Horticulture, Planning and Marketing, was formed
in 1972 to help growers overcome marketing problems which had resulted from
the increasing volume of produce. With its 60 man technical staff DHPM's
main task to date has been dissemination of market intelligence, coordina-
tion of fruit transport requirements, establishment and supervision of fruit
growers' cooperatives and training their members and staff in fruit grading
and packing. The department has gained valuable experience in apple market-
ing and has established useful contacts in major market centers which will
help the proposed project, particularly in the early execution stages.
Banking Institutions
2.40      Banking services are provided by the three tier Credit Cooperative
system for short and medium term credit, the Cooperative Land Development Bank
for long term credit and by 14 nationalized commercial banks for all types of
credit. Both cooperative banking systems have high overdues and their level
of transactions is consequently low -- only Rs 22 million during 1975/76 for
the whole State. Because of Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and ARDC restrictions
on lending when overdues are high, the cooperative banking sector may not be
able to play a major part in the project. RBI is conducting a study in Jammu
and Kashmir, to devise rehabilitation measures for the cooperative banking
sector.
2.41      Commercial banks' lending for agriculture represented only 5% of
their total advances in J&K (Rs 17 million out of Rs 370 million on Decem-
ber 31, 1976), but in view of their low percentage of credit to deposits
(27%), bankers are keen to develop new business. Of 120 branches in the
project area, 56 are rural branches. The GOJK-owned Jammu and Kashmir Bank
with 65 branches at present and plans for expanding the number, the State
Bank of India with 27, and the Punjab National Bank with 14 branches in the
project area, are the most active banks in rural lending. They are sound
banks with trained agricultural credit staff and would be able to handle all
credit activities for the project.



- 12 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Brief Description
3.0l      The proDject would be carried out over six years and would help GOJK
provide facilities and services for apple and walnut grading, packing, process-
ing and marketing in Baramulla, Srinagar and Anantnag Districts (see map)
through a horticulture corporation. Project activities would offer growers
an alternative market channel for apples and walnuts to that provided by the
traditional trade, which should result in lower marketing costs, reduction
in the seasonal apple glut, improvements in fruit quality and utilization of
apple culls, which are at present wasted. The project would also reduce
walnut spoilage, improve quality of unshelled nuts and kernels and help DA
solve problems which are preventing expansion of the small but promising J&K
mushroom industry.  The project should benefit small farmers in particular,
who presently are prone to exploitation by larger growers and merchants.
The following would be project components:
(a) For apples, 25 apple grading and packing centers, of which
ten of 6,000 tons capacity and 15 of 1,000 tons; 17,000
tons cold storage; ten sawmills attached to the larger
grading and packing centers to produce fruit containers;
a fruit transshipment center; and a 12,000 tons apples
per year capacity juice processing plant;
(b) for walnuts, 14 hulling/drying and packing centers, of
which one 2,000 tons capacity, one 1,000 tons capacity
and twelve 500 tons capacity; and a 4,000 tons a year
processing center to deal mainly with nuts for export;
(c) for mushrooms, improved spawn production and research
facilities;
(d) Rs 20 million seasonal credit to help growers meet
fruit production and harvesting expenses;
(e) specialized cold storage, laboratory and library facil-
ities to enable DH to conduct post-harvest trials with
fruit;
(f) three studies to improve apple, walnut and apple juice
marketing, and a project evaluation study; and
(g) 90 man months consultants' time and 62 man months of
overseas training to support design and operation of pro-
ject f'acilities and to help DH and DA improve fruit and
mushroom production.



- 13 -
B. Detailed Features
General
3.02      The executing agency for apple and walnut grading, packing, proces-
sing and marketing would be the Jammu and Kashmir Horticultural Produce Mar-
keting and Processing Corporation Ltd. (JKHPMC) which was established in April
1978 and has already appointed its managing director. JKHPMC would construct,
own and operate all facilities for grading, packing, processing and marketing
of apples and walnuts. JKHPMC would establish offices in main consumption
centers to promote and conduct sales of its produce. It would also maintain
field services at grading and packing centers to form close links with growers,
to canvas for customers, coordinate harvesting and fruit deliveries and, in
close cooperation with DH, provide technical advice. JKHPMC would purchase
some produce, handle some on a commission basis and provide custom services.
When fully operative by 1985/86, the Corporation is expected to handle about
75,000 tons apples and 9,000 tons walnuts, about 12% and 30% respectively of
projected 1987 production in J&K.
3.03      At project appraisal, a team of Australian apple post-harvest ex-
perts visited Kashmir to finalize proposals for establishing an apple grading
and packing house with attached cold store facilities. The Australian Govern-
ment would provide equipment experts and training while GOJK would bear the
cost of construction, locally procured equipment and materials and operating
staff. DHPM would operate the facilities. GOJK and the Government of
Australia hope that the packing house would be completed in time for the 1978
apple harvest, and would therefore be valuable as a model for designing pro-
ject facilities and for training project staff.
Investments for Apples Processing Facilities
3.04      Grading and Packing Centers.  The 6,000 ton units would be in
established, heavily producing apple areas. Some 1,000 ton units would be
sub-units of the larger centers and others would be sited in remote or new
production areas. The smaller units would be designed to allow for expansion.
Sites and production from catchment areas are shown in Annex 1, T 3. The
6,000 ton centers would be part of a complex including cold stores (para 3.07)
and a sawmill (para 3.10). Each site, both for the 6,000 ton unit and for the
1,000 ton unit would require 2-4 ha of land. Apples would be collected from
growers in bins supplied by the packing house and would be mechanically graded
and then handpacked into wooden boxes. Culled apples would be sent for
processing.
3.05      Design of packing houses would be based on the Australian supported
pilot operation (para 3.03) and similar centers in Himachal Pradesh. Grading
capacity would be about 7 tons per hour in large units and about 3 tons per
hour in the smaller ones. To help bring fruit in, each large center would be
equipped with two 7 ton trucks and one 1-1/2 ton truck and each small center
with a 1-1/2 ton truck.



- 14 -
3.06      The centers may take some time to attract growers and are there-
fore projected to operate at 25% capacity in the first year, 75% capacity
in the second and at 100% capacity in the third year. The operating season
would only be eight weeks and because of the concentrated harvest period,
there would be need for five weeks double shift work. Each 6,000 ton plant
would employ 20 permanent and about 70 seasonal staff.
3.07      Cold Stores.  A 2,000 ton capacity cold store would be attached to
each 6,000 ton grading/packing center mainly for storing apples purchased by
the Corporation. Development of cold storage capacity would be in stages to
match the throughput at each center. Thus in the first packing season, when
total volume handled is only expected to be 1,500 tons, there would be no cold
storage. In year two, 1,000 tons capacity would be provided and in opera-
tional year three, a second 1,000 ton unit would be installed. At the end of
the project disbursement period there would be seven centers with 2,000 tons
coLd storage and three units with 1,000 tons. Each cold store would be de-
signed for 2,000 ton capacity so that expansion would not involve modifica-
tions to existing structures.
3.108     Only laigh quality disease-free fruit would be stored and would be
identified in>tlhe orchards by field staff. It would be stored in bulk bins
initially ungraded to relieve pressure on grading facilities during the peak
harvest period. The fruit would most likely be sold from March to May, when
there is little competition from other fruits, but attempts should be made to
test market even during the mango season, in May/June. As other major apple
producing countries have found, development of cold storage to cater for most
of the crop may become necessary. This project can be regarded as an early
phase of such development.
3.09      To utilize existing city cold storage (about 85,000 tons in Delhi
alone used mainly for potato storage) and to improve keeping quality of fruit
sent there, project cold stores would experiment with pre-cooling fruit before
shipment to city cold stores. One of the cold stores would be equipped with
a special 250 ton capacity pre-cooling unit for this purpose. In the others,
during the early part of the harvest season, before the stores are full,
batches of apples would be kept for a few days at a time, for pre-cooling
before dispatch to the cities.
3.10      Saw Mills.  The Corporation will require about three million boxes
per year for packing apples, excluding wooden bins for collecting fruit from
growers. Boxes are mostly sold by small sawmills, each making from 10,000-
3Q,000 boxes a year. In years of heavy fruit production, boxes become scarce
and expensive and it is uncertain that sawmills will expand sufficiently
rapidly to cater to increasing fruit supplies adequately. Therefore, JKHPMC
needs facilities to ensure a basic supply of boxes. To fulfill this need, a
sawmill with a capacity for making some 125,000 boxes per season would be
at:tached to each of the 6,000 ton packing houses. In addition to ensuring a
supply of boxes, the sawmills would allow the Corporation to cut costs and
provide off-season employment for packing house staff. Poplars and willows
grown on road verges and waste land by farmers are the main source of timber
for fruit boxes at present. With pressure likely on supplies due to the



- 15 -
the increasing apple crop, JKHPMC should be able to ensure timber supplies and
cut costs by placing bulk orders with GOJK's Forestry Department. Assurances
were obtained that the Department would give priority to JKHPMC for timber
supplies.
3.11      Transshipment Center.  Road transport is well developed between
Kashmir and Delhi, but for onward transportation to other centers, goods must
be transshipped to a second group of transporters operating from Delhi to
other major cities. At present most J&K fruit goes to the Delhi wholesale
market where it is repacked and reloaded causing congestion, waste of time
and extra expense. Costs would be reduced and fruit deliveries speeded up
if the transfer could take place outside the city boundaries. The project
would therefore finance a transshipment center at Kundli, at the Haryana-
Delhi border. The center would have storage capacity for 10,000 fruit boxes
and would handle apples and walnuts for JKHPMC and, on a fee basis, for
traders. Other produce would also be handled and the center is expected to
operate for about eight months in the year.
3.12      Juice Plant.  There are an estimated 60,000 tons manufacturing grade
apples largely wasted in J&K at present and, in ten years time, the amount
could double. Growers main expectation from this project is development of
processing capacity for this fruit. The only possible alternative is process-
ing into juice concentrate, for the soft drinks market. There appears to be
little prospect for selling other apple products. Apple juice is a new pro-
duct in India except for a small amount sold to the luxury trade and a market
would have to be developed (paras 5.05-5.09). However, studies have shown
that there should be scope for one juice plant in J&K, with 12,000 ton apples
per year processing capacity, which would be financed by the project.
3.13      A plant site has been tentatively selected at Sopore (see Map)
in Baramulla District, th.e main apple growing district. At full development,
JKHPMC would generate 15,000 tons cull apples from its packing houses and pro-
cessing of the greater part of this quantity into juice concentrate would be
an important benefit to JKHPMC customers.
3.14      Because of long distance from markets, the plant would manufacture
juice concentrate (720 Brix representing 86% weight reduction) and would trans-
port it to bottlers for reconstitution into single strength juice and other
products. Some surplus essence and 2,500 tons pomace, which could be used for
livestock feed, would be byproducts. Operation of the plant would be conti-
nuous between August and December. Three shifts per day would work for 100-
120 days, and with a throughput of about 100 tons fruit a day production would
be about 1,500 tons juice concentrate per year. The plant on about 2 ha land
would have equipment for juice extraction, essence recovery, juice clarifica-
tion, juice concentration and pomace drying. Equipment would include one
seven ton and one 1-1/2 ton truck.
3.15      Plant design had been based originally on juice extraction by
mechanical press. However, the diffusion process (used for beet sugar
extraction) has recently been tested on a commercial scale for apple juice
extraction. Higher equipment and operating costs than those of commonly used



- 16 -
mechanical or hydraulic presses appear to be more than offset by 20%-30%
higher juice extraction compared to other processes. The new process seems
promising and diffusion equipment costs and diffuser juice extraction rates
have therefore been used for cost and benefit estimates in this report.
However, suitability of diffusion for apple juice extraction in Kashmir needs
further evaluation during the final design stage of the plant.  In case
mechanical presses are used, costs would be reduced by US$120,000 equivalent
and juice recovery by 400 tons a season worth almost US$500,000 ex-factory.
Investments for Walnuts
3.16      Hulling and Drying Centers - Walnut quality is largely determined
in t]ne two weeks following harvest. During this time nuts should be hulled,
dried from 40% moisture to 5%, and graded. Any defective nuts should be
shelled. The project would finance fourteen centers sited according to pre-
sent production in catchment areas (Annex 1, T 4) to process 9,000 tons
(unshelled) walnuts.
3.17      When in full operation JKHPMC expects to purchase 60% of the through-
put, handle 20% on consignment and 20% on a custom service basis.  Purchas-
ing of unhulled nuts has not been attempted before and appropriate sampling
methods would have to be developed to determine the value of nuts delivered
by growers. At the centers, nuts would be hulled mechanically and any nuts
that may remain unhulled would be treated with Ethrel (2-Chloroethyl phos-
phoric acid) to detach hulls from nuts. Mechanical and chemical hulling
would take the place of retting and hand hulling that is at present causing
such high wastage of nuts (para 2.30). After dehulling, nuts would be sun-
dried for 3-4 days, then size sorted, quality graded and mechanically dried.
Defective nuts would be shelled by hand labor. Good kernels would be packed
into wooden boxes for sale to traders and discolored ones expressed for oil.
About half the unshelled nuts would be sold to traders from these centers,
but the best nuts would be sent to the Corporations' export processing center
(para 3.19) for further treatment.
3.18      A2500 ton center would need 1.2 ha land and would consist of a
shed (800 m ) witlh hulling, grading and nut storage areas. Equipment would
include hullers, 'bin dryers, mechanical graders and tables for shelling and
sorting nuts. Design would feature sun-drying facilities, possibly utilizing
the processing house roof for that purpose. Each 1,000 ton unit would need
double the building space and equipment of the 500 ton unit. The 2,000 ton
plant would be built in stages and would consist of two 1,000 ton units.
When in full production the hulling units would operate for about three months
each year dealing with 5-10 tons nuts per hour in the 500 ton units and double
that amount in each 1,000 ton unit.
3.19      Export 'Processing Center.  This center would need 1.6 ha land and
include facilities for preparing and packing unshelled nuts for export and for
preparing kernels, also for the export trade. Demand for unshelled nuts is
confined to the last quarter of each year, but demand for kernels is expected
to keep the center operating for at least nine months in each year.



- 17 -
3.20      Preparation of unshelled nuts for sale would entail bleaching to
improve appearance and sorting to ensure reasonably uniform size and shell
characteristics. In the longer run these activities would probably be per-
formed at hulling and drying centers. Preparation of kernels includes hand
shelling, drying of kernels and size and color sorting, the latter by photo-
electric equipment. Hand-operated shelling equipment would be compared with
traditional methods of handshelling and, if advantageous, would be fabricated
locally. Since walnuts deteriorate when stored in moist, warm conditions the
center would be equipped with a 500 ton capacity cold store and a 1,000 m
storage area with humidity control. The latter would be adequate for storing
unshelled nuts until March - April, when apple cold stores would become avail-
able to supplement cold storage at the export processing center.
Crop Production Credit
3.21      Advance payment soon after fruit set is a major attraction offered
to growers by preharvest contractors. To function effectively and profitably,
JKHPMC would have to provide or help customers obtain similar financial assist-
ance. For this purpose, the project would provide Rs 20 million seasonal
credit for growers who would contract with JKHPMC to buy or market their fruit.
Of the total, a small amount, not exceeding Rs 400,000 would be available to
farmers participating in a mushroom pilot scheme (para 3.23). Commercial
banks and viable cooperative banks would channel the credit to growers either
directly or through fruit growers' cooperatives (para 2.21) and would be
refinanced by ARDC under terms and conditions described in Schedule A. Credit
requirements have been based on field information which indicated that about
60Z of growers would seek advances to meet fruit production and harvesting
costs.
Mushroom Development
3.22      The project would help DA's mushroom section by providing 13 man-
months of internationally recruited experts, 13 man-months of study tours, a
modern spawn production unit which could provide enough spawn for producing
2,000 tons mushrooms (enough for present and foreseeable future needs for the
Kashmir mushroom industry), and additional research facilities. The latter
would be used for intensified investigations on the most effective and economic
method for pasteurizing compost and casing soil; tests of different composting
and casing materials and of mushroom houses and growing systems, including
mushroom growing on pasteurized compost in polythene bags. The research
program has yet to be developed and assurances were obtained that DA would,
by June 30, 1979, draw up research plans and an implementation timetable satis-
factory to IDA. The research and spawn production programs would require
appointment by DA of one senior mushroom scientist, four junior (graduate)
scientists and three non-graduate laboratory technicians. Assurances were
obtained that the senior scientist and two junior scientists would be appointed
or assigned to mushroom research from DA's existing staff by December 31, 1978
and the other new staff by December 31, 1979.
3.23      In the last two years of the project, research findings would be
tested by growers on a pilot commercial scale. These trials would entail



- 18 -
provision by DA under the project of four village units, to be owned and
operated by DA, for production or pasteurization of compost. Each one of
these would service about 21,000 mushroom trays or the equivalent mushroom
growing area, about 600 m if trays are not used, to be owned and operated
by farmers.
Fruit Research
3.24      With increasing need for storing apples, nuts and other fruits in
J&K, there will be a matching need for research on a range of problems that
can only be solved locally. Subjects for research include: varietal
responses to different length of storage and storage conditions, optimum
fruit and nut maturities, relationship of production, harvesting and hand-
ling practices to storage quality and prevention of storage rots. There
are no facilities for such work and the project would finance cold storage
units for research with appropriate laboratory space and equipment.
3.25      Existing library facilities at the Horticultural Research Station
are inadequate and the project would help to finance a library annex to the
fruit research laboratories, appropriate furniture and equipment and addi-
tional technical books, including selected technical journals.
3.26      In most Indian states, the agricultural university is responsible
for research but in the absence of such university in J&K, DH would execute
this part of the project. However, GOJK is planning the development of an
agricultural research institute, and the facilities to be financed by the
project could be transferred to it, at the discretion of GOJK. In the mean-
time, to operate the new facilities, DH would have to appoint the following
additional staff: a refrigeration engineer, two cold store operators, a post-
harvest physiologist, an assistant physiologist, a post-harvest pathologist,
an assistant pathologist, a food technologist and a scientific librarian.
Assurances were obtained that the engineer, operators and physiologist would
be appointed or assigned by GOJK by December 31, 1978 and all other new staff
by June 30, 1979.
3.27      Refrigeration is widely used for fruit transport in many countries,
but not in India. Because of long distances that fruit has to travel in
hot weather, refrigerated road and rail transport should be beneficial and
appropriate trials should be undertaken. The project would finance purchase
of three refrigerated road trucks for that purpose. Indian Railways operates
about eight refrigerated railvans for the Ministry of Agriculture which are
rarely used and could be made available for trials with J&K fruit. Such
trials would be conducted by JKHPMC in collaboration with DH research workers
and with DHPM staff.
Technical Assistance and Training
3.28      The project would support introduction of new technology into J&K
and in some cases into India, by financing 12 internationally recruited experts
fcr a total of 61 man-months of specified consultancies and an additional 29
man-months short-term consultancies to be used as necessary, to support JKHPMC
or GOJK project activities. The cost of this assistance is estimated at



- 19 -
US$6,000 per man-month. Of the experts, one would be a management expert to
help establish JKHPMC, three would deal with walnut operations and marketing,
two with apple juice manufacture, two with cold storage research, four with
mushroom research and one with codling moth control. T 5 of Annex 1 shows a
list of the experts, the number of visits to be paid by each, the duration of
assignment and timing of first appointments. Assurances were obtained that
GOJK would appoint the consultants in accordance with the schedule and on
terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to GOJK and IDA.
3.29      In addition, the project would finance a 62 man-months study tour
program for 19 GOJK and JKHPMC staff. These would include the JKHPMC Managing
Director, five JKHPMC staff concerned with apple packing, storage and market-
ing, two with walnut operations and a senior juice plant staff member; seven
staff members of DH concerned with apple and walnut research and extension,
including a fruit pathologist to study apple scab control and an entomologist
to study codling moth control. In addition three DA staff would study mushroom
research and production techniques. A list of study tours is shown on T 6 of
Annex 1. Assurances were obtained that GOJK would prepare a plan by December
31, 1978 to arrange the study tours, which would be subject to IDA approval.
Studies
3.30      The project would finance the following studies:
(a) Apple Products and Walnut By-Products Development - to
evaluate new uses for apple juice concentrate as a base
for different beverages including carbonated beverages
and testing of different containers. Development of
remunerative uses for walnut shells and hulls.
(b) Foreign Market Evaluation for Apple Concentrate -
including study of present main sources of supply,
production costs, market trends, and sales oppor-
tunities for J&K produce.
(c) Technology Aspects of Local Apple Marketing - delivery
times, fruit temperature, shelf life deterioration,
opportunities for reducing spoilage and extending market
coverage; and
(d) Project Evaluation - (para 4.21)
GOJK would commission and supervise the studies on terms and conditions
mutually acceptable to GOI, GOJK and IDA.
Land for Project Facilities
3.31      About 85 ha of land would be needed for project facilities.  Land ac-
quisition can be a protracted process which, unless carried out sufficiently
early, would delay project implementation. GOJK would be responsible for



- 20 -
providing or acquiring the land. Assurances were obtained that suitable
sites with enough land would be handed over to JKHPMC by September 30, 1978,
for three apple grading centers (2-4 ha land each) and three walnut hulling
ceniters (1.2 ha land each), which are the first project centers scheduled for
development. Subsequently GOJK would, by January 1 in each year, prepare a
land acquisition schedule for that year.
C. Implementation Schedule
3.32      Implementation would start in July 1978 and completion of all pro-
ject investments is projected for September 1983. The first project year would
be devoted mainly to organizing JKHPMC, appointment of design consultants,
design of apple and walnut facilities and placing contracts for construction
and equipment. Timing of appointment of the design consultants is critical.
They should be in the project area during the fruit harvest between September
and November 1978. If there is a delay in appointment, the construction pro-
gram would slip by one year. This would not necessarily mean delaying comple-
tion but it would mean a heavier construction schedule for subsequent years.
The first apple grading/packing centers and walnut hulling/drying centers are
projected for completion for the September 1980 harvest season, the first cold
store units for the 1981 harvest and the walnut export center and juice plant
for the 1981 and 1982 seasons respectively. In estimating construction time,
allowance has been made for a likely ten week break in work during winter due
to adverse weather. Implementation of major project components is shown on
T 7 of Annex 1 and on Charts WB 18459 and WB 18460.
D. Cost Estimate and Financing
3.33      Total project costs are estimated at US$27.6 million equivalent
of which US$2.5 million or 9% of the total would be foreign exchange costs
and US$0.9 million would be duties and taxes. Estimates are based on October
1977 prices. A 10% physical contingency has been allowed for civil works and
equipment costs. Price contingencies have been applied for foreign equipment
at 7.5% for 1978 and 1979 and at 7% thereafter; for local equipment at 7% for
each year and for civil works at 7% for each year. Total contingencies amount
to US$7.3 million or 26% of total cost. Detailed costs are given in Annex 2
and are summarized below:



- 21 -
SUMMARY COST ESTIMATES
Rs Million              US$ Million          Foreign
Category               Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
JKHPMC Investments
Apple Grading/
Packing Centers       26.4    3.5      29.9    3.0    0.4    3.4            12
Cold Stores             21.4      -       21.4    2.4      -     2.4           -
Apple Juice Plant       16.6    5.4       22.0    1.9    0.6    2.5           24
Walnut Hulling/
Drying Centers        14.6      -       14.6    1.7      -     1.7           -
Walnut Export Center    5.0    0.4         5.4    0.6    0.04   0.6            7
Transshipment Center    0.4       -        0.4    0.05    -      0.05          -
Sub-total               84.4    9.3       93.7    9.6    1.0   10.6            9
Crop Loans              20.0      -       20.0    2.3      -     2.3           -
Research
Fruit Research           3.9    1.4        5.3    0.4    0.2    0.6           33
Mushroom Research
and Pilot Scheme       3.3    0.8       4.1    0.4    0.1    0.5            20
Sub-total                7.2    2.2        9.4    0.8    0.3    1.1           27
Technical
Assistance               0.8    6.0        6.8    0.1    0.7    0.8           88
Working Capital         48.0      -       48.0    5.5      -     5.5           _
Base Cost Estimate    160.4   17.5    177.9   18.3    2.0   20.3              10
Physical Contin-
gencies                9.0    1.1      10.1    1.0    0.1    1.1             9
Price Contin-
gencies               50.7    3.5      54.2    5.8    0.4    6.2             6
TOTAL PROJECT
COST                 220.1   22.1    242.2   25.1    2.5   27.6              9
3.34      The proposed IDA credit of US$14 million would be.made to GOI on
standard terms and would meet about 52% of the project cost net of duties
and taxes and 50% of total project costs. The balance would be distributed
among GOI, GOJK, ARDC, fruit growers and participating banks as shown on the
following project financing plan:



- 22 -
FINANCING PLAN
GOI/         ARDC/    Fruit       IDA    % of
Total   GOJK  GOJK   Banks   Growers   Amount  Total
---------------------US$ Million--------------------
JKHPMC                15.1   2.7      -      1.7      0.3      10.4      69
Crop Loans             3.2    -       -      1.6       -        1.6      50
Research               1.5    -      0.5      -        -        1.0      67
Technical Assistance  1.0    -        -       -        -        1.0    100
Working Capital        6.8   3.9      _      2.5      0.4        -      -
Total                 27.6   6.6    0.5    5.8        0.7      14.0      51
% of Total            100      24      2      21        2        51     -
GOI would onlend US$12.0 million of the IDA credit to ARDC to refinance crop
production loans to farmers and loans to JKHPMC for apple and walnut grading,
packing, processing and marketing facilities. The balance, US$2.0 million
would be passed on by GOI to GOJK as a grant to help pay the cost of the re-
search, technical assistance, study tours and the studies components of the
project.
E. Procurement and Disbursement
P rDcurement
3.35      Civil works for the apple, walnut and research facilities costing
about US$7.4 million would be carried out at 45 sites and be phased over five
years. The contracts for such work would not attract foreign bidders. About
20 of the apple and walnut facilities, which would require civil works costing
about US$1.5 million, are in remote areas which have not attracted even local
contractors in the past. Civil works for such centers would be carried out
by force account by the J&K Public Works Department or by the J&K Projects
Construction Corporation, both of which are experienced and well equipped
construction agencies. All other civil works contracts with total value
of about US$5.9 million would be awarded after local competitive bidding,
using GOJK procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
3.36      Grading, hulling, cold storage and drying equipment for apple and
walnut facilities, machinery and equipment for the juice plant and machinery
and equipment for fruit and mushroom research costing about US$6.5 million,
would be procured by international competitive bidding following Bank Group
guidelines for procurement. A 15% preference on equipment bids based on the
CI]F price of each item or the actual custom tariff, whichever is lower, would
be granted to domestic manufacturers and it is expected that the bulk of the
equipment would be supplied by local manufacturers.



- 23 -
3.37      Other equipment including furniture, grading tables, pallets, saw
milling equipment and similar items amounting to US$2.3 million would not be
suitable for international competitive bidding and would be purchased after
local competitive bidding following GOJK procedures. In addition, over a five
year period, the project would finance purchase of 58 trucks and 15 motorcycles
costing US$0.6 million equivalent. International competitive bidding would not
be appropriate for the vehicles since, for all practical purposes, only Indian
made vehicles are now used in J&K and there are no spares and service facili-
ties for other vehicles. Consequently, Indian vehicles would be purchased
after local competitive bidding. Items costing less than US$10,000 and which
are required urgently for project execution would be purchased by prudent
shopping through normal commercial channels. Such purchases would be limited
to US$200,000 in total. Farmers drawing crop production loans (US$3.2 million)
would be free to purchase fertilizer, pesticides and other necessary inputs
from local suppliers of their choice. Technical assistance, overseas training
and studies (US$1 million) would be arranged on terms and conditions satisfac-
tory to IDA. The balance of project costs (US$7.2 million) would cover cost
of land and working capital requirements and would not involve procurement.
3.38      For all contracts for civil works exceeding US$200,000 and for pur-
chase of equipment and supplies exceeding US$100,000, draft tender documents,
proposals for advertising, bid evaluations and award proposals would be sent
to IDA for review before award. 1/ Copies of such contracts would be sent to
IDA immediately after award. Assurances were obtained that procedures out-
lined in paras 3.35 through 3.38 would be observed.
Disbursement
3.39      Disbursements of the proposed IDA credit would cover:
(a) 50% of civil works costs (US$3.7 million);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditure for directly imported items
(US$1.8 million);
(c) 100% of ex-factory price for locally manufactured equipment
and vehicles (US$5.0 million);
(d) 50% of the cost of other locally procured items (US$0.9
million);
(e) 100% of the cost of technical assistance services
and of overseas study tours (US$1.0 million); and
(f) 50% of the amount of crop loans made to farmers (US$1.6
million).
1/   About 20 contracts are expected to require IDA review.



- 24 -
Disbursements inI the case of items (a) through (e), for which contracts require
IDA review before award, would be made against full documentation supplied to
IDAL through GOI. Disbursements for item (f) would be made against certifi-
cation by ARDC. Documents in support of the latter item would not be submitted
to IDA but would be retained by ARDC and the lending banks and would be made
available for inspection by IDA during project supervision.  Full documenta-
ticin would be made available by GOJK or JKHPMC for all disbursements, except
for payments up to Rs 100,000 for civil works and Rs 50,000 for equipment and
vehicles, for which disbursement would be made against certificates of expen-
dit:ure. Supporting documents for these payments would not be submitted to IDA
for review but would be retained by GOJK and made available for inspection by
IDIA during the course of review missions. Certificates of expenditure would
be audited at least once every six months and a report submitted to IDA
promptly thereafter. A schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 4.
Working capital for JKHPMC and cost of land purchased for the project would
nol: qualify for disbursement of IDA funds.
Environmental EfEfects
3.40      The project would have few environmental effects, and those would
be favorable. It would reduce wastage of cull apples, at present left to
rol: in orchards. In addition, mechanical walnut hulling would reduce stream
poLlution and sltaining of workers' skin, both concommitants of the traditional
walnut retting and handhulling process. Sawmill waste products are much in
demand for fuel during winter. The only danger of pollution would stem from
juice plant effluent. This would be averted by plant design including effluent
treatment and disposal arrangements to conform with standards established by
the Indian Standards Institute, which are satisfactory.



- 25 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutions
Jammu-Kashmir Horticultural Produce Marketing and Processing-Corporation
4.01      The Jammu-Kashmir Horticultural Produce Marketing and Processing
Corporation would be the main project executing agency and responsible for
construction and operation of the fruit and nut grading, packing, processing
and marketing facilities and apple juice plant. These activities would involve
investment of almost Rs 200 million in capital expenditures and employment of
about 800 permanent and 1,900 seasonally employed staff. JKHPMC would also
perform the function of apex organization for fruit growers' cooperatives
(para 2.21), which are expected to provide a significant part of the Corpo-
ration's business. Such large and complex enterprise would require JKHPMC's
full managerial and financial resources and GOJK confirmed that the Corpora-
tion has no intention of diverting its resources from project activities
during the project implementation period.
4.02      A managing director was appointed and JKHPMC was formed under the
Companies Act in April, 1978. Authorized share capital is Rs 50 million
divided into 500,000 shares, with shareholding distribution in the ratio
of 50:40:10 by GOJK, GOI and fruit growers (including fruit growers'
cooperatives) respectively with provision for a substantial increase in
growers' shareholding if demand arises. Greater growers' participation would
be desirable because it would entitle them to a reasonable share of profits
of the Corporation and to a meaningful say in its direction. Such share of
profits and role in its direction would in turn engender growers' interest
in and support for the Corporation.
4.03      To ensure adequate initial working capital, it would be a condition
of effectiveness that Rs one million share capital had been paid up. To en-
sure subsequent operations and smooth project implementation, assurances were
obtained that GOI and GOJK would purchase additional shares to the value of
Rs five million by June 30, 1979 and, thereafter, at the beginning of each
financial year as shown to be necessary by the Corporation's financial plan
and to maintain the ratio of debt to equity at a level of two to one.
4.04      The JKHPMC board would include representatives of shareholders and
of parties involved in the J&K fruit industry including three or four growers,
representatives of GOI and ARDC and the managing director. The Board would
deal with major policy issues and a small executive committee of the Board
would be formed, of not more than four members, to assist the managing director
in solving day to day problems. The Corporation would be managed along commer-
cial lines and its Articles of Association provide the managing director with
the necessary powers to enable him to discharge his responsibility as chief
executive.



- 26 -
4.05      The organizational structure of JKHPMC (Chart WB 18464) would com-
prise five major operational departments -- operations, juice plant, marketing,
finance and administration. The heads of some of these departments would be
needed from the early stages of the project; therefore, appointment of the
heads of the operations and finance departments would be a condition of effec-
tiveness. Assurances were obtained that the heads of the marketing and ad-
ministration departments would be appointed by March 31, 1979. The success
of the project would depend heavily on quality and commercial acumen of JKHPMC's
management. Those in turn would depend on the caliber of its staff. Con-
sequently GOJK gave assurances that recruitment for the five senior executive
posts and for other senior management staff would be based on nationwide
selection, and that salary scales and emoluments adequate to attract and keep
good staff would be adopted. Continuity in the senior posts, particularly in
that of managing director would be important and GOJK would do its best to
retain staff for at least three years.
4.D6      Field activities of the Corporation would be conducted by its
opierations department which would include an apple, walnut and engineering
section each headed by a manager. Because of the large number of field cen-
ters, the apple section would be subdivided into two subsections and the
walnut section into three, two for hulling and grading centers and one for
thie export processing centers. The engineering section would be responsible
for supervising construction and for maintenance of both apple and walnut
centers.  Each center would, in addition to operating staff have field staff,
to contact farmers, canvass customers, provide horticultural advice, coordi-
nate fruit deliveries to centers and help farmers obtain advances or crop
loans. DH staff would cooperate very closely with JKHPMC staff particularly
to improve apple quality by pest and disease control and to ensure that
apples and walnuts are harvested at the right time.
4.07      Juice processing and marketing would represent further major
activities of JKHPMC and would be conducted by a separate department of the
corporation comprising fruit procurement, processing and marketing sections.
While engineering services would be provided by the engineering section of
the operations department (para 4.06), the marketing department (para 4.08)
would be fully occupied with apple and nut marketing and would not be able
to deal adequately with the special requirements of marketing juice con-
ceintrate and by-products. Consequently the juice plant department would
have its own marketing section which would collaborate closely with the mar-
keting department and, where possible, would share facilities and services.
Comsultants would be financed by the project for design and initial opera-
tions of the juice plant but additional assistance would be available from
unspecified short-term consultancies (para 3.28) if required, for instance
for solving teclhnical problems or for market research and product promotion.
Th,e latter subject would also be addressed by a study para 3.30(a), most
prDbably to be conducted by the Center for Scientific and Industrial Research,
to explore new uses for apple juice concentrate.
4.08      The marketing department would be mainly concerned with apple
marketing - in particular development of direct sales to wholesale merchants
in major consumption areas throughout India and in promoting sales to smaller



- 27 -
towns and rural areas. For this purpose JKHPMC would open at least ten sales
offices in the most important consumptions areas, sharing premises with exist-
ing DHPM offices (whose staff gathers market intelligence, but does not under
take marketing) in Delhi, Bombay, Calcutta, Madras, Hyderabad and Ahmadabad.
The walnut section would sell the crop directly to wholesalers and exporters
from hulling/drying centers and from the export center at first but, after
gaining experience, may attempt wholesaling and exporting on its own account.
JKHPMC would benefit from help by DHPM, particularly in the early stages of
the project.
Ministry of Agriculture
4.09      The Department of Horticulture would be responsible for implementing
fruit research components. It would commission and supervise the studies to be
financed by the project (para 3.30) and would benefit from technical assistance
for post-harvest research and from overseas study tours. The Department of
Agriculture would execute the mushroom research component, would supervise the
small pilot production scheme and would also be assisted by consultants and
overseas training. In addition, DH and DHPM would play an important role in
supporting JKHPMC's field and marketing activities. The three concerned
departments are adequately staffed and organized for their role. New staff to
be employed for fruit and mushroom research has been described in paras 3.22
and 3.26.
B. Credit Arrangements
ARDC
4.10      Under a subsidiary loan agreement, GOI would onlend part of the
credit to ARDC for refinancing long-term and seasonal credit. ARDC would
invite commercial banks to provide long-term credit to JKHPMC for constructing
and equipping apple and walnut facilities and to mushroom growers participat-
ing in the pilot scheme (para 3.23) for mushroom houses and equipment. ARDC
would also invite commercial banks and cooperative banks to finance short-
term crop loans to fruit growers contracted to JKHPMC for marketing or selling
of fruit and to mushroom growers participating in the pilot sheme. To ensure
adequate and suitable banking arrangements, ARDC in consultation with GOJK
and J&K banks would prepare a banking plan which should include inter alia
a clear definition of ARDC's role in project implementation; proposals for
banking coverage of the project area; simplified lending procedures for crop
loans to fruit growers (para 4.11); and proposals for staff recruitment and
training if needed, by participating banks. Execution of the subsidiary
agreement between GOI and ARDC and completion of a banking plan, satisfactory
to IDA, would be conditions of credit effectiveness.
4.11      Few farmers borrow from commercial banks at present because of com-
plex loan approval procedures particularly those concerned with provision
of satisfactory loan collateral. Banks would have to simplify procedures
considerably if they are to attract a large clientele, as would be necessary



- 28 -
for successful operation of JKHPMC (para 3.21). At appraisal some J&K banks
suggested that they would provide crop production loans on the spot, without
formalities, if the prospective borrower had entered into a contract with
JKHPMC for sale or marketing of produce and would authorize JKHPMC to remit the
proceeds of such transactions to his account with the lending bank until his
loan had been repaid. This or a similar procedure would be satisfactory for
project implementation.  Crop production loans would be paid in installments,
as needed by the borrower, partly in kind, for fertilizers and pesticides and
part:ly in cash, for labor, particularly at harvesting time.
4.12      Because of high liquidity at present, commercial banks may not seek
ARDC refinance under the project for all of their project crop production
lencling, so that the relevant credit category may not be fully disbursed.
However, liquidity status of banks may change over the six years project
implementation period. Even more important, there is so little communication
between small fruit farmers and banks at present that participation of ARDC,
with its considerable experience in this field, would be essential to establish
satisfactory lending procedures and volume.  For these reasons the appraisal
mission considered inclusion of finance by IDA for crop production loans
justified.
4.13      Through participation in 29 projects, ARDC has ample experience of
Bank Group project execution. l/  ARDC would review appraisals by participating
banks of loan applications by JKHPMC and would also supervise implementation
of long-term and seasonal credit components. Assurances were obtained on
these points and that ARDC would forward all loan applications of a total
amount of US$0.5 million or more 2/ to IDA for approval.
4.14.     Lending terms and conditions for apple and walnut facilities and for
crop loans, together accounting for US$9.6 million or 69% of the IDA credit,
were agreed at negotiations and are outlined in Schedule A.  Lending terms
by ARDC for investments such as the juice plant are undergoing review between
GOI and ARDC, which is expected to be completed within two or three months.
At that time lending terms and conditions for the juice plant (accounting for
US$2.4 million or 17% of the IDA credit) would be agreed with IDA and would
be i.ncluded in a second subsidiary loan agreement between GOI and ARDC.  Com-
pletion of the agreement would be one of the conditions of disbursing the
juice plant component of the credit.
1/   Detailed description of ARDC is given in Report No. 1520-IN, Second
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Credit Project
India, May 12, 1977.
2/   It is anticipated that JKHPMC would package its loan applications
into four lots, all of which would require IDA review.



- 29 -
C. Coordination
Project Coordination
4.15      The agencies concerned directly with project implementation include
JKHPMC, DA, DH, ARDC, and participating banks. Other agencies would play
important supporting roles such as DHPM in marketing, the Forestry Department
for timber supplies for fruit boxes and the J&K Road Transport Corporation for
fruit transport. Project implementation would be coordinated by a Project
Coordination Committee to be chaired by a suitably qualified official to be
nominated by GOJK, with representation from each implementing agency and main
supporting agencies. Participating banks would select one representative for
the committee. Establishment of the committee would be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
All India Market Coordination
4.16      With increasing. apple supplies from all three apple producing
states, J&K, HP and UP, coordination of supplies to markets by major market-
ing agencies in the three states is becoming increasingly important. GOI has
therefore established a fruit marketing coordination committee chaired by a
senior official of its Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation and with appro-
priate representation from major apple producing states. Apart from dealing
with coordination of supplies, the committee should consider other problems
common to participating states such as fruit pack and grades and common ser-
vices for collecting market intelligence.
D. Engineering and Supervision of Construction
4.17      JKHPMC would be responsible for planning and developing the various
apple and walnut facilities, DH would have the same task for fruit research,
and DA for mushroom research investments. The project provides for experts
to assist each agency to prepare detailed designs and specifications for
construction and equipment which should be sent to IDA with appropriate draft
tender documents (para 3.38). GOJK's Public Works Department or the J&K
Projects Construction Corporation would draw up and evaluate tenders for and
supervise construction on behalf of the two departments and is expected to do
so for JKHPMC. Appointment of one of these agencies by JKHPMC or a competent
engineering firm on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA would be a con-
dition of disbursement for civil works commissioned by JKHPMC. JKHPMC's own
engineering staff, with assistance from the consultants, would install and
test run the grading, hulling and drying equipment and supervise cold store
and apple processing equipment manufacturers who would install and test cold
storage and juice concentrate plant equipment.



- 30 -
E. Training
4.18      The technology to be introduced would necessitate considerable staff
training, both local and overseas. Study tours and technical assistance to
be financed uncder the project are outlined in paras 3.28 and 3.29. T 8
of- Annex 1 shows a proposed schedule of local training for JKHPMC staff. Most
ol' this would be conducted in the project area by experts provided under the
technical assistance component of the project, by JKHPMC staff trained abroad
and, in case of quality control training, by DH and DHPM experts.  Some courses,
notably management skills and sales promotion, would have to be arranged at
suitable Indian training institutes.  JKHPMC would employ a training officer in
it:s Administration Department to organize training and draw up an annual train-
ing program.  Apart from training new staff there would be a need for periodic
refresher training.
4.19      The apple grading, packing and cold store training program would
benefit considerably from the HP Apple Project and from the pilot scheme
assisted by the Australian Government which would be operated by DHPM (para
3.03). Both would be in operation up to one or two years before the first
JKHPMC centers would be completed and would pioneer appropriate grading,
packing and co:Ld store techniques.
F. Reporting Requirements and Evaluation
4,20      Each project executing agency would prepare a quarterly report and
an annual progress summary and, within six months after completion of the
project, a completion report, in a form acceptable to IDA. Quarterly reports
would reach IDA within six weeks of the end of each calendar quarter and the
annual summary within six weeks of the end of the reporting year.  JKHPMC
would be responsible for preparing the major part of the reports and would
collate materiial submitted by DA, DH, banks and ARDC. Assurances were
obtained on these points.
4.21      GOJK would be responsible for arranging a benefit monitoring and
evaluation study which would focus on the impact of JKHPMC operations on
e.xisting marketing and market behavior and the benefits accruing to fruit
growers marketing through JKHPMC. A similar study of the Himachal Pradesh
Apple Marketing Project is in progress and collaboration would be possible
in areas of common interest such as data to be collected in major terminal
markets. By instituting a study for the J&K project, GOJK and project man-
agement would 'be better able to assess the impact of JKHPMC operations on
growers and GOI and IDA would receive a second source of information regard-
ing the introduction of government sponsored marketing channels, from another
state where the cooperative movement plays a relatively greater role. Guide-
lines for terms of reference for the study were given to GOJK at negotiations.
Tlhe statistics section of GOJK's Agricultural Production Department has well
qualified statisticians and economists and would be the most suitable



- 31 -
organization for conducting the study. It reports directly to the Secretary
for Agriculture (responsible for overseeing all aspects of the project) so
that study results would be expeditiously applied for improving the project.
Employment of a suitable Indian economic institute to conduct the study would
be an acceptable alternative. To obtain project benchmark indicators, data
collection for the study should start at the beginning of the 1979 fruit
harvest. Assurances were therefore obtained that: (a) by December 31, 1978
GOJK would have caused a study, satisfactory to IDA, to have been started by
one of its own departments or to have entered into a contract with an appro-
priate institute for such study, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA;
and (b) to ensure adequacy of study design and methodology, by March 31, 1979
GOJK would submit for IDA review an inception report prepared by the depart-
ment or institute conducting the study, detailing the work plan, scope,
methodology, data processing, analysis, and reporting output and which would
also include preliminary survey questionnaires.
G. Accounts and Audits
4.22      In accordance with commercial practice, JKHPMC would install and
maintain financial and cost accounting systems which would show the results
of its apple, walnut and apple juice operations separately and would enable
internal control including inventory management and internal audit. Its
annual accounts would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA.
Accounting and auditing procedures of ARDC, commercial and cooperative banks
are satisfactory. They would maintain clearly identifiable accounts for
project loans.
4.23      GOJK would cause DA and DH to maintain separate accounts for project
expenditures which would be audited by the GOJK Accountant General. Assurances
were obtained that accounting and auditing procedures outlined in this and the
preceding paragraph would be followed and that the audited accounts and audit
reports of JKHPMC, ARDC, participating banks and audited project accounts of
DA and DH would be sent to IDA within six months of the end of the financial
year of each project agency.



- 32 -
V. MARKETING AND PRICES
5.01      Estimated production and marketable supplies of apples in India
have increased from 80,000 tons and 54,000 tons in 1966 to 680,000 tons and
500,000 tons in 1976 and are projected to double over the next decade (Annex
1, T 1). Wholesale price data (Annex 1, T 9) illustrate the premium paid by
consumers for good quality fruit. Thus, growers who would deliver to JKHPMC
in future would benefit from improved grading to be introduced by the project.
Consumers also pay a premium for certain varieties. For instance Red Delicious
fetches top prices while most other varieties fetch only 60% of the Delicious
prices. There has been little change in fruit price over the last seven years,
but increasing supplies may cause further market congestion and glut, leading
to peak-season price decline. To counteract such trend, both this and the HP
project, would introduce measures to reduce peak-season supplies by storage
(pslras 3.07-3.09); bypass the congested Delhi market (paras 3.11 and 5.02);
and find new markets (para 5.03).
5.02      The dominance of Delhi merchants is already a marketing bottle-
neck. There are! signs that handling facilities in Delhi and ability of Delhi
tratders to finance the marketing operation have reached an upper limit and may
not be adequate to cope with projected crop increase. So far, no other large-
scale trade channel has emerged. Thus, the strategy of the three main producer
states to establish corporations to provide growers an alternative trade chan-
nel which would be able to bypass the Delhi Market, is an important step
towards improved apple marketing.
5.03      With marketable apple supply likely to be about 1 million tons
by 1987 there must be determined efforts to expand sales into smaller urban
and rural centers, where there are people with similar purchasing power as in
larger towns. With total population of about 700 million at that time, per
capita consumption would be a little over 1 kg per capita, if total population
is taken into account compared to 11 kg per capita if sales are confined to
large cities and 5.5 kg per capita if restricted to the total urban area:
Estimated 1987 Apple Supply per Capita Compared to 1977 Supply
1987          1987 Apple        1987           1977
Population /a    Production    Apple Supply   Per Capita
(Millions)-      (Million Kg)    Per Capita        Supply
------------Kg----------
Class 1 Towns           90              1,000            11.1          6.1
All Urban Areas         180             1,000             5.5          3.5
Total Population       700              1,000             1.4          1.4
7a  Very approximate estimate.
Thus, there is good potential for expanding sales in small urban and rural
centers. Reduced marketing cost and faster fruit deliveries, allied to
promotional activities of JKHPMC regional sales offices, would contribute
towards market expansion.



- 33 -
5.04      Harvesting fruit at the correct stage, grading and prompt delivery
to markets are likely to ensure top prices for JKHPMC fruit. For financial
projections, a constant peak-season wholesale price of Rs 2.90/kg has been
projected for fruit sold by JKHPMC, based on a three-year trend (expressed in
October 1977 price levels) and weighted for grades, varieties and markets.
Similarly for fruit kept in cold stores and sold from March onward, a whole-
sale price of Rs 4.0/kg has been projected.
Apple Juice
5.05      Studies conducted both for the HP and this project show that the
only product worth manufacturing on a large scale from cull apples would be
apple juice -- in the form of concentrate. At present, a small amount of
juice estimated at about 1,000 tons apples equivalent is sold for the luxury
trade. The price is about Rs 3 to 4 per bottle (190 ml), over three times
the price of popular carbonated drinks. There is no experience of promoting
the product for the Indian mass market.
5.06      The soft drink market is dominated by carbonated drinks and sales
reached a level of about 600 million bottles a year. Coca Cola accounted
for two-thirds of the market, but stopped production during 1977. Other
carbonated drinks manufacturers are trying to increase sales of alternative
or substitute carbonated drinks, but both GOI and GOJK feel that apple juice
would fill some of the gap left by Coca Cola.
5.07      A survey conducted for the IDA-assisted HP apple juice plant for
processing 12,000 tons apples per year indicated that an adequate market could
be developed for such plant provided retail juice prices would be competi-
tive with carbonated drinks. Another survey conducted by Cadbury India con-
cluded that there would be room for a similar factory in J&K given aggressive
and skilled product marketing. However, long-term market size could only
be evaluated from sales results of the two plants.
5.08      Present or planned development, comprising one factory each in J&K
and HP and likely construction of another factory in UP (with possible French
technical and financial assistance) would provide capacity for processing
40,000 tons apples per year into about 4,400 - 5,000 tons juice concentrate.
Market development for that amount of concentrate, equal to 150-175 million
bottles (190 ml) of juice would be a taxing task and any further processing
capacity could jeopardize the viability of presently planned juice projects.
However, the sound practices of Indian financial institutions provide a safe-
guard for planned investments in juice processing, because the institutions
would not finance investments which would not prove viable. Because of pos-
sible marketing problems, GOJK would not encourage additional juice processing
capacity for the time being, despite the large amount of cull fruit in J&K,
which could supply for several juice plants.
5.09      The most feasible marketing strategy would be to sell concentrate
to major soft drink bottlers, who have outlets and distribution experience.
It would be a condition of disbursing the relevant part of the credit that a
marketing plan, which would include juice concentrate distribution arrangements



- 34
and product promotion programs, had been agreed with IDA.  The plan would
form part of thte feasibility study required by ARDC before sanctioning re-
finance for the juice plant.
WaLnuts
5.10      J&K walnuts are sold both in India and abroad and bring in US$2
to 4 million export revenue depending on crop size. T 2 of Annex 1 shows
production estimates, domestic sales and exports. Exporters situated in Jammu,
De]Lhi and Bombay also conduct domestic sales. Their trading arrangements
seem flexible so that they can switch supplies to the most profitable market.
Prices (Annex 1,, T 10) indicate an apparent advantage for local sales, but
various export incentives including a 15-20% ad valorem grant compensate
traders for lower export prices.
5.1.1     The domestic market has been expanding and while prices have not
been buoyant over the last three years, more efficient and less costly post
harvest operations, to be introduced by the project, should help maintain
local market growth trends without financial loss to growers.
5.1.2     The world export market has expanded from about 50,000 tons to
80,000 tons over the last ten years. Population increase, per capita income
growth and availability of more walnuts have contributed to this trend which
is likely to continue, and no difficulties are anticipated in exporting about
5,000 to 6,000 tons (unshelled nut equivalent) per annum additional production,
surplus to domestic requirements in the later 1980s.
5.13      Prices seem to have stood up well to market growth, but react to
shbort-term supply fluctuations (Annex 1, T 11). Part of the difference in
price of shelled nuts between countries is due to varieties, but part is
due! to processing methods. The project should help Indian nuts to equal
Chinese prices. In fact, India should have an advantage over other countries
once project facilities are working because of lower labor costs than the US
and Europe and hLigher outturn of the more valuable halves by hand shelling
compared to mechanized shelling. The project should also help to improve
appearance and qluality of unshelled nuts but only to a limited extent. Be-
cause of lack of standard varieties, unshelled nuts will remain a rather
mixed lot and may not fetch top prices. Export sales have been projected at
a constant price of between US$2,000-2,500 per ton for kernels and between
US$600 and 800 for unshelled nuts. With 15-20% higher price on the local
market as in the past, and GOI continuing its policy of export incentives,
the projected price level should enable JKHPMC to achieve wholesale prices
of Rs 15/kg kernels (US$1,700/ton) and Rs 4/kg unshelled nuts (US$450/ton)
at the packing house, which have been assumed for financial projections.
5.14      A summary of financial and economic prices for all commodities
marketed through project activities is shown on T 12, Annex 1.



- 35 -
VI. FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
Operating Assumptions
6.01      JKHPMC would derive revenue from sale of apples and walnuts pur-
chased from growers, commission fees for produce sold on behalf of growers,
charges for custom work and from sales proceeds of the juice plant. Based on
the existing marketing systems and early experience in the Himachal Pradesh
Apple Marketing project, JKHPMC will start operations with a high proportion
of custom activities and phase into a throughput of 40% purchase and 30% each
commission and custom service for apples and 60% purchase and 20% each com-
mission and custom services for walnuts. Other operating assumptions include
commissioning of apple and walnut centers over four years starting in 1980
and the juice plant in 1982, as indicated on T 7 of Annex I and both apple
and walnut centers working at 25% capacity in the first year and increasing
to 75% and 100% of capacity over the next two operating years. The juice
plant would also be phased into operation over three years, but at the rate
of 40%, 80% and full capacity.
Procurement, Charges and Fees
6.02      Apples.  JKHPMC would purchase apples mainly through pre-harvest con-
tracts made by its field agent with growers at fruit setting time. Such con-
tracts may include advance payment of part of the purchase price, which would
be based on the average wholesale price for each variety over the previous
three to five years with possible bonus payments based on trading results.
Apples handled on consignment are assumed to be graded, packed, transported
and sold in terminal markets by JKHPMC staff. A commission fee of 3% would be
charged, representing a savings of 1-7% in commissions presently paid to mar-
ket intermediaries. Charges for packing materials were projected at Rs 6/20
kg box, about Rs 0.25-0.50/box under market prices. Transportation would be
charged at cost to JKHPMC, representing a savings from 6-25% depending on ter-
minal market. A general servicing fee of Rs 3/20 kg box (graded and packed)
has been projected.
6.03      Walnuts.  Walnut purchase arrangements would be similar to those for
apples. Arriving at an appropriate procurement price is more difficult than
with apples, due to greater fluctuation of wholesale prices. For projections,
a purchase price of Rs 2/kg has been assumed, about twice the present price
obtained by a farmer undertaking a pre-harvest contract. Fees have been
projected to be commission at 2% of sales, packing material at cost, service
charge of Rs 2/kg kernels, and Rs 0.50/kg inshell nuts.
6.04      J&K Fruit Growers Cooperatives.  Although fruit marketed through
the cooperatives represents only about 8% of the apple trade at present,
membership has shown a steady increase over the past five years. Dealing
with cooperatives would reduce the number of accounts and would therefore
be helpful to JKHPMC. Proposed allotment of JKHPMC shares for purchase by
fruit growers' cooperatives (para 4.02) should prove some incentive towards



- 36 -
coolperative membership by growers. Concessionary JKHPMC charges for co-
operatives' throulghput would provide additional encouragement towards such
membership.
Financial Results
6.05      Annual income projections for apple grading/packing centers, walnut
hulLing/drying centers and export processing center are shown in Annex 3. An
annual income projection, cash flow and financial rate of return for JKHPMC
are shown in Annex 3, Tables 10 and 11. The individual apple and walnut
cenl:ers would run at a loss for two years, except for the 6,000 ton apple
unil:s which would show a profit in the second year. All centers are projected
to snake satisfactory profits when operating at full capacity from year three
onwards.
6.06      Cost estimates and projections for a 12,000 tons apples capacity
juice plant have been based on a diffusion technology plant producing 1,500
tons juice concentrate, 12 tons apple essence (surplus sale after 80% add-back
to concentrate) and 2,500 tons dried apple pomace, a cattle feed additive. For
financial projections, the price of culls transferred from packing centers has
been assumed at Rts 350/ton delivered to the plant. At full capacity utiliza-
tioni a net profit: of Rs 4.9 million is projected. Because it is the largest
of separate investments to be made under the project, a financial rate of
return was calculated for the juice plant. The rate of return to total in-
vest:ment over a twenty year period is 18%. If the cost of cull apples to the
plant is increased by 25% (Rs 440/ton), a 15% rate of return results. Three
sensitivity tests each resulted in a 15% rate of return: capital cost increase
of 20%, operating cost (including cost of cull apples) increase of 10% and a
revenue shortfall of 5%.
6.07      JKHPMC is projected to operate at a loss for five years before
building up to an annual funds flow from operations (operating profit before
depreciation, interest and taxes) of Rs 49.7 million and a profit before taxes
of about Rs 30 million at full development. Cash flow projections show a
capability of the Corporation to generate a sufficient cumulative liquidity
position to finance permanent (gross) working capital requirements for full
operations estimated at Rs 60-65 million, and to generate adequate funds
thereafter to expand facilities. A financial rate of return to total invest-
ment over a period of twenty years was calculated at 22%. Sensitivity tests
were performed wbhich indicated that even a 20% increase in capital investment
reduced the rate of return by only 2%. A shortfall of revenues by 5% or an
increase in operating costs of 10% lowered the rate of return by 4-7%. Further
revenue shortfall or increased operating costs produced rates of return below
13%, indicating the importance to management of marketing intelligence,
operations (efficiency) evaluation and cost monitoring.



- 37 -
VII. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC EVALUATION AND JUSTIFICATION
Benefits
7.01      The project is designed to improve grower incomes from existing
apple orchards and walnut trees by establishing infrastructure and a
marketing organization capable of handling about 12% of projected (1987)
apple production and 30% of projected walnut production in Jammu & Kashmir.
As horticultural crops represent the principal source of cash income for
over 80% of the J&K population, the project investment would impact widely
and would meet one of J&K's highest ranking investment needs.
7.02      Similar to the Himachal Pradesh Apple Marketing Project, the J&K
project would provide an alternative marketing channel for growers. Project
benefits would derive from more efficient marketing of apples during the peak
season with resulting cost savings, better quality grading and packing com-
manding an estimated 10% premium over conventionally graded fruit, reserving
17,000 tons of apples in cold storage for post-season marketing with an asso-
ciated price premium of about 40%, and development of new markets through-
out India. In addition, over 12,000 tons of previously wasted cull apples
would be processed into juice concentrate and other by-products. In the proj-
ect's walnut component, better processing methods would increase grade quality
with an estimated 10% price improvement, and bring about 1,300-1,400 tons of
walnuts into the market which would have spoiled under conventional hulling/
drying methods.  Also, JKHPMC walnut facilities in the production area would
enable traders and exporters to make bulk purchases, with more efficient and
earlier marketing as a result.
Economic Evaluation
7.03      Economic costs of the project would consist of:  (a) capital
investment in physical assets, (b) permanent working capital of Rs 48 mil-
lion for JKHPMC, (c) JKHPMC operating costs, and (d) other project costs for
crop loans, research, training and technical assistance. All costs are net
of taxes, duties, price contingencies and interest payments, but include
physical contingencies for civil works and equipment. Foreign exchange
utilized in carrying out the project is valued at Rs 10 = US$1, reflecting
an estimated standard conversion factor for India of 0.88. As labor did
not appear to be in excess supply except during the winter months when labor
demand by the project is low, prevailing wage rates were used.
7.04      Prices assumed for apples and walnuts marketed by JKHPMC include a
10% premium for quality improvement over conventionally handled produce. For
apples, constant prices have been projected as described in para 5.04. For
walnuts, constant export and domestic prices have been assumed, based on a
three-year trend and expressed at October 1977 levels. Domestic market prices
for juice concentrate, apple essence and pomace are based on a recent study
undertaken for the HP project. Economic benefits of the project would be sales



- 38 -
revenues generated by JKHPMC; no attempt was made to quantify additional bene-
fits from crop loans, research, training and technical assistance.  Revenues
from the walnut export processing center have been adjusted by the standard
conversion factor (para 7.03). Estimated benefits (gross profit margins)
accruing to growers, preharvest contractors and commission agents in the future
without the project have been subtracted from net benefits (economic benefits
less economic costs) to estimate the incremental net benefits of the project.
7.05      On these assumptions, and calculated over a twenty-year period with
equipment replaced after ten years, the estimated economic rate of return
is 21%. To measure the viability of each of the three major activities pro-
posed for JKHPMC, separate rates of return were calculated at 22% to apple
trading and 31% to walnut trading by apportioning working capital and manage-
ment overheads. Similarly for the juice concentrate plant, a 26% economic
rale of return was calculated after adjusting capital costs as indicated in
para 7.03 and adjusting for the economic cost of cull apples, taken as the
cost of transportation and handling (Rs 150/ton). A summary of sensitivity
tests is shown below (in %):
JKHPMC         JKHPMC
Overall   Apple          Walnut        Juice
Project   Trading        Trading       Plant
Capital Cost (US$ million)        27.6    11.3 (approx)  2.8 (approx)  4.2
Base Estimate                     21      22             31             26
Capital costs increased 20%       19      20             28             24
Operating cost increase 10%       18       17            29             24
Revenue shortfall of 5%           17      17             26             24
Future Without ]Project
Benefits Increased 20%          16      16             23             -
The project shows greatest sensitivity to a shortfall in revenue beyond 5%
or an increase in operating costs over 20%.  While it is unlikely that
revenues could decline that significantly without concurrent cost reductions,
it is clear that JKHPMC managerial and marketing acumen is essential.
7.06      Project Beneficiaries.  At full project development, the total
incremental economic value at the farm level of apples and walnuts handled
by the project are estimated at Rs 20 and 21 million, respectively. Income
increments would accrue to about 30-40,000 growers in J&K where the average
holding is under 1 hectare. Roughly one-third of these growers are living
below the estimated income poverty level for India of US$65. Although there
is limited information on the income distribution of growers using pre-harvest
contractors, basically it is the poorest segment of growers who enter into
pre-harvest contracts to cover input costs for their paddy. Growers with
large holdings and sufficient cash flow are able to harvest produce more
profitably, on consignment. JKHPMC purchases with pre-harvest contracts
would amount to 40% of its apple throughput and 60% of walnut throughput,
thus targeting the major portion of its activities toward the poorest seg-
ment of growers. In the apple component, an average incremental return of



- 39 -
Rs 335/ton (Rs 6-7/box) would accrue to growers marketing through JKHPMC (Annex
5, Table 2). For an average farm family of six members with a one acre orchard
yielding 240 boxes of marketable fruit, an income increment of approximately
Rs 1,500 would result, or about US$25-30 per capita. The relatively poorer
walnut growers, who now sell their crop to pre-harvest contractors, would be
able to double their current income by marketing under the project, resulting
in an increment of approximately Rs 450 per holding of 15 trees yielding 30 kg
each. At full development, a total of about 2,600 jobs would be required by
JKHPMC staffing, of which about 1,800 would be seasonal unskilled and semi-
skilled positions. Many of the seasonal job opportunities would be available
to women, who typically are engaged for walnut processing. Unskilled labor
demand is not increased appreciably by the project. It is expected that labor
demand from horticultural production in the future will increase faster than
growth in the J&K labor force and the area will attract seasonal unskilled
labor migration, as in HP.
Risks
7.07      The main risk to project success would stem from JKHPMC management
quality. Technical and logistic problems of dealing with 84,000 tons of
perishable produce over a three-month period would be formidable. Development
of a high level of commercial expertise to enable the Corporation to compete
with the established trade channels would be equally crucial. The Corpora-
tion would need efficient and highly motivated personnel which is available
but must be identified, recruited and trained. As already indicated (para
4.05) GOJK (who would be responsible for the formation of JKHPMC) would adopt
nationwide recruitment and offer adequate terms of service to attract and
retain competent staff for JKHPMC. Technical assistance and study tours to
be financed by the project (paras 3.28 and 3.29) would play a key role in the
intensive staff training program for the Corporation.
7.08      There are also some uncertainties about the market for apple juice.
However, studies have indicated reasonable prospects for the product and
special attention would be paid to distribution and sales promotion of juice
to be produced in Kashmir. A detailed marketing plan that would include juice
distribution and product promotion arrangements would be a precondition
to IDA participation in financing the juice plant. In addition the project
has funds for technical assistance for helping JKHPMC to market apple juice.



- 40 -
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances have been obtained that:
(a) GOI would purchase shares in JKHPMC (para 4.03).
(b) GOJK would:
(i) cause its Forestry Department to give reasonable priority
to meeting JKHPMC's lumber requirements (para 3.10);
(ii)  by June 30, 1979 draw up a mushroom research program
and implementation timetable (para 3.22);
(iii)  by December 31, 1978, June 30, 1979 and December 31,
1979 employ or assign additional research staff as
outlined (paras 3.22 and 3.26);
(iv)  appoint the consultants according to an agreed
schedule (para 3.28);
(v) by December 31, 1978 prepare a plan for study tours
(para 3.29);
(vi)  commission and supervise studies for which terms
and conditions would be satisfactory to GOI, GOJK
and IDA (para 3.30);
(vii)  agree to acquire land needed for JKHPMC as
specified (para 3.31);
(viii) observe procurement procedures (paras 3.35-3.38);
(xi)  together with GOI purchase shares in JKHPMC as specified
(para 4.03);
(x) agree that JKHPMC senior staff (para 4.05):
(a) would be recruited on a nationwide basis; and
(b) salaries and emoluments would be adequate to
attract and retain competent staff.
(xi)  appoint the heads of JKHPMC's marketing and adminis-
tration departments by March 31, 1979 (para 4.05);
(xii)  ensure that during project implementation JKHPMC would
inform IDA prior to undertaking any activity not
included in the project (para 4.01); and



- 41 -
(xiii)  by December 31, 1978 have made satisfactory arrangements
fLor an evaluation study and, by March 31, 1979 submit
the study inception report to IDA (para 4.21).
(c)  ARDC would:
(i) observe procurement procedures (paras 3.35-3.38);
(ii) review appraisals from participating banks, supervise
implementation of approved lending schemes and forward
all applications for schemes estimated to cost more
than US$0.5 million to IDA for approval (para 4.13);
(iii) lend to participating banks on terms and conditions
outlined in Schedule A (para 4.14); and
(iv) ensure implementation of proposed accounting and audit-
ing procedures by participating banks (para 4.23).
8.02      Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a)  that heads of JKHPMC's operations and finance depart-
ments had been appointed (para 4.05);
(b)  that a capital contribution of Rs 1 million by GOI
and GOJK had been paid into JKHPMC's accounts (para 4.03);
(c)  that   the First Subsidiary Agreement had been executed
by GOI and ARDC (para 4.10);
(d)  that ARDC had drawn up a banking plan (para 4.10);
(e)  that GOJK had established the project coordinating committee
(para 4.15).
8.03      The following would be disbursement conditions of:
(a)  JKHPMC's civil works component, that an engineering
firm or other agency to help JKHPMC draw up and
evaluate construction tenders and to supervise
constructions, on terms and conditions satisfactory
to IDA had been employed (para 4.17); and
(b)  the juice factory component:  (i) that a satisfactory
marketing plan had been prepared (para 5.09); and
(ii) that the Second Subsidiary Agreement had been
executed by GOI and ARDC (para 4.14).
8.04      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$14 million on standard IDA terms. The
borrower would be the Government of India.



Schedule A
Page 1
- 42 -
INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Project Lending Terms and Conditions
The following lending terms and conditions would be used in imple-
ment:ing the project and would not be altered without prior IDA agreement:
1.  For all Project Credit Components except the Juice Concentrate Plant
1.        GOI to ARDC
(a)  For AR)C refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 6.75%, less 0.25%
for prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b)  For ARDC refinancing for more than 9 and up to 15 years:
(i) annual interest rate of 7.25%, less 0.25% for
prompt payment;
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c) GOI to carry exchange risk.
2.        ARDC to Jammu-Kashmir State Cooperative Bank and to Participating
Banks
(a)  (i)  For lending to the Jammu and Kashmir State Co-
operative Bank for seasonal credit, annual interest
rate would be the same as that charged by the
Reserve Bank of India to State Cooperative Banks
for seasonal credit;
(ii) For lending to participating commercial banks,
annual interest rate of 8%;
(b) Installment payments to coincide approximately with
collections from ultimate borrowers; and



Schedule A
Page 2
- 43 -
(c) Refinancing by loans up to 90% of individual loans.
3.        Jammu and Kashmir State Cooperative Bank and Participating Banks
to Ultimate Borrowers for Seasonal Credit
(a) Onlending limited to:
(i) fruit growers who have entered into a contract with
JKHPMC for sale or marketing of fruit; and
(ii) mushroom growers certified by the Department of
Agriculture to be participating in the mushroom
pilot scheme approved by GOJK and IDA.
(b) Scale of lending would be in accordance with arrangements
between the Jammu-Kashmir State Cooperative Bank and
participating banks, GOJK and ARDC;
(c) Annual interest rate would be the same as that charged by
cooperative societies in Jammu and Kashmir for seasonal
credit for crop production; and
(d) Repayment period to be based on the marketing of fruit
or mushrooms, but not to exceed 12 months.
4.        Participating Banks to Ultimate Borrowers for Long-Term Credit.
(a) Onlending limited to JKHPMC for cost of constructing and
equipping facilities for grading, packing, storing,
processing and transshipping apples and walnuts and to
mushroom growers certified by the Department of Agri-
culture to be participating in the mushroom pilot
scheme approved by GOJK and IDA for constructing and
equipping mushroom growing houses;
(b) A loan ceiling of 80% of the cost of equipment and con-
struction to be financed;
(c) Annual interest rate of 11%;
(d) An evaluation fee of 0.5% of the cost of investment may
be charged;
(e) Repayment period to be based on the earning capacity
of the investment and life of assets to be purchased
but not to exceed 15 years including a grace period
not exceeding 3 years from the date of first withdrawal
of the loan proceeds; and



Schedule A
Page 3
- 44 -
(f) As a condition of participating in financing long-term
investments for JKHPMC, participating banks shall provide
the required seasonal working capital to JKHPMC.
5.        General
(a)  ARDC and Jammu-Kashmir State Cooperative Bank and
participating banks would maintain separate records for
seasonal credit, for credit to JKHPMC and for credit to
mushroom growers;
(b)  Security would be in accordance with arrangements between
participating banks and ARDC;
(c) ARDC would only refinance subprojects which, on the basis
of careful feasibility and economic studies were considered
to be financially sound and viable and supported with
satisfactory technical and administrative management; and
(d) ARDC would forward all applications by JKHPMC for refinancing
of subprojects having total investment costs of US$0.5 M
equivatlent and over, with appraisal report and all other
relevant data to IDA for final approval.
II. For the Juice Concentrate Plant
1.        The relending arrangements between (i) the GOI and ARDC,
(ii) ARDC and the Participating Banks, and (iii) the
Participating Banks and JKHPMC shall be mutually agreed
between GOI, IDA, GOJK and ARDC.
2.        Prior to submitting applications for refinancing the
juice concentrate plant, ARDC shall furnish to IDA
for approval an appraisal report which shall include
a marketing plan and distribution arrangements for the
products of the processing plant.



INDIA
JAM4U-KABnI H0lT1CUIF.Q   PROnDT
Apple Production and Marketable Surplus
in Main Producing States in India
Actual and Projected Production of Apples in India
F_ _        -_  - - - - - - Uttar Pradesh -  -     - - - - -  - - - - - Himachal Pradesh -    -    - - - -    -    Total - - - - - -
state   Apple                 In-State    Interstate    Apple                In-State   Interstate                        Interstate
Fetable   Pro-                con-        Marketable    Pro-                 con-        Marketable   Pro-                Marketable
aplus     duction   Culls   sumption        Surplus       duction   Culls   sumption    Surplus        duction   Culls    Surplus           Year
123            21        4        6             11            26         5        1          20           86         17         54           1966
i43            25         5       7             13            30         6        2          2          121         25         78           1967
56            29        5        8             16            39         8        2          29          151         30        101           1968
71            34        6       10             18            56       11         3          42          191         36        131           1969
102            40        8       12             20            76        15        4          57          258         51        lT9           1970
103            46        9       11             26           115       23         5          87          305         6i        216           1971
157            53       10       10             33           149       29         7         113          415         81        303           1972
169            61       12        9             40           173        35        9         129          464         93        338           1973
148            70       10       14             46           199        40       10         149          474         91        343           1974
271            80       16        8             56           231        46       12         173          673        135        500           1975
242            90       18        9             63           246        51       13         182          664        133        487           1976 j
220           100       20       10             70           258        54        13        191          668        136        481           1977  /
390           160       30       10            120           380        80       20         280        1,060        215        790           1982  J
480           240       50       10            180           45o        90       20         340        1,330        270      1,o0o           1987  /
lent sales records and appraisal mission estimates.
:ultural Department and appraisal mission estimates.
mrnments tree counts. All other estimates based on mission discussions with J&K officials.
I31



INDIA
JAMU-KASHMI HORTICULTURE Fnu JsCT
Walnut Production and Distribution Tons
le  :/In State            Exports from J S K              Indian Domestic Sales           Exports Abroad
Consumption                                                                                                    Percent
Led   Unshelled     Unshelled   Shelled    Tota1i/ Unshelled   SheLLed   Total2   Unshelled   Shelled    Total   Export
1,s000        4,300       1,700      8,400       -          -         -           -          -         -        -
1,000         5,600      2,600      12,000       -          -         -           -          -         -        -
1,000         3,700       1,800      8,100            -          -          -                -         -        -
1,000         4,700      3,200      12,600     1,900        500    3,100        2,800      2,700    9,500       75
1,000         2,900       1,800      7,300    1,600         500    2,700        1,300      1,300     4,600      63
1,000         5,700      2,300      11,400    4,4oo         700    6,100        1,300      1,600     5,300      46
1,000         5,100       1,900      9,900    3,300         600    4,800         1,800     1,300    5,100       52       1
1,000         5,700      2,900      12,900    2,700         900    4,900        3,000      2,000    8,ooo       62      4
1,s000        3,900       3,000     LL,500    2,400         700    4,200        1,500      2,300    7,300       63
)       1,000         4,000       1,800      8,600       -          -       4,900          -         -       3,700       43
1,000           -          -        15,500       -          _       7,900         _          _       7,600      49
1,000           -          -        15,000       -          _       7,500                            8,500      56
1,000           -          -        17,500
1,000           -          -        2 3,000
3. Conversion factor used was 2.5.
u and Kashmir Horticultural Produce Marketing and Processing Project Report - 1977.
ulture - Foreign Agricultural Circular - Nuts.
pssions with GOJE Hortlculture Department staff - future production forecasts based on GOJK tree counts.



ANNEX 1
T     3
- 47 -
INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Apple Grading and Packing Centers
Sites and Production Catchments
Current
District                      Packing                                              Ha Apples        Production
Site                    House Capacity   Catchment Areas (Blocks)                in Bearing         (Tons)
A) Anantnag
1.  Pulwama               6,000 ton     Pulwama, Pampore                         1,500            13,000
2.  Rajpora               1,000  "      Keller                                     400             4,000
3.  Awantipora            1,000  "      Awantipora, Tral A, Tral B                 550             5,000
4.  Kulgam                6,000  "       Kulgam, Cuimoh, Noorabad                2,100            19,000
5.  Shopian               1,000  "       Shopian, Kachdora                       1,050             9,000
6.  Zainpora              1,000  "       Imamsahib                                 501)            4,000
7.  Rambirpora            1,000  "      Rambirpora                               1,000             9,000
8.  Sringhaphara          6,000  "      Dachnipora, Brijbehera                   1,450             3,C00
District Subtotal        23,000 ton                                              8,550            76,000
B) Srinagar
1.  Barsoo                1,000          Srinagar Intensive               )      1,650)           15,000
2.  Zakura                6,000          Zakura, IFPP, Kanga, Ganderbal )
3.  Beerwa                1,000         Narbal, Beerwa, Badgam                     800             7,000
4.  Chadoora              1,000          Kanipora, Charari-Shrief,               1,350            12,000
5.  Khonmoh               1,000         Nagam                                      700             6,000
District Subtotal        10,00o  ton                                             4,500            40,000
C) Baramulla
1.  Sopore                6,000          Sopore A,B,C                            4,150            36,000
2.  Dooru                 6,000         Dooru A,B                                2,750            23,000
3.  Pattan                6,000  "      Pattan, Tangmerg                         1,850            16,000
4. Harthrath-
Singhpora             1,000  "      -
5.  Baramulla             6,000  "       Baramulla IFPP, Baramulla C,M           4,150            37,000
6.  Delina                1,000          Baramulla, Uri (Chandusa)
7.  Watergam              1,000  "      Watergam                                   900             8,000
8.  Sumbal                6,000  "       Sumbal, Hajin                           2,350            21,000
9.  Indergam              1,000  "       -
10. Handwara              6,000  "       Handwara, Langate                       2,900           20,000
11. Chogul                1,000          Kupwara, Chogul                         1,500           13,000
12. Magam                 1,000  "      Magam                                      200             2,000
District Subtotal        42,000                                                 20,750           184,000
TOTAL                    75,000                                                 33,800           300,000
February 16, 1978



ANNEX 1
T     4
- 48 -
INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Walnut Hulling/Drying Centers Sites and Production Catchments
Catchment Area          Estimated Production /a
District         Unit Size          (No. of Trees)          --------Tons-----  -
Site           _(ton)        Bearing    Non Bearing        Current        1987
Anantng
Anantnag              500       16,809        13,505           500             750
Kukarnag           2,000      195,225         58,717         5,850           7,000
Mutton                500      23,273         19,189           700           1,050
Qazigund           1,000       48,254         44,676         1,600          2,500
Srighaphara          500       15,585         13,846           450             700
Verinag               500      15,107         11,727           450             700
Rajpora               500      33,089         20,745         1,000          1,400
Shopian              500       42,141         28,918         1,250          1,800
Tral                  500      18,404         15,620           550             850
(1) Subtotal       6,500      408,351       226,943         12,350         16,750
(2) District                                                16,000         23,000
Production
Baramulla
Magam                500       24,458         14,776           750          1,050
Kupwara              500       16,698          7,703           500             650
(3) Subtotal       1,000       41,156        22,479          1,250          1,700
(4) District
Production                                              2,580           4,000
Srinagar
Beerwa               500       22,834         12,294           700             900
Charisharief         500       20,101         18,432           600             950
Raithan              500       30,243         11,072           900           1,100
(5) Subtotal       1,500       73,178        41,798          2,200          2,950
(6) District
Production                                               3,650          5,000
Total (1)+(3)+(5) 9,000       522,685        291,220        17,000         23,050
Project
Area
Production (2)+(4)-+(6)                                     22,500         32,000
/a   Based on 30 kg per bearing tree.
February 16, 1978



ANNEX 1
T     5
- 49 -
INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR'HORTICULTURE'PROJECT
ExpertstRequired'for the Pro ject
Total
Number      Assignment          Date of
Type of'Expert                '6ofVisits ''Period'Months      First Visit
Management                           2              6           October 1, 1978
Walnut Processing Design             2              6          September 1, 1978
Walnut Processing Operations         4             12           September 1, 1978
Juice Plant Design                   1              3          September 1, 1982
Juice Processing Operations          1             12          March 1, 1982
Entomologist (Codling Moth
Specialist)                         1              2          September 1, 1978
Cold Store Research Engineer         1              3          September 1, 1978
Fruit Post Harvest
Physiologist                        1              4          August 15, 1980
Mushroom Research Advisor            3              3          February 1, 1979
Mushroom Spawn Production            1              1           September 1, 1980
Mushroom Compost Fumigation                          a!
and Pasteurization                  3              41         September 1, 1979
Mushroom Marketing                   1              3           September 1, 1981
Unspecified Short Term
Consultants                                       29
a/ First visit one month, second visit three months, and third visit
two months.
April 24, 1978



ANNEX 1
T     6
- 50 -
INDIA
JAMKU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
List of Study Tours
Training Period
-----Months----
Employer of   No. of    Description         Type of          Each
Trainees     Trainees   of Trainee          Training         Trainee    Total
JKEPMC           1      Managing Director  Fruit Pro-           6         6
cessing and
Marketing
JKHPMC           2      Cold Store          Cold Store          3         6
Operators          Operation
JKHPMC           2      Apple Packing       Apple Packing       3         6
House Operators    and Grading
JKHPMC           1      Marketing           Apple               3         3
Director JKHPMC    Marketing
JKHPMC           I      Walnut Hulling      Walnut Produc-      3         3
Center Manager     tion & harvesting
JKH;PMC           1     Walnut Processing  Walnut grading       3         3
Center Manager     and Shelling
JKHPMC           1      Apple Juice         Juice Plant         6         6
Factory Manager    Operation
DH               1      Fruit               Codling Moth        3         3
Entomologist       Control
DH               1      Fruit               Scab Control        3         3
Pathologist
DH                1     Post Harvest        Cold Store          3         3
Physiologist      Research Opera-
tions
DH               2      Fruit Horti-
DR                       culturalists  )   Modern Production  3           6
2      Walnut Horti-      Technology,         3         6
culturalists  )    Selection of
Planting
materials for
trials in Kashmir
DA               1      Mushroom Project   Production           2         2
Officer            Technology
DA                1     Spawn Production   Spawn
Officer            Production          1         3
DA               1      Mushroom Research  Mushroom             1         3
Officer            Research
19                                                      62
April 24, 1978



INDIA
JAMU-EASH4IR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule Major Items
Financial Year
Activity                                       Project Total    1978/79    1979/50    1980/81    19o1/82    1982/83    1983/84    19q4/55    1985/86
Apples Handled by JKHPMC Tong                                                             4,500      20,500      45,000      65,ooo      74,000      75,000
Walnuts Handled by JKHPMC Tons                        -                                     625       2,500       5,000       7,250       8,625       9,000
6,000 Tons Apple Grading/Packing Centers              10            -            -            3           4           3            1        -           -
1,000 Tons Apple Grading/Packing Centers              15                                                  4 _  _  4   6
1,000 Tons Cold Storage Units                         17            -           -           -             3           7           7
Juice Concentrate Plant                                1            -                                                 I _  _  1  -          -           _
Transhipment Center                                    1            -              1        -           -           -           -           -           -
1,000 Ton Walnut Hulling/Drying Centers                3            -           -             1           1           1            1/
500 Ton Walnut Hulling/Drying Centers               12            -           -             3           3           3           3'
Walnut Export Processing Center                        1            -            _          _             1         -           _           _           _
Crop Loans (Rs 000)                              20,000             -            _        1,000       4,000       7,000       8,000
Consultants (Manmonths)                               89             19           10         26          19          15         -           _           _
For JKPcMC                                            60             13            6         14          13          14         -           _           _
For DH                                                13              5            2          6         -           -           -           -           -
For DLA                                               16              1            2           6          6           1         -           -           -
Study Tours (Manmonths)                               65             16           35          6           8         -           -           -           -
For JKHPMC Staff                                      33              5           17           3          8         _           _           _           _
For DR Staff                                          24              9           12           3        -           -           -           -           -
For DA Staff                                           8              2            6           -        -           -           -           -           -
Research Cold Store/Library                            1            -                           1      -           _           _           _           _
Mushroom Research/Spawn Unit                           1            - I                        1        -           -           _           _           _
/  Completion scheduled for August 1983
February 16, 1978



INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
JKHPMC Local Training Requirements
Type of Training
F FI K  l     loo~s l         l                                                  | Projected
>1  00  r.                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Total
Senior~~~~~                              ~ Maagr  8    8,                                                          Atedac
Applei -1    -4   %:I r.   -40    w        4i "   u          0 u    (D 'J 0 u          at Courses
F4 7         70    00                                                                           140
Field Staff         115         115                                       35 H150
Supervisors ~       ~     ~~~~ CY 20                            20                                                   40).100  -
Sechnioran rs                  84 80                                                                                           2
Apple Centers
U,
Managers                      25   25    25              25                                                                    75
Foremen                       70          70             70                                                                    36
Field Staff                   435                435                               353
Mechanics                                                                                                                      75
Cold Stores                                                                                                                  150
Supervisors                   20          20                             20                                                   40
Engineers                     16                                                                           16                  16
Technicians                   20                                         20                                                    20
Walnut Centers
Managers                      14   14            14             14                                                             42
Foremen                       18                 18             18                                                             36
Field Staff                   43                 43                                                                            43
Mechanics                     18                                                                           1 18                18
Cold Store Technicians         2                                                                            1                   2
Sales
Managers                      10   10            10                                                                   10       30
Salesmen                      14                                                                                     14        14 
Total                        393   57 20         8        5     3 2   -413 5                    18         17         2 4    634
February 16, 197F6



INDIA
JANHU-KAS8MIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Red Delicious Apple Wholesale Prices - Delhi
1969/70       1970/71        1971/72        1972/73       1973/74        1974/75        1975/76        1976/77
Total All India Sales
000 Tons                  131          174             216            303            338           343            500            502
Month                           ------------------------------------------ Price Range Rs/kg ---------
July                            2.70-3.75      3.15-4.20      1.35-1.60         -              -              -          2.10-3.95     3.15-4.50
August                          2.10-3.45      1.75-3.35      1.30-3.20     2.25-4.10          -          1.85-2.60      1.85-2.65     2.10-2.90              U
September                       1.85-3.25      1.55-3.10     0.93-3.55      2.10-4.35          -          1.60-2.50      1.60-2.65     1.60-2.10
October                         1.50-3.40      1.60 3.40     1.55-3.75          -              -          3.00-6.00      1.60-3.70     2.65-4.20-
November                        1.20-3.75      1.70-3.40      1.70-3.95         -              -          3.25-6.00      1.60-3.70     2.95-4.20
December                        1.20-4.35      1.65-3.25     1.65-4.15          -              -          3.25-5.60     2.10-3.15      2.95-4.50
January                         1.10-3.90      1.80-3.60      1.65-3.85         -              -          3.00-5.65      1.85-2.90          -
February                        1.40-4.30      2.10-3.80     1.35-3.40          -              -          3.50-6.00      1.80-3.70          -
March                           1.40-4.25      2.20-5.20      1.25-3.90         -              -          3.00-7.00      1.85-3-95          -
April                               --                                                         -          3.00-700       1.85-4.25          -
May                                 -              -              -             -              -          3.00-7.00      1.85-4.75          -
June                                -              -              -             -              -          3.50-6.65      2.90-4.75          -
- Data not available
Sources: 1969/70 to 1972/73 Data from Report No. 262a-IN, Appraisal of Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project, December 11, 1973.
1974/75 onwards - Data resulting from appraisal mission discussions with GOI Markets Directorate
February 14, 1978



INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Prices for Indian Walnuts
US$ Per Metric Ton 1/
1973/74                                 1974/75                                 1975/76                                1976/77
LocalE/        Locall" 3                Local /        LocaL/ v                 Local /        Local3 C                 LocaiC/       Loca,L3/
Sales          Sales         Export     Sales          Sales         Export     Sales           Sales        Export      Sales        Sales       Export
Unshelled      Shelled       Shelled    Unshelled      Shelled       Shelled    Unshelled       Shelled      Shelled    Unshelled    Shelled    Shelled
October          -              -            2,176         812          2,562        1,691         833          2,328          1,615       829          2,079     2,231
November         -              -            2,001         828          2,562        1,741         890          2,328          1,672       758          2,079     2,434
December         -              -            1,986         734          2,484        1,738         805          2,270          1,778       730          2,162     2,536
January          -              -            1,886         703          2,281        1,886         760          2,155          1,942       702          2,219     2,643
February         -              -            2,037         703          2,309        1,997         790          2,126          2,045       730          2,219     2,593
March            -              -            2,030         750          2,405        1,982         747          2,212          2,017       758          2,275     2,560
April            -              -            2,134          750         2,312        1,948         690          2,155          2,061       730          2,921     2,542
May              -              -            2,140         719          2,343        1,903         747          2,183          2,051       716          2,921     2,507
June             -              -            1,995         719          2,312        1,864         833          2,155          2,007       716          3,033     2,425
July             687          2,375          2,0Ol         704          2,212        1,742         730          2,079          1,916       716          3,033     2,507
August           750          2,375          1,864          718         2,241        1,643         758          2,106          2,049       744          3,033     2,687
September        750          2,422          1,795         805          2,241        1,581         815          2,106          2,168       815          3,033     2,685
Prices for local sales were provided in Rupees.  The following exchange rates were used for conversion to US$:
July 1974 to June 1975 US$1 - Rs 8.0; July 1975 to June 1976 US$1 - Rs 8.7; July 1976 onward  US$1 - Rs 8.9.
Hard shell nut -Bombay wholesale price  - information from GOJK Horticulture Department.
Soft shell unshelled nuts fetch a 40% -50% premium in the Bombay Wholesale Market.
3   Grade not specified - Bombay wholesale price - information from GOJK Horticulture Department.
el Grade - Indian light halves CIF - UK. Information from US Department of Agriculture Foreign Agricultural Service.
Difference between Bambay cost and CIF - UK is about US$200 per ton.
Pebruary 16, 1978
_ 



INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Indian, USA and Chinese Walnut Export Prices
$US per metric ton shelled nuts
1973/74                    1974/75    -               1975/6 71976/ 7
India I/ USA 2/ China 3/  India  / USA 2/ China i/  India g/ USA I  China 3/  India I/  SA 2'/  Cm:ia
October                            2,176   1,541   2,359       1,691   1,547   2,158      1,615   1,728      -       2,231   1,Y14       -
November                            2,001   1,677    2,324     1,741     -      2,094     1,672   1,U47      -       2,434   1,554       -
December                           1,986   1,862    2,363      1,738   1,692    2,068     1,778   1,600      -       2,536   2,^33       -
January                             1,886   1,307    2,429     1,886   1,511    2,052     1,942   1,826      -       2,643   2,609       -
February                            2,037   2,218    2,452     1,997   1,957    2,070     2,045   1,763      -       2,593   2,676       -
March                               2,030   2,015    2,522     1,982   1,782    2,299     2,017   1,888      -       2,5f.0   *,498      -
April                               2,134   1,723    2,586     1,948   1,855    2,418     2,061   1,736    2,489      2,542   2,951      -
May                                 2,140   1,963    2,491     1,903   1,861    2,476     2,051   1,915    2,425       ,0-1  2,923       -
June                                1,995   1,719    2,343     1,864   1,667    2,502     2,007   1,836    2,366     2,625   2,825       -      t
July                                2,011   2,364    2,306     1,742   1,877    2,412     1,916   1,754    2,407      2,507   2,875      -
August                              1,864   1,692    2,222     1,643   1,962      -       2,049   1,790    2,401      2,687   3,-'21     -
September                           1,795   1,907    2,196     1,881   1,893      -       2,168   1,833      -       2,68,  3,021        -
Average                             2,004   1,832    2,382     1,810   1,782    2,255     1,943   1,776    2,418      2,529   2,57''5    -
I/ CIF - UK              2 FAS -US Ports              3  CIF -London
Source: US Department of Agriculture, Foreign Agricultural Service.
x
April 24, 1978



ANTil.:L 1
- 56 -                        T    12
INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Price Summary for Economic and Financial Analysis
Economic    Financial
Apples -/
Fresh Apples (Rs/Ton)
Wholesale                   2,900       2,900
Farmgate                   1,340        1,000
Cold Storage Apples (Rs/ton)
Wholesale                   4,100       4,100
Farmgate                   1,340        1,000
2/
Walnuts
Inshell Walnuts (Rs/kg)
FOB Bombay                    7.1         -
Ex-Factory                    4.5         4.0
Walnut Kernels (Rs/kg)
FOB Bombay                   22.2         -
Ex-Factory                   17.5        15.0
3/
Juice Plant
Apple Juice Concentrate (Rs/ton)    12,000         12,000
Apple Essence (Rs/kg)                      35          35
Dried Apple Pomace (Rs/kg)              0.30         0.30
1/ Average weighted prices according to expected intake of varieties (50%
Delicious, 25% Maharaji, 5% Ambri and 20% others); grade pack-out (67%
grade I, 33% grade II); and assumed terminal markets. See Annex 3,
Table 5 and Annex 5, Table 2.
2/ See Annex 3, Table 9 and Annex 5, Table 5.
3/ Ex-factory prices. See Annex 3, Table 7 and para 7.04.
April 25, 1978



ANNEX 2
- 57 -                                                 Table 1
INDIA
JAMMU KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Apple Grading/Packing Centers
Estimated Capital Cost Per Unit
1,000 ton Plant                    6,000 ton Plant
------------------Rupees '000-----------------
Land  -/                                                        40                                  40
Site Development  -/                                            50                                  70
Paved Yard                                                   10                                  40
Buildings 3/        4/                                         280                                 600
Sheltered Apron -                                            25                                  50
Saw Mill (150,000 boxes per year)
Land ( 1 acre)                                               -                                   10
Building  5/                                                 -                                   16
Equipment  6/                                                -                                   30
Other                                                        -                                    9
Equipment            7/
Grading Machines -                                          100                                 200
Handling   8/                                                25                                  50
Generator                                                    50                                 150
Vehicles  9/                  10'                               60                                 280
Recyclable Packing Material -                                   40                                 225
Engineering Services  11/                                       37                                  78
Installation  12/                                               18                                  40
Total:                                        735                               1,888
US$ Equivalent ('000): 13/                                       84                                216
Foreign Exchange Component:                                     14%                                 10%
l/ '1.6 ha at Rs 25,000/ha acre, allowing area for expansion at 1,000 ton plant sites.
2/ Levelling, drainage, access roads and fences.
3/ 1,000 ton facility: 700 m2 at Rs 400/m2
6,000 ton facility: 15,000 m2 at Rs 400/m2.
4/ Holding area for incoming apples and outgoing shipments.  200 m2 at Rs 250/m2 at 6,000 ton facility.
5/ Tin shed construction 80 m2 at Rs 200/m2.
6/ Six band saws at Rs 5;000 each.
7/ 1,800 kg/hour capacity size graders and packing tables or bins with roller feed tables and
conveyor belts. Rs 50,000/unit c.i.f. Bombay.
8/ Pallets and hand operated hydraulic lift carts.
9/ 1,000 ton facility: one 1.5 ton truck. 6,000 facility: one 1.5 ton and two 7 ton trucks.
10/ Revolving inventory of 20 kg field boxes for collection and transport to center, based on
10% of capacity and Rs 5/box; 80 kg gunny bags for storage and transport of culls, based
on total intake of culls and Rs 5/bag.
11/ 10% of site development and buildings.
12/ 10% of equipment.
13/ At the official exchange rate US$ 1.00 = Rs 8.75.
January 10, 1978



- 58 -                             ANNEX 2
INDIA                               Table 2
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Cold Storage: Estimated Capital Cost per Unit
2,000 ton          1,000 ton
Capacity Unit      Capacity Unit
Lind 1/                                      30                30
Siite Development -/                        200               160
Building       3/
Structures 3/                          980               492
Insulation                4/           350               200
Engine and Service Rooms -               60                60
Equipment                 5/
Refrigeration System -                 610               350
Pallets  6/            7/                50                24
Hydraulic Lift Carts -                   10                 4
Engineering Services  8/                    160                90
Total -          2,450             1,410
US$ Equivalent ('000): 21         280               161
* Note: 2,000 ton capacity units are to be built in 1,000 ton
increments at each of seven 6,000 ton grading/packing centers.
1,000 ton capacity cold stores built to facilitate expansion are
to be installed at the remaining three grading/packing centers.
Footnotes refer to specifications for 2,000 ton capacity units.
1/ 1.2 ha at Rs 25,000/ha, adjoining 6,000 ton grading/
packing facilities. Planned expansion at 1,000 ton unit sites.
2/' Levelling, drainage, access roads and fencing.
3/ Four chambers of 500 ton capacity and 60'xluo'16' high each,
totalling 2400 m2 at Rs 400 m2. Includes a concrete
apron of 120 m2 at Rs 150 m2.
41 90 m2 at Rs 700/m2.
5/ Includes cost of design and installation.
6/ 600 pallets at Rs 80/pallet.
7/ Five pallet lift carts at Rs 2,000/cart.
8/ 10% of building and site development.
9/ At the official exchange rate US$ 1.00 = Rs 8.75.
January 10, 1978



ANNEX 2
Table 3
- 59 -
INDIA
JAMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
1/
Transshipment Center: Estimated Capital Costs
Rs '000
Land 2!.                                                     40
Site Development                                             10
Building -
Concrete Floor                                           50
Structure and Insulated Roof                           125
Walls and Foundation                                     25
Office Block                                             25
Utilities Installation                                  15
Roads, Truck Park and Fencing                            30
Equipment   4/
Pallets -                                                28
Hydraulic Pallet Trucks                                   4
Office Equipment and Miscellaneous Tools                  5
Engineering Services 6                                       28
Total:          385
US$ Equivalent ('000):            44
1/ Storage capacity of 200 tons (10,000 boxes) assuming 1-4 day
turnover.
2/ One acre at Delhi - Haryana border (Kundli).
3/ Approximately 600m2 with canopy for loading/unloading
trucks.
4/ 350 pallets at Rs 80 each.
51 Two lift trucks at Rs 2,000 each.
6/ 10% of building and site development.
7/ At the official exchange rate US$ 1.00 = Rs 8.75.
December 7, 1977



- 60 -
ANNEX 2
INDIA                                             Table 4
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Walnut Processing Facilities: Estimated Capital Costs Per Unit
500 ton                  1,000 ton                 4,000 ton
Hulling/Drying Center    Hulling/Drying Center           Export Center
_-_____------------------- Rupees '000----------------------------
Land -/                                          30                        30                         60
S, ^ Development                                 60                        80                        150
Buildings  3/                                   320                       640                        105
Processing/Storage                             -                         -                       1,000
Cold Storage (500 ton) & Insulation            -                                                   450
Fumigation Chamber                                                       -                         120
Equipment
Cold Storage Refrigeration, Pallets, etc.   -                            -                         580
Furniture and Fittings                         30                        40                        220
Hullers and Shellers  4/'                      55                       120                         40
Dehydrators and Conveyors 5/                  130                       230                      1,100
Size Graders  6/                               40                        60                        180
Color Sorters   7/                             -                         -                         380
Oil Extractor                                  20                        40                         40
Vehicles   8/                                    80                       140                        400
Laboratory Equipment  9/                         10                        10                         22
Engineering Services  10/                        38                        70                        183
Installation  11/                                27                        50                        255
Total                   840                     1,510                      5,285
US$ EquivaLent ('000) 12/                        96                       173                        604
Foreign Exchange Component                       -                                                     7
1/ 1.2 ha a,t Rs 25000/ha at hulling/drying centers, allowing area for expansion at 500 ton
facilities; 1.6 ha at Rs 37,500/ha at export center.
2/ Levelling, fencing and paving of 2000 m2    area.
3/ Hulling/'drying centers: open sided hulling area, main building 800 m2   (500 ton) at Rs 400 m2, of
which 200 m2    for processing, 500    m2 for dry storage and 100    m2 for administration.
Export Center:  Processing area 1000 m2    at Rs 700/m2; humidity controlled dry storage 600 m2    at
Rs 500 ..2; administrative and marketing  15   m2 at Rs 700/m2
4/ Manual or' gasoline powered hullers: 5x0.5 ton/hour at 500 ton centers, 5xl ton hour at 1,000 ton
centers. Manually operated, pressure-controlled shellers at export center (Rs 260/sheller).
5/ Mechanical fuel oil fired bin and tray design, hot air (48c) dryer.
6/ Gasoline powered, rotating steel drum construction, capacity 3 tons/hour.
7/ (Three) photoelectric; c.i.f. Bombay.
8/ Vehicles:                                  500 ton center        1,000 ton center        5,000 ton center
Motorcycles    - Rs  20,D00                       1                      1                      -
1.5 ton truck - Rs  60,000                        1                     2                       3
7 ton truck   - Rs 110,000                        -                     -                       2
9/ Moisture testing devices.
10/ 10% of s:te development and buildings.
11/ 10% of equipment.
121 At the official exchange rate US$1.00 = Rs 8.75.
January 10, 1978



ANNEX 2
- 61 -                          Table 5
INDIA
JAMU-KIASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
1/
Juice Concentrate Plant: Estimated Capital Costs
Rupees '000
Land -/                                                         75
Site Development -/                                            120
Buildings       4/
Main Factory -       5/                                   1,050
Auxiliary Buildings -                                       200
Apple Storage (air) 6/           7/                       1,200
Finished Inventory Cold Storage -                           350
Staff Housing  8/                                           380
Subtotal          3,180
Plant and Machinery
Processing Equipment                                      9,415
Instrumentation                                             100
Utilities   9/                                            1,550
Installation  IO/                                         1,660
Subtotal         12,725
Equipment               11/
Container Inventory -                                       600
Vehicles  12/                                               230
Furniture and Fittings                                       70
Miscellaneous Tools                                          40
Laboratory Equipment                                         30
Subtotal            970
Pre-Operating Expenses           13/
Interest During Construction -                            1,120
Insurance During Construction                               100
Commitment Fees                                             200
Start-up Expenses  14/                                      600
Subtotal          2,020
Engineering Services  -                                        330
Total:           19,420
US$ Equivalent ('000):             2,219
Foreign Exchange Component:                28%
1/ Capacity 12,000 tons raw material intake, slice - diffusion process,
producing annually approximately 1 500 tons 720 apple concentrate,
12 tons apple essence (surplus) and 2,500 tons dried apple pomace for
cattle feed.
2/ Five acres adjoining grading/packing center at Sopur at Rs 15,000/acre.
3/ Roads, drainage, grading, perimneter fence.
4/ 15,000 m2  at Rs 70 m2
5/ 50   m2  at Rs 400 m2
6/ Air storage for 4,000 tons of apples at Rs 300/ton.
T/ 500   m2  at Rs 700 m2.
T/ Plant manager housing at Rs 100,000; 4 units housing for plant engineers
at Rs 280,000.
9/ Coal-fired boiler at Rs 800,000; 30 ton refrigeration unit for cold
storage and processing equipment at Rs 600,000; standby generator at
Rs 150,000.
lo/ 15X of processing equipment, instrumentation and utilities.
11/ 120,000 apple boxes at Rs 5/box.
12/ One 7 ton truck at Rs 110,000; two 1.5 ton trucks at Rs 60,000/.
a3/ Based on interest for one year at llX, on half of capital cost.
14/ Management salaries, market development, equipment testing, etc.
j/ 10% of site development and buildings.
16/ At the official exchange rate US$ 1.00 - Rs 8.75.
January 10, 1978



- 62 -                                                      ANNEX 2
INDIA                                                        Table 6
JAM?tU-KASHHIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Research, Training and Technical Assistance: Estimated Costs
Foreign Exchange    Local Expenditure
--US'000 -- --Rupees '000---
A. Research - Apple and Walnuts
Maturity Standards and Measurements                                                           10
Experimental Cold Storage
Cold Storalge Rooms                                                                        -                     130
Refrigerat:ion Equipment                                                                                         175
Laboratory                                                                                 -                      130
Laboratory Equipment                                                                       50
Library Facilities
Building                                                                                   -                     110
Equipment                                                                                  _                       70
Publications                                                                               25
Studies
Apple Product Development                                                                  -                     400
India Market Systems                                                                       35
Foreign Market Evaluation                                                                  40
Benefit Mcnitoring and Project Evaluation                                                  -                   2,000
Subtotal                                                          160                   3,015
B.  Mushroom Research and Pilot Scheme
Research and Development Unit
Composting Platform                                                                        -                     160
Buildings                                                                                                        350
Spawn Production Unit                                                                      -                   1,100
Equipment                                                                                  20                    460
Laboratory and Extension Equipment                                                         75                    215
Pilot Scheme
Village Compost Units                                                                      -                     525
Grower Credit                                                                              -                     500
Subtotal                                                           95                  3,310
C.  Technical Assistance  -                                No. of           Total
Visits       Man-Months
Corporate Management                                      2            6                      30
Processing
Walnut Facilities Design                               2            6                      30
Walnut Processing Operations                          4            12                      60
Juice Plant Design                                    1             3                      15
Juice Processing Operations                           1            12                      60
Research
Entomologist                                           1            2                      10
Cold Storage Engineer                                  1            3                      15
Post Harvest Physiologist                              1            4                      20
Mushrooms
Project Advisor                                        3            3                      15
Spawn Production                                       1            1
Compost/Funigation                                     3            6                      30
Marketing Advisor                                      1            3                      15
Unspecified Short-Term  Consultancies                    14           29                     145
Subtotal                      35           90                     450
Local Costs  2/                   -                                                          790
Travel Expenses  3/                    -            -                      70                      -
Total                      35           90                     520                    790
D. Training 4/
Management
Corporate Manager                                                                          12
Cold Storage and Packing                                  1            6
Packing Center Managers                                2            6                      12
Cold Storage Managers                                  2            6                      12
Processing
Walnut Hulling/Drying                                  1            3                       6
Walnut Proc-ssing/Grading                              1            3                       6
Apple Juice Processing                                 1            6                      12
Marketing
Marketing Manager                                      1            3                       6
Research
Entomologist                                           1            3                       6
Pathologist                                            1            3                       6
Horticulturists                                        4           12                     24
Post-Harvest Physiologist                              1            3                       6
Mushrooms
Project Officer                                        1            2                       4
Spawn Production Officer                               1            3                      6
Research Officer                                       1            3                       6
Subtotal                      19            62                    124
Travel Expenses  3|                    -            -                      38
Total                     19            62                    162
Total A+B+C+D                                                          937                   7,115
US5 Equivalent ('000):                                                         1,750
1/ Based on international recruitment and US$ 5,000/man-month.
1/ 20% of monthly salary for local travel, housing and subsistence.
'/ Based on round trip economy air tickets at US$ 2,000 each.
4/ Based on expenses at US$ 2,000/man-month.
April 24, 1978



-63 -                                   ANX 2
INDIA                                   Table 7
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Summary of Estimated Costs
Rupees                            us$                % Foreign
Units   Local   Foreign    Total        Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange
---------------------- Millions ----------------------
Apple Processing
6,000 ton Grading/Packing Centers        10    16.9        2.0       18.9        1.9       0.2        2.1         10
1,000 ton Cold Storage Facilities        17    21.4         -       21.4        2.4         -         2.4         -
1,000 ton Grading/Packing Centers        15     9.5        1.5       11.0       1.1        0.2        1.3        14
12,000 ton Juice Concentrate Plant         1    16.6        5.4       22.0       1.9        0.6        2.5         24
Walnut Processing
500 ton Hulling/Drying Centers         12    10.1         -       10.1        1.2         -         1.2         -
1,000 ton Hulling/Drying Centers          3     4.5         -         4.5       0.5         -0.5                  -
4,000 ton Export Center                   1     5.0        o.4        5.4       0.6        0.04       o.6          7
Transshipment Center                         1      0.4        -         0.4        0.05       -         0.05         -
Refrigerated Trucks                          3      0.9        -         0.9        0.1        -         0.1
Research - Apples and Walnuts                -      3.0       1.4        4.4        0.3       0.2        0.5         40
Mushroom Research and Pilot Scheme           -      3.3       0.8        4.1        0.4       0.1        0.5         20
Training and Technical Assistance            -     0.8        6.o        6.8        0.1       0.7        o.8         88
Working Capital                              -    48.0         -        48.0        5.5        -         5.5          -
Crop Loans                                   -    20.0         -        20.0       2.3         -         2.3          -
BASE COST ESTIfMATE                  160.4       17.5     177.9       18.3        2.0      20.3         10
Contingencies:  Physical (10% civil works          9.0        1.1       10.1       1.0        0.1        1.1         9
1/   and equipment):
Price-                           50.7        3.5       54.2       5.8        0.4        6.2         6
TOTAL EXPECTED PROJECT COST:               220.1       22.1    .242.2       25.1        2.5      27.6          9
1/ For foreign equipment at 7.5% for 1978 and 1979 and at 7% thereafter;
For local equipment at 7%; and For civil works at 7%.
April 23, 1978



INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Proiected PhaRing of Prniert  C0ftq
(US$ Million)
Indian Fiscal Year 1978/79   1979/80   1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84    Total
Apple Processing
Grading/Packing Centers                   -          0-3        0.8        1         0.9        0.3        3.4
Cold Storage Facilities                   -           -         0.1       0.6        1.0        0.7        2.4
Juice Concentrate Plant                   -           -         0.4        1.5       0.6         -         2.5
Walnut Processing
Hulling/Drying Centers                    -          0.1        0.5        0.5       0.4        0.2        1.7
Export Center                             -           -         0.2       0.4         -          -         0.6
Transhipment Center                           -         0.05        -          -          -          -        0.05
Refrigerated Trucks                          -          0.04       0.1         -          -         -         0.1
Research - Apples and Walnuts                -          0.1        0.2        0.1        0.1        -         0.5
c
Mushroom Research and Pilot Scheme            -         0.1        0.2        0.1        0.1         -        0.5
Training and Technical Assistance           0.2         0.2        0.2        0.1        0.1         -        0.8
Crop Loans                                   -           -         0.1        0.5        0.8       0.9        2.3
Permanent Working Capital              0.7         0.7        1.1       1.1        1.1        0.7        5.5
BASE COST ESTIMATE                  0.9         1.6       3.9        6.0        5.1        2.8       20.3
Physical Contingencies  1/                   -          0.1        0.3        0.3        0.2       0.2        1.1
Expected Price Increases  2/                 -          0.2        0.8        1.7       2.0        1.5        6.2
TOTAL EXPECTED PROJECT COST                 0.9         1.9        5.0        8.0       7.3        4.5       27.6
Rs Million Equivalent                       7.9        16.7       44.0       70.2      63.9       39.5      242.2         t 
1/ 10% of civil works and equipment.
2/ See Annex 2, Table 7.
April 23, 1978



INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Staff Positions in JKHPMC Read and Branch Offices
Managing  Department   Unit    Senior        Staff      Clerk/       Driver/      Total
Director  Director    Manager  Officer  Assistant  Secretary  Messenger  Positions
-------------------- ------- Number of Positions               --------- - -------------- - -
Office of the Managing Director                    1         -            -       -            1            1           1          4
Departments: Operations                            -         1            3        9           6            2           1         22
Finance and Budgeting                -         1            -       7           4             2           1         15
Marketing                            -         1            2       4            2            2           1         12
Branch Offices                  -         -           10       14           -           10          10         44
Administration                       -         1            -       2            2            1           1          7
Juice Plant                          -         1            3        3           4            2           -         13
Product Development                  -         1            -       -            1            -           -          2
Planning and Evaluation              -         1            _       _            1            -           -          2
Total Positions                    1        7           18       39          21            20          15        121
Staffing in 1978  2                  1        3             1       2            -            1           -          8
1979                    1        5            8       12           4             6           2         38
1980                   1         7           10       25          11            12           7         73
1981                   1         7           15       29          17            17          12         98
Full Staffing in 1982                     1         7           18       39          21           20          15        121
Monthly Wage Per Position    (Rs)           4,000    3,400         3,000   2,700        1,500           500         400
1/ JKHIPMC head and branch offices should be fully staffed in 1982.
2/ GOJK fiscal year, April 1 - March 31.
April 24, 1978                                                                                                                            1 .



- 66 -
ANNEX 3
INDIA                                              Table 2
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
JKHPMC Head and Branch Offices: Estimated Overhead Expenditure
1982
Indian Fiscal Year  1978       1979        1980        1981     Onward
  - ------- Rs '000 -        - --- -----
Staff Wages -                    (per annum)
Managing Director              48,000                   48        48         48          48        48
Department Directors           40,800                 122        204        286         286       286
Unit Managers                  36,000                   36       288        360         540       648
Senior Officers                32,400                  65        389        810         940    1,265
Staff Assistants               18,000                  -          72        198         306       378
Clerk.(Secretaries              6,000                    6        36         72         102       120
Driver/Messengers               4,800                   -         10         34          58        72
Subtotal Staff Wages                           277      1,047     1,808       2,280    2,817
Travel andi Per Diem 2/                                     73        243        387         480      623
Staff Development -                                         -      1,000      1,400       1,400       100
Office Rentals
Headquarters   4/                                       60       120        120         120       120
Branclh Offices -                                      -          60        120         210       300
Transshipinent Center                                       -         100       100         100       100
Refrigerat:ed Trucks 6/                                     -          10         30         30        30
Advertising and Promotion                                   -         200       400         400       500
Research and Development                     /              -          50       100         200       400
Administrative and Miscellaneous Expenses                  100        210        325         395      470
Contingencies (10%)                                         50        300        480        560       550
TOTAL                                          560      3,340     5,270       6,175    6,olo
1/ For staLffing, see Table 1.
2/ Based on assumption that 59 staff of senior officer level and above would travel
60 days each year at estimated cost of Rs 175/day including travel expenses.
3/ In-house training programi estimated at 200 man-months per year 1979-81, 50
man-morths thereafter, at Rs 2,000/man-month. Includes one year pre-operations salaries for key staff at,field units.
4/ Rental estimated at Rs 30,000 per annum; in some cities JKHPMC can share space in
other COJK offices for proportional fee. Branch offices open two each in
1979 and 1980, three eachk in 1981 and 1982.
5/ Operating Expenses: Staff Rs 80,000; miscellaneous overhead 20,000. Six
months operation.
6/ Refrigerated trucks (6X5-7 ton) are for experiment trials to be directed
by the Traffic Unit of the Operations Department. Operating expense
estimated at Rs 150/ton capacity.
7/ Communications, office, supplies, maintenance, etc.
8/ Amount attributable to juice plant is (Rs million): 1979, 0.2; 1980 and 1981, 0.4; 1982 onward, 0.3.
April 21, 1978



INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Apple Grading/Packing Centers: Estimated Operating Costs Per Unit
1,000 ton G/P Center               6,000 G/P Center -/
Operating Year                                                      1          2          3              1          2          3
% Capacity Utilization                                             25         75       100              25         75       100
------------------- - ,- Rs '000   ----- ---              -
Staff Wages                                                        98        124       128             191       263        296
Packing Materials
Shooks Produced by Sawmill -                                 -          -          -              -         475        475
Shooks Purchased  31                                          50       150        200            300        150        450
Nails, Straw, Paper  4/                                       11         33        44             66        198        264
Subtotal Packing Material                               61        183        244            366        723      1,189
Transportation 5/
Cull Fruit  6/                                                 1         4          5               8        22         30
Marketed Fruit 7/                                            135       405        540             802     2,154      2,701
Insurance  8/                                                  1          3         4               6        18         24
Subtotal Transportation                                137        412        549            816      2,194      2,755
Cold Storage Cost 9/                                               -          -          -              -         154        280
Repairs and Maintenance -/                                         11         12         12             30         35         38
Utilities and Miscellaneous                                         0.5        1          1.5            2          8         10
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                  307.5      732        934.5        1,405      3,477      4,568
Fruit Intake (20 kg boxes)                            12,500  37,500        50,000       75,000   225,000   300,000
Unit Cost (Rs/20 kg box)                                24.6      19.5         18.7         18.7       15.5       15.2
1/ With 1,000 ton cold storage capacity in year 2; 2,000 ton cold storage capacity in year 3.
2/ At cost, Rs 3.2/20 kg box. Based on two 20 kg boxes/ft 3/log/Rs 6 (Rs 450,000/150,000 boxes) plus Rs 25,000
miscellaneous operating expenses. For discussion of sawmill operations, see paragraph 3.10.
3/ At prevailing rate of Rs 5/20 kg box.
4/ Based on Rs 1.1/box, which assumes 10% discount (over prevailing rate) for bulk purchase.
5/ Transportation includes freight from roadhead to market destination via G/P center, all transit and handling
charges and is assumed for entire throughput.
6/ Delivery ftom G/P Center to juice processing plant at Rs 2/80 kg bag.
7/ All marketable fruit at 1,000 ton G/P Center and in year 1 of 6,000 ton G/P Center marketed direct by truck                          X
during peak season at average weighted cost of Rs 13.50/20 kg box.  Cold storage fruit  (50,000 boxes in year 2,
100,000 boxes in year 3) marketed post-season by truck at average weighted cost of Rs 8.70/20 kg box. Rail
shipments assumed for 5%, 10% and 15% of peak season marketed fruit from 6,000 ton facility in years 1, 2 and 3
respectively, at average weighted cost of Rs 10.70/20 kg box (Delhi, Bombay, Madras, Calcutta).
8/ Rs 0.10/20 kg box accident insurance.
9/ Operating costs of cold storage units. For details see Table 4.
10/ Structures, equipment and recyclable packing material at 1%, 3% and 5% of initial investment cost, respectively.
January 11, 1978



INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Cold Storage: Estimated Operating Costs Per Unit
1,000 ton Unit             2,000 ton Unit
(50,000 boxes)             (100,000 boxes)
--------------- Rs '000 -----
Staff Wages                                                           48.6                       77.4
Repairs and Maintenance
Structure 1/                                                      7.5                       13.9
Equipment 2/                                                     11.3                       20.1
Subtotal Repairs and Maintenance                            18.8                       34.0
Utilities 3/
Electricity 4/                                                   72                        144
Water and Fuel                                                    5                         10
Subtotal Utilities                                          77                        154
co
Insurance and Miscellaneous                                            10                        15
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS-                                     154.4                      280.4
Unit Cost (Rs/20 kg box)                                     3.1                        2.8
Note: 2,000 ton units are to be built in increments of 1,000 tons at seven of the ten grading/packing
centers; the remaining three centers will have 1,000 ton units. Full capacity utilization of the
cold storage units is assumed in the first year of storage operations.
1/ Based on 1% of initial investment cost.
2/ Based on 3% of initial investment cost.
3/ Based on ten months operation.
4/ For 2,000 ton unit, requirement of 1,920 kwh/day at Rs 0.25/kwh.
January 10, 1978



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
INDIA                                        Table 5
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Apple Grading/Packing Centers: Annual Income Projections
6,000 ton                       6,000 ton
1,000 ton              Grading/Packing Centers         Grading/Packing Centers
Grading/Packing Centers    With.2,000 ton Cold Storage         1,000 ton Cold Storage
3                                 3                    3
Operating Year                                     1       2   Onward             1         2    Onward                Onward
% Capacity Utilization                             25     75    100               25       75      100                  100
__________-- -__-- - - --- Rs '000---------                   
Revenue -/
JRPMCFresh Apples at Rs 2,900/ton 2          58    348    928              348       638      928                2,668
Consignment Apples  3/                       25    145    291              145       751   1,795                1,745
Custom Service Charges 3/                   180    405    270            1,080    1,792   1,662                 1,620
Cold Storage Apples  4/-                     -       -      -              -       2,050   6,232                 3,895
Culls at Rs 350/ton                          18      52     70             105       315     420                   420
Total Revenue                          281    950  1,559            1,678    5,546  11,037                10,348
Operating Expense
Apples Purchased by JKHMC 5/                 28    165    440              165       990   2,640                 2,640
Operating Costs 6/                          308    732    934            1,405    3,477   4,568                  4,442
Total Operating Expense                336    897  1,374            1,570    4,467   7,208                 7,082
Funds From Operations (loss)                      (55)    53    185              108    1,079   3,829                 3,266
Non-Operating Expense
Depreciation 7/                              74      81     84             146       265     352                   265
Interest:  On Long-Term Debt  8/             81      81     81             208       363     477                   363
On Short-Term Debt 9/            -        3       8               3       35       92                   46  10/
Total Non-Operating Expense            155    165    173              357       663     921                   674
Net Profit (Loss)                               (210)  (112)    12             (249)      416   2,908                 2,592
1/ Distribution of throughput is assumed as follows:                   Year 1    Year 2    Year 3 onward
JKHPMC Purchase Fruit       10%       20%           40%
Consignment Fruit          10%        20%           30%
Custom Service             80%        60X           30%
2/ Average weighted price according to expected intake of varieties, grade pack-out and assumed terminal markets.
./ Based on Rs 9/20 kg box packing materials and servicing fee, average weighted transport cost of
Rs 13.5 and Rs 8.7/20 kg box in peak and post seasons, respectively, and 3% commission fee on gross sale value.  In
6,000 ton G/P centers, includes cold storage fees for consignment and custom service fruit at Rs 1.5/20 kg box/month
for six months.
4/ Based on 5% spoilage and average weighted price of Rs 4,100/ton.
5/ Pre-harvest contracts for field-run apples at average weighted price of Rs 22/box (Rs 1,000/ton).
6/ For details refer to Table 3.
7/ At the rate of 5% on buildings, 10% on equipment, 33% on recyclable packing materials (based on throughput).
8/ 11% on capital investment cost.
9/ Required short-term borrowings for advance payments on JKHPHCpurchased fruit calculated at 50% of advances for
three months without storage, 50% of advances for six months with storage, at an annual rate of 14%.
10/ 25% of advance payments for six months.
January 16, 1978



- 70 -
INDIA
JAMMU-1ASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Juice Concentrate Plant: Estimated Operating Costs
Operating Year                                                      1                  2                 3
% Capacity Utilization                                            40                  80               100
Rs Millions  -
Raw Material -/                                                  1.8                 3.6               4.5
Chemi:als -2                                                      0.5                1.0               1.2
3/
Utilit:ies 3                                                      0.9                1.2               1.5
Staff Wages                                                       0.2                0.3               0.3
Packing Materials-/ 0.1                                                              0.2               0.3
Transportation -/                                                 0.1                0.2               0.2
Repair and Maintenance
Structures, Equipment and Vehicles 61                       0.4                0.4               0.4
Spare Parts Inventory                                       0.2                0.2               0.2
Subtotal Repair and Maintenance                         0.6                0.6               0.6
Administrative Expenses
Overhead                                                    0.2                0.3                0.4
Insurance                                                   0.1                0.1               0.1
Marketing, Research and Development                         0.3                 0.3               0.4
Contingencies (10%)                                         0.4                0.8               1.0
Subtotal Administrative Expenses                        1.0                1.5               1.9
TOTAL OPERATING COST                                        5.2                8.6               10.5
Concentrate Produced (tons)                                 600              1,200             1,500
Unit Cost Per Ton (Rs)                                    8,700              7,200             7,000
1/ Based on purchase price of Rs 350/ton delivered to factory; assumes 7% wastage
(full capacity - 12,850 tons).
2/ Filter pads, pectic enzyme, kieselguhr, sugar, etc.
3/ Based on estimated requirements at full capacity of 9       0    w at Rs 0.-/kwh,                          a x
3,600 tons coal at Rs 150/ton, 150,000 cumec water at Rs  .5/ cumec, and        tons fuel 
oil at Rs 1,000/ton.                                                                                       ohW
4/ Bullc or returnable containers for delivery to bottlers.
5/ Allowance of Rs 500/ton for export sales.
6/ 'Strctures, Equipment/Vehicles at 1% and 3% of initial investment cost, respectively.
April 23, 1978



INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Juice Concentrate Plant: Annual Income Projections
3
Operating Year                                                       1           2      Onward
% Capacity Utilization                                              40          80        100
Rs Millions--------
Revenue  -
Juice Concentrate at Rs 12,000/ton Ex-Factory                7.2        14.4       18.0
Apple Essence at Rs 35/kg                                    0.2         0.3        0.4
Dried Apple Pomace at Rs 0.30/kg                             0.3         0.6        0.8
Total Revenue                                          7.7        15.3       19.2
Operating Cost 2/                                                  5.2         8.6       10.5
Funds From Operations                                              2.5         6.7        8.7                              I
Non-Operating Expense
Depreciation  3/                                             1.5         1.5        1.5
Interest:  On Long-Term Debt -/                              2.1         2.1        2.1
On Short-Term Debt 5/                            0.1         0.1        0.2
Total Non-Operating Expense                            3.7         3.7        3.8
Profit (Loss) Before Tax                                          (1.2)        3.0        4.9
Profit After Tax (55%) 6/                                           -          3.0        2.2
1/ Full capacity production: 1,500 tons juice concentrate, 12 tons apple essence (surplus), 2,500
tons dried apple pomace.
2/ For details see Table 6.
T/ At the rate of 5% on buildings, 10% on equipment, 33% on recyclable packing materials (based on throughput).
4/ 11% on capital investment cost.
5/ Three months working capital for purchase of cull apples at annual interest rate of 14%.
6/ A tax holiday applies for a period of five years from commissioning of plant, after which annual
corporate profits are taxed at the rate of 55%.
7/ Year 6 onward.  See footnote 6.                                                                                          X
January 13, 1978



INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Walnut Processing Facilities: Estimated Operating Costs Per Unit
500 ton                  1,000 ton                     4,000 ton
Hulling/Drying Center    Hulling/Drying Center              Export Center
Operating Year                                                                2                     3           1       2 
% Capacity Utilization                                25        75    100        25       75      100          25      75      100
----------------------------- Rs '000 -------------------------------
Staff Wages                                           78        88      92      126      146      157         200     308      353
Packing Materials: Gunny Bags          2/               7       21      28        14      42       56          -       -        -
Inshell Nut Cases -               13        40     54        27       80     107          70      200      275
Kernel Cases  3/                   6        16     21        11       32      43         355   1,065   1,420
Subtotal Packing Materials    26          77    103        52     154      206         425   1,265   1,695
Transportation -/                                       3        9      12         6      19       25          25       75     100
Repairs and Maintenance                               14        14      14       25       25       25         106     106      106
Utilities and Miscellaneous -/                        25        45      65       50       90      130         280      330     450
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS          146       233    286       259     434      543       1,036   2,084   2,704
Intake (tons green nuts)       125       375    500       250     750   1,000        1,000   3,000   4,000
Unit Cost Per Kg (Rs)         1.16      0.62   0.57      1.03    0.57    0.54         1.03    0.69    0.67
1/ Based on Rs 3/50 kg bag; 50% of field collection requirement and total requirement for transportation of inshell nuts
to export center.
2/ Based on Rs 10/40 kg case (with nails, paper) for sale of inshell nuts on site.  At Export Center, Rs 7/20 kg case
(with nails, paper).
3/ Based on Rs 3.5/7-8 kg case (with glassine paper) for sale of kernels.
41 Fuel charges.  Transportation from roadhead to H/D Centers at Rs 25/ton green nuts.  For Export Center, transport
of inshell nuts from H/D Centers to plant site at Rs 25/ton.
5/ Structures and equipment/vehicles at 1% and 3% of initial investment cost, respectively.                                                w
6/ Electricity, water, chemicals, office supplies, etc.  Includes cost of cold storage unit (500 ton) at Export Center.
January 11, 1978



INDIA
JAMMU-XASHMIR HORTICULTUBE PROJEC
Walnut Processing Facilities:  Annual Income Projections
500 ton Hulling/Drying Center            1,000 tor. Hulling/Drying Center             4,ooO ton Export Center
Operating Year                                          1          2          3 onward           1          2           3 onward           1          2           3 onward
% Capacity Utilization                                25          75        100                 25         75         100                 25         75         100
Re 1n /                                            ---- ----~ ~~~~~------------------------------------   Rs   1,000   ----------------------------------------------------
Revenuel"R  100
JKiipMC Purchased Nuts
Sale Kernels at 15 R/Kg                           15          75        135                 30        135         285              1,890      8,565      15,180
Sale Inshell Nuts at 4 H/Kg                        -           -        172                  -          -         348                780      2,320       3,120
Consignment Nuts Sold on-site:                       3          34         83                  6         70         165                446        669           -
Custom Service Charge2/                             46         108         72                 91        214         142                  -          -           -
Inshell Nuts Delivered to Export Center/           162         480        642                318        960       1,281               -                    - 
Total Revenue                    226        697       1,104               445       1,379      2,221              3,116      11,554     18,300
Opratn  Epne                                                                                             60       1,0                3,0         9,0   /2,0
Nuts(gGreen) PUrchased by JXHPMC                    75         300        600                150        600       1,200              3,000      9,000      L2,000
Operating Costs   /                                146         233        286                259        434         543              1,036      2,084       2,704
Total Operating Expense          221        533         886               409       1,034      1,743              4,036      11,084     14,704
Funds From Operations                                   5        164        218                 36         345        478               (920)        470      3,596
Non-O erati&  E   ense
Depreciation 7                                      52          52         52                 96         96          96                380         380        380
Interest: On tong-Term Debt                         92          92         92                166        166         166                581        581          81
On Short-Term Debt 2                       5         21          42                 11         42          84                105        315         420
Total Non-Operating Expense      149        165         186               273         304        346              1,066       1,276       1,381
get Profit (IoVS)                                    (144)        (1)         32              (237)         41        132             (1,986)       (806)     2,215
Distribution of throughput is assumed as follows for Hulling/Drying Centers:        Year 1     Year 2      Year 3 onward
JKHPMC Purchased Nuts    30%        40%         60%%
Consignment Nuts        20%         20%        20%
Custom Service          50%         40%        20%
All throughput at the Export Center is assumed to be delivered by the H/D Centers; based on those deliveries, distribution is assumed as follows:
JKHPMNC Purchased Nuts    60%        80%       100%
Consignment Nuts        40%         20%          -
No attempt was made to estimate revenue from oil extraction of hull kernels, sale of shells or hulls.
J   Based on the following assumptions:           Commission          Packing Fee           Packing Material
Kernels       3% of Sales          Rs 2/Kg               Rs 3.5/7.8 Kg box (467/ton)
Inshell Nuts  3% of Sales          Rs 0.5/Kg             Rs 10/40 Kg box (250/ton)
Cold storage charge for consignment nuts at the Export Center is calculated at RS 200/ton/month for three months.
Transfer price to Export Center at Rs 3 Kg.
Pre-harvest contracts for green nuts at Rs 2/kg.
5 Nuts transferred from H/D Centers.
For details, see Table 8.
/ At the rate of 5% on buildings, 10% on equipment.
11% on capital investment cost.
/ Required short-term borrowings for advance payments requirement onJKRPMC purchased nuts calculated at 14% interest per annum for six months;
assumed for entire requirement (payment to growers) at H/D Centers, 50% of requirement for Export Center (payment to H/D Centers).
January 17, 1978



TNDIA
J7&tIM-KA9211     HOMICUCTU F. Pi3JECT
J1KPF4C Annual Ince Projeotiono 1'
(Rs Million)
PrJect Year           1         2          3         4          5         6          7         8          9         10         11        12         13        14        15         16           7       18         19        Po
Indian Fiscal Year 1918/79   1979/80   1980/81   l9f1/82   1932/83   1983/84   1984/85   195/86   1986/L8   1997/88   1988/B9   198/90   1990/91  1991/9P   1992/93   1993 94   1994/95   1990/96   1996/97   1997/98
1.000 ton Apple OradisgjTAcking Ce-ter-    -           -         -          1.1        5.5      13.i      20.3       2.4       23.4       '3.4        23.4     234       23.4      23.4       23.4        23.4    23.4         23..4      23.4     23.4
6,003 too Apple Grading/Packlsg Centere   -               -      5.0       P3.3        8o03     93.8      108.2     108.       1 208.3   138.2       108.2    108.p      08.2      108.P     108.2       178.2   108.2        108.2      108.2    108.2
JuIe- Oonce-teate float 5/                   _-                               -         7.7      15.3       09.0      19.2       19.2       .9.2       19.2     19.2      19,2      19.2       19.2        19.2    19.2         19.2       19.2     19.2
500 too W.3lt lialingatfryisg Centere 2/   _           -        0-7         2.8        6.1       9.4      1P.0       13.2       13.2      13.3        13..2     3.       132       13.2       13.2        1       1.2    .3.2  13.2       13.2     13.2
1,000 ton Welast Hulline/Dlyetg Clntern _   -          -        0.4         1.8        4.0       R.         6.7       6,7        6.7       6.7         6.7      6. 1      6.7       6.7        6.7         6.7     6.7          6.7        6.7      6.7
Walnut Ecport. Processing Center             _         -         _          3.1        11.6     18.3       18.3      18.3       18.3 3 3  18.3      8L.3       18,3      18.3      18.3       18_         18.3    18.3         18.3       18.3     18.3
TPtal Revenue                          -          -        6.i        32,1       95.2    155.9      184.7      189.0      _89.0     189.0 189.0    189.      0    189.0      189.0      189.0       189.0   189.0        189.0      189.0    189.0
Operating 9spe--e 7/
RPe  Materiel:  Purcihoed Fruit 8            _         _        0.5         3.7       13.2      24.3      31.6       33.0       33.0      33.0        33.0     33.0      33.0      33.0       33.0        33.0    33.0         33.0       33.0     33.0
P-rIh-ed lots  9             -         -         0.4        4.9        13.9     19.7       21.9      22.8      P2.8        22.8       22.8      22.8     22.8       22.8      22.8        22.8    22.8          22.8      22.8      22.8
Operating Costa1
1,000 I - Apple G/P Centere  /         -          _         -          1.0        4.8       9.7      13.0       14,0      13.0       14.0       14.o      14.o      10.0      18..       14.o 14 .0         14.3          14.o       i4.o     14.0
6,0Oo tot Apple G/P Centers                                4,2        i6.i       31.0      42.4      45.3       45.3      45.3       45.3        45.3     45.3      45.3      45.3       07.3       05.3   84.3           45.3       45.3     45.7
JOtipo Conceenrnte Plant i/             _            _      -_          -         5.2       8.6       10.5      10.5      10.5       10.5       10.5      13.5      10.5      10.7       10.5        10.5     10.5        10,5       10.5        0
500 ton Walnut L/D Centers  12/ .                 -        0.4         1.1        2.0       2.9       3.3        3.4        3.4                   3.4 .     .9       3.8       3 3.8 3.8 3.4                  3.8 3.4                 3.4
1,000 ton Walnut 8/D Canters 1/ -/                         0.3         0.7        1.2       1.5       1.6        0.6       1.6        1.6         1.6      1.6       1.6       1.6        1.6         1.6     1.6          1.6        1.6      1.6
Wals1ut kport -roceaalog Costar12/                -         -          1.0        2.1       2.7       2.7        2.7       2.7        2.1         2.7      2.7       2.7       2.7        2.7         2.7     2.7          2.7        2.7      2.7
JRHPMC Head asd Bronch OfficesM  1     o3.6      3.3       56 6.2                                                           6.0       6.0         6.;       6.0      6 o        6.o       6.o         6.o 60    o           6.o       6.o       6.o
T        -tal OPerating krpenis        O.6       3.3      11.1       34.9        80.2    117.8      135.9     139.3      139.3      113.3      039.1    139.3    139.3       139.3      139.3      139.3   139.3         139.3     139.3    139.3
Funds FPes  Operat-on (Loss)               (0.6)     (3.3)     (1.0)       (2.8)      ]5.0      38.0      48.8       49.7      49.7       49.7        49.7     49.7     49.7       49.7       49.7       49.7    49.7          49.7       49.7     49.7
SNo-Operating Expense 1                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      i 
Leprecienlos                           -        0.1        0.8        2.7         6.1      7.4       7.4        7.4        7.4        7.8        7.4       7.4      7.4        7.4        7.4        7.4      7.4          7.4        7.4      7.4
_sntrest no Long-Terr Zsrrso- sg       -        0.4       2.5         6.5         9.4     10.5      10.5       10.3        9.9       9.4         9.0       9.0     10.7       11.9      11.6        10.7      9.6          8.3       6.9       5.3
Ioterest. on Short-Tens Loans          -         -         -          0.4         1.2      1.9       2.2        0.3        2.3       2.3         2.3       2.3      0.3        2.3       2.3         2.3      2.3          0,3       2.3       2.3
Total Non-Opernting Epen-se            _         0.5       3.3        9.6        16.7     19.8      23.1       20,0       i9.6       19.1       18.7      18.7     20.4       21.6       21.3       2o.4    19.3          19.0       16.6     15.0
Profit (Loee) Before  eax                 (3.6)      (3.8)     (8.3)     (12X)/       (1:740    1864j    28.7       249,,,     30.1       30.6       31.0      31.0    2P9,1 14.1            3864 7.29,R    0,3.4 031.7                  33.3     3428L
Tao (55%)                                                                                -      101      15.8        16.3      16.6       16.8        17.,0    17.02    16.1 l     "2,        01.6        16.1    16.7         17.,4      1_.2._   19.1
Profit After Tao                             -         _         -           _           -      8.2      12.9       13.4       13.1       13.6       14.0      i4,0     13.2       12.7       12.        13.2    13.7          14.3       14.9     15.6
4/  Figures in this table Are aggregates der-i-d from the ph0tng in of facilities  n nhOss in the OapOm-entAtios Schedule (A-eo 1, T7,c at capeity utlliza.in.
ratee referred to in pare 6.01.
-See Fostnot  1.  2efeences  to tabl_s  sotng nisol locono 2r5100ttot per u n t   . as   notnO.
3   See Tble 5.
i/'  I     -cldes cld etor.ge operation  (17,000 ton -np-nity At full developenet).  See Table 7.
5/ Sea Ta].e '7.
/  Sea Tbsle 9.
7/   See  -sstnoto 1. hefer-ces-  t  tabl-e  howing opernting expeses- per onit are as noted.
-/ See Table 5.
9/  See Tibia 9.
4j/ I-aludeA cold stsrage nperatton (17,000 ton tapacity at 1ull4 deelsopeoe3. Tee Tnble 3.
l/  See Table 6.
4/  Tee Table 8.
/   See Table 2.
See Footnotes 0 and 2.
Apr1i 23, 19(6



LNDIA
JAMMU-KA3HITN I ORTICUTTURE PROJECT
JKRFMC Canh Flow Projections  and Financial Rate of Retur
(Re Million)
Indian Fiscal Year 1978/79
Project Year       1       2       3       4          5       6         7        8         9        10       11       12      13        14       15        16      17        18       19    _20
I.  Cash Inflow
(1)  Revenues                                     -        -     6.1      32.1      95.2   155.9    184.7    189.0    189.0    189.0    189.0   189.o   189.0    189.0   189.0    189.0   189.0    189.0   189.0   189.0
Long-Tern Borrowings                         -       4.0   17.8      36.1      25.4      9.9       -        _         _        -         o.6      3.4    11.6      10.1      3.1       -
(2)  Equity                                      6.o      6.o   10.0      10.0      10.0      6.o 0                         
Total Cash Inflow                          6.o    10.0   33.9       78.2     130.6   171.8    194.7    189.0    189.0    189.0    189.6   192.4   800.6    199.0   192.1    189.0   189.0    189.0   189.0   189.0
Cash Outflow
(3)  Capital Tnvestment Cost                     0.1      4.0   18.9      36.4      26.o      9.9       -        -         -        -         9.9      4.8              _ 16.3    4.4      -        -                 -        -
(4)  Operating Eopenses   J                      0.6      3.3   11.1      34.9      80.2   117.8    135.9    139.3    139.3    139.3    139.3   139.3   139.3    139.3   139.3    139.3   139.3    13t9.3   139.3   139.3
Debt Service on Long-Tern  Borrowings 3/    -        o.4    2.5       6.5       9.4    10.5      10.5      l3.8      13.8     13.8      13.9    i4.4    16.7       13.6    19.1      19.1    20.8      20.8    20.3    20.8
Interest us Short-Tens Loans  i/             _        -      -        0.4       1.2      1.9      2.2       2.3       2.3      2.3       2.3     2.3      2.3       2.5     2.3       2.5      5.3      2.3      2.3      2.3
Tao 2/                                       _               - _                 -      10.1    1i.8       16.3      i6.6     16.8      17.0    17.0    16.1       i5.4    15.6      16.1    16.7       17.4    18.2    19.1
Dividend  6                                  _       _                           -       4.8      4.8       4.8       4.8      4.8       4.8      4.8     6S.8      4.8      4.8      6      .8                    3      4 6
Total Cash Outflow                         0.7      7.7   32.5      78.2     i16.8   155.0    169.2    176.5    176.8    177.0    178.2   182.6   195.7    194.7   185.5    i8l.6   183.9    134.6   185.4   136.3
Net Cash Flow                                    5.3      2.3    1.4      _          13.8    16.8      15.5     12_       12.2     12.0      11.4      9.8     4.9       4.3      6.6        .4     5.1       L,4      3.6     2.7
Cosonlative Net Cash Plow                        s,3      7.6    9.0       9.0      22.8    39.6      55.1      67.6      79.8     91.8    103.2   113.0   117.9    L?2.8   12b.8    136.2   i6i.9    14S.7   169.3   152.0
IT.  Financial Rate of Return
Net Benefits (tet estiLaate)                     (6.7)  (13.3) (33.9.'  (49.2)    (21.0)   22.2    48.8         49.7      49.7      49.7     48.8    44,9    33.2       35.4    45.3       49.7    49.       65.7    49.7   112.72/
(1) 7   -   -()- (4J 
Physical Contiagencies                             -      0.9    1.8       3.5        1.7     1.7       _ -           -              -        0.1      0.5      1.4      1.1      3.4       -        -        -
Bet Benefits tInluding
Physical Contingencies                           (6.7) (14.2) (35.7)   (52.7)    (22.7)   20.5        48.8    419.7       49.7     69.7      48.7    44.4    31.8                4.9 49            49.7      49.7    49.7   1.?.7
7./
Fitancial Rate of Return   = 22?
9/ See Table lu.
2 See Table 10.
3/ 11% interest per anton with two-year grace peri.d,
_F/ For peak working capital requirements. See Table 10.
5/ A tax holiday applies for a period of five yearn afterr whict  opoarateo Prfita are taxed at  ata of               Sea Table Lo.   - 
9/ At the rate of 10% on the face value of the equity shares of Rs 48 .0 million.
7/ Financial IRB to total invastment, calculated on funds fron operations (profit before intere-t and taxes).
2/ Inoludes aalvage value of physical asoeta RB 15 nillion and permanent workign caPital (RB 48 million).
April 23, 1978



- 76 -                            ANNEX 4
INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement 1!
US$ Millions
IDA Fiscal Year               Disbursements              Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                   During Quarter               at end of Quarter
1979/80
December 31                        0.1                              0.1
March 31                           0.1                              0.2
Jiune 30                           0.1                              0.3
1980/81
September 30                       0.2                              0.5
December 31                        0.3                              0.8
Ma.rch 31                          0.3                              1.1
Ju.ne 30                           0.3                              1.4
1981/82
September 30                       0.9                              2.3
December 31                        1.0                              3.3
March 31                           1.0                              4.3
June 30                            1.0                              5.3
19B2/83
September 30                       1.0                              6.3
December 31                        1.5                              7.8
March 31                           1.0                              8.8
June 30                            0.8                              9.6
19133/84
September 30                       0.8                             10.4
December 31                        1.3                             11.7
March 312                          1.3                            13.0
June 30 -                         1.0                             14.0
1/ Assumes credit effectiveness by September 30, 1978.
2/ Assumes proJect completion by December 31, 1983 and
credit closing on June 30, 1984.
April 23 , 1978



- 77 -                          ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Variable Production and Unit Costs for One Acre Apple Orchard -/
Quantity   Rate          Annual Cost         Unit Cost
A.  Labor Operations                     (Man-days)  (Rs)         Per Operation   Per 20 kg box
Pre-Harvest
Cultivation                           25       8/m-d             275              1.1
Pruning                               20      12/m-d             240              1.0
Dormant Spraying                       2      12/m-d              25              0.1
Disease Spraying                   14-18      12/m-d             200              0.8
Fertilizer Application                 8      10/m-d              80              0.3
Subtotal Pre-Harvest            71                         820              3.3
Harvest
Watch and Ward                       210    100/mo/5ac           140              0.6
Bird Watch                           120    100/mo/ac            400              1.7
Picking  2/                           12       1 box             300              1.2
Sort/Pack                              8      0.8/box            240              1.0
Bearer                                12      0.2/box             60              0.2
Subtotal Harvest               362                      1,140               4.7
Total Labor Operations         433                       1,960              8.0
B. Materials
Pre-Harvest
Dormant Spray                     1 applic.                      250              1.1
Disease Sprays  3/                6 applic.                      720              3.0
Fertilizers  4/                   5 kg/tree                      250              1.1
Subtotal Pre-Harvest                                     1,220              5.2
Harvest
Boxes                                240        5/box          1,200              5.0
Paper                             200 gr/box  0.8/box            190              0.8
Straw                        bundle/4 boxes  0.25/box             60              0.3
Nails                              50 gr/box  0.20/box            50              0.2
Subtotal Harvest                                        1,500               6.3
Total Materials                                          2,720             11.5z
TOTAL VARIABLE PRODUCTION AND UNIT COSTS                       4,680             19.5
1/ Assuming 100 bearing trees yielding 300 (20 kg) boxes, including 20% culls; unit
costs based on 240 boxes marketable fruit.
2/ Crew of three workers pick 40 boxes per day, pack 25 boxes per day.  Includes carriage
from orchard to roadhead a minor distance in the project area as most orchards align roads.
3/ Primarily for scab (government subsidized program), also for sanjose scale.
4/ Recommended dosage per tree of 2 kg urea at Rs 1.8/kg, 2 kg DAP at Rs 2.25/kg, and 1 kg
MOP at Rs 0.85/kg.
February 6, 1978



-78-                                         ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDIA
JA)U-RKASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Economic Benefits to Apple Growers at Full Project Development
(Rs/20 kg box)
Conventional Marketing                     JKHPMC Marketing
Pre-Harvest   Commission   Coopera-        Pre-Harvest   Consign-    Custom
Grower Marketing Through:                 Contract         Agent         tive        Contract         ment       Service
Wholesale Price (Delhi) 1/                    40             40           40             44            44           44
Less: Transit Charges   2/                     8.7            8.7          8.7            8.2           8.2          8.2
Pre-Harvest Contractor's
Margin  3/                          2.3            -            -              -             -            -
Commission Fee  4/                      2.4            2.4          1.6            -              1.4          2.7
Service Fee                             -              -            1.0            3.0            3.0          3.0
Packing Materials  5/                   6.3            6.3          6.3            6.0           6.0          6.0
On-farm Costs  6/                      13.2           13.2         12.2            12.2          12.2         12.2
Gross Return to Grower
From Marketable Apples                  7.1             9.4        10.2           14.6           13.2        11.9
From Cull Apples 7/                     -              -            -              1.2           1.2          1.2
Total Gross Return To Grower                   7.1            9.4         1002           15.8          14.4         13.1
_                                                                                       ________.__________________________________________________________________--- - --------------------------------
% Growers Using Marketing System               65%            28%          7%             40%           30%          30%
Weighted Average Return to All Growers                        7.9                                      14.6
Incremental Benefit to Growera
Marketing Through JRHPMC
Per 20 kg box                                          -                                         6,7
Per ton                                                                                          335
tncremental Benefits to Growers at Full Project Development  8/                                       20.1 million
V1 Weighted bv grade and variety; assumes 10% premium for apples graded and packed by JEIIPMC.
2/ Freight (truck) and forwarding charges.
B/ Estimated at 10% of wholesale price.
4/ 6% and 4% of wholesale price through agent and cooperatives, respectively, under conventional system;
3% and 6% through consignment and custom service, respectively, by JRHPMC marketing.
5/ For details, see Annex 5, Table 1 and Annex 3, Table 3 (JKHPMC).
6/ For details, see Annex 5,, Table 1. The pre-harvest contractor is responsible for all labor operations,
grading, packing and materials during harvest which he deducts from advances or pays the grower for
supplyirLg. With JKHPMC marketing, farmers will pick thle fruit, but grading, packing materials and packing
will be done by JKHPMC.
7/ Based or. Rs 300/ton and assuming one-fifth box of culls would be sold to JKHPMC (which would buy field-run
apples) for every one box marketable fruit.
8/ Based on 60,000 tons marketable fruit at JKHPMC full capacity operations.
February 15, 1978



INDIA
JAMMU-KASHKIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Estimated Economic Rate of Return to JKHPMC Apple Trading
(Rs millions)
COSTS                                        BENEFITS
Capital       Permanent                           Technical                                                             INCREMENTAL
Project     Investment in   / Working    Operating   JKHPMC 5  Assist. and   TOTAL   JKHPMC            NET       Future Without             NET
Year       Physical Assets    Capital       Costs J   Overhead   Training ,  COSTS   Revenue 7    BENEFITS   Project Benefits  /    BENEFITS
1 (78/79)         0.1            4.8            -         0.5        o.4         5.8                  (5.8)                                 (5-8)
2                 3.1            4.8                      2.6        0.5        11.0       -          (11.0)             _                 (11.0)
3                 9.3            4.8           4.2        3.9        o.4        22.6      5.0         (17.6)            2.1                (19-7)
4                16.3            4.8          17.3        4.6        o.4        43.4     24.4         (19.0)            9.7                (28.7)
5                17.7            4.8          36.6        4.6          0        63.7     65.8          2.1             21.2                (19.1)
6                 9.0            4.8          52.1        4.6          0        70.5    107.1          36.6            30.8                  5.8
7                   0              0          58.3        4.6          0        62.9   128.5          65.6             34.8                 30.8            1
8-11                0              0         59.3         4.6          0       63.9    131.6          67.7             35.4                 32.3
12                3.3              0          59.3        4.6          0        67.2    131.6         64.4             35.4                 29.0
13                9.3              0          59.3        4.6          0        73.2    131.6         58.4             35.4                 23.0
14                9.5              0         59.3         4.6          0        73.4    131.6         58.2             35.4                 22.8
15                3.2              0          59.3        4.6          0        67.1    131.6         64.5             35.4                 29.1
16-19               0              0          59.3        4.6          0        63.9   131.6          67.7             35.4                 32.3
20               (7.0)         (28.8)         59.3        4.6          0        28.1    131.6         103.5            35.4                 68.1
Economic Rate of Return = 22%
./ Includes grading/packing facilities, transshipment center and refrigerated trucks, with 10% physical contingencies for civil works and
equipment (equipment replacement in years 12-15). Taxes 8nd duties excluded. Foreign exchange is valued at Rs 10_ US$ 1 reflecting an
estimated standard conversion factor for India of 0.88.
2/ Estimated salvage value of buildings and land.
3/ Apportioned at 80% of JKHPMC permanent working capital requirements; full salvage in year 20.                                                          13
4/ From Annex 3, Table 10 operating costs for apple G/P centers (includes cold storage).                                                                   a 
5/ Apportioned at 80% of JRHPMC headquarters and branch office annual expenditure, after deducting amount attributable to the juice plant.                 X X
For  details see Annex 3, Table 2.                n      i   a
/ Technical assistance and training within JKHPMC attributable to apple camponent. See Annex 2, Table 6). Foreign exchange adjusted as in iootnote 1.
7/ Annex 3, Tables 5 and 10.
8/ At Rs 11.8 per 20 kg box or 590/ton, sum of gross return to grower, pre-harvest contractor's margin and commission
agent fees. See Annex 5, Table 2.
February 14, 1978



- 80 -                     ANNEX 5
-80-                          Table 4
INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
I.  Variable Production and Unit Costs for 10 Walnut Trees  -/
Quantity      Rate      Annual Cost   Unit Cost
Labor Operations                         (man-days)   (Rs/m-d)       (Rs)         Per Kg
Pre-Harvest: Watch and Ward                  90       200/mo/ac       195           0.9
Harvest: Thrashing                           15            15         225           1.0
Collection and Bagging             10             5           50           0.2
Hulling/Washing                    15             7          105           0.5
Drying                              7             7           50           0.2
Transport  2/                       1            15           15           0.1
Subtotal Labor Operations        138                        700          2.9
Materials
Harvest:  Bags (50 kg)                        6       Rs5/bag          30           0.1
Subtotal Materials                                           30          0.1
TOTAL VARIABLE AND UNIT PRODUCTION COSTS:                           730           3.0
II. Return to Growers (Rs/ton)
Inshell Nuts         Kernels
Wholesale Price -/(Bombay)                   6,600              21,100
Less:  Transportation Orchard to Bombay        920                 920
Commission Fee  4/                     400               1,300
Pre-harvest Contractor's Margin -    990                  -
Packing Materials  6/                  350                 500
Shelling Cost                           -                1,000
Processing Cost  7/                  33,000
RETURN TO GROWER  8/                      940               14,380
11 Assuming ten trees yielding 30 kg nuts/tree of which 25% are cull or spoiled
during hulling, washing, drying; unit costs based on 225 kg marketable nuts
(inshell).
2/ Carriage from trees to hulling/washing/drying location, usually by horsecart.
3/ Average weighted price by grade and variety based on three year trend for
domestic sales.
4/ At 6% wholesale value.
5/ Estimated at 10% of wholesale value.
6/ For details see Annex 3, Table 0,
7/ Pre-harvest contractors perform all processing (harvest, hulling, washing,
drying, etc.) and the grower incurs virtually no cost.
8/ See footnote 7. Approximately 65% of all growers sell their crop (green nuts)
to pre-harvest contractors. Growers who process their crop and sell to
commission agents are able to elimate the pre-harvest contractor's margin and sell
a portion of their crop more profitably as kernels,
February 15, 1978



ANNEX 5
- 81 -                                            Table 5
INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Walnut Processing:  Economic Benefits at Full Project Development-/
(kRs ton)
Existing and Future Without Project    With Project at Full Development
Inshell Nuts             Kernels         Inshell Nuts           Kernels
Export Price - CIF London 2/                        7,900                   21,700             8,f003              23,900
Less: Ocean Freight and Insurance                   1.600                    1,700             1,600                1,700
FOB Bombay Price                                    6,300                   20,000             7,100              22,200
Less: Port Charges, Handling and Fumigation           100                      100               100                  100
Transportation Orchard to Bombay                900                      900               900                 900
Commission Fees  3/                             340                   1,100                200                 600
Packing Costs                                   350                      500               350                 500
Shelling Costs                                   -1,000                                     -                   -
Processing Cost  4/                           3,000                    3,000             1,100               2,600
Economic Value in Production Area                   1,610                   13,400             4,450               17,500
Inshell Nuts              Kernels
Incremental Economic Benefit (Rs/kg)                 2.8                      4.1
Project Throughput at Full Capacity Operations             5
(tons)                                            5,300 -                 1,000
Incremental Economic Value of Throughput (Rs)    16.9 million- (A)            4.1 million (B)
TOTAL INCREMENTAL ECONOMIC BENEFIT AT FULL
PROJECT DEVELOPMENT (Rs):                                   20,8 million
(A+B)
l/ Evaluated at export parity prices based on a three-year trend and expressed at October 1977 levels, with foreign ex-
change valued at Rs 10 - US$1, reflecting an estimated standard conversion factor for India of 0.88. All
taxes and export incentives have been omitted.
2/ Average weighted prices by grades. Assumes lOX premium for improved quality with the project.
3t At 6% FOB value (unadjusted) without project, 3Z with project.
X  For details see Annex 5, Table 4 and Annex 3, Table 9.  footnote 2. With project processing costs include
three months cold storage.  In without project situatIon, pre-harvest contractors or commission agents perform
all processing (harvest, hulling, washing, drying, etc.) and the farmer incurs virtually no cost.
5/ The project would salvage approximately 1,300 tons of walnuts by improved processing that otherwise would have
been wasted (no economic value). They are valued at an inshell nuts economic price of Rs 4.4/kg. The remaining
4,000 tons are valued at the incremental economic value of Rs 2.8/kg.                            -
Februarv 15, 1978



INDIA
JAMOlJ-KASHMIR HORTICULTUIRE PROJECT
Estimated Economic Rate of Return toJKHPMC Walnut Trading
(Rs miliions)
COSTS                                          BENEFITS
Capital        Permanent                             Technical                                                                  INCREMENTAL
Project            Investment in       Working    Operating    JRHPMC        Assist. and    TOTAL   JKHpMC           NET       Future Without               NET
Year              Physical Assets j Capital  /   Costs         Overhead  / Training       / COSTS   Revenue  7/  BENEFIT    Project Benefit   /          BENEFIT
1 (78/79)              -             1.2           -            0.1         0.4            1.7        -         (1,7)              _                    (1.7)
2                     1.1            1.2           -            o.6         0.4            3.3        -         (3.3)              -                    (3.3)
3                     6.2            1.2          0.7           1.0         0.4            9.5       1.1        (8.4)            1.2                    (9.6)
4                     8.1            1.2          2.8           1.2        04            13.7       6.1         (5.6)           4.8                   (1o.4)
5                     3.7            1.2          5.3           1.1           0           11.3      20.3         9.0             9.6                    (o.6)
6                     1.8            1.2          7.1           1.1           0           11.2      36.1        24.9            14.0                    10.9
7                       0              0          7.6           1.1           0            8.7      39.6        30.9            16.6                    14.3
8-11                    0              0          7.7           1.1           0            8.8      40.8        32.0            17.4                    14.6
12                   2.0               0          7.7           1.1           0           10.8      40.8        30.0            17.4                    12.6
13                    6.2              0          7.7           1.1           0           15.0      4o.8        25.8            17.4                     8.4         1
14                   2.0               0          7.7           1.1           0           10.8     40.8         30.0            17.4                    12.6         X
15                    1.3              0          7.7           1.1           0           10.1      40.8        30.7            17.4                    13.3         1
16-19                   0              0          7.7           1.1           0            8.8      40.8        32.0            17.4                    14.6
20                   (3.0)  v        (7.2)        7.7           1.1           0           (1.4)    40.8         42.2            17.4                    24.8
Economic Rate of Return  =   31%
/ Includes 10% contingencies for civil works and equipment. Taxes and duties excluded. Foreign exchange is valued at Rs 10 - US$ 1
reflecting an estimated standard conversion factor for India of 0.88.
g Estimated salvage value of buildings and land.
3 Apportioned at 20% of JBHJ'MC permanent working capital requirements; full salvage in year 20.
From Annex 3, Table 10.
/ Apportioned at 20% of JKHIZMC headquarters and branch office annual expenditure, atter deducting amount attributable to the juice plant.
For details see Annex 3  Table 2.
/ Technical assistance and training within TKffPMC attributable to walnut component (See Annex 2, Table 6). Foreign exchange valued as in footnote 1.                 m
F From Annex 3, Table 10.  Revenues from Export Processing Center are adjusted by the estimated standard
conversion factor for India of  .88.
/ At Rs 2/kg nuts, Rs 15.7/kg kernels, sum of gross return to grower, pre-harvest contractor's margin and conmission agent fees.
See Annex 5 , Table 4.
February 14, 1978



IND1A
JAMMU-KASRMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Juice Concentrate Plant: Estimated Economic and Financial Rates of Return
(Rs millions)
I.  Financial Rate of Return                                  COSTS                                           BENEFITS
Capital Investment            Permanent       Operating       TOTAL                             r
in Physical Assets        W Working Capital     Costs    3t  COSTS        Revenues  3/    BENEFIT
Project Year      I (79|80)            v                            - _              2            0.2                           (0.2)
2                        3.1                     4.0             0.4            75(7.5)
3                       14.3                     4.0             0.4           18.7           -              (187)
4                        5.5                     45              .5           15.0          7.7              (7.3)
5                          0                                    8.9            8.9         15.3               6.4
6-i2                       0                       0            10.8           10,8         19.2               8.4
13-14                     7.5                       0            10.8           18.3         19.2               0.9
15-19                       0                       0            10.8           10.8         19.2               8'4
20                       (5.0)                  (12.0)           10.8           (6.2)        19.2              25.4
Financial Rate of Return        18%
II. Economic Rate of Return
Project Year ~ 1 (79/80)-                    -                      -              0.2            0.2            -              (0.2)
2                         2.4   /                 4,0             0.4            6.8            -              (6.8)
3                        12.6                     4.0             0.4           17.0           -              (17-0)
4                         4.3                     4.0             4.5           12.8           7.7             (5-1)
5                           0                       0             6.8            6.8         15.3               8.5
6-12                        0                       0             8.2            8.2          19.2             11.0
13-14                      6.8                       0             8.2           15.0         19.2               4.2
15-19                         0                      0             8.2            8.2          19.2             11.0
20                        (5.0)                  OP.0)             8.2            (8.8)        19.2             28.0
Economic Rate of Return   - 26
p;/ Equipment replacement in years 14 and 15; estimated salvage value in year 20.
@y7 From Annex 3, Table 6, and Anex 3, Table 2, footnote 8.
2/ From Annex 3, Table 7.                                                                                                                             >4
- 5  Includes 10% physical contingencies; foreign exchange is valued at Rs 10    US$ 1 reflecting an estimated standard
conversion factor for India of 0.88. Taxes and duties excluded.
2/ Operating costs adjusted to reflect an economic value of Rs 150/ton for cull apples, representing the estimated
cost of handling and transportation from orchard to plant. At present, there is no alternative use of cull apples.
April 23, 1978



INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(Rs Million)
Indian FY 1978/79
Project Year      1      2       3      4       5        6        7      8-10     11      12     13        14      15     l6-i9    20
JKHPMC Investment                     6.1    10.2   21.5   30.4   27.4    16.8         -                -       5.3    15.5    11.5     4.5       -    (46.o)
Juice Plant Investment   /             -      -        2.4  ip.6    4.3       -                -        -       -       6.8     6.8      -        -    (17.0)
Other Project Costs V                 2.0     5.3     8.8   10.0    11.2    10.4       -       -       -        -       -       -       -         -      -
JKHPMC Operating Costs                o.6     3.2     9.8   25.9   47.6   64.9    71.6   72.7   72.7   72.7   72.7   72.7   72.7   72.7   72.7
Juice Plant Operating Costs            -      0.2      0.4    0.4     4.5     6.8      8.2     8.2      8       8.2     8.2     8.2    - 8.2     8.2    8.R
Total Costs                      8.7    18.9   42.9  79.3   95.0   98.9    79.8   80.9    80.9    86.2  103.2    99.2    85.4   80.9   17.9
Benefits
JRHPMC Revenues  6/                    -      -       6.1  32.5   86.1  143.2    168.1  172.4  172.4  172.4   172.4   172.4   172.4  172.4  172.4
Juice Plant Revenue  V                 -      -        -              . 7.7    15.3    19.2    19.2   19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2    19.2   19.2    19.2
Total Benefits                    -      -        6.1  32.5    93.8  158.5   187.3  191.6  191.6   191.6   191.6   191.6   191.6  191.6  191.6
Net Benefit Stream                        (8.7) (18.9)   (36.8) (46.8)   (1.2)   59.6    107.5  110.7  110.7   105.4   88.4    92.4  106.2   110.7  173.7
Future Without Project Benefits    /       _               3.3   14.5    30.8   44.8      51.4    52.8   52.8   52.8   52.8    52.8    52.8   52.8   52.8
Net Incremental Benefits                  (8.7)  (       (40.1) (61.3)  (32.0)   14.8     56.1   57.9   57.9    52.6    35.6    39.6    53.4    57.9  120.9
Economic Rate of Return 0 21%
j Capital investment in physical assets and permanent working capital, with estimated salvage value of buildings and land (Rs 10 million) and
full salvage of working capital (Rs 36 million) in year 20. For details and explanation of adjustments, see Annex 5, Table 3 and 6, and
paragraph 7.03.
2  Capital investment in physical assets and permanent working capital, with estimated salvage value of buildings and land (Rs 5 million) and
full mlvage of working capital (Rs 12 million) in year 20. For details and explanation of adjustments, see Annex 5, Table 7, and paragraph 7.03.
/ Crop loans, research, training and technical assistance.
From Annex 5, Table 3 and 6.
5/ From Annex 5, Table 7.
For details  see Annex 3, Table 10 and Annex 5, Tables 3 and 6. Revenues from the Walnut Export Processing Center have been adjusted by the
estimated standard conversion factor for India of 0.88 (see Annex 5, Table 6).
7/ From Annex 3, Table 7-
For details, see Annex5 , Table 3 and 6.
April 23, 1978



- 85 -                       ANNEX 6
INDIA
JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Reports Relating to the Project
1. Agricultural Finance Corporation. "Integrated Horticultural Development
and Products Processing Project for Jammu and Kashmir State, India"
January 1976.
2. Agricultural Finance Corporation. "India: Jammu and Kashmir Integrated
Horticultural Produce Marketing and Processing Project"
August 1977.
3. Jammu and Kashmir Government "Digest of Statistics"1975-76.
4. Dr. W.A. Hayes - Requirements for Research Development, Education
and Training to Support Mushroom Cultivation in Kashmir India.
5. Regional Research Laboratory (Branch) Proceedings of First Symposium
on Survey and Cultivation of Edible Mushrooms in India, Srinagar,
September 22, 1976.
B. Selected Working-Papers
1. Horticulture in Jammu-Kashmir.
2. Walnuts in Jammu-Kashmir
3. Processing Facilities.
4. Credit and Banking in Jammu-Kashmir.
5. Apple and Walnut Marketing.
6. Evaluation - Terms of Reference.
7. Consultants' Terms of Reference.
February 16, 1978






INDIA
JAMMU - KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PORJECT
JAMMU - KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PRODUCE MARKETING
AND PROCESSING CORPORATION LTD.
PROPOSEO ORGANIZATION CHART
|    OARD OF 
D   DIRECTORS
|EXECUTIVE
| COMMITTEE 
|MANAGING
0  RECTOR
|  OPERI ONS   IL   |  *UICE PLANT ~    V      E  T             MARKETING                                                                  ADMINISTRATION|
-                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.uditUtr
n   *   *                                                                     Su~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bdseting
| ~~~PROCESSING    |LMARKETING                                                                                MaPnhagemnt flttrator
PaFe-tilitina Studies
[ SENIOR MANAGER |             | SENIOR MANAGER   MAN MAAGER              |      |PRODUCT MANAGE       PRO; DUCT MANAGER|
|  PPE  ll                                     WANTS|ENIEEIG                                     APPLES      r        WANT 
DISTRICT             ISTR C              DIST H ICT           MANAGER
MANAGER             MANAGER              MANAGER          UALNUT PR.ESSIN
UNIT
APPLE GRADDING                   ~~~MANAGER                         MRE             C    CIN         TASOTPRONL                                                                     TANN
GRIADING PLANT                    NE E~
Pfi m.fi P'o-                                                                                                                                                                A
Procu emEntr                              Procur ng
Cold Store                                Hullng
Grsdlng                                   Drying
Paking                                    Grading
A-o-unting                                Paking
Mahnrnic                                  Somr ShellIng
Mechanic






JAMMU - KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE - CONSTRUCTION AND EQUIPMENT
1978  1979  1           igao                             1991                              1982                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1982
J F M~ A m  J J A  5 0 N S) I F    A Mi J J A S 0N D J F 0   AI M I . J A 5 0 5 N IDJI F M [A Mi J J A  S 0 N D    F M AS           5 0 N  D J F IM  AI M I    A 5  0  N IU 
(bi API,- I- M   f       -     D liver   Fe"dg+  Db                                                                                                                                                             A  J w   . r a r
(0 APO-l-,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ f                                                                                                                 7-lA-,
Ch,,f E ~    ~        *Sq,reOporr-erg-                                                                                         I pi-4                                                
Id) ,p-11 f  -- M,k
D,-., Ad---K. ~~~~~~                                                                                                     ~:
--_ -_ -_ -- - - - - - --_ _- - - --_ _- -_-_ _- - - - -- - - - - . .   . .   . . ... . . .   .. . . .  - --   - -   - -- -   -  -   -   -  - -   - - -   -   -   -   - - - -  -   - - - --   - -   -   - - -     - -- - - -   -   -   -   - ---- - - - F -- -  - - - -
2 LAND PURCHASEI-
O0 Inc udeen- orcld, or,Avr Sn -85
S{~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F,4,8 .4,6,9                                                                ,9,I gnidc svrol






INDIA
JAMMU - KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCH-EDULE -CONSULTANTS AND STUDY TOURS
1978  1979                       1 980                                      1981                                        1982                                         M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~93
JF M A M J JA  S   N1)S  i F M AM  J i AS  OttO D    F  SAM  J. lAS   001NDJ      FA M]]  A SO0NSD]     MiA.M iJ  iAR  On  51ND    FM AMI J     A S  OtND
CONSU LTANTS
CONSA LTANTS
SWI..,oo Op-1,-or
]Pos H-ooes Ph,Ss..olosr               L.,-ds
Mushroo  Spaw  Prod-upo                             P,.,r ~n  f SOR
olMushroo  Coo.o.pomi-gooniooAR-
h) Mushroo  Morkeni-                      f-         A ,,.soten
STUDY TOURS
CORPORATION
1 Msnaong D-rsoro
2`Pookig Hoos M-nse-
2 Cold S-or Mooagsr
I Woiol- Hloltrg CsnterM-ogar
vy1-Mreo  Moosgert,  -~
2 Irrul.issApp-s...L                                                                                                 ,J..
2 RohutnesWolct-I 
11 Mus,hroom ProiatnOhjltt.usrfg,
1 Musro I    e=or--h Offor -,o
T.P.par Plan
World hook -l18SSO






IBRD 13258
JANUARY 1976
2        2000 TON WA LNU1 HULL NG AND DRYING CENTERS                                                      4                                                      INDIA
- l0T  .,,,,                    JAMMU-KASHMIR HORTICULTURE PROJECT
'@j     500 TON
Xf      OSER6000 TON APPLE GRADING CENTERS WITH COLD STORAGE                               \                                APPLE  AND WALNUT  MARKETING  &  PROCESSING  FACILITIES
A      IDDD TON APPLE GRADING CENTERS                                         //
VALSUT EYPORT PROCESSING CENTFR                                     /
L       APPLE PROCESSING PLANT                                            /                            '  >                                                    S   S   IS .S            J
L H:Q    HEADQUARTERS                                                    /                     .1                                                                                                      40   45   50
-v - I   <-IJHELUM VALLEY                                                                                                                                                           K K  YILOMETERS
ROADS                                                  .                                                        ) \  
RAILROADS                                        -$                                                        ,
- N:Z-  RILERS AND LAKEiS ,
- _   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- _   ITTERNAT.ONAL BOUNSIDAR ES
/                                                                                                                A' S---1  X   Y   /   {'_ )   K  \\  \  -
_.                                                                                       fttS                                                _u
7    /T \                                                                                                                                / 
t'L.
u S.S R~~~~~~~~S
'NA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
nz- _,.d-,l   1-1 -- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~                                               '                        N(~
45~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



