CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 806 IN
Project Agreement
(Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR
Dated July 17, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 806 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 17, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and STATE
OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
Jammu and Kashmir).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Jammu and Kashmir agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are herein-
after set forth; and
WHEREAS Jammu and Kashmir, in consideration of the Associa-
tion's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the
Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Jammu and Kashmir shall carry out or cause to
be carried out the Project described in Schedule 2 to the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate agricultural, administrative, finan-
cial and engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist Jammu and Kashmir and
JKHPMC in carrying out the Project, Jammu and Kashmir shall and
shall cause JKHPMC to employ engineering, agricultural, marketing
and management consultants, in accordance with a schedule to be
agreed with the Association, whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be mutually agreed
between the Association, Jammu and Kashmir and JKHPMC.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Jammu and Kashmir undertakes to insure,
or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported
goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Jammu and Kashmir to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Jammu and
Kashmir shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.05. /a) Jammu and Kashmir shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the association, promptly upon their preparation,
the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and work
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Jammu and Kashmir, (i) shall maintain records and pro-
cedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Proj-
ect (including its cost) and to evaluate its impact, to identify
the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
made available to it by the Borrower, and to disclose their use in
the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's represen-
tatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included
in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of such
proceeds and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intsrvals all such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the


﻿- 3 -
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, its impact, the expen-
ditures of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Jammu and Kashmir shall enable the Association's repre-
sentatives to examine all plants, installations, sites, works,
buildings, property and equipment and any relevant records
and documents.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Associa-
tion and Jammu and Kashmir, Jammu and Kashmir shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the bene-
fits derived or to be derived from it, the performance by the
Association and Jammu and Kashmir of their respective obligations
under this Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 2.06. Jammu and Kashmir shall cause JKHPMC to appoint
by March 31, 1979, or such later date as shall be agreed with the
Association, suitably qualified persons to head its departments
of marketing and administration.
Section 2.07. (a) Jammu and Kashmir shall at the request
of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) Jammu and Kashmir shall promptly inform the Association
of any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with,
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Jammu and Kashmir of its obliga-
tions under this Agreement.
Section 2.08. Jammu and Kashmir shall cause its Department
of Forestry to take all necessary action to enable JKHPMC to
obtain sufficient timber for the operation of its sawmills con-
structed under Part A of the Project.
Section 2.09. By June 30, 1979 or such later date as shall
be agreed with the Association, Jammu and Kashmir shall cause


﻿its Department of Agriculture to draw up a mushroom research
program (including an implementation timetable) satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 2.10. In order to strengthen the Department of Agri-
culture, Jammu and Kashmir shall assign or cause to be assigned
to such Department (a) one senior mushroom scientist and two
junior scientists by December 31, 1978 or such later date as shall
be agreed with the Association and (b) other qualified research
staff in sufficient number by December 31, 1979 or such later
date as shall be agreed with the Association.
Section 2.11. In order to assist the Department of Horticul-
ture to carry out Part F of the Project, Jammu and Kashmir shall
assign to such Department (a) one refrigeration engineer, two
cold store operators and one post harvest physiologist by Decem-
ber 31, 1978 or such later date as shall be agreed with the
Association and (b) other qualified research staff in sufficient
number by June 30, 1979 or such later date as shall be agreed with
the Association.
Section 2.12. Jammu and Kashmir shall participate, from time
to time, on the basis of its respective proportion referred
to in Section 3.02 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement,
in such increases of JKHPMC's share capital as shall be required
by JKH?MC to:
(a) meet the requirements of Section 3.02 (b) of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement by June 30, 1979 or such later date as
shall be agreed with the Association; and
(b) thereafter to maintain a debt/equity ratio not exceeding
2:1.
Section 2.13. Jammu and Kashmir shall: (a) by December 31,
1978 or such later date as shall be agreed with the Association
make adequate arrangements for the carrying out of a study,
under terms of reference agreed with the Association, to assess
JKHPMC'S performance and the impact of the Project on fruit
growers' incomes and the development of markets; and (b) furnish
to the Association for review an inception report of such study by
March 31, 1979 or such later date as shall be agreed with the
Association.
Section 2.14. Jammu and Kashmir shall cause JKHPMC to prepare
quarterly reports and annual progress summaries of the Project in


﻿-5-
forms satisfactory to the Association. These reports and summaries
shall be furnished to the Association within six weeks after the
close of each calendar quarter and each year.
Section 2.15. By December 31, 1978 or such later date as
the Association shall otherwise agree, Jammu and Kashmir shall
furnish to the Association for review its proposals for the
overseas training program referred to in Part H.2 of the Project.
Section 2.16. (a) Jammu and Kashmir shall take or cause
to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as
and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as
shall be required for the construction and operation of the
facilities included in the Project.
(b) Without any restriction or limitation upon the provi-
sions of the foregoing paragraph, adequate land needed for the
construction and operation of three apple grading centers and
three walnut hulling centers shall be acquired by September 30,
1978 or such later date as shall be agreed with the Association.
Section 2.17. In order to ensure adequate coordination in
the implementation of the Project, Jammu and Kashmir shall estab-
lish a Project Coordination Committee to be chaired by a suitably
qualified officer to be nominated by Jammu and Kashmir.
Section 2.18. Jammu and Kashmir shall cause JKHPMC to inform
the Association prior to undertaking any activity not included in
the Project until the end of 1983.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of JKHPMC
Section 3.01. Jammu and Kashmir shall cause JKHPMC to: (a)
at all times manage its affairs, maintain its financial position,
plan its future expansion and carry on its operations, all in
accordance with sound business, agricultural and financial
practices and under the supervision of experienced and competent
management assisted by experienced and competent staff in adequate
number; and (b) take all steps necessary to acquire, maintain, and
renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which are
necessary or useful in the conduct of its business or in the
carrying out of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. Jammu and Kashmir shall cause JKHPMC to (a)
recruit its senior staff on a nationwide basis, and (b) offer
to such staff adequate emoluments in order to recruit and retain
suitably qualified personnel.
Section 3.03. Jammu and Kashmir shall cause JKHPMC to take
out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provi-
sions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. Jammu and Kashmir shall and shall cause JKHPMC
to maintain separate records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
their operations and financial condition.
Section 4.02. Jammu and Kashmir shall: (i) establish and
maintain separate accounts for Parts D, F, G and H of the Project
and cause JKHPMC to establish and maintain separate accounts for
its apple trading and processing activities and its walnut trading
activities; (ii) have such accounts and JKHPMC's financial state-
ments (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and
related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of the said accounts and of JKHPMC's financial statements
for such year as so 'audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the said accounts and
JKHPMC's financial statements and the audit thereof as the Asso-
ciation shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.


﻿-7-
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Jammu and Kashmir thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Jammu and Kashmir of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-8-
For Jammu and Kashmir:
Secretary to the Government
of Jammu and Kashmir
Agricultural Production Department
Secretariat
Srinagar/Jammu
India
Cable address:
AGRI J AND K
Srinagar/Jammu, India
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Jammu and Kashmir may be taken or executed
by a Secretary to the Government of Jammu and Kashmir or such
other person or persons as Jammu and Kashmir shall designate in
writing, and Jammu and Kashmir shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF JAMMU AND KASHMIR
By /s/ N.A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods shall be awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the be _s of international
competitive bidding under the Project and in addition to the
requirements of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, Jammu and
Kashmir shall prepare and forward to the Association as soon as
possible, and in any event not later than 60 days prior to the
date of availability to the public of the first tender or pre-
qualification documents relating thereto, as the case may be, a
general procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing
such information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of
the opportunity to bid for the goods in question. Jammu and
Kashmir shall provide the necessary information to update such
notice annually so long as any goods remain to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works covering the apple, walnut and
research facilities may be let on the basis of competitive bidd-
ing advertised locally under procedures satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation, except that civil works not exceeding in the aggregate
25% of the cost of the civil works referred to in Category (1) (a)
of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement may be carried
out by force account.
2.   Contracts for equipment and furniture estimated to cost
$50,000 equivalent or less each and contracts for vehicles may be
let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally under
procedures satisfactory to the Association provided that the
aggregate of all equipment, furniture and vehicles so procured
does not exceed $2,300,000 equivalent.


﻿- 10 -
3.   Contracts for minor items of equipment estimated to cost
$10,000 equivalent or less each and which must be purchased on an
urgent basis may be procured by prudent shopping through normal
commercial channels provided that the aggregate amount of all
items so procured does not exceed $200,000 equivalent.
4.   Contracts for vehicles may be let on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally under procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
5.   Fertilizer, pesticides and other necessary inputs procured
by ultimate borrowers under paragraph 3 of Part I of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement shall be in accordance with the
ultimate borrowers' preference.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and
similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded;
and (iii) the cost to the purchaser of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of Jammu and Kashmir and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods


﻿- 11 -
includes a value added in India equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C
bids shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid
from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and all contracts for
equipment and materials estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Jammu and Kashmir shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,


