Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3714 BR
Loan Agreement
(Tocantins State Highway Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF TOCANTINS
Dated June 24, 1994
LOAN NUMBER 3714 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1994, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF TOCANTINS (the 
Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the 
Borrower, having satisfied themselves as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, have requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date 
herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to 
undertake such other obligations as set forth in the Guarantee Agreement; 
and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as 
subparagraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under 
which any further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be 
inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the 
Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"ADT" means average daily traffic;
(b)
"Annual Road Program" means any of the annual implementation 
programs referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, prepared by the 
Borrower for detailing the implementation of the State Road Program (as 
hereinafter defined) in a given year, including, inter alia, the Eligible 
Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) to be carried out during such year;
(c)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil, the Central 
Bank of Brazil, established by Lei No. 4.595, dated December 31, 1964;
(d)
"Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement dated October 
19, 1993 entered into between the Borrower, through SEINF (as hereinafter 
defined), and the Guarantor, through DNER (as hereinafter defined), for 
the purposes of the provision by DNER of technical assistance and 
training to SEINF;
(e)
"DNER" means Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem, 
the Guarantor's Roads Department;
(f)
"Eligible Subproject" means a Subproject (as hereinafter 
defined) which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) and has been approved by the 
Bank for financing under the Project, after reviewing the information to 
be provided by the Borrower on each such Subproject, pursuant to Section 
3.16 and 3.17 of this Agreement;
(g)
"Environmental Guidelines" means the Borrower's guidelines 
referred to in Section 3.12 (a) of this Agreement;
(h)
"Implementation Indicators and Targets" means the Project 
implementation indicators and targets set forth in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement;
(i)
"IRI" means International Roughness Index;
(j)
"NATURATINS" means the 
Fundação Natureza do Tocantins, the 
environmental agency of the Borrower;
(k)
"Operational Manual" means the operational manual (Manual 
Operacional) issued by DNER in June 1992, containing procedures, 
guidelines, methodologies and standard documents to assist the Borrower 
in the carrying out of the Project and the Annual and State Road Programs 
(as hereinafter defined), as the same may be amended from time to time 
Page  3
with the agreement of the Bank;
(l)
"PMU" means the unit referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(m)
"SEINF" means Secretaria de Estado da Infra-Estrutura, the 
Borrower's Infrastucture Secretariat;
(n)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(o)
"State Road Program" means any of the five-year programs 
prepared, as referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, by the 
Borrower for its road subsector, including, inter alia: (i) the 
Borrower's strategies and policies for such subsector; and (ii) 
expenditure and funding programs in accordance with the policies and 
economic criteria set forth in the Operational Manual;
(p)
"Subproject" means a specific investment project consisting 
of rehabilitation, resurfacing or upgrading (including paving) of 
segments of the Borrower's road network; and
(q)
"Training Program" means any of the programs referred to in 
Section 3.14 (a) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agree-ment, various 
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of 
eighty seven million Dollars ($87,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals 
of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as 
of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-ule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open 
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a bank acceptable to 
the Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal 
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at 
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
Page  4
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the 
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings 
determined in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on 
the date immediately 
preceding each date 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this Agreement is signed.
     (ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as 
reasonably determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or 
portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A) 
the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
          (iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second 
six months of a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six 
months notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this 
Section shall be amended to read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a 
rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified  Borrowings 
determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one 
percent (1/2  of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, 
the Bank shall notify 
the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing 
on January 1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency, in accordance with the Operational Manual, the Training 
Programs, the State Road Programs, the Annual Road Programs, and the 
Cooperation Agreement, and in conformity with appropriate engineering, 
administrative, safety, maintenance, environmental and financial 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of 
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Bank and the Borrower 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project and the 
Page  5
Annual Road Programs in accordance with the Implementation Indicators and 
Targets.
(c)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the 
Borrower shall select the specific Subprojects to be financed with the 
proceeds of the Loan and carry out its Annual Road Programs in accordance 
with the criteria and requirements set forth in the Operational Manual.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a)
Without limitation upon the provisions of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain, until 
completion of the Project, a Project management unit (PMU), within SEINF, 
with functions and respon-sibilities satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia:
(i)
overall coordination of the execution of the Project;
     (ii)
supervision of the procurement of goods and works and 
the selection of 
consultants under the Project;
    (iii)
review of all consultants' reports, evaluation of 
their findings and 
implementation of their 
recommen-dations, as the case may be, as approved by 
the 
Bank; and
     (iv)
preparation of the reports referred to in Section 
3.19 of this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that:
(i)
PMU is at all times headed by a Project manager, with 
qualifications, 
experience, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, assisted 
by 
qualified staff in adequate numbers; and
(ii)
such Project manager directly reports to the 
Borrower's Secretary of 
Infrastructure.
(c)
The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the discharge of 
the functions of PMU.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall maintain, within SEINF, a special 
task force, with membership structure, functions and respon-sibilities 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of overseeing and coordinating 
the preparation of State and Annual Road Programs.
Section 3.05. (a) By no later than July 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, the Borrower, through SEINF, shall prepare and furnish to 
the Bank, for comments, updated Annual and State Road Programs, with 
respect to the upcoming calendar year and the upcoming five calendar year 
period, respectively, consistent with the Implementation Indicators and 
Targets for the respective years.
(b) The Borrower shall implement the Annual Road Programs taking 
into account the Bank comments thereon.
Section 3.06. Without limitation or restriction to any of the 
provisions of this Agreement and of the General Conditions, the Borrower 
shall: 
(a)
take into account the Annual and State Road Programs in 
preparing the annual budget proposals for its road subsector; and
Page  6
(b)
allocate for road maintenance and road rehabilitation and 
resurfacing expenditures in each of its proposed annual budgets, not less 
than the equivalent of the amounts set forth in the Implementation 
Indicators and Targets for the respective year.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall seek to maintain or adjust road 
user charges at the level required to recover each year as a minimum the 
percentages of road operation, maintenance and rehabilitation 
expenditures and the percentage of total road expenditures set forth in 
the Implementation Indicators and Targets for the respective year.
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through SEINF, shall, during each year 
of the execution of the Project:
(a)
carry out surface condition, traffic, and accident surveys 
of its road network, in accordance with the procedures and guidelines set 
forth in the Operational Manual;
(b)
organize the results of such surveys in a computerized road 
data base;
(c)
review its Annual and State Road Programs on the basis of 
the results of such surveys, and in accordance with the procedures, 
criteria and methodologies set forth in the Operational Manual; and
(d)
furnish to the Bank and DNER a summary of the surveys' 
results, together with such Annual and State Road Programs.
Section 3.09. The Borrower, through SEINF, shall gradually increase 
the carrying out of routine road maintenance activities through 
contractors and reduce SEINF's road staff in accordance with the 
Implementation Indicators and Targets.
Section 3.10. By no later than June 30, 1994, the Borrower, through 
SEINF, shall:
(a)
establish a computerized Project management system, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of planning, monitoring and 
reporting on Project implementation; and
(b)
strengthen SEINF's administrative systems for contract 
management and monitoring, including the monitoring of Parts B and C of 
the Project, and the preparation of the progress reports referred to in 
Section 3.19 of this Agreement, all in accordance with the Operational 
Manual.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
by no later than June 30, 1994, assign two adequately 
trained professionals for SEINF's environmental unit;
(b)
by no later than June 30, 1994, strengthen NATURATINS's 
capabilities through the provision of adequate training to NATURATINS's 
staff responsible for enforcing the Borrower's environmental standards 
and the Environmental Guidelines, all in accordance with the respective 
Training Program; and
(c)
by no later than December 31, 1994, complete and present to 
the Bank, for comments: (i) a study on the options to mitigate the 
adverse environmental effects of the Gurupi-Peixe road upgrading, 
including, among others, the establishment of an environmental protection 
area between the rivers Santa Tereza and Tocantins; and (ii) based on 
such study, a time-bound plan of action to implement the recommended 
measures to mitigate such effects.
Section 3.12. By no later than July 1, 1994, the Borrower shall:
Page  7
(a)
put into effect environmental guidelines for the roads under 
the Borrower's jurisdiction, taking into account DNER's environmental 
guidelines for the roads sub-sector and the Borrower's environmental 
protection standards;
(b)
take all measures necessary or advisable to ensure the 
effective implementation and enforcement of the Environmental Guidelines 
through the environmental units of SEINF and NATURATINS, including, inter 
alia, the preparation of environmental impact assessments for the 
Borrower's major road projects; and
(c)
incorporate the Environmental Guidelines in all contracts 
for road engineering and works to be entered into by the Borrower or its 
agencies.
Section 3.13. (a) By no later than June 30, 1994, the Borrower, 
through SEINF, shall contract the consultants required to assist in the 
carrying out of Part A of the Project.
(b)
With respect to the services of the consultants' referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower, through SEINF, shall:
(i)
promptly after the completion of each service, 
furnish to the Bank copy of the 
consultants' findings and 
recommendations;
     (ii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment 
on such findings and 
recommendations; and
    (iii)
prepare action plans to carry out the recommendations 
of such consultants, 
taking into account the 
Bank's comments thereon.
Section 3.14. With regard to the training activities to be carried 
out under Part A of the Project, the Borrower, through SEINF, shall:
(a)
by no later than October 31 of each year of Project 
implementation, prepare, in consultation with DNER, and furnish to the 
Bank, for its review and approval, the Training Program for the upcoming 
calendar year, as well as the schedule for its implementation, all in 
accordance with the Implementation Indicators and Targets for the 
respective year; and
(b)
carry out each such Training Program, as approved by the 
Bank.
Section 3.15. With regard to Parts B and C of the Project, the 
Borrower, through SEINF, shall select the segments of its road network to 
be included in the Annual Road Programs (including the Subprojects) on 
the basis of:
(a)
the State Road Programs, as periodically updated and 
refined, as referred to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement; and 
(b)
appropriate technical and economic criteria and 
methodologies, as specified in the Operational Manual.
Section 3.16. Prior to initiating detailed engineering designs of 
each Subproject, the Borrower, through SEINF, shall prepare and furnish 
to the Bank, for its review and approval, with copy to DNER, a draft 
financing application (of such form as the Bank shall reasonably request) 
providing the following information, in the manner specified in the 
Operational Manual: 
(a)
the rationale for selection; 
Page  8
(b)
the road surface and soil conditions, and traffic 
projections;
(c)
the diagnostic of the problems and the recommended 
engineering solution; 
(d)
the estimated cost of works; 
(e)
a preliminary economic evaluation; 
(f)
the proposed implementation schedule; and
(g)
such other matters as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
provided, however, that all recommended engineering solutions shall be 
consistent with the Annual Road Program for the respective year. 
Section 3.17. When presenting a Subproject to the Bank for its 
review and approval, the Borrower, through SEINF, shall furnish to the 
Bank, with copy to DNER, an application, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall:
(a)
update the information provided to the Bank pursuant to 
Section 3.16 of this Agreement, on the basis of the Bank's comments 
thereon and the final engineering designs;
(b)
include a summary of the environmental impact assessment in 
the case of Subprojects under Part C of the Project; and
(c)
contain such other information as the Bank shall reasonably 
request in respect of such Subproject.
Section 3.18. With respect to Parts B and C of the Project, the 
Borrower, through SEINF, shall, by no later than October 31 of each year 
during the execution of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank, for 
its review and comments, with a copy to DNER, a time schedule for the 
Subprojects' procurement and execution activities in the next succeeding 
year, as specified in the Operational Manual and consistent with its 
Annual and State Road Programs.
Section 3.19. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
9.07 of the General Conditions, by no later one month after the end of 
each quarter of each year, during the execution of the Project, the 
Borrower, through SEINF, shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and 
comments, with copy to DNER, a report on the progress achieved by the 
Borrower in carrying out the Project, with regard to each such quarter, 
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may reasonably request, 
including an evaluation of the compliance of the Borrower's obliga-tions 
under this Agreement.
Section 3.20. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
by no later than December 31, 1996, undertake a review, in 
conjunction with the Bank, of the progress in the execution of the 
Project and the attainment of its objectives; and
(b)
take any remedial action which shall have been agreed upon 
by the Bank and the Borrower during the review referred to in paragraph 
(a) above, as necessary to be taken for the efficient execution of the 
Project or the attainment of its objectives, such action to be taken in 
the manner and within the timetable agreed upon during such review.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
Page  9
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and 
the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, 
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
     (ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
    (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information 
con-cerning said records and 
accounts and the 
audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
     (ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Ac-count was 
made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
    (iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such 
records; and
     (iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are includ-ed 
in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said audi-tors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
that any party to the Cooperation Agreement shall have not 
complied with its respective obligations therein set forth; and
(b)
that the Cooperation Agreement shall have been assigned, 
amended, abrogated, waived or terminated, provided, however, that any 
such event shall not be considered for purposes of this Section if the 
Borrower or the Guarantor shall have made alternative arrangements, 
satisfactory to the Bank, for the purposes of providing technical 
assistance and training to SEINF.
Page  10
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely, that any 
of the events specified in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and 
shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely that the Loan 
Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, 
within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be 
included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the 
Central Bank; and
(b)
that all acts, consents and approvals, together with all 
necessary powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and 
validly performed or given and that no other such acts, consents or 
approvals are required to authorize the carrying out of the Project and 
to enable the Borrower and the Guarantor to perform all of their 
respective covenants, agreements and obligations contained in this 
Agreement and in the Guarantee Agreement, respectively.
Section 6.03. The date September 26, 1994 is hereby specified for 
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The 
Secretário de Estado da Infra-Estrutura do Estado 
de Tocantins is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
        197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
        248423 (RCA),
         64145 (WUI) or
         82987 (FTCC)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado da
 Infra-Estrutura do 
 Estado de Tocantins
Praça dos Girassóis S/N
77000-000 Palmas, Tocantins
Page  11
Brazil
With copies to:
SEAIN- Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orçamento e Coordenação
  da Presidência da República
Esplanada dos Ministérios - Bloco K - 50 Andar
70040-906 Brasília, DF
Brazil
  Telex:
         061-1146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ping-Cheung Loh
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF TOCANTINS
By /s/ João Francisco de Oliveira
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works: 
50%
(a)
under Part C
   70,000,000
of the Project
(b)
under Parts B.1   3,500,000
and B.2 of the
Project
Page  12
(2)
Goods under
      800,000
100% of foreign
 
Part A of the
expenditures and
Project
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
(3)
Consultants' services    7,700,000
100% of 
foreign
and training 
expenditures and
50% of local
expenditures
(4)
Unallocated
    5,000,000
    _________
TOTAL
   87,000,000
   ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods or 
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Guarantor; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the 
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of the Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the 
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount 
not to exceed the equivalent of $8,700,000, may be made on account of 
payments made for expenditures incurred after July 1, 1993 or after a 
date which is one year before the date of this Agreement, whichever is 
later.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under 
contracts not exceeding the equivalent of: (i) $3,000,000 for works; (ii) 
$250,000 for goods; and (iii) $100,000 for services of consultant firms, 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to check further deterioration of 
the Borrower's road network and improve its serviceability by: (a) 
strengthening SEINF's planning capabilities; (b) ensuring adequate 
priority and funding for the rehabilitation and upgrading components of 
the Annual and State Road Programs; and (c) ensuring compliance with 
appropriate environmental standards for roads under the Borrower's 
jurisdication.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives.
Part A:
Policy and Institutional Development
1.
Preparation and updating of Annual and State Road Programs and 
strengthening of SEINF's planning system.
2.
Design and implementation of the Borrower's rehabilitation and 
Page  13
maintenance strategies, and strengthening of SEINF's contracting and 
management systems.
3.
Preparation of the Environmental Guidelines and development of the 
Borrower's institutional capabilities to carry out appropriate 
environmental impact assessments of road projects and to enforce such 
Guidelines.
Part B:
Rehabilitation and Maintenance
1.
Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects for the rehabilitation of 
approximately 150 kilometers of the Borrower's road network.
2.
Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects for the resurfacing of 
approximately 150 kilometers of the Borrower's road network.
3.
Maintenance of the Borrower's entire paved road network, including 
patching of potholes.
4.
Maintenance of the Borrower's entire unpaved road network, 
including grading and regravelling of gravel and earth roads.
Part C:
Upgrading
Carrying out of Eligible Subprojects for the upgrading (including 
paving) of approximately 1,000 kilometers of the Borrower's road network.
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
     beginning November 15, 1999
     through May 15, 2009
4,350,000
Page  14
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent Dollar equivalents determined 
as of the respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General 
Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium 
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid 
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment 
below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (ex-pressed as 
a percentage per annum) 
applicable to 
the Loan on the day of prepayment multiplied 
by:
Not more than three years
0.20
     before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
     more than 13 years
     before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
     maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent 
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for 
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
May 1992 (the Guidelines).
1.
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in 
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award 
is delayed beyond the original bid validity period, the successful 
bidder's bid price will be increased for each week of delay by two 
predisclosed correction factors acceptable to the Bank, one to be applied 
to all foreign currency components and the other to the local currency 
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into 
account in bid evaluation.
2. 
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part 
Page  15
A, the Borrower shall use relevant standard bidding documents issued by 
the Bank for the use of its borrowers, with such modifications thereto as 
the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of the 
Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by 
the Bank, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents based on 
other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the Bank.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures 
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a 
margin of preference in accordance with the provisions of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly 
indicate any preference which would be granted, the information required 
to establish the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the 
following methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation and 
comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the 
following two groups:
(a)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the 
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the 
Bank that such goods contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to 
at least 50% of the value of the complete goods.
(b)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all 
evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared among themselves, 
without taking into account customs duties and other import taxes levied 
in connection with the importation, or the sales and similar taxes levied 
in connection with the sale or delivery of the goods pursuant to the 
bids. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each other, 
and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, 
it shall be selected for the award.
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the 
lowest evaluated bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be 
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding: 
(i) to the evaluated bid price of goods to be imported in each group B 
bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of customs duties 
and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for 
the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of 
the c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and (ii) to the evaluated bid price 
of goods supplied domestically offered in each group B bid an amount 
equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of customs duties and other 
import taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in such group B 
if they originated from the same foreign country as the bid included in 
group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes; or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of 
this comparison, the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected 
for the award; if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group B, as 
determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Civil works estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$80,000,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
and standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank. 
2.
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $250,000 per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
Page  16
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures 
satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
Miscellaneous road laboratory and office equipment and software 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or less per package, up to an 
aggregate amount equivalent to $900,000, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at 
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final 
contracts:
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded pursuant to 
the provisions of Part A of this Section; and (ii) each contract to be 
awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of this Section estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $3,000,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where 
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies 
of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the 
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding 
paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, said procedures shall be modified to 
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with the 
other information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to be 
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part E:
FSRMM
For the purposes of this Schedule and the Guidelines, the term 
"customs duties and other import taxes" includes the Guarantor's Freight 
Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (Adicional ao Frete Para 
a Renovação da Marinha Mercante), established by Decree Law 1,142 of 
December 30, 1970, as amended to December 31, 1987, or any other tax, 
levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, may 
substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Part F:
Special Provisions
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this 
Schedule or the Guidelines, the following shall apply to the procurement 
of goods and/or works to be undertaken pursuant to Parts C.1 and C.2 
hereof:
1.
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been 
determined to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on 
price and, whenever appropriate, to also take into account factors 
similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such 
quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid.
2.
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be 
advertised for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide 
circulation in Brazil.
Page  17
3.
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture 
(
consórcio) of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance 
by the Bank in each case.
4.
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of 
acceptance of bids, minimum and/or maximum amounts for the contract 
prices.
5.
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue 
any change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by 
more than 15% the quantity of goods (and related services) without any 
change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the Project, 
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience 
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. 
Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and 
procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for 
the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as 
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultants 
Guidelines).
2.
For complex, time based-assignments, the Borrower shall employ such 
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract for 
consultant's services issued by the Bank for the use of its borrowers, 
with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the 
Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed with the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the 
provisions of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or 
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of 
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply 
to contracts estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each. 
However, this exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to the terms 
of reference for such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to 
single source selection of firms, to assignments of a critical nature, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank, and to amendments of contracts raising 
the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through 
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the Eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent 
to $4,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into 
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Page  18
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a deposit or deposits 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
shall specify.
     (ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to para-graph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for Eligible Expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special 
commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
Page  19
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Implementation Indicators and Targets
Part A:
The following implementation indicators and respective targets 
shall be used for purposes of evaluating the carrying out of the Project:
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
Section 3.05 of this Agreement
Rehabilitation and
resurfacing
Contracted (kilometers)
 60
 60
 60
 
60
60
Executed (kilometers)
 60
 60
 60
 
60
60
Maintenance
Patching (cubic meters)
1,100
1,000
  900
800
700
Grading (thousand of kilometers)
 18.0
 18.0
 18.0 
18.0   18.0
Regraveling (thousands of cubic meters)
  700
  700
  700
700
700
Paving
Contracted (kilometers) 
  400
  200
  200
200
 --
Executed (kilometers)
  200
  200
  200
200
200
Road network condition
. Paved
80% of length with
IRI lower than 
  6.0
  5.5
  5.0
4.5
4.0
. Unpaved
Page  20
. ADT lower than 50 
80% of length
with IRI lower
than
 13.0
 12.0
 11.0
 
10.0
9.0
. ADT higher than 50 
80% of length
  and lower than 100
with IRI lower
than
 15.0
 14.0
 12.0
 
10.0  9.0
. ADT higher than 100
80% of length
with IRI lower
than
 18.0
 16.0
 14.0
 
12.0 10.0
Section 3.14 of this Agreement
Total number of trainee-weeks
  200
  250
  250
200
100
Part B:
The following targets shall be used for purposes of assessing the 
compliance by the Borrower of the following covenants of the Loan 
Agreement:
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
Section 3.06 (b) of this Agreement
Total road maintenance proposed
budget (millions of Dollars)
14.0
15.0
16.0
17.0
17.0
Total road rehabilitation and resurfacing
proposed budget (millions of Dollars)
 1.2
 1.2
 2.0
 
1.4
  .2
Section 3.07 of this Agreement
Percentage of recovery of
road operation, maintenance
and rehabilitation expenditures
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
Percentage of recovery of
total road expenditures
 30%
 30%
 30%
 
30%
 30%
Section 3.09 of this Agreement
Percentage of total road
maintenance contracted
 30%
 40%
 50%
 
60%
 70%
Total number of SEINF road staff
     1,200  1,150  1,100  
1,050  1,000
