Page  1
April 28, 1997
Mr. Jose Francisco dos Santos, Secretary
Secretaria dos Transportes e Obras do Estado do Tocantins
Praça dos Girassóis S/N
77000-000 Palmas, Tocantins
Brazil
Mr. Pedro Sampaio Malán
Minister of Finance
Ministério da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco P
70048-900 Brasilia - D.F.
Brazil
Re.:
Loan 3714-BR - Tocantins State Highway Management Project
Amendment to the Loan Agreement
Dear Sirs:
We refer to the Loan Agreement between the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) and the State of Tocantins (the Borrower), dated June 24, 1994, for 
the referenced Project. We are please to inform you that the Bank agrees with the Borrower’s 
request to amend theLoan Agreement as follows:
1.
A new paragraph (c) is added to Section 5.01 of the Loan Agreement to read as follows:
"(c)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the loan 
made by the Export-Import Bank of Japan to the Borrower, 
pursuant to a loan agreement dated March 17, 1997 (the JEXIM 
Loan Agreement) for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the JEXIM Loan Agreement, or
(B)
the loan referred to in (A) above shall have become due and 
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
established to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such suspension, 
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of 
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under the JEXIM Loan
Agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement."
2.
Section 5.02 of the Loan Agreement is amended to read as follows:
"Section 5/02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
any event specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (c)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall 
occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (c) (ii) of that Section."
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating the three 
originals of this letter in the space provided below, and returning one to us. This amendment 
shall enter into effect on the date of receipt by the Bank of one original of this letter signed 
by you.
Sincerely,
Page  2
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Gobind T. Nankani
Director
County Department 1
Latin America & the Caribbean Regional Office
AGREED
STATE OF TOCANTINS
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Jose Francisco dos Santos
By /s/ Luis Carlos Sturzenegger
       Authorized Representative
Authorized Representative
cc: Mr. Roberto Jaguaribe, Secretary, SEAIN
