Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18999
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
(Ln. 3333-MAS)
March 1, 1999
Rural Development II
Country Department 8
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMAS                               Annual Meeting of Agricultural Scientists
AMB                                Agricultural Marketing Board
APAU                   -           Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit
APEXHOM                 -          Association Professionnelle des Producteurs/Exportateurs de
Maurice
AREU                               Agricultural Research and Extension Unit
CCA                    -           Consultative Conunittee on Agriculture
DARE                   -           Directorate of Agricultural Research and Extension
FARC                    -          Food and Agricultural Research Council
FSC                     -          Farmer Service Corporation
FY                     -           Fiscal Year
GOM                    -           Govemment of Mauritius
GDP                    -           Gross Domestic Product
HPC                     -          High Power Comrnittee
HPTF                    -          High Power Task Force
IA                     -           Irrigation Authority
IFAD                               Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development
[PU                      -         Irrigation Planning Unit
MAFNR                  -           Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries & Natural Resources
MARMIS                   -         Mauritius Agricultural Research Infomation System
MEPD                   -           Ministry of Economic Planning & Development
MHLE                   -           Ministry of Housing, Land and Enviromnent
MIC                    -           Management Information Cell
MIS                    -           Management Information System
MSA                    -           The Mauritius Sugar Authority
MSIRI                  -           Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute
NGO                    -           Non-Government Organization
O&M                    -           Operating & Maintenance
PAO                    -           Principal Agricultural Officer
PIP                    -           Public Investment Program
PS                      -          Permanent Secretary
PPE                    -           Policy Analysis and Evaluation
SAR                    -           Staff Appraisal Report
SIP                    -           Sugar Industry Project
SPES                   -           Small Producer Efficiency Study
TA                     -           Technical Assistance
UOM                    -           University of Mauritius
WRC                     -          Water Resources Cornmittee
WMP                    -           Water Master Plan
WUA                     -          Water Users Association
Currency Equivalents
(Estimated average for the period January I to December 31)
US$1.00 = Rs.
1993         1994       1995       1996       1997       1998
17.2         18.5       17.5       20.4       22.0       25.0
Weights and Measures
Metric System
I meter                            =              3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (kin)                  =              0.26 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (sq km)         =              0.386 square miles (sq mi)
I hectare (ha)                     =              2.47 acres (ac)
I arpent                           =              1.043 acres (ac)
I metric ton                       =              2,205 pounds (Ibs)
Fiscal Year of Borrower
Government of Mauritius
July 1 - June 30
Vice President       Callisto Madavo
Director       Michael Sarris
Sector Manager        Joseph Baah-Dwomoh
Staff Member        Ousmane Seck



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
(Ln. 3333-MAS)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ............ 
EVALUATION SUMMARY ......................
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A:  INTRODUCTION ........................................
B.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES.2
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES .4
D. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT.                                                                        7
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ............................... ,      .,           I .,                          7
F. BANK PERFORMANCE                                                   .8
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .
H. ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME.                                                                              8.
I.     FUTURE OPERATIONS.11
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED.                                                                                       11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ..................................................................................... 12
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS ..................................................................................... 13.
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .....................................................................................  14
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ................................................ 14
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ........................................................................ 15
TABLE 5A: EXPECTED IMPACT BY YEAR 2000 FOR FINANCED PILOT DRIP IRRIGATION PROJECTS ......... ........ 16
TABLE 5B:  IND           I     CATORS - LIVESTO CK RESEARCH ........................................................................... 16
TABLE SB: IMPACT INDICATORS FOR AREU .....................................................................................   17
TABLE SD - INDICATORS - TRAINNG FOR AREU .....................................................................................  18
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION .................................................................................... l8
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .....................................................................................  19
TABLE     8A:   PROJECT    COSTS  .................. ........................ .................. ..................... ........................... ..... .. ............ 20
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FiNANCING.                                                                                  20
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS.                                                                         2.1.
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS.:                                                                         22
TABLE I 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .25
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS .2....... 25
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..................................................................................................... 26
ANNEXES
Annex 1: Borrower's Evaluation Report
Annex 2: Borrower's Comments on ICR
MAP: IBRD 22556
This doculment has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
(Ln. 3333-MAS)
PREFACE
1.       This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Mauritius Agricultural Services
Project (Ln. 3333-MAS), for which a loan in the amount of US$10 million was approved on May 28, 1991
and made effective on November 20, 1992.
2.       The loan amount was reduced by US$6 million in June 1995 due to the Government decision
not to use Bank funds for certain project activities. The final disbursement took place on July 21, 1998, at
which time a balance of US$1.175 million was canceled at the request of the Government. The loan was
closed on July 1, 1998, against the scheduled date of December 31, 1998.
3.       The ICR was prepared by Ousmane Seck of the World Bank Madagascar Resident Mission
and Eavan O'Halloran, Rural Development II of the Africa Region. It was reviewed by JosephBaah-
Dwomoh, Sector Manager, Rural Development II and Michael Sarris, Director, Country Department 8.
4.       Preparation of the ICR began after the Bank's completion mission in November 1998. The
ICR is based on the results gathered during this completion mission, on material in the project files and on
discussions with the Government of Mauritius and project beneficiaries. The Borrower contributed to the
preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project (Annex 1). The ICR was discussed
with the Borrower on November 6, 1998, and the Borrower's comments were subsequently incorporated
into the report. The final draft report was confirmed by the Borrower on December 22, 1998.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
(Ln. 3333-MAS)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.     In the 1980s, economic growth in Mauritius began to wane. Despite the successes which had
been achieved in diversification, the economy remained dependent on a narrow range of activities with
limited growth potential. With escalating food imports, attention was again focused on agriculture as a
source of growth. In order to maximize growth in the agricultural sector, the constraints to agricultural
development had to be overcome.  Future agricultural growth in Mauritius depended on both
diversification and improvements in productivity. Given the domestic resource constraints and the highly
competitive external market conditions, the key to future success was more sophisticated management and
highly skilled manpower capable of adapting quickly to changing market conditions. The constraints
facing the sector and the uncertainties with respect to diversification had created a need for a strong
analytical capacity in the agricultural sector to assess options, develop strategies, evaluate outcomes on a
continuous basis, and respond flexibly to continuously changing and competitive market conditions.
2.      An FAO-CP/Bank mission visiting Mauritius in March 1986 drew attention to the pervasive
institutional problems and identified potential project components. A subsequent Bank mission in July
1986 carried out further investigation on the institutional needs of the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Natural Resources (MAFNR). After a period of inactivity, discussions were revived in 1989, and the
focus and scope of the project were agreed upon by the Bank and Government. The project was appraised
in November 1990, signed in June 1991, and became effective in November 1992.
Project Objectives
3.      The project was designed to support the Government's broad objectives of modernizing the
agriculturl sector, improving the productivity of the smallholder sector and diversifying the production
base. The objective of the project was to put in place institutional and organizational arrangements for
sector management and delivery of supporting services, which could respond flexibly and efficiently to
continued structural transformation in the economy and rapidly changing competitive market conditions.
The four main components of the project were: (a) strengthening ofsectoral management capacity; (b)
improvements in agricultural supporting services; (c) development of irrigation potential; and (d)
improvement of other support services.
Assessment of Objectives
4.      The project objectives focused on the main issues affecting agricultural development at that
time. Successful agricultural diversification from sugar was of key importance to Mauritius' long tern
development, and a competitive agricultural sector was crucial to internal stability and preservation of the
island's natural resources. The project was to contribute towards creating an enabling policy and



11
supporting framework for a diversified and competitive agricultural sector. Measurable benefits were to
include improved efficiency in agricultural management and services, increased productivity of land and
labor, increased non-sugar agricultural production, and higher incomes forsmallholders. However, no
specific targets were identified and, as demonstrated at the end of the project, the scope of project
objectives proved to be over-optimistic.
5.      The successful approach to coordination and policy reform which had been achieved in the
sugar sector was to be expanded to include the non-sugar sector. The approach in the sugar sector to
research and fanner services would be applied to the rest of agriculture with appropriate modifications,
and overall coordination would be improved. The project was therefore a logical continuation of the
World Bank's involvement in the agricultural sector.
Project Costs and Financing
6.      The project was originally planned for an amount of US$10 million, but US$6 million of this
amount was canceled in June 1995 due to the decision by the Government not to use Bank funds for
expatriate technical assistance and to reduce the scope of the research and extension components. At
Government's request, a further US$1.175 million was canceled from the loan on July 1, 1998, so that it
would alone fund the completion of project activities. The Government's counterpart equivalent was
estimated at appraisal to be US$8.1 million. At the preparation of the ICR, the total amount spent in
investments under the project had amounted only to US$3.39 million. This significant drop was due to
two factors: (a) reduced scope of the irrigation component from US$8.3 million, without contingencies, to
US$2.2 million actually spent, and (b) reduced investnents in research and extension, resulting in a drop
of this component's costs from US$5.1 million, without contingencies, at appraisal to US$0.45 million
actually spent.
Achievement of Objectives
7.      Despite the long implementation period and the reduced project scope, institutional reforms
were substantially achieved at the end of the project, and the outcome of the project can be rated as
marginally to moderately satisfactory. The institutional reforms and strengthening of MAFNR, the
establishment of the Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit (APAU), setting up of a new research and
extension organization for the non-sugar agricultural sector, rationalization of the Agricultural Marketing
Board (AMB) operations, and consolidation of the Irrigation Authority (IA) stmcture and operations, are
nearly complete. These institutions are now on a better footing to meet the challenges of a more market-
oriented agricultural sector. However, increases in farm productivity, farmer income, and agricultural
diversification are only beginning to be achieved.
8.      A  sector management capacity has been established within MAFNR.  However, the
Consultative Committee for Agriculture has not been very effective. While APAU is sufficiently staffed,
it still needs to be strengthened.
9.      The Agricultural Research and Extension Services within MAFNR were reorganized to improve
their efficiency in the delivery of these services for non-sugar crops and livestock in modernizing
agriculture. The services were streamlined into a unified Directorate of Agricultural Research and
Extension (DARE) within MAFNR. Institutional development objectives for research and extension on
non-sugar agriculture have been attained. The Agricultural Research and Extension Unit (AREU) is now
filly operational in research and extension. Extension delivery has improved through the development
with the farming community in a participatory manner of programs more relevant to their needs.AREU's



iii
in-house management capacity for socio-economic impact assessment of technologies and identification
of constraints has been improved, and a research management system is now operational for priority
setting, and work program planning, development, monitoring and evaluation. Linkages have been
established with local and external research and extension agencies, leading to the delivery of better
integrated and networked extension services. Extension coverage has been achieved island-wide, with
more responsibility and authority delegated to senior extension staff at regional level. Regular training of
extension is being carried out by research staff, who also participate in training of farmers, and by the
University of Mauritius (UOM). Good progress has been made in the development and use of indicators to
monitor the impact of research and extension on the ground.  However, the number of field
demonstrations and trials per extension agent still needs to be increased, and farmer participation through
on-farm trials and demonstration plots enhanced.
10.      The irrigation development works scheduled at appraisal were not carried out, and two new
pilot small scale projects based on drip irrigation were implemented instead. Thus, the urgent irrigation
rehabilitation works at La Ferme and Magenta scheduled at appraisal were implemented outside the
project, and the three pilot small scale dam construction subprojects were abandoned after studies showed
that they were uneconomic. With regard to institutional development, IA was significantly strengthened.
It now has in-house capability to plan, design, and supervise civil works, but needs additional community
development skills to mobilize farmers into water user groups for the transfer of irrigation management
and maintenance responsibility. The Water Resources Unit has submitted a strategic plan for water
allocation which has been accepted by the Govemnment. The adoption of drip irrigation would be a switch
to a more water-efficient and higher yield system, while progress has been made in grouping planters into
water user associations or water user cooperative societies. The roles of the different stakeholders have
also been clarified.
11.      The consultancies and studies funded under the project have led to the strengthening of
research management and prioritization for non-sugar agriculture, cost recovery in irrigation projects, and
improvement of AMB's operational capacity, including liberalization of trade in onions, potatoes and
maize.
Assessment of Sustainability
12.      The sustainability of project activities is supported by several positive indicators. The research
and extension agencies have been reorganized, and their work methods have been changed for more
effective demand-driven programs. Investment was made in training and capacity building which will
help sustain the reforms. Significant investnents have been made to upgrade laboratory facilities for plant
pathology, entomology and post harvest technology, and Government is completing from its own
resources the remaining capital investment needed for transport, computer equipment and for upgrading
research stations. Moreover, the new approaches adopted for priority setting, needs assessment, work
program development, planning and monitoring are expected to be implemented as scheduled, in line with
the demonstrated capacity of the Govemment to fund research and extension activities for the non-sugar
sector. The future of IA depends on the mobilization of water user resources and the development of
effective water user associations that can become IA's partners, and eventually take over from IA in the
operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes. To do that, IA needs to strengthen its capacity to
develop water user associations and to assist them in increasing their capacity to contribute to irrigation
development and maintenance (beneficiaries of the Western Coast Irrigation Project will pay for the full
annual cost of irrigation operation and maintenance), including paying for IA's services. IA also has to
strengthen its technical staff by the recruitment of additional qualified engineers.



iv
Bank and Borrower Performance
13.      Overall, the Bank provided satisfactory guidance and support in identifying the main
components of the project. However, appraisal of the irrigation component was inadequate, leading to its
over-design and to the formulation of uneconomic pilot projects. However, the Bank was flexible in
agreeing to the change in concept of the component. No quantitative targets for benefits were specified,
which made it difficult to assess progress. Moreover, the complexity of the institutional reforms targeted
was underestimated and, as a result, project start-up was delayed. The disbursement forecast was over-
optimistic, as slow disbursement during the project's initial stages prompted the Government to scale
down the project by US$6.0 million. Supervision of the project was lacking at start, but was reinforced as
from 1996 with the transfer of supervision responsibility to the Bank Resident Mission in Madagascar.
This facilitated good communication and quick response in addressing procurement, disbursement, and
other client matters. Although the Borrower was slow in getting project activities off the ground, increased
Government commitment over time improved implementation, particularly in the last couple of years of
the project. The cancellation of the balance of the Loan for an amount of US$1.175 million is not a
reflection of project performance, and the potential risk to the successful completion of the project caused
by the cancellation is mitigated by Govemnment's commitment to use its own budget to replace the Bank
contribution. A positive environmental result of the project relates to the switch in concept of the
irrigation component from dam construction and surface irrigation, which wastes water and erodes the
soil, to the use of drip irrigation, which has none of these environmentally detrimental effects.
Key Lessons Learned
14.      Major lessons learned from the project are:
G Government policy on institutional reform and restructuring of the agricultural services
should have been clarified early. Uncertainty over conditions of service and fear of
redundancy were genuine concerns of staff, which slowed down the reform process.
*  Key issues should be addressedupfront rather than during project implementation. Thus,
major changes in project design made to technical and institutional aspects during project
implementation slowed down project activities.
*  A legal framework for AREU should have been in place at the beginning of the project.
The reorganization of DARE and the Ministry's other agricultural services should have
been carried out concurrently due to their complementary functions.
*  Setting up DARE as just another unit under the Ministry was not the best arrangement, as
the same problems and heavy administrative procedures persisted. It would have been
preferable to establish DARE as an independent unit right from the start and recruit staff
outside of the Ministry. Building on an existing system is more difficult, especially if a
change of attitude and of work methods is needed.
*  A more pro-active role of the Bank would have been needed to address the problem of
poor project implementation in the early years of the project.
*  System modernization from surface to drip irrigation has contributed to substantial savings
in water use and greater profitability (higher internal rate of return) through improved
distribution efficiency.
*  The financial participation of planters (at the rate of 20 percent for investnent and 100
percent for operation and maintenance) in the Western Coast Pilot Project has instilled a
sense of planter ownership of the project and contributed to its sustainability. This first in
the history of irrigation development is likely to be extended to other schemes.



v
Future Operations
15.      In its country dialogue on rural development with Government, the Bank has currently no
plans for a future operation in that sector. On the other hand, Government is preparing, together with the
private sector, an Action Plan for Agriculture to Year 2010. The preparation of the Action Plan is well
advanced, and the Bank, at the request of Government, has been providing short term technical assistance
to review the Action Plan. Government plans are still unclear, at this stage, on the financing
arrangements, including the eventual participation of the Bank, for the investments to be proposed in the
Plan.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
(Ln. 3333-MAS)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A: INTRODUCTION
1.     In the 1980s, Mauritius undertook a series of structural adjustment operations which were
successful in encouraging export-led growth powered by sugar, manufactured exports and tourism.
Sustained growth rates and sound economic management led to major improvements in the external
accounts and per capita incomes doubled in less than a decade. However, as growth began to fall off in
the late 1980s and food imports escalated, attention was again focused on agriculture as a source of
growth. Despite the successes which had been achieved in diversification, the economy remained
dependent on a narrow range of activities with limited growth potential. Sugar was still the largest source
of net foreign exchange eamings and accounted for approximately 75 percent of agricultural GDP. While
the sugar industry greatly contributed to Mauritius' growth, its performance was subject to fluctuations
primarily because due to the impact of weather conditions on sugar production. Agriculture had also
suffered from the massive transfers into other sectors made by both the public and private sectors in the
pre-occupation to maximize growth. As a result, productivity and modernization in agriculture had not
kept pace with the rest of the economy.
2.      In order to maximize growth in the agricultural sector, the constraints to agricultural
development had to be overcome.  Future agricultural growth in Mauritius depended on both
diversification and improvements in productivity. Given the domestic resource constraints and the highly
competitive external market conditions, the key to future success was more sophisticated management and
highly skilled manpower capable of adapting quickly to changing market conditions. However,
agricultural policy making and management were constrained by several factors: (i) weaknesses in
coordination mechanisms between MAFNR and producers in setting priorities: (ii) insufficient analytical
capacity to meet the growing demands; (iii) bottlenecks in information flows; and (iv) insufficient
assessment of organizational efficiency within the complex institutional apparatus serving the sector.
Also, support services for research and extension for diversification activities lagged far behind these for
sugar in terms of organization, management, facilities and logistical support.
3.      The institutional and organizational apparatus in the agricultural sector was large and complex,
controlled mainly by MAFNR. The three main institutions responsible for research were the Mauritius
Sugar Industry Research Institute (MSIRI), the Agricultural Services (AS) of MAFNR and the University
of Mauritius (UOM). Extension responsibilities lay with the Farmer Services Center (FSC) and the AS.
The constraints facing the sector and the uncertainties with respect to diversification had created a need for
a strong analytical capacity in MAFNR to assess options, develop strategies, evaluate outcomes on a
continuous basis and respond flexibly to continuously changing and competitive market conditions.
Coordination in policy formulation also needed to be streamlined, and the High Powered Committee
(HPC) originally set up for this purpose had become no longer fumctional. A complex institutional
structure had evolved over time and the mechanisms for intemal management of MAFNR needed to be



2
strengthened. The priority areas for attention included arrangements for relevant information flows,
analysis of information, and the timely reading of danger signals, as well as capacity to evaluate and
advise on viable options.
4.      An FAO-CP/Bank mission visited Mauritius in March 1986 and carried out a detailed review of
the main non-sugar subsectors: food crops, fisheries, agro-industries, livestock, irrigation and tea. The
mission's report drew attention to the pervasive institutional problems and identified potential project
components. A subsequent Bank mission in July 1986 carried out further investigation on the
institutional needs of MAFNR and issues relating to land, irrigation, marketing and pricing. However,
preparation of the project was temporarily halted in order to focus attention on resolving pressing
efficiency issues in the sugar sector. In 1989, discussions were revived, and the focus and scope of the
project were agreed upon by the Bank and Government. Further refinements were made following joint
discussions in Washington in March 1990 and during the course of the pre-appraisal missions of March
and July 1990.
B: PROJECT OBJECTWES
5.      The project was designed to support the Govemment's broad objectives of modemizing the
agricultural sector, improving the productivity and competitiveness of the smallholder sector and
diversifying the production base. The objective of the project was to put in place institutional and
organizational arrangements for sector management and delivery of supporting services, which could
respond flexibly and efficiently to continued structural transformation in the economy and rapidly
changing competitive market conditions. In the delivery of supporting services, the project aimed to
improve organization management and use of resources, as well as upgrade skills and facilities.
6.      Given the rapidly changing factor and market conditions, achievement of these components
depended crucially on institutional capacity to formulate, implement, evaluate and adjust flexible policies
and programs. The project strategy focused on strengthening key elements of the institutional framework
which were directly related to diversification andsmallholder productivity. The institutional framework
was to be strengthened through the creation of a Consultative Committee of Agriculture (CCA) at the
sectoral level with an Executive Secretariat, as well as an Agricultunal Policy and Analysis Unit (APAU)
within MAFNR. Secondly, the major information systems within the sector were to be farther
computerized and interlinked in a phased manner. The project would be managed and implemented by
MAFNR under the overall coordination of the Permanent Secretary, assisted by the Administrative
Secretariat and APAU.
Components:
7.      Strengthening of sectoral management capacity through: (i) creation of a Consultative
Committee of Agriculture with public and private sector representation and supported by an Executive
Secretariat; (ii) creation of an agricultural policy and analysis unit within MAFNR to provide analytical
back-up to CCA and operational departments and parastatals of MAFNR; and (iii) establishment of
computerized agricultural and management information systems. The role of CCA was to improve
coordination of overall agricultural policy, research and development, as well as of operations of the
parastatals. APAU was to provide analytical planning and information support to the Minister, the
Administrative Secretariat, agencies andparastatals of MAFNR and to the CCA and its secretariat. It was
to form part of the organizational structure of MAFNR, and its head was to report to the Permanent
Secretary. The project was also to finance a Management Information System for MAFNR, aimed at
improving its planning, monitoring and operational functions of MAFNR through integration of the



3
infornation collection and processing activities within MAFNR and itsparastatals, and strengthening the
computing capacity in the technical and other operational divisions.
8.      Improvements in agricultural supporting services through: (i) reorganization and strengthening
of research, extension, training and crop protection services mainly for non-sugar activities; and (ii) better
coordination of research and extension for all crops (including sugar) and livestock. The project was to
support a major restructuring of the Agricultural Services Department of MAFNR, to be streamlined
within a Directorate of Agricultural Research and Extension. New operational arrangements and facilities
were to allow decentralized management and improved operational efficiency focused on priorities. The
project was also to support information and collaborative mechanisms for improving coordination of
agricultural research in Mauritius. The Food and Agricultural Research Council (FARC) was to
implement a research management information system - MARMIS (Mauritius Agricultural Research
Information System), in order to provide MAFNR management with complete agricultural research
information.
9.      Development of irrigation potential through: (i) strengthening of the technical and planning
capacity of the Irrigation Authority; (ii) improved efficiency of existing irrigation systems through
rehabilitation and better management systems for water delivery; and (iii) pilot projects to test and
demonstrate a low cost approach for irrigation systems. The institutional strengthening of IA involved
organizational changes, an extensive training program for staff and farmer trainers, as well as the
provision of TA, vehicles, equipment and facilities. The O&M department was to be strengthened in
order to improve its efficiency. Also, three pilot/small scale operations were to be carried out to test the
technical and economic feasibility of the proposed low cost irrigation approach with increased
participation of beneficiaries in project operation and management.
10.      Other supporting services improvements, mainly through consultancy studies and training
fellowships on: (i) measures to eliminate marketing constraints facing smallholder producers; (ii)
improved marketing and production technology for the Agricultural Marketing Board; (iii) measures to
improve flexibility and efficiency of marketing operations; (iv) development of a pilot project to test an
integrated framework for small scale agri-business activities; and (v) consultancy and training to develop
management capability in farmer groups.
Evaluation of Project Objectives
11.      The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) supported Mauritius' plans and policies on
structural adjustment in general and on agricultural diversification in particular. The Bank was already
heavily involved in the restructuring of the sugar industry and had developed positive working
relationships with the authorities in agriculture. Successful diversification from sugar was of key
importance to the country's long term development, and a competitive agricultural sector was crucial to
internal stability and preservation of the island's natural resources. The project was to contribute towards
creating an enabling policy and supporting framework for a diversified and competitive agricultural
sector. Measurable benefits were to include improved efficiency in agricultural management and services,
increased productivity of land and labor, increased non-sugar agricultural production, and higher incomes
for smallholders. However, no specific targets were identified and, as demonstrated at the end of the
project, the scope of project objectives proved to be over-optimistic.
12.      Client support risks were estimated as low during appraisal. The project supportedMAFNR's
initiatives in responding to demands from producers and other agencies for improvement in the areas to be
addressed under the project. These involved mainly strengthening and supplementing of existing
management arrangements and building upon local experiences in coordination and user participation.



4
The proposed organizational changes in research and extension were based on successful local experiences
in the sugar sector.
13.      The project reflected the lessons and experience of the Sugar Industry Project (Ln. 2728-MAS,
approved in June 1986), which provided investment and technical assistance for consolidating and
extending the restructuring process in the sugar industry, as well as the SAL operations where major
policy reforms were introduced to improve incentives and efficiency in the agricultural sector, particularly
in sugar. The successful approach to coordination and policy reform in the sugar sector was now to be
expanded to include the non-sugar sector. The approach for research and farmer services was also be
applied to the rest of agriculture with appropriate modifications, and overall coordination was to be
improved. The project was, therefore, a logical continuation of Bank involvement in the agricultural
sector.
Project Costs and Financing
14.     The project scope was considerably scaled down. The Bank loan was originally for an amount
of US$10.0 million, but US$6.0 million of this amount was canceled in June 1995 due to the Government
decision not to use Bank funds for expatriate technical assistance and to reduce the scope of the research
and extension components. At the request of Government, an additional amount of US$1.175 million was
canceled in July 1998. The total project cost at appraisal was estimated at US$18.1 million, with a
Government contribution of US$8.1 million. At the preparation of the ICR, the total amount spent in
project investments amounted to US$3.39 million. The significant drop in project investments was due to
two factors: (a) reduced scope of the irrigation component from US$8.3 million, without contingencies, to
US$2.2 million actually spent; and (b) reduced investments in research and extension, resulting in a drop
of project cost from US$5.1 million, without contingencies, at appraisal to US$0.45 million, actually
spent. Co-financing for expatriate technical assistance to DARE was provided by the Overseas
Development Assistance instead of the Bank loan. As a result, the number of expatriates to be financed
from the Bank was reduced from three to two.
C: ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Implementation Experience.
15.      The date of loan effectiveness had to be extended six times as the four special conditions of
effectiveness - establishment of CCA and appointment of the Executive Secretary, establishment of
APAU and appointment of its Head and the Information Analyst, establishment of DARE and
appointment of the Director and Assistance Directors, and satisfactory reorganization of IA - were all not
completed until 1992. The main problem met by MAFNR in establishing CCA, APAU and DARE was
the recruitment of their key personnel. The selection of candidates was politically sensitive and required
careful attention as these were all highly visible positions. Govemment was also preoccupied with
political matters following the elections of 1991.
16.      By June 1992, CCA had been established with private sector membership. IA's Board
approved the reorganization of the authority, including the establishment of an Irrigation Planning Unit
(IPU) and the reorganization of the existing departments into three full-fledged departments, namely a
Construction and Supervision Department, an Operations and Maintenance Department, and an
Administrative/Finance Department. Intensified project supervision by the Bank as from mid-1992
helped to produce action in the appointment of Heads of Departments and, in November 1992, MAFNR
filled in the remaining key positions in the Ministry and IA. As this action fulfilled the final conditions of



5
effectiveness, the loan became effective on November 20, 1992.
17.      Project implementation and disbursements remained slow after effectiveness.  MAFNR
decided not to use Bank funds for certain components (construction of a new building to house its staff,
external technical assistance, salaries and travel allowances) and to meet other costs from its own
resources. Weak project coordination was a serious constraint, given the many project components, while
the new structures supported by the project were being established all too slowly. By March 1993, little
progress had been made in project implementation.
18.      The long delays in recruitment of key staff caused frustration within almost all the project
entities. Continued interference in IA's day-to-day management by the Chairman of the Board slowed
down project implementation. Little progress was made in identifying water user associations for the
pilot programn which was to be located in one small scale and one large scale irrigated scheme. Lack of a
clear responsibility for procurement and disbursement was also a hindrance, resulting in long procurement
delays even for relatively straightforward procurement matters.
19.      By October 1993, some of the problems had been resolved, and project implementation picked
up, albeit at a slow pace. While almost all the key staff were in place, support for inter-ministerial policy
clearances was weak. However, APAU had been strengthened by placing under its supervision some of
the existing units in MAFNR, and was gearing itself towards playing an effective coordinating role as it
had begun to provide advice and support to the senior Ministry hierarchy on diverse subjects, including
agricultural diversification. As for DARE, its development plan task force had begun to meet regularly,
although its role and relationships with sister institutions had yet to be clarified and it had yet to recruit a
suitable national as Director by May 1994. It was being run by a Management Committee, assisted on
technical matters by a Technical Advisory Committee comprising representatives of research institutions,
the Agricultural Services and agricultural producers. IA was being slowed down by its internal problems,
namely slow Board response to management proposals and interference in its day-to-day operations.
20.      MAFNR was slow to address the problem of project non-compliance with the following
covenants: (i) preparation of reports; (ii) definition of a long term strategy for potable water supply and
irrigation; (iii) timely preparation of annual work plans; and (iv) timely presentation of audit reports. The
project continued to be implemented slowly, mainly due to the lack of sufficient qualified personnel in all
the agencies. By 1995, however, MAFNR was showing a new sense of dynamism and commitment to
resolve the project's problems and to give the support needed to the project. At the same time, increased
Bank supervision efforts were beginning to pay off. Thus, project implementation improved considerably,
as confirmed by the satisfactory rating given by the June 1995 supervision mission. APAU had made a
major contribution to the paper made by the Minister of Agriculture to the Cabinet, which presented
government policy and priorities for the coming years. The main institutional hurdles for the agricultural
research and extension component were overcome as the transfer of DARE to FARC was cleared by
Government, and arrangements for staff transfer were finalized. Structured consultations between DARE
and farmers had finally begun across the island, at the same time as work on the review of the organization
of agricultural services. Implementation of the two small scale pilot projects (Western Coast Tumkey
Drip project and the Solitude II Drip project) by IA was progressing satisfactorily.
21.      In June 1995, the Bank agreed to cancel US$6 million of the loan, taking into account a more
realistic project disbursement schedule for the remaining four years of the project and the need to reduce
commitment charges which had been accumulating since loan effectiveness in November 1992.
22.      The Mid-Term Review (MTR) of the project was conducted in December 1995, by which
time all project components were operational. It rated current progress as being satisfactory, and noted the



6
following achievements:
23.      The Consultative Committee on Agriculture has been set up with a Pennanent Secretariat to
improve consultation with producers, other ministries and public agencies, as well as coordination of its
policies and operations. It was organized in such a way as to overcome the shortcomings of its
predecessor, the High Powered Committee. The CCA met in August 1994 and gave way to the High
Powered Task Force on Diversification, which prepared excellent proposals on the restatement of the role
of the State in agriculture.
24.      The Agricultural Policy and Analysis Unit has been established to strengthen MAFNR's
capacity in planning, monitoring and evaluation to enable it to respond to competitive market conditions
with appropriate policies, incentives and services. This unit played an active role in policy decisions and
in defining the Government's agricultural strategy into the 21st century as outlined in the document
"Horizons 2000". However, the success of this unit was largely due to the expatriate head of unit.
25.      Agricultural and Management Infornation Systems (AMIS) have been established to create
reliable and timely information for MAFNR within the framework of the overall Public Sector
Information Strategy developed by the Govermment. Their objective was to address information
inefficiencies, which were affecting coordination and policy making, as well as creating information
bottlenecks in the technical, administrative and financial departments.
26.      The Agricultural Research and Extension Services have been reorganized to improve their
efficiency in the delivery of these services for non-sugar crops and livestock in modemizing agriculture.
The services were streamlined into a unified Directorate of Agricultural Research and Extension within
MAFNR. A Rapid Rural Appraisal was undertaken to investigate farmer problems and constraints, on the
basis of demand-driven research and extension work programs. It assisted in the definition of the needs of
the farming community and helped towards more focused programs.
27.      The Irrigation Authority The project supported development of IA's capacity as an essential
first phase of GOM's much larger program for the development of irrigation potential on the island. IA
was reorganized and strengthened through the provision of TA, vehicles, equipment and facilities. With
the addition of staff to the Irrigation Planning Unit, the latter took over farmer training. Urgent irrigation
rehabilitation works were initially to be undertaken at LaFerme and Magenta Canals but, in view of their
urgency, these works had already been completed under Government financing before loan effectiveness
(La Ferme Canal), or under co-financing by the European Union (Magenta). The construction of 3 pilot
small scale dam construction projects at an estimated cost ofRs 38.88 millions was earmarked in the
SAR. The objective was to test the technical and economic feasibility of surface irrigation from flood
water to be stored in small impounding dams. Studies conducted under the project concluded that these
small dams were not appropriate for technical and economic reasons. In order to use up the loan funds
earmarked for the LaFerme and Magenta canals and the three pilot small scale projects, the Government
and the Bank agreed to the financing of two pilot small scale projects based on drip irrigation. The
Western Coast aimed at converting 210 ha of land (135 ha of sugar cane and vegetables under surface
irrigation and 75 ha of abandoned land) to drip irrigation, and the Solitude aimed at developing 70 ha of
mostly abandoned land.
28.      A study on the reform of the Agricultural Marketing Board was completed by December
1995.
29.      From 1996 onwards, project activities focused on strengthening the national agricultural
research and extension services. DARE was formally integrated within FARC in July 1996 under the



7
name of AREU (the FARC Act was rewritten in 1997 to incorporate AREU as one of its units, and
promulgated in March 1998). Recruitment of AREU staff from within the Ministry was completed by
December 1997 after an agreement had been reached with the various staff unions.
30.      Progress in the execution of the irrigation contracts on the two pilot projects is, at the time of
writing this ICR, satisfactory. The Western Coast project was started on time and at the present pace of
works, completion is expected for April 1999. Although the Solitude II project is also expected to be
completed in time, infield works are progressing faster than weir construction, which has been temporarily
stopped due to a litigation with one of the riparian owners. As compared to a water usage efficiency of
around 40 percent for surface irrigation, drip irrigation would attain up to 92-95 percent of water usage
efficiency. This improvement would certainly result in reduction in gross water requirement per hectare,
more reliable water supply, and judicious use of water from LaFerme storage reservoir, in accordance
with the objectives of the Water Resource Unit.
D: MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Factors Outside of Government Control
31.   The DARE report on project implementation concluded that technical assistance from ODA could
have been more effective. As a result, DARE management had to struggle to implement the project as
there was a lack of clear guidelines from the SAR and no TA to help clarify issues. The close support of a
World Bank consultant or of the agricultural staff from the Resident Mission in Madagascar could have
been useful in the initial phase of project implementation.
Factors Under Government Control
32.   Long delays due to MAFNR bureaucratic procedures held up even the most minor procurement
and equipment purchases. As a result, disbursements were very slow, and World Bank funds were hardly
used in the early years of the project. Many of the staffing issues arose from uncertainty over conditions
of service, which took a long time to be clarified by Government. This delayed the recruitment of the
Director and Assistant Director to AREU/DARE. Also new salary scales were not agreed with the staff
unions before posts were advertised and staff were taken on board by the DARE. Various difficulties of a
legal nature were encountered during the establishment of DARE/AREU, as no legal framework was in
place when the project began. The management committee did not function properly for that reason. The
Ministry of Civil Services and the Pay Research Bureau (PRB) took a long time to finalize the conditions
of service of engineers at IA. Actions were initiated only after the publication of the PRB report in
September 1998.
33.      Counterpart Funding. The Govemnment provided adequate counterpart funding during the
project.
E: PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34.      The sustainability of project activities is supported by several positive indicators. The research
and extension agencies have been reorganized, and their work methods have been changed for more
effective demand-driven programs. Investment was made in training and capacity building which will
help sustain the reforms. Significant investments have been made to upgrade laboratory facilities for plant
pathology, entomology and post harvest technology, and Government is completing from its own
resources the remaining capital investment needed for transport, computer equipment and for upgrading



8
research stations. Moreover, the new approaches adopted for priority setting, needs assessment, work
program development, planning and monitoring are expected to be implemented as scheduled, in line with
the demonstrated capacity of the Government to fund research and extension activities for the non-sugar
sector. The future of IA depends on the mobilization of water user resources and the development of
effective water user associations that can become IA's partners, and eventually take over from IA in the
operation and maintenance of irrigation schemes. To do that, IA needs to strengthen its capacity to
develop water user associations and to assist them in increasing their capacity to contribute to irrigation
development and maintenance (beneficiaries of the Western Coast Irrigation Project will pay for the full
annual cost of irrigation operation and maintenance), including paying for IA's services IA also has to
strengthen its technical staff by the recruitment of additional qualified engineers.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
35.      Overall, the Bank provided satisfactory guidance and support in identifying the main
components of the project. However, appraisal of the irrigation component was inadequate, leading to its
over-design and to the formulation of uneconomic pilot projects. On the other hand, the Bank was
flexible in agreeing to the change in concept of the component from dam construction to drip irrigation.
No quantitative targets for benefits were specified, which made it difficult to assess progress. Moreover,
the complexity of the institutional reforms targeted was underestimated and, as a result, project start-up
was delayed. The disbursement forecast was over-optimistic, as slow disbursement during the project's
initial stages prompted the Government to scale down the project by US$6.0 million. Supervision of the
project was lacking at start, but was reinforced as from 1996 with the transfer of supervision responsibility
to the Bank Resident Mission in Madagascar. This facilitated good communication and quick response in
addressing procurement, disbursement, and other client matters. Due to the proximity to Mauritius, the
timing of supervision missions was well planned, in consultation with the project entity
G: BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.      Although the Borrower was slow in getting project activities off the ground, increased
Government commitment over time improved implementation, particularly in the last couple of years of
the project. It was slow in acting to alleviate staff concerns over redundancy and safeguard of their
accumulated rights and benefits and in providing an appropriate legal framework for AREU. Its
cumbersome bureaucratic procedures hampered procurement and disbursement, as well as the
implementation of the sensitive institutional and organizational changes earmarked under the project.
Much time was spent in commissioning and carrying out a study in order to prove the lack of economic
viability of small dam construction for surface irrigation in a volcanic island like Mauritius. As
Government showed greater commitment to the project in the later part of the project, implementation
improved. Government cancellation of the Bank Loan for an amount of US$ 1.175 million in 1998 is not
a reflection of the performance of the project, and the potential risk to the successful completion of the
project caused by the cancellation is mitigated by Government's commitment to use its own budget to
replace the Bank contribution.
H: ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT OUTCOME
37.      Despite the long implementation period and the reduced project scope, institutional reforms
were substantially achieved at the end of the project, and the outcome of the project can be rated as
marginally to moderately satisfactory. The institutional reforms and strengthening of MAFNR, relating to
the establishment of APAU, setting up of a new research and extension organization for the non-sugar



9
agricultural sector, rationalization of AMB operations and consolidation of IA structure and operations,
are nearly complete. These institutions are now on a better footing to meet the challenges of a more
market-oriented agricultural sector. However, improvements in farm productivity and farmer income and
increased agricultural diversification are only beginning to be achieved.
Sector Management Capacity
38.      The Consultative Committee for Agriculture was set up as a forum  for making
recommendations on sectoral policies and priorities in the agricultural sector. However, it did not meet
regularly and, thus, has not served its purpose. APAU has also been established and is now headed by a
Mauritian national. Although sufficiently staffed, it still needs to be strengthened in order to become
more effective. Since 1995, APAU has been working closely with all the project implementation agencies
to monitor and coordinate project operations and prepare half-yearly reports. Agricultural management
and information systems have been introduced for administrative modules for finance and personnel.
Agricultural Research and Extension
39.      Institutional development objectives for research and extension on non-sugar agriculture have
been attained, although some further strengthening of stations and demonstration centers is still needed.
With all its vacancies filled and with full financial and administrative autonomy, AREU is now fully
operational in research and extension. Programs are developed with the farming community in a
participatory manner, thereby making programs more focused on farmer priority needs.AREU's in-house
management capacity for socio-economic impact assessment of technologies and identification of
constraints has been improved, and a research management system is now operational for priority setting,
and work program planning, development, monitoring and evaluation. Linkages have been established
with local and extemal research and extension agencies (MSIRI, FS C, University of Mauritius, AMB, IA,
etc.) and farmer organizations (namely, APEXHOM, a leading horticultural export organization; six
onion-producing associations; the national federation of agricultural cooperatives; two cow breeder
associations; deer farmer cooperatives; youth and women's groups and associations), leading to the
delivery of better integrated and networked extension services, and thus to the development of more
modem and efficient agricultural systems.
40.      Extension coverage has been achieved island-wide, with more responsibility and authority
delegated to senior extension staff at regional level. The themes are also more relevant to actual needs,
covering fruits, crop protection, and resource management. Regular training of extension is being carried
out by research staff, who also participate in training of farmers, and by UOM. A new service for
diagnosis of pest problems is operational in order to better support field extension and better respond to
farmers. Good progress has been made in the development and use of indicators to monitor the impact of
research and extension on the ground.. However, the number of field demonstrations and trials per
extension agent needs to be increased, and farmer participation through on-farm trials and demonstration
plots enhanced. There is also a need to rationalize the separate services provided to sugar and non-sugar
farmers.
Irrigation Services
41.      IA now has in-house capability to plan, design, and supervise civil works, but needs additional
community development skills to mobilize farmers into water user groups for the transfer of irrigation
management and maintenance responsibility. The Water Resources Unit has submitted a strategic plan for
water allocation which has been accepted by the Government. The switch to drip irrigation would mean a
higher crop production than for surface irrigation because land is being cleared of rocks, the water supply



10
is more reliable, water use efficiency is very high, and the planters are using improved cultural practices.
Planters are grouping themselves into water user associations or water user cooperative societies, while
the roles of the different stakeholders have also been clarified. However, drip projects are delivered as
entirely automated turn-key projects, whose operation requires prior training for operators and
beneficiaries. Other outcomes include:
*  80% completion of civil works for the pilot small scale Westem Coast drip irrigation project; first
irrigation on some 50 ha is expected at the end of 1998, and on the whole area of 210 ha by the end of
1999; training for irrigation management and maintenance is being provided to the water user
association that is being formalized;
*  5 0% completion of civil works for the pilot small scale Solitude drip irrigation project; first irrigation
is expected on about 15 ha out of the total 70 ha by the end of 1998, and on the entire area by June
1999. About 70 ha of previously abandoned land will be put under drip irrigation; a water user
association is being initiated.
*  survey work for new projects has been carried out, and three new projects have been identified.
*  irrigation beneficiaries have accepted the concept ofcost recovery. In the Westem Coast Irrigation
Project, they have contributed 20% of the investment cost and have agreed to pay the full cost of
O&M.
Agricultural Production
*  the on-going derocking operation will enable the planters to have their fields mechanically harvested.
About 10% of the project area would be under diversifiedpurestand vegetables of higher value, thus
increasing the farmer's net income by about Rs. 125,000 (US$5,000) per ha;
* in sugar cane areas on the Western Coast, yields are expected to increase between 50% and 60%; for
the Solitude area, yields will increase from nil to 130 tons per ha;
* on the Western Coast, some 104 ha will be totally new plantation, whereas for Solitude II project, the
abandoned lands will be replanted by May 1999.
Other Services
42.      Some consultancies and studies, including the study of AMB by De Chazal de Mee, review of
conditions of services for AREU, strengthening of research management and prioritization for non sugar
agriculture were conducted.
43.      Agricultural Marketing Board. Following the detailed assessment of its responsibilities,
organization and management, AMB took some concrete actions to improve its operational capacity.
Unlike the objective stated in the SAR, the focus was less on the development of its export capacity as on
the improvement of its overall effectiveness. The actions included: a reduction of personnel, which
allowed it to save about 30% in its personnel expenditures; liberalization of trade in onions, potatoes and
maize; elaboration and implementation of a staff training program; and improvement of its storage
facilities. However, the issues relating to the mission of the Board and its ultimate role and
responsibilities are still pending.
44.      The Farmer Service Centers' responsibilities in the non-sugar sector were clarified under the
project, and in-field coordination with AREU was improved. To better facilitate inter-agency
coordination, AREU's extension headquarters are now located in the FSC building, and the two agencies
share regional physical facilities. AREU participates in FSC's regional meetings, and joint training
sessions are regularly organized by the two agencies.



I1
45.      FARC. Although FARC has not been very effective in promoting closer cooperation between
the different agencies involved in research, coordination occurs to some extent through informal channels.
For the non-sugar sector, the integration of AREU within FARC has triggered closer coordination of
research for that sector and has produced for AREU greater autonomy, recognition, and legitimacy to
carry out its mandate. The Mauritius Agricultural Research Information System (MARMIS) was set up
by FARC but never became operational.
1: FUTURE OPERATIONS
46.      In its country dialogue on rural development with Government, the Bank has currently no
plans for a future operation in that sector. On the other hand, Government is preparing, together with the
private sector, an Action Plan for Agriculture to Year 2010. The preparation of the Action Plan is well
advanced, and the Bank, at the request of Govermnent, has been providing short term technical assistance
to review the Action Plan.  Government plans are still unclear, at this stage, on the financing
arrangements, including the eventual participation of the Bank, for the investments to be proposed in the
Plan.
J: KEY LESSONS LEARNED
47.      Major lessons learned from the project are:
  Government policy on institutional reform and restructuring of the agricultural services
should have been clarified early. Uncertainty over conditions of service and fear of
redundancy were genuine concerns of staff, which slowed down the reform process.
*  Key issues should be addressed upfront rather than during project implementation. Thus,
major changes in project design made to technical and institutional aspects during project
implementation slowed down project activities.
*  A legal framework for AREU should have been in place at the beginning of the project.
The reorganization of DARE and the Ministry's other agricultural services should have
been carried out concurrently due to their complementary functions.
*  Setting up DARE as just another unit under the Ministry was not the best arrangement, as
the same problems and heavy administrative procedures persisted. It would have been
preferable to establish DARE as an independent unit right from the start and recruit staff
outside of the Ministry. Building on an existing system is more difficult, especially if a
change of attitude and of work methods is needed.
*  A more pro-active role of the Bank would have been needed to address the problem of
poor project implementation in the early years of the project.
* System modernization from surface to drip irrigation has contributed to substantial savings
in water use and greater profitability (higher internal rate of return) through improved
distribution efficiency.
*  The financial participation of planters (at the rate of 20 percent for investment and 100
percent for operation and maintenance) in the Western Coast Pilot Project has instilled a
sense of planter ownership of the project and contributed to its sustainability. This first in
the history of irrigation development is likely to be extended to other schemes.



12
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
(LOAN 3333-MAS)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of objectives     Substantial      Partial       Negligible      Not Applicable
Macro policies                                                                       X
Sector policies                      X
Financial objectives                                X
Institutional development            X
Physical objectives                  X
Poverty reduction                                   X
Gender issues                                                                        X
Other social objectives                             X
Environmental objectives                            X
Public sector management       _____                X
Private sector development                                          X
Other (specify)
B. Project sustainability          Likely
C. Bank performance                Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
I __________________________ _  | Satisfactory
Identification                                      X
Preparation Assistance                                              X
Appraisal                                                           X
Supervision                                                         X
D. Borrower performance            Highly       Satisfactory     Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation                                                         X
Implementation                                                      X
Covenant compliance                                                 X
E. Assessment of outcome                        Marginally



13
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK CREDITS
Credit title              Purpose                             Year of   Status
approval
Preceding operations                                        __________
Tea Project (Cr. 239-MAS)   The objective of the project was to    1974  Closed July 1980
design an institutional framework for        Unsuccessful
smnallholder tea growing and                 because of
controlling the labor and operating          institutional and
costs of the Tea Development                 policy constraints
Authority
SAL operations            Major policy reforms introduced to    mid-1980s  Closed
improve incentives and efficiency in  onwards    Successful
the sugar industry                                             I
Sugar Industry Project (Cr.   Provided investment and technical    1986  Closed
2728 MAS)                 assistance for consolidating and              Successful
extending the restructuring process in
the sugar sector. Supported the
creation of the Farmer Service Center
program, on a pilot scale, to provide
integrated support services to small
holders in sugarcane-based cropping
systems
Following operations                                       l
None planned



14
TABLE 3: PROJECT TMETABLE
Date
Steps on Project Cycle                Date Planned          actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Surmnary)      October 1989               May 1990
Preparation/Pre-appraisal                         March 1990           Marchand July 1990
Appraisal                                       November 1990            November 1990
Negotiations                                      March 1991               April 3, 1991
Boardpresentation                                  June 1991               May 28, 1991
Signing                                            June 1991               June 5, 1991
Effectiveness                                   September 1991          November 20, 1992
Mid-term review                                 September 1994           December 7, 1995
Project completion                               June 30, 1998             June 30, 1998
Credit closing                                 December 31, 1998   1       July 1, 1998*
* The project's activities will continue to be fully financed under the resources of the Governrnent until April 1999
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
Estimated Cumulative    Actual Cumulative    Actual as a % of
Disbursements          Disbursements           estimate
Fiscal Year                (US$ million)          (US$ million)
1992                    0.5                     0.0                   0
1993                    2.5                     0.0                   0
1994                    4.5                    0.14                   3
1995                    6.5                    0.55                   8
1996                    8.5                    0.88                  10
1997                    9.5                    1.53                  16
1998                    10.0                   2.08                  21
1999                                           2.83                  28
Cancellation
US$ 6 million was canceled on May 25, 1995 and a further US$1.175 million was canceled in July
1998
Final Disbursement    July 1, 1998
Date



15
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Key implementation indicators                      Estimated         Completed
Institutional management of the MANR
Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit (APAU) established                   1                  1
The Consultative Commnittee on Agriculture(CCA) set up and is          1                  1
operational
The Agricultural Management and Information System(AMIS)               1                  1
established and is functional
Research & Extension Management
The Directorate of Agric. Research & Extension(DARE) established       1                  1
and is operational
The Agric. Research & Extension Unit(AREU) established and is          1                  1
operational
New schemes of services prepared for all staff positions and approved;  1                 1
staffing completed
The Research Management System operational for the setting of          1                  1
priorities
A mid-term strategy paper prepared                                     1                  1
The Management Cell established and additional management capacity     1                  1
available
Collaborative links of AREU
Research & Extension linkages strengthened                             1                  1
The Coordination Commnittee(AREU & Agric. Sces) established            1                  1
The Annual Meeting of Agric. Scieritists (AMAS) organized regularly    1                  1
Linkages with professional producers strengthened                      1                  1
Collaborative links with local & overseas institutions established     1                  I
AREU infrastructure & Equipment
Number of research stations transferred
Laboratories rehabilitated & Equipment improved                        1                  1
Irrigation Authority LA.
I.A. capacity strengthened                                             1                  1
Pilot operations identified to test and demonstrate the adoption of drip  3               2
irrigation in improving water use efficiency and promote a greater
fanner participation in the O& M of irrigation systems
Agricultural Marketing Board(AMB)
AMB missions reviewed                                                  1                  1
(disengagement in the marketing of potatoes and onions)
AMB staffng rationalized                                               1                  1
(voluntary departure and redeployment of staff to enable saving of
about 30% in its payroll and cost of social benefits)
Human resource development plan completed                              1                  1



16
TABLE 5A: EXPECTED IMPACT BY YEAR 2000 FOR FINANCED PILOT DRIP IRRIGATION PROJECTS
Indicators                             Solitude II     Western Coast
(1)                                    (2)               (3)
Area cultivated (ha)                                                      70                210
No. Beneficiaries                                                        102                 45
Incremental cam prod (tons)                                             8050              12675
Incremental sugar prod (tons) (Ext. 11%)                                885.5              1394
Additional revenue (current prices)                                   443635            698400
Gross Sugar price (ton 501 USD)
Cost of project (million USD)                                            1.12              1.61
Participation share of farmers (million USD)                                -              0.40
% of farmers participation towards total cost of project                    -                25
FIRR (%)                                                                28.01             45.54
EIRR (%/.)                                                              17.37              35.0
(1)       These sub-projects were not identified at appraisal.
(2)       Mostly abandoned land
(3)       135 ha were under surface irrigation prior to irrigation system improvement and 75 ha  were abandoned land.
TABLE 5B: INDICATORS - LIVESTOCK RESEARCH
Release of        Type of Technology                     Number and Characteristics
Important New
technology
1994              Nil                                    nil
1995              Litter Management in SmaUlholder Poultry  * Dry sugarcane bagasse has replaced wood shavings in
Production                             litter
1996              Improved Control of Endoparasites in   * Usage of anthelmintics developed and frequency
Goals                                 increased
1997             Improved Nutrition of Deer              * Pasture production profile established
* Feeding strategy developed
1998             Improved Nutrition of Deer              * Supplementation strategy developed for pregnant and
lactating herds
Improved dairy management             * Decrease of the period between calving and ovarian
activity 15 30 days
* Supplementation strategy developed to increase daily
milk production by I to 2 litres
Improved Pig management                * use of broodspectrum antibiotics against diarrhoea
* Proper sow management to prevent crushing of
piglets
* Optimal sow feeding for milk production



17
TABLE 5B: IMPACT INDICATORS FOR AREU
(No targets were identified at appraisal)
CROP RESEARCH
Release of                                             Number and Characteristics
Important New
technology    Type of Technology
1994          improved soil conditions in regions with acid   Soil amendments in highly acid soils
soils                                   One chemical identified that reduces weed infestation
Weed control in onion
1995          improved strawberry varieties            Six new varieties which were higher yielding
improved chemical control in mango       One chemical effective in reducing disease infection
improved cultural practices             fertilization program to enhance fruit bearing and
productivity
1996          improved sucker control in tobacco       One desuckering agent which was more effective
improved bean variety                    One higher yielding variety
improved cultural practice              Method of Direct sowing recommended for onion
Chemical control of new pest            Identification and chemical control developed for
citrus leaf miner
Improved water management               Drip system in onion established
Weed control in tobacco and crucifers    Two chemicals identified and released that reduce
weed infestation
1997          Improved tobacco varieties               One high yielding variety released
improved onion varieties                 Three varieties released for high yield and better
i_____________ __________________________________________  storage
Improved vegetable soybean varieties    2 higher yielding varieties
Improved production system for strawberry    use of plastic tunnel for production in superhumid
condition established
Improved post quality of onion           design and use of a mobile curing unit
IPM of Plutella Xylostella in crucifers  Innoculative release of parasites integrated with
judicious us of Bacillus thuringensis
Control of new foliar disease of banana  New pest identified and more effective chemical
control measures developed
Control of bacterial with in solanaceous crops  Soil amendments with calcium oxide and urea for
control of wilt developed and recommended
Improved cauliflower varieties          2 varieties recommended which are higher yielding and
suitable for off-season
Improved chilli cultivars               2 higher yielding varieties released
Control of post harvest disease in banana fruits Chemical control of crown rot developed
1998          Control of diseases in grapes            Identification and chemical control of new diseases
Improved eggplant varieties             Two yielding varieties released
Improved cultural techniques in onion   Development of new techniques for onion self
production
Improved post harvest quality of banana  Development of post harvest techniques for improved
quality of fruit
Improved snowpea varieties              One higher yielding variety released
Improved post control in onion          Identification of chemical for effective control of thuips
Improved cultural practices in pineapple  Fertilizer regime for improved yield and quality



18
TABLE 5D - INDICATORS - TRAINING FOR AREU
(No targets were identified at appraisal)
Training                  Year      Crop Dpt.    Livestock Dpt.        Extension Dpt.
- In house training (man/days)          1994          2                1                   15
1995         10               5                   77
1996         30              10                   90
1997        180              60                   120
1998         40              20                   162
- Short-tern training (man/months)      1994          -
1995          1               2                    5
1996         5                2                    1
1997         9                3                    2
1998         11               1                    8
- Long-term training (number)           1994          -
1995          -                 
1996          1                 
1997          1   -
1998          1
- Researcher time for Training of       1994          35                          _      _      _
extension Officers and farners          1995          60
(man/days)
1996         97               10
7  1997_    239              80
__ __ __ _ __ 1998  487      90          _
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Not Applicable



19
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study            Purpose as defined in     Status                Impact of Study
SAR/redefined
Identification of small-scale  To test a low cost  Completed    Water use efficiency improved ; Water
pilot irrigation project  approach                              users association established and fanners
participation on management and
maintenance of irrigation systems
introduced for the first time in
Mauritius(up to 20% in the Western
Coast Project).
Review of conditions of   Not identified        Completed       The improved conditions of service
services for AREU                                               enabled AREU to retain its existing staff
and attract at least 50% of its extension
from other organizations.
Strengthening of research  Not identified       Completed       Research programs prioritized to better
management                                                      face international market
and prioritization for non-
sugar agriculture                                                                                   l
Agricultural Marketing    Improve AMB's overall Completed       AMB staffmg rationalized
Board Study               effectiveness
Small producer efficiency  To clarify the nature of  Completed  A marketing strategy and a specific
Study                     marketing problems                    action plan established and being
facing small-holders                 implemented
and define areas in
which action could be
taken.
Small-scale Agribusiness  To develop an         Completed       The broad framework established; more
Development Study         integrated framework                  focused Research and Extension
for providing services -              activities and better coordination with
training, financial                   farmer organizations
services, technical
support etc. to small
producers in a cost-
effective manner.



20
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate.               Actual/latest
(US$ million)                     estimate
(US$ million)
Component                  Local costs    Foreign costs     Total            Total
Investment Costs                                                                        l
(a) Management Capacity       0.40            1.00           1.40             0.38
(b) Research & Extension      2.60            2.50           5.10             0.45
(c) Irigation                 3.80           4.50            8.30             2.22
(d) Other Services            0.10           0.50            0.60             0.34
Total Baseline Costs          6.90            8.50           15.40
Physical Contingencies        0.30            0.50           0.80
Price Contingencies           1.20            0.70           1.90
TOTAL Project Costs           8.40           9.70            18.10            3.39
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimate
(US$ million)                   (US$ million)
Source                        Total                           Total
IDA                                     10.0                             2.82
Goveriment                               8.1                             0.57
Total                                   18.1                             3.39



21
TABLE 9: ECoNOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
An estimation of the Economic Rate of Return was not applicable at appraisal as the project dealt wit]
broad institutional and organizational development.                                             l
Note: Each of the three major components of the project was analyzed separately at appraisal since they were
associated with different sets of benefits. The sectoral management component addressed constraints on all
agricultural activities and was therefore analyzed in relation to its potential impact on growth in the agricultural
sector as a whole. The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) on the net benefit stream was estimated at about 17 percent.
The research and extension components were analyzed in relation to the three mainsubsectors - food crops,
horticulture and livestock - which were to benefit from the proposed improvements. Additional growth of 1.9
percent in these three subsectors would justify the proposed investments and recurrent costs. If the recurrent costs
were reduced by 50 percent as a result of successful budget rationalization in MAFNR, then a growth rate of 1.7
percent would be sufficient to justify the proposed expenditures. The proposed investments inirrigation were part
of a long term strategy for improving productivity in the agricultural sector and diversifying away from sugar. The
Internal Rate of Return of sugar cane cultivation under surface irrigation was calculated at 14 percent. As regards
inrigation use for other crops - onion cultivation in marginal lands being most prevalent - the IRR was estimated to
be 16 percent. The actual IRR under drip irrigation (35% for the Western Coast and 17% for Solitude) is in fact
higher than that for surface irrigation. In fact the incremental production was underestimated in the SAR: (i) out of
the 210 ha of the Western Coast, only 135 ha were cultivated, the remaining 75 ha were abandoned land - In the
SAR all the 210 ha are considered already under cultivation; (ii) Yields should be higher under drip than under
surface irrigation and (iii) irrigation for crops other than sugar cane (onion, vegetables) is much more profitable, as
organizational and marketing constraints are presently being addressed.



22
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Agreement  Section       Covenant  Present   Original    Revised       Description of covenant                   Comments
type       status    fulfillnent  fulfillment
date       date
DCA         3.03         9          C         11/30/94    11/30/95     Mid-terni review of the project          Completed one year later than
planned due to slow start-up of
project activities
4.01 (a) (b)  I        CD        annually,                Audit and accounts
(c) and (d)                      by Dec. 31
7           113        CD        10/03/91    11/20/92     Conditions of effectiveness               The  effectiveness date was
extended six tinies, the loan
however became effective on
11/20/92.
7.01 (a)    5          CD        10/3/91     11/20/92     Establishment of CCA and appointment of an  CCA established. Head APAU
Executive Secretary                      acted as Secretary until the Mid-
Term Review
7.01 (b)    5          CD         10/3/91    11/20/92     Establishment of APAU and appointment of A  local expert appointed in
the head and the information analyst      Sept. 1998 as Head of APAU
to replace the expatriate one
7.01 (c)    5          CD        10/3/91     11/20/92     Reorganization of DARE and appointment of Becamne  effective  in  1993,
the Director and Assistance Directors    except for the Director (effec. in
1994)
7.01 (d)    5          C         10/03/92    11/20/92     Reorganization of the Irrigation Authority with IA reorganized into three wings
an appointment of the Head               as agreed in the SAR.
Schedule 5  5          C                                  Consultative Committee on Agriculture shall Annually. First met in 1992,
Part A (2)                                                meet at least once a year                 then in 1994, late 1995
Schedule 5  5          C                                  The Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit shall An expatriate was recruited to
Part A (3)                                                work closely with the Borrower's institutions   head the unit (93-98)
Schedule 5  7          CD                                 The APAU  shall monitor and coordinate  Delays in recruiting senior staff
PartA (4)                                                 project operations and prepare half-yearly  to APAU.  Principal Agric.
reports                                  Planning Officer recruited only
in 1997, and the Head of APAIJ
(Mauritius national) in 1998.
Schedule 5  5          C                                  DARE and farmers services centers shall DARE met regularly with FSC
Part B (5)                                                coordinate their activities and meet monthly    from 1995 onwards
Schedule 5  5          C                     01/01/95     Directorate and AS shall coordinate their Management        Committee
Part B (6)                                                activities  and  establish  a  Management established to define new role of
Committee and technical committees       AS
Schedule 5             CD        05/01/94    06/01/95     Ag.  Scientist's  yearly  meeting  to  be Annually. First meeting held in



23
Part B (7)                                                coordinated by  Food  and Ag. Research  1995.
Council. Proceedings to be sent to the Bank.
Schedule 5  5          CP        12/31/91                 Borrower shall establish a Water Resources Water Resources  Committee
Part C (8-a)                                              Committee. This Committee shall establish an has  been  established  but
Action Program for finalizing the Master Plan discussions and analysis have
for Use of Water Resources (40-50 year not  yet been  satisfactorily
I_______ ________ _________                   period).                                  turned to these macro questions
Schedule 5  5          NC                    12/01/95     Fonnulate the long-term strategy for potable
Part C (8-b)                                              water supply and irrigation
Schedule 5  5          NC                    12/01/95     Formulate  equitable  allocation  of water
-Part C (8-c)                                              resources
Schedule 5  5          C         30/6/94     12/01/95     Make recommendations on water charges and Not yet implemented due to
Part C (8-d)                                              follow up implementation of Master Plan   political and social constraints
Schedule 5  5          C         12/31/91                 IA to prepare and fiurnish to the Bank for
Part C (10-                                               approval specification and bid documents for
l__________  a) (i)                                                    works, vehicles and equipment
Schedule 5  5          C         12/31/91    06/30/94     IA to prepare and furnish to Bank for approval
Part C (10-                                               detailed design specifications for rehabilitation
a) (ii)                                                   works
Schedule 5  5          CD         11/01/94    12101/96    IA  to prepare and furnish to Bank by
Part C (10-                                               November 1, 1994 an assessment and proposal
b)                                                        for expansion of pilot program
Schedule 5  5          CD        06/30/94    11/30/95     IA to prepare and furnish to Bank by June 30,
Part C (10-                                               1994 a study to assess system of water charges
c)
Schedule 5  5          C         05/31/92    01/31/94     IA to prepare and furnish to Bank by June 30, Detailed  training   program
Part C (I 1)                                              1994 a detailed training program          completed  and  funded  by
bilateral sources
Schedule 5  5          C         11/01/94    12/01/95     Bank and Borrower shall, by November 1, Reviewed  during  Mid-Term
Part C (12)                        _       _              1994 review implementation of pilot operation  Review
Schedule 5  5          C         3/31/92     5/31/93      Development of marketing  strategy  and  sound operational
(13)                 _           _                        investment program for small producers
Schedule 5  5          C         3/31/92     1/31/93      TA to agricultural marketing board (AMB) on
Part A & B                                                marketing operations
Schedule 5  5          CD        3/31/92     1/31/93      Monitoring program for AMD to be designed Sound operational
l_________ (14)                                                        by consultants
Schedule 5  5          C         annually,   annually     AWPs to be sent by 3/31 each year.
l __________    (16)                          by  3/31



24
Keys:
C = Complied with       CD = Complied, but with delays      CP = Complied with partially        NC = Not complied with
Covenant Types:
I -   Accounts/audits                      6 -  Environmental covenants                   11 -   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary  or other
resource allocation
2 -   Financial       performance/revenue   7 -   Involuntary resettlement                12 -   Sectoral           or            cross-sectoral
generation from beneficiaries                                                              policy/regulatory/institutional action
3 -   Flow and utilization of project funds  8 -   Indigenous people                      13 -   Other
4 -   Counterpart funding                  9 -   Monitoring, review and reporting
5 -   Management aspects of the project or 10 -   Project implementation  not covered  by
executing agency                          categories 1-9



25
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title              Describe and comment on lack of compliance
No major lack of compliance was observed
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of project cycle                                         Actual
Weeks                    US$
Preparation to appraisal                               66.2                    154.3
Appraisal                                              59.7                    162.2
Negotiations through Board approval                      7                     20.5
Supervision                                             89                     301.8
Completion                                              8                       25
TOTAL                                                  229.9                   663.8



26
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/ No. of   Days    Specialized staff skills    Implemen  Develop   Types of problems
project cycle    year    people  in field  represented              tation      ment
Status     Objectiv
es
Identification  12/87    3        10       EC, A, Consultant        n/a         n/a        n/a
Preparation     9/88     3        14       EC, Irrigation Engineer,    n/a      n/a        n/a
Consultant
Pre-Appraisal   3/90     3        15       EC, IT, Institutional     n/a        n/a        n/a
Specialist
Pre-Appraisal    7/90    6        20       EC, Engineer, FA,         n/a        n/a        n/a
Irrigation Engineer,
Research Analyst,
Environmental Specialist
Appraisal       11/90    3        12       EC, Irrigation Engineer,    n/a      n/a        n/a
Procurement Engineer
Board approval  5/91     2        10       EC, A                     n/a        n/a        n/a
through
effectiveness
Supervision 1    12/91    1       12       A                         2          2          Delays in loan
effectiveness
Supervision 2    6/92    3        12       EC, AE, Sugar hndustry    2          2          Delays in loan
Specialist                                      effectiveness
Supervision 3    10/92    4       17       A, AE, Sugar Industry    2           2          Delays in loan
Specialist, Irrigation                          effectiveness
Specialist
Supervision 4    2/93    2        30       AE, Sugar Industry       2           2          I, slow start-up of
Specialist, Inigation                          project activities
Specialist
Supervision 5    7/93    1        7        AE                        2          2          I, Project
._______ ___________________________________             management
Supervision 6    9/93    1        28       Sugar Industry Specialist   2        2          Delays m
recruiting suitable
candidates for key
posts
Supervision 7    11/93    2       13       Sr. Irigation Engineer,   2          2          Poorprogress in
Sugar Industry Specialist                      institutional
reorganization,
further delays in
recruiting key
personnel
Supervision 8 -  4/94    2        28       AE, Sugar Industry        2          2          Continued poor
Restructuring                              Specialist                                      progress in
institutional
reorganization
Supervision 9    8/94    1        10       Sugar Industry Specialist   S        S          Institutional
organization
problems



27
Performance Rating
Stage of        Month/ No. of   Days    Specialized staff skills    Implemen  Develop   Types of problems
project cycle    year    people  in field  represented              tation      ment
Status     Objectiv
es
Supervision 10   3/95    2        12       AE, Senior Irrigation    U           2          Delays in
Engineer, A, Forestry                          implementing
Consultant                                      maj or proj ect
components
Supervision II   6/95    1        13       AE                        S          S          No major problems
Mid-Term        12/95    4        14       AE, Training Specialist,  S           S         No major problems
Review                                     Extension Specialist,
Biotechnology Specialist
Supervision 12   4/96    2        5        AE, Extension Specialist    S        S          No major problems
Supervision 13   9/96    2        5        AE, Extension Specialist    S        S          No major problems
Supervision 14   2/97    3        5        Technical Manager, A,     S          S          Administrative
Senior AE, Extension                           problems, staffing
Specialist                                      delays
Supervision 15   5/97    1        20       Extension Specialist,     S          S          Staffmg delays
Senior AE
Supervision 16   11/97    1       5        Extension Specialist      S          S          Administrative
problems, staffmg
problems
Supervision 17   4/98    2        6        Extension Specialist,     S          S          No majorproblems
Senior AE
Completion      11/98    2        10       Extension Specialist,     S          S          No major problems
Senior AE                      .      _._.-
Staff Skills                                   Types of Problems
A  - Agriculturist                         P   - Procurement
AE - Agricultural Economist                LC - Legal Covenant
EC - Economist
OA - Operational Analyst                             FM  - Financial
Management
FA - Financial Analyst                     C       - Country related
problems
FE  - Forestry Expert                      I  - Institutional
LE - Livestock Expert
ES - Extension Specialist
IT - Information Technologist



28
Annex 1
Borrower's Evaluation Report



1.1OUIO
While sugar production has achieved substantial progrmss over the last dccades, it
has always been felt that there was need to diversify the economy. This has
largely been achieved through the development of tourism, light manufacturing
industries and the service sector. Because of its multifunctional nature, its
adaptability and suitability to our climatic conditions and its enviornmental
friendlincss, sugar has been and continues to be our main agricultural crop. All
the same efforts have been made to diversify the agricultural sector through the
cultivation of such crops such as anthurium, potatoes, maize. groundnuts, etc. In
view of the constraints and the highly competitive external markets, government's
strategy was not limited to diversificatlon of the agricultural sector but also to
raise. small holdern' productivity. At the production level this could be realised
through irrigation, improved management and skilled manpower. Sectoral
management and support services had also to be upgraded to provide the
capability to adapt to changing market conditions and raise productivity to meet
the challenges of competition.
2.   It was in that perspective that the Agricultural Management and Services Project
was designed to support the Government of Mauritius modernisation program to
put in place organisational arrangements for sectoral management and delivery of
supporting services, which could respond flexibly and efficiently to continue
structural transformation in the economy and rapidly changing competitive
market conditions.
Specific issues that had to be addressed included:
(a)   strengthening of sectoral policy formulation/management capacity.
(b)  improvements in research and extension services.
(c)   development of Irrigation Services and
(d)   other supporting services improvements.



3 
MA           IT CAPACfl
3.1  In view of strengthening the sectoral policy formulation and management
capacity, the Agricultural Policy Analyis Unit (APAU) was set up in 1994 and has
been functioning since the last three years with its complement of professional
staff. APAU provides through its Policy Planning and.Evaluation Section (PPE),
the analytical support to policy-making, both on the financial and economic side.
Apart from this, PPE staff are involved with project preparation and monitoring,
budget and parastatal monitoring.
3.2   l he other secton of APAU, the Agricultral and-Msnagement Infonnation System
(AMIS) has been working on the computerised information modules that would
improve information collection and processing activities within the Ministry of
Agriculture and its -parastatals.
3.3   The administrative, financial and stores modules of AMIS which were first taken
up, have been opertional since July 1998. The Uvestock module is expected to
be operational by February 1999.
3.4   The Consultative Committee on Agriculture (CCA) was set up and met a few
times in 1993 and 1994 to consider the question of agricultural diversification.
This work was taken up by the High Powered Committee (HPC) thereafter. The
HPC continued in early 1996. A further meeting of the CCA was also held in
April, 1996.
4.                 __
4.1   The project aimed at assisting the MANR in its diversification efforts by
improving the productivity and competitivity of the non-sugar sector for both
export and local markets. This was to be achieved through a reorganised research
and extension service.
*    to create a Directorate of Agricultural Research and Extension. (DARE)
*    to promote increased specialisation in research and extension.



*    to develop and implement more focused research work programmes.
*    to provide for flexible, decentralised management systcms and improved
operational efficiency for extension.
*    to improve the service through better coordination and closer linkages
between research and extension.
*    to conduct systematic training for front-line extension workers.
4.2   Work started in November 1m  when a Deyelopment. Plan Task Force (DPTF)
was set up with representatives from agricultural. institutions and stakeholders to
make proposals for DARE's management and functional infrastructure and
operaions.
4.3  Since June 1994, the DARE has been managed by a Management Committee
assisted on technical matters by a Technical Advisory Committee comprising
representatives of research institutions, the Agricultural Services and agricultural
producers.
4.4   However, the expected benefits of the Management Committee did not
materialise. It then became necessary to place the DARE within an environment
conducive to its development and operation as a research organisation. DARE
was thus integated as from July 1996 within FARC, a parastatal body, and made
to operate as an autonomous body with FARC known as the Agricultural
Research and Extension Unit (AREU).
5.   Assessment 2f outcome
5.1   The outcome is reckoned as satisfactory in view of the well-known resistance to
change that normally goes with such a reorganisation exercise.
5.2  The objectives have been attained as far as the institutional development is
concerned except for somc strengthening of stations centres. The AREU has
been set up and provides for specialisation in research and extension quite
distinct from the services components. Programmes are now developed in
partnership with the farming community in a participatory manner, thereby
making our programmes more focused on felt needs and on priority items and



commodities. The services has also been improved through better coordination
and closer linkages between research and extension. On-farm activities has
increased.
5.3  To date the AREU has had its financial (administrative) autonomy and operates its
own procurement procedures. However funds will still comne from government
(RIE) and experience to date with procedures for disbursement indicate that they
may still develop into a hurdle.
5.4   Whilst AREU Is fully operational already, the project is expected to reach cruising
speed In the year 2000 in terms of impact
5.5   AREU is now well known among the farming comunuity., This was achieved
through aggressive marketing. Several activities were undertaken to make
known AREU as a distinct unit under FARC and publicise its role and functions
by organising workshops and seminars, radio and television programmes for
fanmers
5.6  Training of staff and farmers is implemented as a regular feature.
5.7   Collaborative links have been established with research and development
institutions within Mauritius and abroad.
6.   MaJor faolrs affecting the implementatinnporss of the pro_e t
6.1   Various difficulties were encountered during the setting up of DARE (later to
become AREUJ) arising mainly from the fast that no legal framework was in place
when the project began. Having DARE as another unit under the Ministry was
not such a good idea.
6.2  The expected benefits of the Management Committec did not materialise. The
main reason was the lack of a legal framework that would allow the delegation of
necessary powers and authority to the Management Committee. Major points
raised concemed the legal status of DARE as an organisation; the authority of its
Management Committee to undertake selection exercises involving civil servants;



the inclusion of persons other than civil sernans on thc Committee, and the lack
of commitment over staffing and conditions of services.
6.3   Considerable delays were encountered in the recruitme,tt pf senior as well as
junior staff. As an interim msure the ODA Adviser was, made to act as Director
until it was finally decide in June 1994 to appoint one of the Assistant Directors
to act as Director.
6.4 The project as outlined in the Staff Appraisal Report (1991) did not spell out the
details and much was left to be decided by DA" management once it was in
place. Too much was left open. Moreover it may havc been preferable to have a
World Bank consultant or resident mission to lead the project in the initial phase.
6.5   Disbursements of funds was very slow. Procedures to access loan money from
the World Bank were exactly the same as for capital items using local funds.
Moreover the slow progress achieved in setting up the DARE explains why
World Bank funds were scantily utilised in the early years of the project.
7.   Zr.oetJ usaablitIl
7.1   Despite a slow start, the project is approaching cruising speed. It is sustainable
insofar as it involved tLe reorganisation of research and extension, much of which
was concerned with setting up a new organisation and changing thexwork
methods for a more effective research and extension.
7.2   Moreover investment has also gone into training and capacity building which
would assist to sustain the changes adopted into the medium and the long temL
The new approaches adopted for priority setting, needs assessment, work
programme development, planning and monitoring, etc will continuc to be
implemented without any difficulty.
7.3   During the project World Bank funds were used essentially for capital iLemS.
Government grants were used for recurrent expenditure. and this was so even
before the project started. This indicates the capacity for govemnent to support
financially the activities for research and extension for the non-sugar sector. It is
not likely to change.



8.   Borwer pertormance
8&1   Borrowing has been slow up to now, in keeping.with slow progress to set up the
DARE (later AREU). Borrower performance.picked up satisfactorily
subsequently. Indeed the project would have ben completed in.time had it not
been for the lack of a legal framework to opeate the changes identificd for the
project and the staff uncertainty over redundancy and safeguard of their
accumulated benefits.
9.   Eutra  apuatho
931   The future operadon should not pos a problem In view of capacity developed to
sustain the new methods of resorch and extension. These are now institutional.
As indicated above, government funds are-available to support the project's
activities on a regular basis. The collaborative links established with international
institudons will also contribute towards better performance.
10.  Key lMUn. learned
10.1  For such kind of projects, it is essential that a legal framework be in place and the
necessary groundwork done before the project begins.
10.2  It would have been preferable to have established the Directorate as an
independent body right from the start and recruit staff outside of the Ministry of
Agriculture. Building on an existing system is more difficult especially if one
needs to change the attitude and work methods of people.
11. 
11.1  The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) comprised the following sub-components:
(a)  Institutional strengthening of Irrigation Authority;
(b)  Improved efficiency in the existing systems;



(c)   Pilot operations to test and demonstrate a lower cost approach to the adoption of
surface irrigation system with greater farrner participation in the Operation and
Maintenance (O & M) of irrigation project.
12.          entorQOutkoma
(a)   Strenghening of the Irrigation A
It can plan, design and evaluate its project due to the enhancement of its
professional capability and availability of equipment resources;
IA can supervise its constructional works without having recourse to
Consultants;
YWith some extra effort and new approaches 1A- will wield enough persuasive
power on planters for them to participate in the management and operation of
irngation scheme (eg. Westem Coast Drip Project). Obviously this would entail
incentive schemes and a new interface other than FSC.
(b&c) mprove!ment of existin system ad  ltl
The Western Coast Drip Project and Solitude II project are heading towards a
success upon condition that sustained prudence and monitoring is maintained
until the project overcomes all teething problems and gathers its full momentum.
The enthusiasm shows by the planters gives testimony of the positive outcome.
First irrigation in Western Coast will start by end of October 1998 and as for
Solitude it will be in December 1998.
12.1  Regarding the social aspects, the projects will enable planters to use a more
efficient irrigation system and thus will increase their production which will
certainly result to considerable increase in their revenue.
12.2 Further the planters will benefitfrom derocking, joint-managernent and training in
operation and man agement of drip irrigation.



13.         fat_  fmigipeettmtrgMo  tQet
-     Delays in appointing local counterparts and subordinate staff.
Pre-qualification process for one irrigation project was lengthy - apparently due
to inadequate guidelines from the World Bank.
Pilot projects were scantily designed and therefore ill-conceived. Being
unrealistic, much time was spent in commissioning and carrying out a study, in
order to finally prove to the Bank the irrationality of constructing minidams for
surface irrigation in a volcanic Island like Mauritius.
14. 
14.1 The performance of the Bank can be described as satisfactory-in general.
14.2  The identification of the sub-components of the project namely. strengthening of
the Irrigation Authority, improvements for efficient irrigation system and low-cost
approach was consistent with the Government's development strategy/priorities
and with the Bankc stategy for the country. The sub-components identified were
relevant in order to give a thrust to irrigated agriculture in Mauritius. However in
the preparation of the project some pertinent details were overlooked leading
over-design of the sub-component of strengthening of the Irrigation Authority
and formulation of pilot projects which were totally inappropriate in the local
context although similar projects have been successful in other countries. The
decision of the Bank for 3 Pilot Projects with similar objectives was taken
arbitrarily by the Bank without prior consultation with the authorities.
14.3  The evaluation of the Bank Performance on Supervision of the project was
excellent. No significant deviations from Bank and procedures were registered
on matters related to procurement, disbursements.



IS.  Harrower'
15.1 The performance of the Irrigation Authority (LA) varied from one sub-component
to another. In a nutshell, the Borrower's performance can be described as
satisfactory.
16.  Futum Oprtion knd 1C.1 LMnm Legrned
16.1  Emphasis will be laid so that the futuro operation of th.e project. is In.Une with the
set objectives, amongst others, namely;
-    participation of the beneficiaries in the day-to day operation;
-    efficient use of water:
-    rehabilitation of abandoned lands and better land, usc/additional financial benefits
through incremental production of sugarcane and foodcrops;
-    improved cost recovery for the Irrigation Authority.
16.2  The evaluation of the schemes once funcetional will be an on-going process and
it will be based on established perfonnance indicators such as incremental yields,
extent of abandoned areas rehabilitated. degree of participation by the
planters/beneficiaries etc. The Investigation and Research Cell within the
Irrigation Planning Unit will be responsible for this exercise.
16.3  Key lessons are numerous. However, one main conclusion is that half-baked
projects should not be discussed or submitted to international funding agencies.
Discussions for financing should be launched once project is fully firmed up after
having studies all technical, economical, environmental and social aspects. The
aspect of improving the managerial and technical skills of the IA staff through
training programme should not be overlooked as rightly said " the human being is
at the centre of all development". The positive lesson is that a corporate plan (3
or 5 years) attract funding agencies for a global financing which is preferred to
piece-meal advance of funds by the local government. Hence corporate plans are
a must. Furthermore the Bank's vision has led to the dynamisation of the



Irrigation Authority and has set milestones for a continuous strategic planning in
order to re-vitalise irrigated agriculture in Mauritiui. Intemction with World Bank
professional was highly enriching and enabled to tune to a new mid-sct
17.              PORIsINGSERYEASIM.PROVEMEN
17.1   Dl               _nd Cnsultanc
17.1.1 The main consultancy financed under AMSP was the organisadional study of the
Agricultum) Marketing Board ( AMB). The consultant's report was received in
late 1995. AMB has Implemented some of the recommendations of the report
rlating to day-to-day management.
Mldnltry of Agrculture, Food Technology & N R
PORT LOUIS
12JJ1II



29
Annex 2
Borrower's Comments on ICR



FEB i2 '99 11:47AM WORLD BIW MSCAR                                   e.2
MWinsa of Apiwibwe,
la mplr pimm qraa             Fi ood T.hiuoh &KAturW PAN1=
R. SeemeeVMM buidig
N--------- -                                                      fouct Loul,
"0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ai r.luritius
FAX
22 December 1998
FRoM:peormlanent Secretary, Mintstry -o*Agriculture, Food Technology & Natural
ResOUces
TO:   Mr ousmane Seek, Agricultural Extension SPecialist,
World Bank Resident Mission in Madagascar
FAX NO 00261 - 2022 32902
Mauritius - Ln 3S33 - AS - AgrIeuJtural m2nzaetent and servIces PrImc
Please refer to the Implementation completion report of the Agricultural
Management and Services project.
we have gone through the report and would lie to Inform you that it
gives a. fair reflection of the project- ocR we are agreeable to Its contents.
for Pan          ceoora
fWr Permanent secretary



MAP SECTION



IBRD 22556
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURE MANAGEMENT AND...
SERVICE PROJECT
ARTERIAL ROADS                              e -
TRUNK ROADS
OTHER MAIN ROAD5
BUILT UPARE-AS
<   SUGAR CANE
IRRIGATED AREAS
MAIN CANALS AND PIPES
: .   _ ,. HYDRO.ELECTRIC sTATIONS .
. .....RESERVOIRS AND RIVERS
. ~   ~    ~ ~            ~        ~    ~ ~~~ ;.~ .         .- ,- err6o.                                - 5 Rch er
.~ ~ ~ IB Dqse~ r                                                                                              /wbrFdb    db*de  S/fn SWoqe           
4 ~ ~        ~         ~         ~        ~         4i
Magento~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aFrs IMii
c_sw/.wehi_lt.binlul=f dw**lilvqlarsltlt;*ag - s - i. . .                             -       3    o 1     Dau-e
L. FormrFO  c                                  1                              8     e b
v   i -   .  . - .  .   i - -    i    i  ;          S                      .   -  . i-~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Souenir Drip Projed-t
;.-::Wi  i   -    0   .  ,--,    i.,  l:  '  ,,,  --  -.  -  i-.  ,,    -   ,    -   -,   i   :    ,  -    -,  .-  i    :   .   -   -   ;,.N -:Y '-



