Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
3i-3 3 3 /s?
Report No. 9330-MAS
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SE?VICES PROJECT
MAY 7, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pz1ormance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank aouthorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       Mauritian Rupees (MTS Rs)
US$1.00       =     MTS Rs 14.4
MTS Rs. 100   =     US$0.07
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter                   =       3.28 feet (ft.)
1 kilometer (km.)         =       0.26 mile (mi.)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =     0.386 square miles (sq.mi.)
1 hectare (ha)            =       2.47 acres (ac.)
1 arpent                  =        1.043 acres (ac)
1 metric ton              =       2,205 pounds (lbs.)
ABBREVIATIONS
APAU         -       Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit
CCA          -       Consultative Committee on Agriculture
DARE         -       Directorate of Agricultural Research and Extension
FY           -       Fiscal Year
GOM          -       Government of Mauritius
GDP          -       Gross Domestic Product
IA           -       Ir.i-ation Authority
IFAD         -       International Fund for Agricultural Development
MAFNR        -       Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries & Natural
Resources
MEPD         -      Ministry of Economic Planning & Development
MHLE         -      Ministry of Housing, Land and Environment
MIC          -      Management Information Cell
MIS          -      Management Information System
MSA          -      The Mauritius Sugar Authority
MSIRI        -      Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute
O&M          -      Operating & Maintenance
OMD          -      Operations and Maintenance Department
PAO          -      Principal Agricultural Officer
PS           -      Permanent Secretary
PPE          -      Policy Analysis and Evaluation
SIL          -      State Informatics Ltd
SIP          -      Sugar Industry Project
SPES         -      Small Producer Efficiency Study
TA           -      Technical Assistance
UOM          -      University of Mauritius
WRC          -      Water Resources Committee
WMP          -      Water Master Plan
WUA          -      Water Users Association
GOVERNMENT OF MAURITIUS FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAURruS
AGRIClLTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .                ...................    (i - ii)
I. INTRODUCTION  ......................................  1
A. Economic Background  .       ...............................  1
B. Development Constraints and Opportunities ......      ..............  I
C. Recent Economic Performance ...........         .................  2
D. Structural Transformation .....................                        3
E. Development Challenges, Strategy and Prospects ......     ........... 3
F. Country Assistance Strategy ...............................  5
11. AGRICULTURE IN A TRANSFORMING ECONOMY: THE ISSUES  ....  6
A. Salient Features ....................................  6
B. Pressing Concerns and Future Trends ............. .                    6
C. Policy Formulation and Management Issues ........... .                 7
D. Research and Extension Issues ...............                          8
E. Water Resources and Irrigation Issues      ......................  10
F. Marketing and Other Related Issues ........... .............  12
G. Environmental Issues .........13
H. Sector Strategy and External Assistance   .        .14
I. Past Experiences and Rationale for IBRD Involvement .....    ........  15
m.    THE PROJECT ....................................    17
A. Project Origins and Objective  .............      ..............  17
B. Summary of Project Components  ..........         ...............  17
C. Detailed Features ...................................   18
D. Project Costs ani Financing  .    ...........................  25
E. Procurement ....................................    26
F. Disbursements ....................                                    29
G. Accounts, Audits and Reports ..........            ..........  30
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited Mauritius in November-
December 1990. The mission consisted of V. Mackrandilal (Task Manager/Economist), A. Bichara
(Irrigation Engineer), and P. Walker (Procurement Ergineer). Contributions based on previous
missions were also made by: V. Venkatesan (Sr. Extension Specialist), C N. Raghavan (Institutional
Specialist), K. Ikramullah (Information Technology Specialist) and R. KI.anr.- (Consultant).
M. L. Ahkee, V. Subramanian, and K. Baxevanis provided assistance in computing and document
processing. The Project documents were reviewed by J. Shivakumar (Division Chief, AF2AG), B.
Falconer (Sr. Financial Analyst), and J. Van Holst Pellekaan (Principal Econbmist). A. Pritchard
(AGRPS) is the Project's Lead Adviser and Mr. C. Madavo Is the Department Director.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
IV. ORGANIZATIONAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS .                       32
A. Policy Formulation and Sectoral Management
Affangements      ...............................                   32
B. Research and ExtensionArrangements       ......................  34
C. Water Resources and Irrigation Arrangements ....      ............. 37
D. Coordination of Project Implementation  ..... ................  39
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS  .................... 41
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ..........................  41
B. Economic Analysis ...........         .......................  41
C. Potential Risks .   ....................................  42
D. Sustainability and Financial Implications for Government .... ...... 43
E. ImpactonWomen  ...........            .......................  44
F. Environmental Impact ................                               44
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION  ......                 ............. 45
A. Assurances ...........             ...................  45
B. Recommendation ............................... 47
LIST OF TEXT TABLES
3.1 Summnary of Project Costs
3.2 Financing Plan
3.3 Procurement Arrangements
3.4 Disbursement Categories and Percentages
ANNEXES
1. Summary of Project Costs and Disbursement Schedule
2. Economic Indicators and the Agricultural Sector
3. CCA and APAU: Terms of References
4. Research and Extension Services - Present and Proposed Arrangements
5. Irrigation and Related Issues
6. Proposed Irrigation Arrangements and Training
7. Agricultural and Management Information Systems (AMIS)
8. Technical Assistance Requirements
9. Implementation Schedule and Supervision Plan
10. Economic Analysis
11. Documents Available in Project File
MAM IBRD No.: 22556 - Existing and Proposed Irrigation Development



MAURlTlUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECr
Loan and Project Sununary
Borrower:           Government of Mauritius (GOM)
Rewidary:           Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources (MAFNR)
Amount:             US$10.0 million
Terns:              17 years including 5 years grace (IBRD)
Project Objectives: The project is designed to support GOM's modernization program for the
agricultural sector. The objective of the project is to put in place
organizational arrangements for sectoral management and delivery of
supporting services, which can respond flexibly and efficiently to continued
strctura transformation in the economy and rapidly changing competitive
market conditions. The project would strengthen both the process and
analytical foundations of sectoral policy formulation and management. In the
delivery of supporting services, the project aims to improve organization,
management and use of resources as well as upgrade skills and facilities.
Project Desription:  The proposed components include: (a) Strenghening of sectoral policy
makingLmanawmenn caaciy through (i) creation of a Consultative
Committee on Agriculture (CCA) with public and private sector representation
and supported by a permananent Secretariat; (ii) creation of an Agricultural
policy analysis, planning, monitoring and evaluation unit (APAU) within
MAFNR to provide analytical back-up to the CCA and operational
departments and parastatals of MAFNR; and (iii) computerized agricultural
and management information systems; (b) Jmprovements in Research and
Extension services through (i) reorganization and strengthening of these
services for non-sugar activities and (ii) better coordination of research and
extension for all agricultural activities; (c) Developen of Irrigati  Servi
through (i) strengthening of management and technical and planning capacity
in the Irrigation Authority; (ii) improved efficiency in existing systems
through repairs and better management systems for water delivery; and (iii)
pilot/smallscale projects to test a low cost approach to irrigation; and (d)
Other Supoorting Services improvements mainly through consulting studies
and training on (i) specific aspects of markeing issues; (ii) suppordng
arrangements for small-scale agribusiness; and (iii) management capability at
farmer level.
Benefits:           The project would contribute towards creating an enabling policy and
supporting framework for a diversified, competitive and sustainable
agricultural sector. Successful diversification from sugar is of key importance
to Mauritius's long-term development and a modern competitive agricultwal
sector is crucial to economic stability and sustainable use of the Wand's
natural resources. Environmental issues have been assessed and are being
addressed directly under the Environmental Monitoring and Development



- iH -
Project (Ln.3277-MAS). The institutional development under this project
would reinforce capacity for implementing the recommended environmental
approach in agriculture. Benefits from the proposed institutional development
would also include improved efficiency in agricultural management and
services, increased productivity of land and labor, increased non sugar
agricultural production for exports and the domestic market, ard higher
incomes for smaliholders.
Risks:              Client support risks are low. The project supports MAFNR's initiatives in
responding to demands from producers and other agencies for improvements
in the areas to be addressed under the project. The measures under the
project involve mainly streng,tening and supplementing of existing
management arrangements and building upon local experiences in coordination
and user participation. The proposed organizational changes in research and
extension are based on successful local experiences in the sugar sector. GOM
has agreed to a dated action program which would minimize risks of delays in
implementation of the necessary policy and institutional changes. The
technical/marketing risks associated with the development of exportable
crops/products at competitive prices would be addressed through the
strengthening of technical capacity and the mzrketing studies under the
project. These measures would be reinforced by technical support and studies
financed by other donors as well as the Bank under ongoing projects and
sector work.
Project Cots: a/
Local           Foreign         Total
--S$ milion-
A. Management CaDacitv
1.   Executive Secretariat CCA            0.2               0.4            0.6
2.   Agricultural Policy Unit              0.0              0.2             0.2
3.   Agricultural & Management
Information System                                    0.
Subtotal                            0.4              1.0             1.4
B. Research and Extension
1.   Directorate of Agricultural
Research and Extension               2.4              2.4             4.8
2.   Coordination of Research &
Extension                            0.2              0.              0
Subtotal                             2.6              2.5             S. 1
C. Irrigation
1.   Strengthening of Irrigation
Authority                            2.4              2.6             5.0
2.   Improvements of Existing Systems      0.4              0.7             1.1
3.   Pilot Projects                        La               12              U
Subtotal                             3.8              4.5             8.3



- iHi -
Local        Foreign     Total
-US$ million n
D.   Othex Services (Consultancy &
Training)
Subtotal                                D.A5
Total Baseline Costs                    6.9            8.5        15.4
Physical Contingencies                  0.3            0.5         0.8
Price Contingencies                     1.2           DI           L2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                     Lt             9.         1l8
' Numbers may not add due to round'r,
Finandng Plan:
Loc-l        Foreign     Taxes         Total
US$ Million
IBRD               1.1          8.9          -             10.0
GOM                OA           RI            La          AA
TOTAL              7.2          9.7           1.2          18.1
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year                92   2M   29   2M    26    97    21
US$ Million  
Annual                    0.5   2.0   2.0   2.0   2.0   1.0   0.5
Cumulative                0.5   2.5   4.5   6.5   8.5   9.5  10.0
EconomIc Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Map:        IBRD No. 22556 - Existing and Proposed Irrigation Development



MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
1. INtRODUCTION
A. Economic Background
1.01 Mauritius is a group of small tropical islands of volcanic origin, with a land area of
approximately 2000 square kilometers, located in the Indian Ocean about 2,400 kilometm from the
African mainland. In addition to the main island, Mauritius, there are a few smaller islands scattered
in the Indian Ocean, the most important of which is Rodrigues.
1.02 The population of slightly over a million is growing at barely 1% per annum. Standards of
living, nutrition, health care and general education are those of a middle income developing country,
per capita income is US$1,940 (1988), life expectancy at birth is 68 years, the infant mortality rate is
about 2.4%, and the literacy rate is well over 90%.
1.03 Sugar has traditionally been the lifeblood of the Mauritian economy for over two hundred
years. The volcanic soils of the island are highly suited to the cultivation of sugarcane and the crop is
better able than most to withstand the effects of cyclones, which occur frequently. Moreover,
Mauritian sugar has had a ready market and enjoyed preferential prices through various agreements
which have been negotiated at different times: the Imperial Preference regimes, the Commonwealth
Sugar Agreement and more recenty the Sugar Protocol of the Lome Convention. Sugar has,
therefore, played a unique role in the social and economic history of the island, contributing
significantly to employment and incomes. Given its importance, the country has, over the years,
invested heavily in research in sugar, with good results. Its sugar research institute is well ikown
internationally for excellence in sugarcane research and Mauritius is one of the most efficient
producers of sugar.
1.04 In recent years, the country has successfully diversified into manufactured exports and
towrism. The principal impetus to growth has been provided by the export processing zone (EPZ)
industries In the manufactring sector, which have led to a more than doubling of merchandise
exports over the last five years. These industries now account for about 15% of GDP and 60% of
gross export earnings. Tourism has also expanded rapidly, due to the pleasant sub-tropical climate
and conducive conditions.
B. Development Constrants and Opportunities
1.05 With a total land area of about 2,045 km2 and no mineral resources the country has a narrow
resource base. Almost all of the cultivable land is already under cultivation, mostly with sugn cane.
Despite the significant expasion in other sectors, sugar exports still represent the largest source of
net foreign exchange earnings and the tax on these exports contributes about 11% of Government's
current revenues.
1.06 Mauritius is dependent on impolts to provide most of Its food supplies. Rice, dairy products
and flour account for almost a quarter of Import expenditure. Petroleum imports account for another
18% of the cost of imports (1988). Mauritius is self-sufficient for about a quarter of its electricity



-2-
*ieeds, which it derives from hydroele.tric sources and fro. i the recycling of sugar by-products,
particularly bagasse.
1.07  'Te limitations on natural resources and the distance of Mauritius from major markets affect
the potential for economic development and condition its choice of economic activities. Mauritius
does not lie on the main sea routes and maritime transport costs are higher than for countries
competing in similar markets.
1.08  The country's shortomings in the way of location and conventional natural resources are
compensated for by its magnificent natural environment, which is attractive to affluent tourists, and
by its well-educated population and rich cultural heritage. The population is a rich mosaic of Asian,
African, and European origins and most Mauritians speak three or more languages. Within this
ethnic, religious and cultural diversity, the government functions in a system of parliamentary
democracy with a free market economy providing a favorable environment for foreign and domestic
investment.
1.09  With such a mix of constraints and opportunities, success has been achieved through
pragmatic economic and political management. Future growth will also depend on these over-riding
factors in the context of Mauritius. Physical limitations of distance and size dictate, especially for
agriculture, that only a narrow range of economically viable activities can be pursued at any one time.
As a result the economy will always be open and vulnerable and maintaining an edge in increasingly
competitive markets will require even greater skill and flexibility in economic management and
planning.
C. Recent Economic Performance
1.10 Between 1980 and 1986, the Go"ernment of Maunitlus (CiOM) implemented five stand-by
arrangements and two structural adjustment operations. Despite recurrent adverse weather conditions
for production and other exogenous disturbances, substantive policy reforms were undertaken. The
trade and exchange regimes were liberalized. In agriculture, Government embarked on a program to
rehabilitate the sugar subsector by reducing taxes on the transfer of agricultural land, altering the
structure of the export duty and abolishing all restrictions on mill closures. In industry, an outward-
looking strategy was adopted which included eliminating quantitative restrictions on imports, initiating
a program of tariff reform, and encouraging foreign private investments in the EPZ. In tourism,
measures were undertaken to promote Mauritius in select markets and a program was designed to
address issues relating to air access policy, hotel capacity and marketing strategy.
1.11   Mauritius experienced an economic boom powered by sugar, manufactured exports and
tourism. Sustained growth rates and sound economic management led to major improvements in the
external accounts, and per capita incomes doubled in less than a decade. (Selected economic
indicators are shown in Annex 2). Significant improvements were made in domestic and external
resource balances as a result of efficient demand management policies and export incentives. Far-
reaching actions were implemented to reform the incentive system and accordingly credit expansion
was curbed and real interest rates were made positive. The depreciation in the real effective exchange
rate, combined with the fiscal and financial incentives for Investment, led to an increase in
production, exports, and employment, especially in the EPZ.



1.12 Economic performance between 1983 and 1988 was remarkable. The rate of growth of the
economy accelerated from 4.7% in 1984 to a peak of 9.0% in 1986 then slowed down to 8.4% in
1987, 5.8% In 1988 and 3.8% in 1989 due mainly to low sugar output because of weather conditions.
In 1990, recovery in the sugar sector and a mou.rate pick up in thn EPZ sector led to an estimated
growth of 6.3%.
1.13   Agriculture has contributed to the growth process but its perfonatance has been fluctuating
primarily because of the impact of weather conditions on sugar production. After declining for three
years in a row, sugar achieved a growth of 14% in 1990. The manufacturing sector, led by the EPZ,
maintained an annual average increase of 15% in output over the five years to 1988 and has been
instrumental in tackling the unemployment problem. However, due to high concentration in textiles
and apparel which are facing adverse market conditions, growth in this sector has fallen off sharply,
contributing to the slowdown of the economy in 1989. In the EPZ sub-sector which had achieved an
average growth of 28% over the five previous years, growth fell to 4% In 1989, but recovered
moderately to 7% in 1990. Tourism, which underwent rapid transformation, achieved an annual
average increase of 13% in value added during 1983 to 1988, but growth decelerated to 10% in 1989,
and an estimated 8% in 1990.
D. Structural Transformtion
1.14   These recent developments have led to dramatic changes in the structure of the economy.
There has been a rapid transformation from the monoculture economy of the early seventies when
sugar accounted for about 90% of exports, 30% of GDP and 40% of employment. In less than two
decades the contributions of sugar were reduced by more than one 'alf. In 1989 sugar accounted for
aboitt 35% of exports, 13% of GDP and 20% of employment. In the sectoral distribution of GDP
(1989) services lead with 54%, followed by industry with 33%, and lastly agriculture, now
accounting for only 13%.
1.15  There has been a heavy price for this rapid transformation and it has been paid largely by the
environment and agriculture. The issues in the environment and the strategy to avoid the future costs
of degradation are discussed in the documents for the Environmental Monitoring and Development
Project (Reports No. 8996-MAS and P 5381-MAS). Agriculture has suffered from the massive
transfers into other sectors made by both the public and private sectors in the pre-occupation to
maximize growth. As a result productivity and modernization in agriculture have not kept pace with
the rest of the economy. Now that growth is falling off in other areas and food imports are escalating
attention is again focussed on agriculture as a source of growth but first the constraints must be
overcome.
E. Development Challenges, Strategy and Prospects
1.16 While economic performance continues to be satisfactory, the boom is over and a period of
lower but more sustainable growth is expected. A decline in growth was inevitable, given that
Mauritius has attained full employment and can no longer rely on deployment of idle labor resources
for generating additional growth. The tightening in the labor market is potentially a binding
constraint on economic gro.vth in the short and medium term. The associated upward pressures on
wages and prices over the past two years, have adverse implications for the international



-4-
competitiveness of Mauritian industries and, in addition threatep the financial stability which has been
crucial for past success.
1.17  Another constraint to be faced is the existing financial system, which has served Mauritius
well up to now but may l o longer be adequate for takag the country inro the next and possibly mn're
challenging phase of development. There needs to be further liberalization and reduced refl.-c.- on
direct controls like credit ceilin,gs and cred"' allocation guidelines. Appropriate institutional
arrangements and instruments need to be developed to manage the excess liquidity generated by
external sector surpluses and to support the shift in resources which can be expected to take place iu a
fast changing economy. Finally, but most importantly, the economy remains highly dependent on the
extemal economic environment and preferential ade arrangements.
1.18 Government's policy agenda for tLe medium term addresses these constraints directly.
Diversification is being pursued with increased vigor and focus on comparative advantage. In keeping
with the developments in factor markets, emphasis is on the intensification of skills and capital use.
Policies are already being implemented to remove constraints in the financial system and to expand
the financial markets.
1.19  The thrust of the strategy for the future is to increase productivity in a well balanced and
sustainable economy. In agriculture the focus would be on increased mechanization, diversification
and small planter productivity (discussed further in paras 2.40 -2.44). In manufacturing, certain
activitieu would be phased out and replaced by products with higher value added. Areas to be
explored include high tecanology industries in information processing, communications and
electronics. In the services sector, efforts would be made to keep abreast with communications
technology to develop potential as a regional banking and financial center. The strategy for tourism
would be to put a limit on the number of arrivals while maximizing domestic value added. In the
public sector, ravernment intends to lead the way to increasa worker productivity. Improvements in
operational efficiency in certain parastatals would release resources for re-deployment. Present
practices in accounting, auditing, and office procedures would be replaced by modern techniques
using information and computer technology.
1.20  A major policy instrument in the overall productivity strategy is the upgrading of skills across
all sectors. Government has recently prepared a Program for Human Resources Development (1990-
93) which was presented to a donors' conference in March 1990. The Bank intends to support the
program through the proposed Industlal and Vocational Training Project (FY 92). Government has
also requested assistance in restructuring the formal educational system.
1.21 Pros2cs. On the basis of the strategy outlined above and assuming that the international
econfc,Lic environment remains stable and there are no major internal shocks, Government bas
prep sed a target scenario for the period 1989-1995. Within the context of Mauritius and given past
performance, the target scenario appears feasible. GDP is projected to grow at about 5 % per
annum, gross domestic investment is expected to remalc high at 24% of GDP. Domestic savings
which have been falling recently are projected to recover and reach 28% of GDP by 1995. Growth
will continue to depend on three main subsectors - manuuring, tourism and agriculture.
1.22 Value added in the EPZ sector is expected to grow annually by about 8%, down from the
average of 289% in the five years up to 1988. This slowing down of the EPZ is expected to be offset
by growth in other areas of manufac, and the share of manufacturing in total value added is
expected to increase from 25% in 1988 to 32% by 1995.



1.23 The tourism sector which has undergone rapid transformation and has contributed substantially
to economic growth is expected to maintain its dynamism. Value added in tourism which increased
by 13% per annum between 1983 and 1988 is expected to grow by about 8% over the next five
years. The agricultural sector will continue to fluctuate but Is expected to grow by about 3% per
asmum on average over the period 1991 to 1995. Given that productivity and modernization In
agriculture is lagging behind other sectors, achievement of the target in agriculture would depend on a
sizeable investment program as well as major improvements In key institutional arrangements.
F. Country Assistane   ateg
1.24 Mauritius has received five IDA credits and 23 Bank loans to help finance projects in
industry, powe., ports, agriculture and rural development, urban development, water supply,
education, the environment, and for structural adjustment. IFC has made three loans for hotel
development in 1971, 1981, and 1990, with US$4.75 million in loans and US$1.2 million in equity
and two loans for textiles in 1986 and 1990, with US$8.1 million in loans and US$1 mUllion in equity
participation.
1.25 Project implementation is generally satisfactory in Mauritius, as the country has the
administrative and technical capacity to handle most project responsibilities. There have been delays
sometimes owing to weaknesses in coordination among ministries and entities responsible for project
formulation and execution. Disbursement performance Is close to the Bank-wide average.
1.26  Untl the early 1980s, the Bank's operations concentrated on investment projects. The two
Structurad Adjustment Loans (SALs), approved in 1981 and 1983, helped the Government to adopt
macroeconomic and sectoral policy reforms that led to resumed economic growth. They also laid the
foundation for designing and preparing new investment proposals in productve areas, with emphasis
on the diversification of the economy. More recently, in keepWg with developments in the economy,
attention is being foiue4 on environmental Issues, institutional capacity and manpower developuLnt.
1.27  The main objective of Bank Group operations over the next few years, would be on helping
the country sustain and exte. the benefits achieved so far. This means helping the country to
maintain its generally sound macroeconomic policy posture and macroeconomic disipline; to promote
increased productivity within the sugar industry's target level of production, leading to a gradual
release of resources for other uses, and improve the price incentives and other situtional
arrangements for agricultural diversification; to diversify industra exports and fulfill the necessary
skill and institftfonal requirements; and, finally, to assess the enviromental impact of resource
utilization, and help to ntegrate environmental concerns in to the country's development strategy. An
integral featare of the Bank's assistance strategy wil be to condtue providing the country with
assisting in preparing dctoral development programs for donor financing.



-6 -
11. AGRICULTURE IN A TRANSFORMING ECONOMY: THE ISSUES
A. Salient Features
2.01   Agricultural production is dominated by sugar which accounts for 76% of agricultural
GDP(1989) at factor cost. The remaining 24% is accounted for by livestock (8%), foodcrops (6%),
fishing(4%), fruits, flowers and forestry (2%), tea and tobacco (3%) and othets (1%). Further details
on the sector are in Annex 2b.
2.02 Production and ownership of land is dominated by the private estate sector. There are about
25 estates which together own approximately 60% of the cultivated land. Tbey account for 60% of
sugar output and have also diversified into horticulture, production of maize and potatoes, aquaculture
and livestock. Tbe smallbolder sector of about 33,000 households account for 33% of sugar
production. The remaining 7% is produced by 40 medium sized planters. Most smallholders (92%)
cultivate less than 2 ha each. Only about 4% of smaliholders are tenants, the majority own their land
which they cultivate with family or hired labor. An increasing number of smaliholders, especially
those in sugar, are part-time farmers. Total employment in agriculture was 82,300 in 1988 of which
sugar (including sugar milling) accounted for about 60%. Employment in large establishments (10
employees or more) has declined from 64,500 in 1975 to 47,800 in 1989. The declines were
accounted for mainly by decreases in sugar, tea, and tobacco. On the other hand, employment in
small establishments has been steadily increasing from around 22,000 in 1983 to 35,000 in 1988.
This increase is accounted for by growth in non-traditional activities which account for nearly 50% of
employment in small establishments; in comparison sugar accounts for 20% and tea for 23%.
B. Prssing Concerns and Sectoral Trends
2.03 Agriculture in Mauritius is facing major difficulties; output fell for three years in a row up to
1989 but registered some recovery in 1990 due to a good sugar harvest. In the competition for
resources agriciuture is handicapped because productivity improvements and modernization are
lagging behind the rest of the economy. Despite some success in a few activities, diversification from
sugar has not been achieved. In sugar, as in the rest of agriculture, production remains heavily labor
intensive while the economy has achieved almost full employment. As a result agriculture is
experiencing increasing difficulties in competing for labor.
2.04 Physical factors play an important role in these problems. The widespread presence of rocks
makes any farming system based on anmWal land preparation difficult. And the high costs of derocking
limit the possibilities for mechanizaton. Recurrent cyclones constrain the possibilities and
profitability of agriculture in general, and tree crops in particular. These physical drawbacks
combined with the small size of the country and its distance from major markets are not favorable to
agriculture, yet remarkable growth has been achieved from sugar due to some extent to favorable
markets but more so to foresight and pragmatic economic and political management. Other countries
benefitting from the same market situations have not reaped the same benefits from sugar.
2.05 Management is also the key to future growth. Given the domestic constru-nts and the highly
competitive external market conditions the GOM's strategy for the sector (para 2.40) rightly focusses
on productivity and diversification. The potential sources of growth would be from increased
efficiency in energy production from bagasse by the estate sector and smallholder productivity in



-7 -
sugar; and in the diversification sectors from livestock, foodcrops, fruits and flowers for domestic and
external markets. Irrigation is expected to play a major role in the strategy for increased productivity
in both the sugar and diversification sectors. Realization of tho potential for increased productivity
and growth will depend crucially upon sophisticated management and skilled manpower, at the
production level as well as in sectoral management and services, capable of adapting quickly to
changing market conditions. It is therefore important that key areas in sectoral management and
services are strengthened and organizational issues resolved. The specific issues in these key areas
of: (i) policy formulation and sectoral management; (ii) research and extension for diversification
activities; and (iii) irrigation services are discussed below, followed by a section dealing with other
important but less pressing issues.
C. Policy Formulation and Management Issues
2.06  The institutional and organizational apparatus in the agricultural sector is large and complex.
The Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries & Natural Resources (MAFNR) controls three technical
services, namely, Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry, and over two dozen parastatal organizations,
autonomous institutions and boards ( Details are in Annex 2b). In addition there are several non-
statutory advisory committees set up by MAFNR or on which MAFNR is represented. The Minister
exercises general control over all organizational and institutional arrangements in the sector. He is
assisted by the Permanent Secretary and a secretariat for administrative, financial and personnel
services.
2.07   Management of the sector is becoming increasingly difficult. In the past with a monoculture
production system, a strong private sector, weak domestic competition for labor and land, and a
guaranteed market, the demands on MAFNR to manage policy in the sector were considerably less.
The constraints facing the sector and the uncertainties with respect to diversification create a need for
strong analytical capacity in MAFNR to assess options, develop strategies and evaluate outcomes on a
continuous basis. MAFNR is also receiving increasing demands and advice from the' other Ministries
and pressure groups and it needs to have its own in-house analytical capacity to synthesize these
various demands and options and respond flexibly to continuously changing and competitive market
conditions. Coordination in policy formulation also needs to be streamlined. A High Powered
Committee set up for this purpose is no longer functional, its membership was too broad and there
was no formalized system for coordinating its agenda, providing analytical support and following up
on decisions taken.
2.08  In addition, with a more challenging environment, management of the institutions in the
sector becomes more difficult. A complex institutional structure has evolved over time, partly
because of restrictions of public service procedures and personnel policies which limit capacity to
respond quickly and flexibly to pressing problems in a sector subject to dynamic market forces. The
mechanisms for internal management of the institutions and overall management by MAFNR need to
be strengthened. The priority areas for attention include arrangements for relevant information
flows, analysis of the information, and the timely reading of danger signals, as well as capacity to
evaluate and advise on viable options.



-8-
D. Reearch and Extenslon Issues
2.09 The three main Institutions responsible for research are the Mauritius Sugar Industry
Research Institute (MSIRI), the Agricultural Services (AS) of MAFNR and the University of
Mauritius (UOM) on basic long term issues. Extension responsiblities lie with the Farmer SC .,;,
Center (FSC) Program and the AS.
2.10 There is no pressing research or extension issue in the sugar sector, except coordination with
the AS. For smaliholders the MSIRI/ FSC structure seems capable of addressing the problems.
MSIRI is responsible for research on all aspects of the sugar .  idustry. Estates and medium sized
producers are in direct contact with MSIRI; there is no intermediary extension organization and the
research and extension functions are completely integrated. Over the years, MSIIW has expanded its
activities to include other main crops (potatoes, maize, beans and groundnuts) which are grown in
rotation or as intercrops with sugarcane. For the smallholders, access to technology used to be more
difficult. MSIRI lacked the capacity (and perhaps the interest) to reach smaliholders directly, and
formalized linkages with the extension services of the MAFNR were never satisfactorily implemented.
Smaliholders wire largely dependent on "trickle-down' effects from the estates for improved
technology and their productivity lagged behind considerably.
2.11   Tho Bank-assisted Sugar Industry Project (Cr. 2728 MAS, effective in 1987) supported the
creation of the FSC program, on a pilot scale, to provide integrated supporting services to
smaliholders in sugarcane-based cropping systems. The FSC program falls under MAFNR but
outside the existing structure for agricultural services within the Ministry. Partial funding was
provided from the sugar cess. The major justification for the approach was the specific needs of
smaliholder sugarcane growers which extend beyond 'agronomic" extonsion and include assistance in
organizing labor, transport and factory delivery. Other supporting reasons are discussed in Annex 4.
2.12  The FSC pilot program is considered successful by both the Government and the
smaliholders. A decision has therefore been made by Government and endorsed by the Bank to
expand the program to country-wide coverage. The FSC framework has also facilitated the
implementation of a Land De-rocking Scheme and the successful testing of a pilot Land Area
Management Unit (LAMU) program. The LAMU program involves the grouping of farmers into
economic management units with the objective of resolving the management problems-organization of
labor, transport and delivery. Farmers retain ownership of their individual plots and output within
the unit. The program is successful but requires high management inputs from the FSCs, and
appropriate arrangements for professional management need to be worked out.
2.13  This focus on the sugar subsector and the supporting MSIRI/FSC structure was appropriate
for maximizing growth potential in the sector. With those structures in place and tested, MAFNR can
now pay greater attention to the AS and apply the relevant lessons learnt from the MSIRIIFSC
experience. Consultant studies were commissioned in February 1990 by MAFNR to examine
research and extension arrangements in the AS and coordination of these services in the sector. The
main issues identified are:
(a)   limited incentives to develop specialization among technical staff, promotions are
based purely on seniority and the situation often arises where the head of a division
may have little experience or training in the discipline covered by the division;



-9-
(b)   insufficient linkages between MAFNR's extension and research services, which in
turn have led to the present situation where the extension services are involved heavily
in data collection and community activities and the research services are trying to do
their own extension without the necessary staff and skills;
(c)    a need for more systematic processes for setting priorities and assessing impact and
performance;
(d)    budgetary allocations within agriculture baseLt on past priorities which have been
overtaken by events, and lengthy administrative controls over the use of funds which
are available;
(e)    a need for more systematic management and organization system for extension;
(f)   insufficient linkages between the AS and PSCs.
2.14 These issues in the AS are compounded by insufficient coordination and exchange of
information with the other research agencies. The Food and Agriculture Research Council (FARC)
was established mainly to coordinate research in the agricultural sectmr. So far it has not appeared to
have had a major impact in this area and has started parallel research activities such as operation of a
tissue culture facility. No effective mechanism has been established for bringing the scientists
together to solve the coordination issues in a collaborative framework.
Past Experiences, Future Trends, and Proposed Actions
2.15 In trying to deal with the issues in research and extension a number of factors must be taken
into account. These factors relate mainly to the expected future trends in production systems in
Mauritian agriculture and the lessons from the successful MSIRI/FSC structure.
2.16  The main points on the future trends in production systems are: (i) sugarcane will continue to
be the major cropping system for a long time; (ii) labor scarcities will increase; (iii) other cropping
(foodcrops, fruits and vegetables) and livestock activities would become increasingly modernized
requiring high levels of technical and management skills; (iv) farm sizes would continue to become
smaller but for social and economic reasons owners would be reluctant to sell; and (v) the numbers of
part time farmers would increase.
2.17   The conclusions to be drawn from these expected trends are that management would be the
most important constraint at the farm level and survival of smallholder agriculture would depend on
the development of appropriate management arrangements for economic units based on the LAMU
concept for sugar and non sugar activities. These expected trends and conclusions have several
implications for research and extension in the AS. First of all there would be an increased demand
for high quality inputs such as planting material and improved breeds. Secondly, increased
development usually implies increased specialization for most disciplines, and therefore specialization
of both research and extension would be necessary to satisfy the high expectations of farmers. The
level of technical qualifications of field extension staff would have to be continuously upgraded
through on-the-job training to keep abreast of technology and farmers' demands. Finally, extension
must be designed to deal with the major constraints of the production system which in the Mauritian
context revolve around management issues-organization of labor, financial planning, marketing, and



- 10-
economic grouping. The extension services would have to call upon resource persons from these
specialized fields to provide the necessary training to themselves and farmers, as well as arrange for
direct contact for farmers with these services.
2.18 It is exactly this specialized extension approach, covering the key constraints of the sugar
production sy tern, which has been a major determinant in the success of the FSCs. In addition to
providing agronomic advice and services, coordination Is provided for the supply of other services-
organization of labor, transport and factory delivery, mechanization services, input supply and credit.
This approach was reinforced with a systematic management method of training and visits and close
linkages with the MSIRI on technical issues. The FSCs also benefitted from their organizational
status outside the public service which provided greater flexibility in management and financial
procedures.
2.19 These expected trends and lessons from the FSC program clearly indicate that the AS needs to
be reorganized with greater management flexibility along specialized lines reinforced with measures to
improve operational efficiency, encourage scientific specialization in research and extension, and
introduce systematic management in extension.
2.20   The consultant studies (para 2.13) have made proposals on the organizational framework and
specific measures to achieve these objectives. For the organizatioaal framework the recommendations
included a restructuring of the entire AS into a Directorate responsible for research, extension and
services. This approach was justified on the basis of efficiency in terms of costs and use of scientific
manpower as well as concerns about quality control in the regulatory and other services if they are
separated from research and extension. After careful review of the proposals and the underlying
issues, MAFNR decided in December 1990 to place Research and Extension in a separate directorate
and maintain the AS with responsibility for regulatory, input supply and other services. (See Annex
4).
E. Water Resources and Irrigation Issues
2.21   There is a fundamental need to maximize the use of water resources in Mauritius.
Agriculture is facing increasing competition from other sectors for both land and water. Agricultural
land is being lost every year to meet the increasing demand for infrastructure, housing and industrial
buildings. The industrial sector, a-^ecially the textile industry, is also a major competitor for water
resources. But given the land ,-  abor constraints, as well as the already high levels of
agrochemical use (para 2.38), irrfbation is one of the few remaining options in the strategy to improve
productivity in the agricultural sector. At present there are about 16,000 ha under irrigation,
representing only about 16% of the cultivated area.
2.22   Water is in short supply in certain parts of the country but with careful planning and
appropriate engineering the national potential would be adequate to meet projected demands for
domestic, industrial as well as expanded irrigation uses. The potential for irrigation would be from
three sources: surface flows, groundwater and recycled o Ater. According to data collected between
the period 1977 to 1986, the annual readily available surface flow originating from the 25 main basins
or catchment areas is about 1,350 million m3. The maximum safe extraction yield of groundwater (as
calculated in the SOGREAH/SIGMA report of 1983) could be ai.nd 120 million m3/year. In the
long-term it might be technically and economically feasible tc recycle about another 130 million
m3/year of water from industrial and domestic uses. Together these three sources could provide



- 11 -
about 1,600 million m3/year of water which would be theoretically sufficient to irrigate between
60,000 to 70,000 ha. This potential is based on the assumptions that by the year 2040 domestic and
industrial demand would not exceed 425 million m3/year.
2.23   As part of the careful planning process necessary to maximize the water resources potential of
the country, the 1981 Water Master Plan was updated in 1990 with assistance from the Caisse
Centrale pour la Cooperation Economique (CCCE) under the coordination of the Central Water
Authority (CWA). The new Master Plan provides an exhaustive coverage of the water resources of
the country including an estimation of the potential of the aquifers. It also proposes a national
strategy and investment program for developing the water resources. However, there ace a number of
issues still to be addressed in this new Plan. First of all a master plan for water in Mauritius should
be developed in conjunction with a master plan for energy, and steps are only now being taken to
develop a long term strategy for energy. Secondly, the time horizon of the Plan is too short,
projections are made only for 20 years up to the year 2010, a master plan should cover 40 to 50
years. Finally, the Plan does not assess alternative options to its strategy of large reservoirs and
numerous pumping stations, or address adequately the needs for irrigation at economic costs.
2.24  The next step in the planning process should be the establishment of a Water Resources
Committee (WRC) to review the proposals of the Master Plan, address the issues, and decide upon
further action. This committee should make recommendations to resolve issues relating to competing
users, water and electricity charges, economic and environmental implications. GOM is actively
pursuing the establishment of such a Committee, the proposed composition and responsibilities are in
para 4.25.
2.25  Irrigation development so far in Mauritius has been constrained by the high cost approaches
utilized (high pressure sprinkler and drip), low cost recovery rates, and insufficient capacity to
manage and plan efficient use of the available water resources potential. The two existing large
irrigation schemes are subject to water shortages due to excessive losses (Western Plains) or limited
supply capacity (Northern Plains).
2.26 The CWA and the Irrigation Authority (IA) are the two main organizations involved with
irrigation development activities in Mauritius. As a result of high Operational and Maintenance
(O&M) costs, low cost recovery rates and limited number of staff, the CWA and, to a lesser extent,
the IA are unable to properly maintain the systems under their responsibilities. (Further details are in
Annex 5).
2.27 The IA, a parastatal body, was created in 1979 under the aegis of MAFNR. The objectives
of the authority were to study the development of irrigation, to implement and manage all irrigation
schemes and to undertake research in the field of optimum water use. However, at present, the IA
activities are concentrated on O&M of some ongoing schemes and on extending assistance to small
farmers developing micro-irrigation projects.
2.28   GOM has recently decided to transfer responsibility for all major irrigation schemes from the
CWA to IA and to expand the area under irrigation as part of its productivity strategy (para 2.40).
The capacity of the IA however, is insufficient even for its present tasks and its organizational
structure would need to be redesigned and its managerial and technical capacities strengthened in
order to enable it to cope first, with its original objectives and second, with its new tasks.



- 12 -
2.29   The problems of high recurrent costs in the existing high pressure sprinkler systems need to
be addressed through more efficient management methods such as Water User Associations (WUAs)
to take over O&M responsibilities. WUAs have been proven successful in the smallscale sprinkler
projects where they have full responsibilities for O&M. In the large high pressure systems where
O&M is more complex, transfer of responsibilities to WUAs has not yet been attempted. There are
six WUAs in the Northern Plains system but their activities so far have been confined to
organizational matters and input supply. Urgent repairs should also be carried out on the existing
systems to improve irrigation efficiency. Once efficiency has been improved, issues relating to user
charges can be more easily addressed.
2.30   For future development lower cost approaches need to be developed. Annual O&M costs for
the high pressure sprinkling irrigation are high compared to those required by surface methc4s or low
pressure sprinkling systems used in small scale projects in Mauritius. For this reason, defining the
optimum irrigation method for future projects is extremely important in planning irrigation
development for Mauritius. Cost effective technological solutions for various regions and locations
have to be looked into in a comprehensive manner. Surface irrigation schemes using water stored in
small reservoirs dotted along the large number of rivers would be a solution to the problewm of high
O&M costs. Moreover, these systems can be more easily managed by small farmers than high
pressure sprinkler systems. This approach needs to be tested on a pilot scale and if successful a
detailed investment program can then be developed and implemented.
F. Marketing and Other Related Issues
2.31  In addition to the priority issues discussed above there are some others of importance but less
urgency relating to: marketing, agribusiness development, and management at the farmer level.
These issues are undergoing current analysis and are receiving support from GOM and donors.
2.32 Marketing Issues. In Mauritius, Government involvement in marketing tends to be more in
the form of support rather than restrictions. In the non-sugar cropping sector the marketing issues
are being examined and alternative solutions explored. At the level of potential export markets, a
study has been recently financed by USAID, and an ongoing study by the Bank on EXport
Diversification is also examining the issues. At the level of marketing within the country there is an
unrestricted private sector and the Agricultural Marketing Board (AMB) operating within a specific
scope. The issues in the smallholder marketing system are closely inter-linked with the production
issues-risks, socioeconomic factors such as small size, part-time farmers and economies of scale. A
proposed Small Producer Efficiency Study (SPES) under the Sugar Industry Project (Ln. 2728-MAS)
is expected to examine in greater detail the nature of these socioeconomic constraints at the
smallholder level and make specific recommendations on the organizational arrangements and other
actions necessary to resolve these constraints.
2.33 The AMB was set up as a parastatal in 1963 to facilitate marketing in the non-sugar sector; its
services are confined mainly to storage and price support. It operates efficiently through a network of
private wholesaler and retailer agents. The .MB is responsible mainly for handling support programs
for potatoes, maize, onions, and milk. The programs have been successful in stimulating production
of these commodities but they now need to be re-assessed by MAFNR within the present sectoral and
macroeconomic context.



- 13-
2.34 The AMzs has been financed mostly by GOM with support from the EDP mainly for modem
storage facilities, including a refrigerated facility at the airport for the export and re-export of
flowers, fruits and vegetables. In order to utilize these facilities efficiently the AMB requires some
amount of additional technical assistance in market development, packaging and potato storage.
Potential areas for development include (i) re-export services for fresh produce from neighboring
countries; and (ii) export of potatoes and potato seeds to neighboring islands.
2.35   A Parastatal Efficiency Scrutiny by GOM, in March 1989 identified a number of institutional
constraints on AMB's operations. A number of these constraints derive from bottlenecks in AMB and
MAFNR in the information processing and retrieval systems, and analytical capacity with consequent
delays in decision making. In addition, AMB's marketing and financial operations need to be
computerized.
2.36 Small-scale Agribusiness Framework. Another weak area in the diversification strategy is
the absence of an integrated framework for the development of small-scale agribusiness enterprises.
At present the various services-training, financial services, technical support, marketing, etc-are
either offered by various agencies operating without much coordination or are non-existent. Useful
experience in smallscale agribusiness has been developed locally under an IFAD-financed, Bank-
supervised Small-scale Agricultural Development Project (SADP). This experience combined with
experience from elsewhere could be utilized to develop an appropriate approach for Mauritius for
small-producers in general and target groups such as women and young producers in particular.
2.37 Management at the smallholder level is becoming increasingly important for several
reasons: increasing numbers of part-time farmers, decreasing farm sizes, labor shortages,and
modernization of production for competitive markets. The LAMU program (para 2.12) provides a
useful framework for addressing these problems but issues such as professional management, legal
arrangements and applicability to non-sugar activities need to be resolved.
G. Environmental Issues
2.38   There are three principal environmental concerns relating to the agricultural sector: (i) the
condition and sustainable management of the agro-ecosystem itself; (ii) the impact of agricultural
practices on the water resources, and soil microorganisms; and (iii) the impact of agricultural
practices on human health and the quality of life. The major cause of concern in all three cases is the
high use of fertilizers and pesticides. Although estimates of levels of chemical use vary, Government
has decided to take action in several areas.
2.39   A National Environmental Program has been formulated and a supporting policy and
institutional framework is being put in place with support from various donors. The Bank is involved
through the Environmental Monitoring and Development Project approved in November 1990. The
agricultural component of the Environmental Project includes four parts: (i) upgrading laboratory
facilities; (ii) improving pesticide use and regulation; (iii) integrated pest management and research;
and (iv) fertilizer studies and research. Emphasis will be on education and training programs for the
farmers and applicators of agricultural chemicals, awareness of the environmental hazards posed
through pesticide and fertilizer use. The Pesticide Control Board and Pesticide Control Act will be
used to bring the registration and regulation of thes- chemicals under control. Research on the
impacts of agricultural chemical use on the quality of the ground water and surface water will be
conducted. Research to minimize both pesticide and fertilizer use will be conducted; this will include



- 14 -
integrated pest management studies, and use of more efficient pesticide application methods.
Attention will also be given to the development of nontoxic forms of pest control and organic
fertilizers for their environmental benefits as well as the potential marketing advantage for the food
industry.
H. Sector Strategy and External Assistance
2.40   GOM's broad strategy for the agricultural sector is designed to address the competitive
conditions and issues facing agriculture which have been described above. The strategy focusses on:
(i) modernization of agriculture, the &.igar industry in particular; (ii) maximizing the use of sugar by-
products with major emphasis on use of bagasse for energy production; (iii) improvement in
productivity especially in the smallholder sector; and (iv) diversification of production for exports and
the domestic market. The strategy also incorporates measures to ensure an economic framework
which is socially and environmentally sustainable.
2.41   This strategy is being implemented on several broad fronts. A program was initiated in the
early eighties, to address problems of efficiency in the sugar sector. These problems were related to
the financial viability and investment capacity of the sector. The program focussed on the
taxation/incentive framework and the implications for investments, efficiency in processing and
energy as well as for diversification. Several policy actions were taken by government and special
legislation - The Sugar Industry Efficiency Act - was adopted in December 1988.
2.42   Productivity improvement at the smallholder level is supported by several programs.
Improvements in labor productivity are being pursued through a national derocking scheme and
mechanization. These are reinforced with specialized services -FSCs (para 2.11) to increase use and
efficiency of improved inputs and the pilot program of grouping farmers into economic units for
management purposes(LAMUs para 2.12). There are also specific programs for young agricultural
producers and for women in collaboration with the Ministry of Labor, Women's Rights and Family
Welfare.
2.43  Irrigation is a major component of the productivity strategy but as discussed above (para 2.21
to 2.30) expansion has been constrained by institutional as well as efficiency factors which are now
being addressed and will be supported under this project. Integrated pest management, sustainable
production systems and organic agriculture have been incorporated into the overall strategy for the
sector. The diversification strategy has placed emphasis on extensive support programs mainly for
potatoes, maize, onions and livestock and marketing facilities for these as well as the eyport of
horticultural products. These programs have been successful both for exports and the domestic
market but the support programs now need to be reassessed.
2.44   GOM has recently elaborated further the scope of its strategy in the sector. A five year
(1991-5) Modernization Program for Agriculture covering the investment requirements for the public
and private sectors was developed and presented to a donors meeting in December 1990. The thrust
of strategy remains the same, with a widening of scope on institutional arrangements and a
consolidation of efforts on successful activities. The major elements of the program for the sugar
industry includes: modernization and repairs of mill equipmezat; an anti-pollution program; equipment
for improving efficiency in energy production from sugar-cane bagasse; expansion of production
facilities for animal feeds from molasses; and development of sugar by-products. The intensification



- 15-
program includes: a ten year derocking program for 10,000 ha of lands owned by smalilplanters;
consolidation of small-scale farming through expansion of Land Area Management Units; and an
investment for irrigation covering construction of two new dams and improvements in existing
facilities for the Northern Plains, and rehabilitation and a dam for the Western Plains. The
investment program for diversification focusses on expansion of existing activities in horticulture
(mainly anthuriums), deer ranching and aquaculture. The investment requirements for the whole
program include: (i) for the private sector, Rs 4.0 billion (US$277 m) for the sugar industry and Rs
0.5 billion (US$35 m) for lines of credit to smallholders to finance field derocking and mechanization;
and (ii) for the public sector, Rs 3.0 billion (US$208 m) for infrastructure, irrigation, research,
manpower training and institutional development.
2.45 External assistance is involved in several areas in support of GOM's strategy in the
agricultural sector. In addition to the Bank, there are several other multilateral and bilateral agencies
providing sizeable capital investments, training and technical assistance. The British ODA has
cofinanced the technical assistance for a number of programs, including the Farmer Service Centre
program and the pilot Souvenir Drip Irrigation project which was coflnanced by USAID. IFAD has
financed a Small-scale Agriculture Development Project which has provided assistance for smallscale
enterprises, improved veterinary services, livestock development and smallscale irrigation for fruits
and vegetables. The EEC has financed marketing infrastructure (para 2.34) as well as the capital
costs for a national de-rocking and mechanization program. It is also providing funding for the
development of Rodrigues, the largest of the outer islands. The livestock and fisheries subsectors
have received assistance from France. UNDP has provided assistance to the forestry and fisheries
subsectors. Additional assistance for the forestry sector is being sought from bilateral and other
sources. Other agencies which have provided technical assistance and training include the
Commonwealth Development Fund and the Indian Government.
1. Past Experiences and Rationale for IBRD Involvement
2.46 The Bank has gained considerable country experience and learnt useful lessons from its
involvement in the agricultura sector in Mauritius. The two agricultural projects before the SALs
were unsuccessful in a number of areas. The Tea Project (Cr. 239-MAS, closed in July 1980) was
unsuccessful in designing an institutional framework for smallholder tea growing and controlling the
labor and operating costs of the Tea Development Authority. However, some progress was made in
these areas under the SALs. The Rural Development Project (Cr. 419-MAS, closed in May 1979,
PPAR 3988) did not fulfill production expectations again due to design shortcomings. The experience
of these two projects pointed strongly to the need for project design to carefully integrate investments
with reform of the policy environment and the institutional structure. The problems involved in
public sector operations also helped shift focus on exploiting more fully the potential in the private
sector through creation of an appropriate business environment.
2.47 These iessons were usefully applied and helped the Bank make a major impact in the
restructuring of the sugar industry. This impact was achieved through a combination of several
instruments. Under the two SAL operations, major policy reforms were introduced to improve
incentives and efficiency. Consensus building was pursued through intensive dialogue with both the
Government and the private sector during the preparation of a report on the sugar sector (Report No.



. 16-
5812-MAS, March 1986). Consultant support was provided under the Technical Assistance Project
for preparing an Action Program for the sugar sector and for a supporting investment operation -
the Sugar Industry Project (Ln. 2728-MAS, approved in June 1986) which provided investment and
technical assistance for consolidating and extending the restructuring process. The overall program
has been successful, the comprehensive Sugar Industry Efficiency Act, was formally adopted in
December 1988. The sugar industry is on a strong financial footing, major improvements have been
achieved in factory modernization and hence in efficiency in processing and energy production.
Institutional arrangements for coordination within the sugar sector and for providing services to
smallholders (FSCs) have also been successful.
2.48  The proposed project reflects these lessons ad experiences in its design and strategy.
Considerable dialogue and effort has been put into preparation. The successful approach to
coordination and policy reform in sugar sector would now be expanded to include the nonsugar
sector. The approach in sugar to research and farmer services would also be applied to the rest of
agriculture, with appropriate modifications, and overall coordination would be improved. The project
is therefore a logical continuation of Bank involvement in the agricultural sector. Moreover, as
implementing agency for the IFAD Small-Scale Agriculture Project the Bank has gained knowledge of
the constraints on small farmer productivity in the nonsugar sectors. This country experience
combined with a broad access to cross country experience give the Bank a comparative advantage in
assisting GOM in a major reorganization and strengthening of services in the agricultural sector.
Bank involvement would also assist in donor coordination in the sector and in consistency in
approaches to the organization and management of research, extension and irrigation services.



-17-
Im. THE PROJECr
A. Project Origlns and Objectives
3.01   An fAO-CPlBank mission visited Mauritius in March 1986 and carried out a detailed
reconnaissance of the main nonsugar subsectors: foodcrops, fisheries, agro-industries, livstock,
irrigation and tea. The mission's report drew attention to the pervasive institutional problems and
identified potential project components. A subsequent Bank mission in July ;986 carried out further
investigations on the institutional needs of MAFNR, and issues relating to land, irrigation, marketing
and pricing. A consultancy study of marketing was carried out in September 1986. Preparation of
the project was temporarily halted in order w focus attention on resolving pressing efficiency issues in
the sugar sector.
3.02  In 1989, discussions were revived and in the light of the changing conditions facing
agriculture and alternative sources of funding, the present scope and focus of the project were agreed
upon by the Bank and Government. Further refinements were made following joint discussions in
Washington in March 1990 and during thd course of the pre-appraisal missions of March and July
1990. The detailed aspects of the components on extension, research and irrigation are based on the
findings of three consultants recruited by Government for six months each under the Sugar Loan.
3.03  The ojWeeftiy of the project is to put in place instituional and organizational arrangements
necessary for (1) consistent policy formulation and (2) delivery of supporting services, in a context of
structural transformation and rapidly changing market conditions. These arrangements are intended to
facilitate achievement of Government's goals of improving the productivity of the smallholder sector
and diversifying the production base.
3.04 Improvements in policy formulation would be pursued through measures to improve sectoral
management capabilities in coordination, planning and monitoring. Efficient delivery of supporting
services would be achieved through: (a) restructuring of research and extension within MAFNR and
improved coordination, (b) institutional development in irrigation services (c) and supplementary
support to other services-marketing, promozw,n and training-for diversification activities.
B. Summary of Project Components
3.05 The components within the four broad areas of focus of the project are as follows:
(i)     Sectoral management capacity would be strengthened through (a)
creation of a Consultative Committee on Agriculture with an
Executive Secretariat; (b) creation of an Agricultural Policy Analysis
Unit (APAU) within MAFNR; and (c) computerized agricultural and
manaement information systems.
.,1



- 18-
(ii)     Agricultural Supporting Services would be improved through (a)
reorganization of research and services of MAFNR mainly for non-
sugar activities; and (b) better coordination of research and extension
for all agricultural activities.
(iii)    Irrigation Services would be developed through (a) strengthening of
management and planning capabilities in the Irrigation Authority; (b)
improved efficiency hm the management of existing systems; and (c)
pilot/smallscale projects to test low cost systems.
(iv)     Other Supporting Services would be improved through consultancy
studies and training on (a) key marketing constraints and issues; (b)
smallscale agribusiness activities; and (c) management capability at
farmer level.
C. Detailed Features
(i) Sectoral Management Capacity
(US$1.6 million) L/
3.06 The importance of a dynamic and flexible policy framework to respond to the challenging
conditions facing Mauritian agriculture has been discussed in Chapter U and the priority areas in
sectoral management which need to be strengthened for this purpose were also identified. The project
seeks to address these priorities through: the creation of a coordinating mechanism-the CCA;
development of analytical planning capacity in the APAU; improved information flows; and
monitoring of organizatonal efficiency.
(a) Consultative Committee on Agriculture (CCA)
3.07 The creation of the CCA with a permanent Secretariat has been proposed by MAFNR as a
means of improving both consultation with producers, other ministries and public agencies as well as
coordination of its policies and operations. The CCA would be chaired by the Minister of
Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources. It would be the highest forum for making
recommendations on sectoral policies and priorities within the agricultural sector. Its agenda would
also include periodic assessment of the performance of the various agencies in the sector, their
interactions and impact.
3.08 The project would support the formal establishment and operation of the CCA. The
proposed organizational arrangements for the CCA are designed to overcome the deficiencies of its
predecessor, the High Powered Committee (HPC, para 2.07) with respect to technical support,
follow-up and membership.
1/ Cost estimates Include contingencles



- 19 -
3.09 The CCA would have a Secretariat responsible for preparing its agenda and providing follow-
up on the decisions taken. The Secretariat wou;d be headed by an Executive Secretary and
provisions have been made under the project for international recruitment for this position for three
years. The Secretariat would be small and not duplicate any of the services of other departments and
agencies. The Executive Secretary would be supported by, and work In close collaboration with the
APAU in preparation of the agenda, economic and financial analysis, and monitoring and reporting.
Technical scientific support would be provided by senior scientists of MAFNR and other agencies
who would be seconded from time to tima on a temporary basis to the Secretariat. Close
coordination and follow-up would be achieved through direct contact and quarterly meetings of the
Secretariat with the departments and agencies.
3.10   The Secretariat would also coordinate the recruitment and operatiens of consultants for
periodic assessments of agency performance and any ^ther enquiry or study which would be reviewed
by the CCA.
3.11   Membership in the CCA would be carefully screened to avoid the problems of diffusion of
focus and individual interests caused by the broad membership of the High Powered Committee.
Membership in the CCA would be broad enough to ensure participation by rnajor agencies involved in
agriculture and representation of farmer interest but selected to allow focus on key issues. The
functioning of the CCA, and its membership are discussed further in paras 4.05 - 4.08, with details
in Annex 3a.
(b) Agriculturai Policy Analysis Unit (APAU)
3.12 As discussed in para 2.7, MAFNR 's capacity in planning, monitoring and evaluation needs to
be developed for it to respond flexibly to competitive market conditions with appropriate policies,
incentives and services. It nas only a small economic section, comprising a senior economist
seconded from MEPD and a senior accountant from Ministry of Finance. The unit was recently
expanded into an Economic and Parastatal Monitoring Unit. Tbis Unit is supposed to implement a
monitoring system of the operations of the parastatals but with the existing staff and data processing
facilities this is proving a formidable task. Under the project it is proposed to absorb this Unit and the
unit for the Sugar Project into an expanded Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit within MAFNR.
3.13 The APAU would be an advisory and supporting unit within MAFNR. It would provide
analytical planning, evaluation and information support to the Minister, PS, Administrative
Secretariat, departments, agencies and parastatals of MAFNR and to the CCA and its Secretariat. It
would be responsible for: ex-ante analysis of sectoral policies, programs and projects; monitoring of
implementation; and ex-post evaluation of performance and impact.
3.14 In addition, APAU would be responsible for synthesizing national and sectoral priorities with
the sectoral potential and constraints into an operational medium term strategy supported by rigorous
economic and financial analysis of the policy options involved. Once approved by the CCA and other
appropriate authorities, the medium-term strategy would be disaggregated into annual operational
work programs with specific agency responsibilities clearly defined.
3.15 The APAU would comprise two functional sections-a Policy Planning and Evaluation (PPE)
section and a Management Information Cell (MIC). The PPE, headed by a Principal Economist,
would carry out all the analytical aspects of the APAU's responsibilities. The MIC, would be headed
by an Information Analyst responsible for coordinating the Implementation of the proposed
Agricultural and Management Information Systems (AMIS) described in section (c) below.



-20 -
3.16 The functions of head of APAU would be carried out by the Director of the CCA (para 3.09).
A decision would be made at the Mid-Term Review (para 4.32) whether to continue this arrangement
or separate the positions. The project would support short term TA for developing analytical
capability in the PPE and the local recruitment of an Information Analyst under Local Technical
Contract (LTC) arrangements. LTC arrangements are existing procedures which allow open
recruitment for certain positions on a contractual basis for a fixed term at levels of remuneration
above civil service pay scales. Civil servants may also apply to these positions. The . at of the
staffing needs of the APAU would be met by the establishment already approved for the parastatal
monitoring unit and the Sugar unit. The organizational arrangements of the APAU and its sections
are discussed further in paras 4.10 to 4.12 with a summary of its responsibilities in Annex 3.
3.17 Organizational Monitoring and Assessment. An important aspect of sectoral management is
monitoring and evaluation of the efficiency of the organizational structures and inter-relationships.
The APAU would provide continuous monitoring mainly through the MIC which would provide data
on key variables and parameters of perfoimance. The APAU would also carry out annual/periodic
assessments (para 4.37) but given the complexity of the organizational issues in agriculture and the
wide ranging changes proposed under this project, some form of external assessment would also be
useful. This assessment would focus on the organizational and institutional arrangements in the
sector, impact of changes implemented under the project and design of any further refinements which
may be necessary. The assessment would also be the basis for a Mid-Term Review of the project to
be carried out by the Bank and COAM.
3.18  The assessment would be carried out at about the end of year three of   project by suitably
qualified consultants. A total of 7 man-months of consultancy is envisaged, 4 man-months in Year 3
then 3 man-months of follow-up in the following two years. The terms of reference and
implementation arrangements are in para 4.37.
(c) Agricultural and Management Information Systems &MS)
3.19  The measures described above to improve coordination and pod'icy formulation can only be
successful if supported by reliable and timly information systems. At vrsent decision-making is
often delayed by bottlenecks in the information collection and retrieval s;sions in the sector which
are still largely based on manual methods.
3.20 Tbe project would finance agricultural and management informatior systems (AMIS) for
MAFNR within the framework of the overall Public Sector Infbrmatics St*t1y being developed by
Government. The AMIS would address information inefficiencies affecting r;wrdination and policy
making as well as information bottlenecks in the technical, administrative ad fiLancial departments.
3.21 The information systems would improve the planning, monitoring anl operational functions
of MAFNR through (a) integration of the information collection and processing activities within
MAFNR and its parastatals, and (b) strengthening the computing capacity in the technical and other
operational divisions. The proposed AMIS would comnprise three major modules: (a) agricultural
information systems in support of planning, assessmer ., extension and research activities; (b) a
parastatal performance monitoring and anal:sis system; and (c) financial and administrative systems
covering the budget, accoundng, procurement, persomel, payroll etc.



-21-
3.22 Financing would be provided for one mini-computer, and about twenty-five micro computers
for the various departments-planning technical, financial and administration. Provisions have also
been made for auxUliary equipment, training, and design of customized software and equipment.
Further details on organizational and implementation arrangements are para 4.12 and Annex 7.
(U) Agricultural Supporting Services
(US$6.0 milUon)
(a) Research and Extension
3.23  On the basis of the priorities, issues and justification discussed in paras 2.09 to 2.20 (details
In Annex 4), the project would support the restructuring of the research and extension services within
MAFNR to improve their efficiency in the delivery of these services for nonsugar crops and livestock
in a modernizing agriculture.
3.24 The services would 'e streamlined into a unified Directorate of Agricultural Research and
Extension (DARE) within MAFNR. Reflecting the increasing specialization of agricultural activities
in Mauritius, there would be two subdirectorates, one for crops and another for livestock. Each sub-
directorate, headed by an Assistant Director, would handle both research and extension in its area of
responsibility. This arrangement is designed to ensure close integration of research and extension in
each sub directorate and avoid the present problems of inadequate linkages. The proposed
organizational structure and terms of reference for management positions are shown in Annex 4b and
4c.
3.25 As a Directorate instead of a department increased financial delegation and flexibility in
operations would be possible under the Government's Financial Manual. New operational
arrangements and facilities combined with these increased powers would allow decentralized
management and improved operational efficiency focussed on priorities. The system of personnel
management would be modernized to provide incentives for specialization among professional staff in
research and extension (para 4.19). The organization and management system in extension would be
streamlined to follow the PSC approach (para 4.20 to 4.23).
3.26 Financing would be provided under the project for local recruitment of the Director and
Assistant Directors under LTC arrangements in the interest of obtaining the best possible management
and leadership for the DARE. Provisions have also been made for short term consultancies of 6 man-
months to review and assist in specific research and extension programs. MAFNR is also
approaching the British ODA for the provision of two Advisers, one to assist the Director of DARE
and the other to advise on extension. Project costs include recurrent provisions for training of staff
and farmers. Provisions have also been made under the project for additional facilities-equipment,
greenhouses, computers, expert systems, library facilities, etc-and for operational funds for research
and travel allowances for extension purposes. Pinancing would also be provided for a new office
building at Reduit for the DARE and also to house the IA; the costs of the building are based on unit
rates provided by the Ministry of Works and are consistent with prevailing unit rates in Mauritius.
(b) Coordination of Natdonal Agriculturl Research and Extension
3.27 The project would support information and collaborative mechanisms for improving
coordination in agricultural research in Mauritius. FARC would be provided with computing
facilities to allow it to develop and implement a research management information system for which



- 22 -
an initial consulting study was completed in October 1989. The system, to be termed MARMIS
(Mauritius Agricultural Research Information System), would provide MAFNR management with a
complete and up to date inventory of agricultural research by commodity and scientific discipline
together with the associated costs. It would also allow greater transparency in the allocation of
research funds and more consistency in the criteria for allocating these fi4nds and in evaluating results.
3.28  The project would also promote coordination through closer collaboration among the main
agricultural research/extension structures-MSIRI/FSC, MAFNR and the University of Mauritius. At
present there is little exchange of information and materials between scientists. Also senior extension
staff are not aware of the various ongoing research programs or given the opportunities to comment
upon these from the perspective of farmer level constraints and adoptability. It is therefore proposed
to start an annual process of discussion of the national agricultural research and extension programs.
The objectives of this annual meeting would be to:
-     maximize the benefits of exchange of information, experience and comments among
colleagues.
expand the interactions between researchers and extension staff.
agree on specific responsibilities and collaboration within the broad framework of
priorities and responsibilities set by the CCA.
avoid/minimize duplication.
3.29 The Annual Meeting of Agricultural Scientists (AMAS) would be held every year for 2 days
during which each scientific division would present the highlights of ongoing or completed work, and
the work program for the coming year including methodology and approach. The AMAS would be
coordinated by PARC under the chairmanship of the Minister or his designate. Observers, including
terwnational scientists and extension specialists, relevant local persons and interested donor
representatives, may also be invited to attend the meeting. A copy of the proceedings of the AMAS
would be sent to the Bank for comment. At neoiations Government agreed to these arrangements
for FARC and the AMAS.
(il) Irrigation Services
(US$9.8 milllon)
3.30 The discussion on the issues in water resources and irrigation (paras 2.21 to 2.30) highlighted
both the importance of maximizing the use of water resources in Mauritius and the constraints in
technical, managerial and planning capacity which limit realization of the potential. The project
would support development of the required capacity which is the essential first phase of GOM's much
larger program for the development of irrigation potential on the island. The second phase of
construction and development is expected to cost about US$140 million over 5 years, followed by
further investments in new areas in subsequent period. The first phase involves essentially: (a)
institutional strengthening of the Irrigation Authority (IA); (b) improved efficiency in the operations
of existing systems; and (c) pilot operations to test and demonstrate a lower-cost approach of surface
irrigation with greater farmer participation in O&M.
3.31  (a) butitutional Strengthening of IA involves organizational changes, an extensive training
program (for staff and farmers trainers), as well as the provision of TA, vehicles, equipment and
facilities. The organizational changes include the restructuring of the existing organization into three



- 23 -
fully fledged departments- Construction Supervision, O&M, and Administration/Finance-and the
creation of an Irrigation Planning Unit (IPU) which would also include a research cell. (Further
details are in para 4.27 to 4.30 and Annex 6). The training program includes 10 technical short
programs, local training by external experts of technical staff of the IA and extension staff of
MAFNR who will together in turn train farmers. Provisions have been made for recruitment of
three long-term consultants in the IPU, one to head the Unit and two design engineers. Short term
consultancy requirements are estimated at 37 man-months for training, operational review and
technological support. This relatively high level of consultancy input is considered necessary for
developing managerial, technical and planning capacity in the first phase. It Is expected that once the
IA is soundly established with a viable medium-term development program it would be able to attract
suitably qualified staff on a full time basis. Project costs also include 10 new local technical staff,
additional support and field staff for the IPU, 12 vehicles (and their O&M over 5 years) and
additional office equipment.
3.32  (b) Improved efriciency in existing systems would be achieved through a strengthening of
the O&M department discussed above as well as through some urgent rehabilitation works for the
Western Plains Project main canals. The costs of rehabilitation are estimated at US$1.2 million.
3.33  (c) Pilot/Smallscale Projects. The project includes the costs of three pilot/smallscale
operations to test the technical and economic feasibility of the proposed low cost appr 'ach of surface
irrigation and greater farmer participation in O&M. The operations would cover about 300 hectares
spread over three sites in different agro-ecological zones and include different cropping systems in
order to provide as wide a base as possible for technical and economic comparisons. Provision of
US$2.7 million has been made to cover the costs of construction and O&M for 2 years. Costs under
(b) and (c) are based on estimated quantities from consultants reports and prevailing unit rates in
Mauritius.
(iv) Other Supporting Services-Training and Consultandes
(US$0.67 milflon)
3.34   Other services in support of intensification and diversification-marketing, promotion of small-
scale agribusiness, management services for producers-are being supported by Government and other
donors. A few specific areas of study have been identified where Bank involvement would provide
access to a wider range of choices than presently available. Implementation arrangements for these
studies and study tours would be coordinated by the APAU. At negotiations Government agreed that
these studies would be carried out by consultants with terms of reference, qualifications and
experience mutually acceptable to Government and the Bank. The areas of study are as follows:
(a) Marketing issues
3.35   The Small Producer Efficiency Study (SPES), currently being carried out under the Sugar
Project is expected to clarify, among other matters, the nature of the marketing problems facing
smallholder producers and define areas in which action could be taken. Provisions have been made
under the project for 9 man-months of consultancy (expected to be recruited both locally and abroad)
to develop a specific action/investment program on the basis of the recommendations of the SPES.
The terms of reference of the assignment would include assessment of the management and efficiency
of the AMB and rationalization of its existing and proposed responsibilities. Goverment has agred
Ohat the study would be initiated by March 31, 1992 and the Bank and GOM would agree on an
action program by December 31, 1992. Provisions would also be made for a study tour for



-24 -
representatives of smaliholder producers and the concerned public officials to visit a successful
smallholder marketing venture.
3.36 In support of ongoing efforts and funding from the EDF, provisions have been made for
consultancies on market development (4 man-months) and packaging (4 man-months) to assist AMB
in developing its export capacity. Financing will also be provided for a total of 6 man-months
spread over 3 years for technical production assistance to AMB and potato growers from the
international Potato Institute in Peru or any other qualified source.
3.37  Government's Parastatal Efficiency Scrutiny of March 1989 identified a number of
institutional constraints on the operations of AMB (and other parastatals). Tbe report made some
general recommendations which now need to be refined and developed into action programs with
monitorable elements for each parastatal. Given AMB's key role in the nonsugar sector, it has been
included under this project as a pilot exercise in parastatal institutional and organizational
development and monitoring. AMB would be included under the AMIS component discussed above
but this would cover only a part of their requirements. More specialized systems would need to be
developed subsequently for their marketing operations. A total of 6 man-months of consultancy (from
both local and international sources) would be financed under the project for these purposes.
Government has agreed that design of the computerized monitoring and operational programs for
AMB would be completed by March 31, 1992.
(b) Smallscale Agribusiness support
3.38 This consultancy would be aimed at developing an integrated framework for providing
services-training, financial services, technical support, marketing etc.-to small producers in a cost-
effective manner which also includes cost recovery. The effort would be focussed on a few areas of
agribusiness which already exist and appear to have potential for expansion. One area of activity
being explored is compost production/organic agricultural production for export. A pilot enterprise
was started under the IFAD credit and is working well. The broad framework would include
arrangements for bringing other small outgrower/contact farmers into the production and marketing
system and coordinating technical and wxtension services and financial advisory backup. Various
organizational forms would be explored. The scope of the exercise would be expanded at a later
stage to cover other activities, including any which may be identified under the Small Planter
Efficiency Study. Provisions have been made for a total of 20 man-months of consultancy (of which
about 12 man-months are expected to be recruited locally) to assist in developing and testing the
framework. Government has agreed that this study would be initiated by December 31, 1991 and that
the Bank and GOM would exchange views on the recommendations and progress with implementation
of the pilot project.
(c) Management Capability in Farmer Groups
3.39  The Project would supplement ongoing efforts to develop management capacity at farmer
level. The FSCs presently provide considerable management support to the Land Area Management
Units (LAMUs para 2.12) and are developing training programs for their farmers which include
training in management skills. The restructured extension services of the DARE would also provide
similar services to their client groups. Support would be provided under the project for developing
the internal management capacity of farmer groups LAMUs and the Water User Groups for irrigation
farmers. Provisions have been made for 10 man months of consultancy, local training programs, and



-25 -
a study tour of farmer group members to a successful small farmer production venture utilizing
professional management.
D. Projects Costs and Finandng
3.40   The total cost of the project (including taxes) is estimated at USS 18.1 million for a period of
five years. A summary of cost estimates is shown in Table 3.1 below; breakdowns by year and by
nature of expenditure are in Annex 1.
Table 3.1 PROJECT COST SUMMARY 
(Runees million               (IVSS million)      % Foreign    % Total
Local   _Foreign  Tot I       L      L lia  .1         Axohn=   Bae Costs
A. MANAGEMENT CAPACITY
1. Executive Secretarial CCA     2.2        6.2      8.4       0.2     0.4      0.6       73         4
2. Agricultural Policy Unit      0.7        2.3      3.0       0.0     0.2      0.2       77          1
3. Agricultural and Management
Information System            3 a       S7        9.2       02      OA       0.6                 4
Sub-Total                  6.4      14.2      20.6       0.4     1.0      1.4       69         9
B. RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
1. Directorate of Agricultural
Research and Extension       35.0      34.2      69.2       2.4     2.4      4.8       49        31
2. Coordination of Research      2.7        0:7        ,               02                 21         2
and Extension
Sub-Total                 37.7      34.9      72.6       2.6     2.5      5.1       48        33
C. IRRIGATION
1. Strengthening of Irrigation  34.5       37.7     72.2       2.4     2.6      5.0       52        33
Authority
2. Improvements of Existing      5.3        9.7     15.0       0.4     0.7      1.1       65         7
Systems
3. Pilot Projects                14.1      116      31.7       1.      12                 a SA
Sub-Total                  53.9      65.0    118.9        3.8     4.5      8.3       55        54
D. OTHER SERVICES
1. Marketing Consultancies       0.7       3.6       4.3       0.0     0.3      0.3       84         2
and Training
2. Pilot Agri - Business         0.5        1.3      1.8       0.0     0.1      0.1       72         1
operations and training
3. Management Training for Farmers   0.7    Al                 0.1     01       0.2       73         1
Sub-Total                    1.9       6.7      h.6        0.1     0.5      0.6      78          4
Total BASELINE COSTS             99.9     120.8    220.7        6.9     8.5    15.4        55       100
Physical Contingencies         4.8        7.8     12.6       0.3     0.5      0.8       62         6
Price Contingencies            17:7       96      27.31 93                                        12
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               122 4     138.2 S      6       84      9       18.1       2         118
'/ Including duties and taxes of US$1.2 million.



-26-
3.41   The total costs of US$18.1 million includes duties and taxes of US$1.2 million and a foreign
cost component of US$9.7 million representing 54% of the total costs. It is assumed that existing
arrangements will continue whereby goods imported directly for the project will be duty-free. Cost
estimates are based on December 1990 prices. Physical contingencies of 10% have been allowed on
vehicles, equipment, buildings and operating costs. Price contingencies have been included at the
following annual rates: 9.0%, 1.1%, -0.4%, 1.6%, 3.8% and 4% respectively for the years 1991
through 1996 for foreign inflation (in accordance with World Bank forecasts of November 1990);
and 10% for 1991, 7% for 1992 and 6% for the years 1993 through 1996 for domestic inflation.
3.42   The proposed Bank Loan of US$10 million equivalent would finance 55% of total estimated
costs, 59% of costs net of taxes. The Bank loan would finance about US$1.12 m of the local costs
involved in training, technical assistance, local technical contracts and additional travel allowances and
operating costs for research and extension. Financing of allowances and operating costs would be on
a declining basis as described in Table 3.4. GOM would finance about US$0.65 million of the
foreign exchange costs in O&M. The Bank loan would be repayable over 17 years, including 5 years
grace, and would bear interest at the Bank's standard variable rate. The Government of Mauritius
would be the borrower. The financing plan is presented below:
Table 3.2 FINANCING PLAN BY CATEGORY OF GOODS AND SERVICES
(US$ million)
Item                      IBRD          Govenment  T tal
Civil Works                3.00         2.10         5.10
Equipment                  1.57         0.08         1.65
Vehicles                   0.76         -            0.76
Land Acquisition           -            0.37         0.37
Technical Assistance       3.53         0.27         3.80
Training                   0.38         0.10         0.48
Salaries & allowances      0.30         3.03         3.33
O&M + others               0.46         2.15         2.61
10.00        8.10         18.10
/ Including duties and taxes of US$1.2 million.
E. Procurement
3.43   Procurement arrangements for items financed by IBRD are summarized below, and have been
agreed upon with Government at negotiations.



- 27 -
Table 3.3 SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(USS million equivalent)
Project Element                     Procurement    Method
ICB          LCB          Other  N.A.         Total
Cost
1.  Works
1.1 Buildings                   1.59        0.19                                1.78
(Ag. House and              (1.00)                                          (1.00)
Research & Ext)
1.2 Pilot projects              2.12                                           2.12
(Irrigation)                 (1.20)                                          (1.20)
1.3 Rehabilitation              1.20                                            1.20
(Western Plains)            (0.80)                                          (0.80)
1.4 Land Acquisition                                            0.37           0.37
(for Pilot Project)
2. goO&
2.1 Equipment                   1.25        0.20        0.20                    1.65
(1.19)      (0.19)     (0.19)                  (1.57)
2.2 Vehicles                    0.76                                            0.76
(0.76)                                         (0.76)
3.Technical Assistance
(Individuals and Firms)                               3.80                    3.80
(3.53)                 (3.53)
4. Miscellaneous
4.1 Training                                                    0.48            0.48
(0.38)         (0.38)
4.2 Salaries                                                    3.33            3.33
and Travel Allowances                                        (0.30)         (0.30)
4.3 0 & M Vehicles                                              1.46            1.46
and Equipment
4.40 & M Pilot                                                  0.18            0.18
4.5 Other Costs                                                 0.97            0.97
(including Research and Extension
recurrent costs)                                            (0.46)         (0.46)
TOTAL                   6.92         0.39       4.00    6.79            18.10
(4.95)      (0-19)     (3.72)   (1.14)        (10.00)
No: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by IBRD.



- 28 -
3.44   Procurement of all Bank funded goods and services under the project and the review of
procurement documents would be done in accordance with Bank Guidelines (issued May 1985). Bank
sample documents for procurement of civil works and goods would be used under ICB procurement.
The Agricultural Policy Unit would coordinate procurement arrangements with assistance from IA as
described in para 3.51.
3.45   Procedures for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would follow Bank Procurement
Guidelines. Procedures for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) shall be reviewed by IBRD and include
public bid opening, clear evaluation criteria, local advertising and the award shall be made to the
lowest evaluated responsive bidder. Foreign bidders will not be precluded from participating.
3.46 Civil Works. The Civil Works category consists mainly of works involved in the
establishment of the 3 pilot projects, which comprise, among others dam constructions, land
reclamation and levelling, the rehabilitation of one main canal of the Western Plains Project and the
Agricultural House at Reduit. All these would be procured through ICB in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to IBRD and where documentation is subject to IBRD prior review. Bidders
for the pilot projects would be invited to bid on one or more contracts. Due to the dispersed nature
(over space and time) and the small magnitude of other civil works contracts for the proposed field
works for the Directorate of Agriculture and Research and Extension there is little possibility of
eliciting the interest of foreign firms, as such, these would be procured through LCB and would not
require IBRD funding.
3.47   Goods. Vehicles together with laboratory, survey and some office equipment (computers,
cameras, videos, etc) would be grouped in appropriate bidding packages of US$100,000 or more, and
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
Contracts for other equipment, such as some office equipment (furniture, air conditioners, stationary,
etc), each estimating to cost less than US$100,000 and totalling not more than US$0.20 million would
be awarded under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures in which foreign suppliers are
eligible to participate. LCB contracts would be advertized locally and subject to the following: (i)
bids are to be opened in public; (ii) evaluation criteria are to be specific; and (iii) awards are to be
made to the lowest competitive bidder. Smaller contracts not exceeding US$25,000 each, and
totalling not more than US$0.20 million would be procured through international or local shopping
based on price quotations from at least three suppliers.
3.48   Technical Assistance. Technical Assistance (including both long and short term assignments)
would be provided by firms and individual consultants as outlined in Annex 8. Selection pro -edures
for all consultants (firms and individuals) would be in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). All
consultant terms of reference, qualifications, experience and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to the Bank and subject to review before an agreement (or contract) is negotiated and
signed. Procedures in consultancy contracts involving firms would include the customary mandatory
review by the Bank of proposed short list, letter of invitation and award proposal for all contracts.
3.49   Operating Expenditures. Operating costs include local staff salaries, allowances, office
running expenses and fuel for which procurement is not applicable. The remaining expenses such as
repairs, stationery, etc., would be financed and procured by Government using their own standard
procedures.



-29 -
3.50 Review of Procurenent. All bidding packages exceeding US$100,000 for civil works,
goods and equipment would be subject to IBRD prior review. All other contracts would be subject to
selective post-award review. Thus about 85% of the total value of procurement would be subject to
IBRD prior review.
3.51 ResponsibilUtIes. The Irrigation Authority (IA) will be responsible for all procurement
matters related to its project components. The Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit (APAU) will
coordinate all other procurement pertaining to the project. It will be directly responsible for
procurement of computer equipment and technical assistance for MAFNR. The Directorate of
Agriculture, Research and Extension would be responsible for procurement of its works and
equipment, where the APAU would assist as necessary with Bank procedures, documentation etc.
Since some of the equipment contracts would be grouped into packages the APAU would coordinate
with assistance from IA. Procurement documents for goods and consultants for the first year of the
project would be prepared and sent to the Bank for review before effectiveness.
3.52 Recording of Procurement Information. Those responsible for procurement in the Irrigation
Authority, Agricultural Policy Unit and the Directorate of Agriculture, Research and Extension would
prepare proposals for collecting and recording data on project procurement. This would include the
periodicity and content of progress reports and consultant performance evaluations; the preparation by
the Borrower of half-yearly revised cost estimates, progress with procurement, and timing for all
contracts and other project expenditures; the preparation of Completion Reports on procurement
within a specified period from the loan closing date; and at the time of supervision missions, a
detailed statement of all procurement undertaken to-date together with a forward forecast of
anticipated procurement to be undertaken in the following year with estimated costs. At neoiatiom
Government agred to these arraniements.
F. Disbursements
3.53   All disbursements would be requested by the Borrower in line with Bank Guidelines and
operate under procedures acceptable to IBRD. All disbursements would be fully documented except
for payments for contracts less than US$25,000 equivalent, which would be disbursed on the basis of
statements of expenditures (SOEs). SOEs would be certified by the Heads of Finance in MAFNR and
IA, who would confirm that these are in agreement with the ledger accounts, copies of which will
accompany the claims. The ledger accounts and supporting documentation will, however, be retained
and made available for review by the auditors and IBRD supervision missions. Wherever possible all
withdrawal applications should be aggregated in batches of not less than US$25,000 t quivalent. An
indicative schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex Ic along with the project and country
disbursement profiles. The project profile is slightly higher than the country profile in the early years
of the project because the building at Reduit and the pilot irrigation projects are expected to be
completed upfront. It is anticipated that at the end of the five year implementation period of the
project about 88% of the loan would be disbursed, which is slightly (3%) above the country profile.
Projected disbursement of the remainder is consistent with the country disbursement profile and the
loan is projected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 1998; Government on its part, expects to complete
disbursements earlier.



-30-
3.54 The proposed IBRD loan of $10.00 million will be disbursed as follows:
Table 3.4 Disbursemnt Categories and Percentages
Category     Amount of Loan Allocated    % of Expenditures to be financed
US$ million
Civil Works         2.75         65% of expenditures
Equipment           1.40         85% of local expenditure and 100% of foreign expenditures
Vehicles            0.70         85% of local expenditure and 100% of foreign expenditures
Technical Assistance  3.20       80% of total expenditures for experts domiciled in Mauritius
100% of total expenditures for all others
Training            0.35         80% of local expenditure and 100% of foreign expenditure
Travel Allowances    0.25        70% of expenditures until $0.14 million is disbursed;
(Research and                    60% until a total of $0.20 million is disbursed
Extension)                      and 50% thereafter.
Research and        0.40         70% of expenditures until $0.22 million is disbursed
Extension                       60% until a total of $0.32 million is disbursed
Activities                      and 50% thereafter.
Unallocated         0.95
TOTAL
G. Accounts, Audits and Reports
3.55   Accounts and Audit. The Finance Divisions of MAFNR and the IA would establish and
maintain separate project-related accounts at their central offices responsible for project execution
which would be operational from the commencement of project implementation. Such accounts would
be maintained in accordance with sound and generally recognized accounting principles and practices
acceptable to the Bank to enable MAFNR and the IA to provide interim and final statements to reflect
the financial performance and position of the project. The IA would establish and maintain separate
project related accounts under procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.56   MAFNR's accounts are regularly audited by Government auditors under the supervision of
the Director of Audit who, in turn, submits his report to the Parliament. The IA would hire auditors
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank to undertake its audit. The auditors opinion and
report satisfactory to the Bank on the interim and annual financial statements, would be provided
within seven months of the close of the fiscal year. Auditors' reports would include a detailed



- 31 -
statement on the adequacy of the accounting system and internal controls, an independent/separate
opinion on the reliability of statements of expenditure as a basis for loan disbursements (para. 3.54).
MAFNR and the IA project accounting, financial reporting and auditing arrangements will provide
adequate and timely information to the Bank for supervision of disbursements and the project
generally.
3.57  At neggniatiQnLvernment agreed that accounting and audit arrangements would continue
under procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines and requirements.
3.58 The Irrigation Authority (IA) accounts are audited by certified chartered accountants. IA
accounts and financial statements are up-to-date and existing arrangements would be continued under
the project. At negotiations Government agreed that this arrangement would continue undvr
procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines and requirements.
Reports
3.59 A combined Annual Work Program summarizing achievements in the past year and proposals
for the forthcoming year for all project components would be prepared by APAU on the basis of
submissions from the implementing department/agencies and submitted to the Bank for review by
March 31 of every year .
3.60  In addition to the Annual Work Programs, brief semi-annual progress reports will be prepared
by MAFNR. Preparation of these reports would be coordinated by the APAU and submitted within
two months of the end of each half-year. The data and information for these reports should assist
MAFNR's management in the monitoring of project implementation and the Bank in its supervision.
Recommendations on some key indicators for the major components are included in Annex 9.
3.61  The detailed information would be retained by MAFNR and would be made available for
inspection by the Bank supervision missions. Summaries and analyses of the information and actions
taken would be included in the semi-annual progress reports. The APAU would be res'n-ble for
following up and coordinating the preparation of all reports based on submissions from the
responsible agencies/departments.
3.62   GOM  will prepare a Project Completion Report (PCR) to be submitted to IBRD not later
than six months after the closing date of the Loan. At negotiations Government agRee to these
arrangements on accounting, auditing and reporting.



- 32 -
IV. ORGANIZATIONAL AND iNSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENIS
4.01   The proposed changes under the project would be integrated Into the institutional and
organizational framework as smoothly as possible. The measures aimed at Improving the process of
policy formulation involve mainly strengthening and supplementing of existing management
arrangements and building upon local institutional experiences with coordination and user
participation. The measures for improving the delivery of services involve more fundamental
organizational change, especially in the case of research and extension for non-sugar crops and
livestock, but again these are based on successful local experiences in the sugar sector and structural
changes in the economy and the sector. For irrigation services the changes involve mainly a
strengthening of capacity and reinforcing existing organizational arrangements. The ways in which
the new organizational arrangements are expected to function and their interactions within the broad
organizational and institutional framework are described in the sections below.
4.02   Coordination and overall management of the project itself would be the responsibility of the
Permanent Secretary assisted by the Administrative Secretariat and the APAU. Implementation of
the individual components would be the responsibility of the Head of the concerned agency or
department. Consultant studies on sectoral issues and project reporting would be coordinated by the
APAU (para 4.31).
A. Policy Formulation and Sectoral Mnagement Arrangements
4.03 Tbe existing broad organizational and administrative arrangements in the sector would remain
the same. Under these arrangements the Minister, as head of MAFNR, exercises general direction
and control over all organizational and institutional structures and arrangements in the agricultural
sector. He is assisted by the Permanent Secretary (PS) who supervises the three broad functional
formations of the sector: the Administrative Secretariat (including Finance, Stores and Personnel); the
Technical Services of MAFNR; and the Parastatals and Boards.
4.04 The project would supplement these existing organizational and administrative arrangements
with stronger coordinating mechanisms, planning skills and analytical tools.
1. Sectoral Coordination
4.05 The Consultative Committee on Agriculture (CCA) proposed by the Minister and supported
under this project is intended to deal with coordination issues beyond the confines of the existing
traditional arrangements covering MAFNR and its parastatals and boards. The CCA would take the
coordinating process one step further and bring together MAFNR and its agencies with producers,
large and small, as well as other concerned ministries and public agencies.
4.06 The terms of reference, operations and membership of the CCA are described in Annex 3a.
The Committee would be chaired by th's Minister of Agriculture or in his absence the PS of MAFNR;
the Executive Secretary would provide support as described in paras 4.07-4.08, and act as secretary
for the committee. Committee members would include the PS of MAFNR, a representative of the
chamber of Agriculture, representatives of farmers from the sugar and non-sugar sectors, and selected
representatives of Government. Depending on the nature of the issues being discussed the Minister
may invite other concerned persons to deliberations of the Committee. The CCA will meet once a



- 33 -
year to: assess performance of the agencies (parastatals, boards and main departments of MAFNR);
assess sectoral performance and developments; recommend upon policies, priorities and financial
allocations for the forthcoming year.
4.07   The Executive Secretary would be responsible for coordinating arrangements for the meeting
and with assistance from the Agricultural Policy Unit (APAU) would prepare the agenda based on
annual reports and proposed work programs from the agencies. The APAU would prepare a
summary of the individual work program proposals supported with economic and financial analysis
which would serve as guidance to the CCA in making choices and assigning priorities. The APAU
would also prepare a report on sectoral performance and developments, highlighting any major issues
such as policy, technical or marketing constraints, problems of agency bottlenecks and coordination.
4.08 The Executive Secretary would follow up on the decisions of the CCA through regular contact
and quarterly meetings with concerned agencies. He would also coordinate implementation of any
further study or assessment of agency performance which the CCA may deem necessary.
4.09   At negotiations Govemnment agre that: (i) the Executive Secretary would have
qualifications, experience and terms of reference mutually acceptable to Govermnent and the Bank;
and (ii) the CCA would be formally established and the Executive Secretary appointed before the loan
is effective.
2. Analytical Planning and Information Systems.
4.10  The formation, structure and responsibilities of the APAU are described in paras 3.12 to 3.15
and in Annex 3b. As indicated in para 3.16, the Executive Secretary of the CCA would also be the
Head of the APAU. The APAU would operate under the general direction of the PS. Its primary
function would be to support the management and coordination arrangements in the sector through
analytical planning, evaluation and information services at the sectoral level as well as to the
individual agencies and departments. In synthesizing priorities and policies the APAU would work
closely with the individual departments and parastatals of MAFNR and with MEPD.
4.11   Analytical planning and evaluation of policies, programs and projects would be carried out by
the PPE section. Staffing of the PPE would be met by the establishment already approved for the
Economic and parastatal monitoring unit but not yet completely filled. The PPE would be headed by
a Principal Economist. Given the difficulties in filling the post it is recommended that Local Technical
Contract (LTC) arrangements should also be used in recruiting for this post. The staff of the PPE
would also include the present Senior Accountant to: (i) deal with the financal aspects of the
analytical work of the section; (ii) provide support to the MIC on financial issues in the design and
implementation of the monitoring systems; and (iii) assist in project matters relating to auditing,
accounting, procurement and reporting. All professional L -Ef in the APAU should be on direct
asb-gnmens to MAFNR.
4.12 The MIC would be set up and headed by an Information Analyst to be recruited under LTC
arrangements. This would be a full-time position initially but once the systems are fully operational
the position could be changed to part-time. Such arrangements would be necessary to attract and keep
qualified and motivated staff. The Information Analyst would coordinate the implementation of the
agricultural and management information systems to be supported under the project. A Steering
Group would be established of representatives of the departments and agencies involved in the
systems. The Information Analyst, working in close collaboration with the Steering Group would



- 34 -
oversee the system development and implementation by State Informatics Limited (SIL), coordinate
the procurement of equipment in consultation with the Central Informatics Bureau, and arrange for
the training of staff. In addidon to responsibility for the overall institutional systems, the MIC would
provide support to the technical divisions and agencies with their respective functional systems.
Details on the features of the AMIS are in Annex 7.
4.13   At negoations Govenment agre that (i) the Head of APAU, the Principal Economist and
the Information Analyst would have qualifications, experience and terms of reference mutually
acceptable to Government and the Bank; and (ii) the APAU would be formally established with the
staffing structure already approved by Government, and the Head of APAU and the Information
Analyst would be appointed before the loan is effective.
B. Research and Extension Armngenents
1. Coordination
4.14   Coordination at the sectoral level of all agencies involved in research and extension would be
achieved through increased transparency in FARC and collaborative exchange at the proposed Annual
Meeting-AMAS (paras 3.27 to 3.29). Transparency in FARC would be improved through (i)
additional staffing appointments presently being considered by MAFNR which should be linked to
decentralization of management, and (ii) the proposed computerized information system MARMIS to
be introduced under the project. MARMIS would provide up to date information on all research as
well as allow transparency and consistency in the allocation of research funds and evaluation of
results.
4.15   At the agency level specific arrangements would be established for achieving closer
coordination. FSCs and DARE would establish arrangements for liaising their activities. The
management of FSC and DARE would meet at least quarterly to exchange information on their
respective work programs, joint extension activities and training programs as well as resolve any
operational issues which may arise. Until the FSC network covers the whole island, the crop
extension services of DARE would continue to handle sugar and the interline crops in those areas
where the FSCs are not operating. FSC and DARE management would liaise closely in implementing
throughout the island a consistent extension system for sugar and the interline crops, based on the
FSC mndel. The organization and management of the DARE services would follow the FSC model
based on structured management and systematic training and visit which has been successfully tested
on a pilot scale. While these arrangements continue, the concerned extension staff from DARE
would attend the same training sessions as the FSC staff including those given by the MSIRI and FSC
training staff. Concerned FSC staff would also attend the workshops in the field and at Headquarters
to be arranged by DARE staff (para 4.22). Assuraitces on these agen    were obtained from
Government.
4.16 DARE and Agricultural Services (AS) activities would also be closely coordinated. Given
that their activities and operations would be inter-dependent and that they would share certain
facilities it would be necessary to have two levels of coordinating mechanisms. First there would be
a Management Committee comprising the Chief Agricultural Officer and the Principal Agricultural
Officers of the AS, and from the DARE-the Director, the two assistant Directors and the Extension
and Training Coordinator. In the initial stages of establishing the DARE, this committee would have
to meet frequently but once operational procedures have been established formal meetings could be



- 35 -
reduced to once every two months, or at a minimum, quarterly. Minutes of these meetings would be
sent to the Permanent Secretary and would be reviewed by Bank supervision missions. The second
level of coordination would be through Technical Committees to be appointed by the Management
Committee to deal with coordination matters relating to: quality control in input supply services,
regulatory and production activities; flow of research findings into these services and the
responsiveness of research to problems faced by these services; and feedback from extension on these
services. These Technical Committees would meet as required by the nature and scope of their
responsibilities, but at the minimum would meet at least once per quarter. At negotiaioM
Government agreed to these arrangements.
2. Operational arrangements of DARE
4.17   As described in para 3.24 the reorganized structure for the DARE would ensure closer
linkages between research and extension and provide greater operational flexibility. The reorganized
structure would operate with decentralized management systems, as well as improved personnel and
extension management systems as described below.
4.18  DARE would be able to plan its work with more focus and confidence as a result of its
greater management powers, clearer definitions of priorities and responsibilities from the CCA and
closer coordination through FARC and the Annual Meeing. A streamlined and decentralized
management system would be introduced in DARE supported with additional facilities and operational
funds. Details on responsibilities at each level of management-Director, Assistant Director and
Divisional Head-are described in Annex 4b. Operational funds and facilities would be allocated on
the basis of detailed work proposals from each division and in accordance with priorities. Once the
work programs have been approved each division would have full control over its budget, manpower
and facilities. The present system of controls over the use of funds would be simplified, also the
proposed computerization of accounting and auditing procedures (under the MIS) is expected to
reduce delays.
4.19   The system of personnel management would be modernized to provide an incentive
framework conducive to the development of scientific excellence. The present system of promotion to
management positions, often based on seniority and the available post, does not provide adequate
incentive to developing scientific specialization and competence. It is proposed that there should be
four levels of scientific officer to encourage specialization and allow for professional growth for those
not entering the management stream. Promotions would be based on independent assessments after 5
years of performance in a particular field. Appointment to management positions would be based on
technical capacity and demonstrated managerial skldls. Criteria would be established to ensure as
much transparency as posible in all personnel decisions. These arrangements would apply to both
research and extension staff because as the sector develops producers would demand highly qualified
and specialized field extension staff. The introduction of these measures would be carried out in close
consultation with the staff. Existing regulations would safeguard salaries and benefits of incumbents.
MAFNR has decided to implement these changes in personnel policy in a phased manner. In the first
stage, the positions of Director and Assistant Directors would be filled under Local Technical
Contract arrangements which would allow both open recruitment based on qualifications and ability as
well as attractive remuneration. Also since these are contractual arrangements for fixed terms, there
are in-built incentives for performance and sanctions for unsatisfactory performance are more easily
applied than possible under Civil Service arrangements. In the second stage, policies for Heads of
Division and below would be reviewed after an assessment of the efficiency of the re-organized
DARE wbich is planned to be carried out at the Mid-Term Review.



-36-
3. Extension Arrangements
4.20   As discussed in para 3.22 and Annex 4 there would be specialized extension services in each
sub-directorate to ensure close linkages with research and to respond to the increasing specialization
among farmers. An Extension and Training Coordinator (ETC) (detailed terms of reference In Annex
4c) would be appointed to coordinate extension activities across the DARE and liaise with other
agencies on extension matters. There would be close interaction between research and extension at all
levels. Training workshops for frontline extension workers with researchers would be carried out
regularly. Senior extension and research staff would meet at headquarters once every two months.
FSC staff would be invited on a regular basis to these workshops and meetings, relevant staff from
MSIRI and the University would be invited when matters relevant to their responsibilities are being
discussed.
4.21   Extension field operations would be restructured. The basic field unit for all extension
activities would be the Agricultural Service Centres (ASCs) which would operate along the lines of
the FSC approach in providing a central point for services. The Senior Technical Officers would be
stationed at the ASCs and provide close supervision of field extension staff. Field extension
operations would also be made more systematic through the introduction of a fixed schedule of visits
by extension to farmers and regularity of workshops in which extension staff and researchers would
participate. Since there is an increasing number of part-time farmers, extension would have to
operate on a more flexible work schedule to suit the needs of farmers. Evening meetings would be
re-organized with greater involvement of senior extension staff.
4.22   Training would receive major emphasis. A broad training program has been developed and
resource trainers identified. A key objective of the reorganization is to make the extension staff more
professional through regular training by researchers in the form of workshops which would permit a
two way flow of information. In addition to training by research staff, specialists from other
disciplines would be brought in to provide training on specific problems faced by farmers such as
financing, management, marketing, group organzation, etc. Farmers would also participate in some
of the training sessions.
4.23 Special focus on women, young farmers and youths would continue. A special effort would
be made to recruit female extension agents and contact farmers. Existing programs would be
strengthened where necessary. The Extension and Training Coordinator would liaise with the
Ministry of Cooperatives and the Ministry of Labor, Women's Rights and Family Welfare in
developing additional training programs for women and young farmers in areas such as food
processing, nutrition, group organization and agri-business management including preparation of
prorosals for credit financing. MAFNR has applied to UNICEF for assistance in setting up a Food
and Nutrition unit which would also be involved in the training program once it is operational.
4.24   Government has agre that all arrangements for setting up DARE according to the re-
organized structure, with full operational powers as described above would be completed before the
loan is effective. Assurances were also obtained that the Director and Assistant Directors of DARE
would have qualifications, experience, and terms of reference mutually agreeable to the Bank and
Government, and that they would be appointed before the loan is effective.
;



-37 -
C. Water Resources and Irrigtion Arrangements
4.25 Coordination In the use of water resources in Mauritius would be the responsibility of the
proposed Water Resources Committee (WRC) (para 2.24). The WRC would have a Water Resources
Secretariat which is proposed to be established in the Prime Minister's Office to coordinate the
activities of the WRC and provide follow-up. Members of the WRC would be appointed by the
Prime Minister and would comprise, inter alia, senior officials of the Ministry of Energy, MAFNR,
MEPD, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Environment and Land Use, CWA and IA. The Bank,
through its current Sugar Project (Ln. 2728-MAS) would be in a position to help in establishing the
WRC and in finalizing a Master Plan for the Use of Water Resources by providing the necessary
short-term local or international experts. A negotiations an assurance was obtained that the WRC
would be established by December 31. 1991 and oNerate as proposed. Responsibilities of the WRC
would include, inter alia,:
Establishing an Action Program for finalizing a Master Plan for the Use of Water
Resouces to cover a period of 40-50 years which should be consistent with the
national Energy Plan currently being initiated and the national Physical Development
Plan being supported under the Environmental Project;
-     Formulating the long term strategy for potable water supply and irrigation for the
whole country;
-     Formulating equitable allocation of water resources between the different users takdng
into consideration the national goals;
-     Making recommendations On water charges, efficiency improvements and cost
recovery in the various uses;
-     Following up on the implementation of the Master Plan recommendations and the
water resource allocation exercises.
4.26  The Irrigaton components of the project would be Implemented by the IA which would be
reorganized and strengthened to enable it to carry out the expanded responsibilities envisaged under
the project. The organizational changes would not disrupt the ongoing programs which would be
executed more efficiently. The role of IA would a to take overall responsibility for the irrigation
systems below the major reservoirs and to plan, design, supervise the construction, operate and
maintain new schemes. The IA would continue to support the development of water users
associations in order to alleviate its own O&M workload. GOM is gradually transferring the O&M
of all main and secondary irrTigon canals (or pipes) from CWA to IA. CWA will remain
responsible for all other multi- purpose canals (and pipes) and the O&M of the storage reservoirs.
4.27  Insttutional Steghng. The project would support a new and expanded org ional
structure for IA which has been approved by Government. The proposed structre is necery for
IA to be able to carry out its increased responsibilities. The proposed organizaonal structue for IA
(shown in Annex 6, Chart 1) would comprise an Irrigaon Planning Unit (IPU) reporting directy to
the General Manager and three fklly fledged departments-Construction Supervision, O&M, and



- 38 -
Administration/Finance. Planning and design functions carried out by the present Engineering
Department would be transferred to the IPU. The IPU, which would also comprise an
InvestigationlResearch cell, would be in charge of formulating project proposals, investigations,
studies, training and research. IPU would have formal linkages with CWA in order to ensure
coordination and appropriate water supply for the new schemes. Specific responsibilities of the IPU
are summarized in Annex 6.
4.28 The remaining functions of the existing Engineering Department of IA would be transferred to
a new Construction Supervision Department which would be responsible mainly for tendering for
works and supervision of construction. Strengthening of this new department would only be
necessary in the second or construction phase of the irrigation development strategy which is expected
to follow the pilot testing of low-cost approaches and the development of planning and managerial
capacity in the IA.
4.29   Operations and Maintenance (O&M) of existing irrigation projects is presently being carried
out by the Projects Departmient which would be strengthened and renamed the O&M Department
(OMD). The OMD would be provided with new staff at different levels to cater for the additional
workload which will result from the transfer of 5500 ha of irrigated areas in the Western and
Northern Plains from CWA to IA planned during 1991. In this respect farmer organization would
form an important part of the OMD work. The latter would be assisted by the personnel of the
Ministry of Cooperatives in organizing the user associations and in establishing the appropriate legal
and financial arrangements. Consultancy assistance would also be provided to assist the OMD in
developing proposals for transferring responsibilities of O&M of field operations to farmers through
the development of Water Users Associations.
4.30 Finally, the presently separate Administration and Finance Departments would be merged into
a single Administration and Finance Departaent which would be strengthened with 3 additional staff.
4.31    During the project period the overall re-organized IA and the IPU in particular would be
reviewed by an external consultant, semi-annually in the first two years, then annually in the
following three. In addition, a short term consultant would be engaged to provide periodic support to
IA staff in studying and recommending solutions to key irrigation issues such as water charges, the
socioeconomic aspects of irrigation methods, cost-effective irrigation systems, irrigation efficiency,
and automation.
4.32   At ne ations assurangces were obtaine that: (1) all procedures for creating the IPU and
restructuring of the IA departments would be completed before the loan is effective; (ii) the terms of
references, job description, qualifications and experience of the Head of IPU and all new technical
staff would be acceptable to the Bank; (iii) a detailed training program would be prepared with
consulting assistance finalized by May 31, 1992 and sent to the Bank for comment; and (iv) a pilot
program of Water Users Associations would be implemented in the high pressure systems. The
program would be reviewed after about two and a half years and the Bank and GOM would exchange
views by November 1, 1994 on potential for further expansion. In order to ensure sustainability of
the irrigation systems assurances were also obtained that: (i) a study would be carried out by the IA
by June 30, 1994 to assess the current situation and make recommendations on a system of water
charges which will ensure sustainability and coverage of the relevant costs; and (ii) at the Mid-Term
Review the Bank and GOM would discuss and agree on an action program for implementing the
recommendations.



- 39 -
4.33    It would be necessary to ensure adequate linkages between the IA, MAFNR and other
ministries and organizations with respect to projects selection and formulation. This would be done
through the present Irrigation Coordination Committee chaired by the Permanent Secretary of
MAFNR and consisting, amongst others, of representatives from the Ministry of Energy, the MEPD
and CWA. P'rojects getting approval from the Coordination Committee would also have to be
approved by the IA Board before further planning steps are taken. Farmers' interests would always
be taken into consideration as the IA Board includes several representatives of planters .
4.34   Detailed designs, specifications and tender documents for the first pilot surface irrigation
projects would be undertaken by a Consultant financed by GOM and these would be sent to the kik
for approval before December 31, 1991. Implementation of the Pilot Prr%"t would start by 1992 and
would be completed within two years. The Irrigation Authority, through .ss Irrigation Planning Unit,
would conduct, monitor and assess the pilot project field programs. These should aim at establishing,
amongst others, the following: (i) technical and economical merits and drawbacks of tested water
storage, conveyance and distribution and field irrigation methods; (ii) water saving techniques; and
(iii) O&M set-up and the responsibilities of the Water Users Associations. The Bank and GOM
would exchange views by December 1994 on the conclusions with respect to the technical and
economic feasibility of the suggested low cost approach and plans for further expansion.
4.35   Urgent rehabilitation works to be provided for the Western Plains Project would start as soon
as the project loan is declared effective. Detailed design specification and bid documentation would
be reviewed and approved by the Bank before December 31, 1991. Asurances on these
arrangements were obtained at negotiations.
D. Coordination of Project Implementation
4.36   The APAU, as a supporting unit of the Permanent Secretary and the center for the MIS,
would be responsible for coordinating project reporting, organizational review, and the consultant
studies on sectoral issues relating to marketing, agribusiness and farmer management (para 3.33).
Project reporting arrangements are covered in paras 3.56 to 3.59.
4.37 Organizational and Mid-Term Reviews. The head of APAU would be responsible for
reporting to the Minister and PS on the implementation and impact of the proposed organizational
changes within MAFNR and its agencies. The APAU would prepare half yearly reports on progress
and impact of the organizational changes and bring the attention of the PS to any bottlenecks which
may be encountered. For the Mid-Term review of the project (para 3.17), to be carried out before
November 30, 1994, MAFNR would prepare an internal assessment and on that basis draw up
detailed terms of reference for a consulting study focussing on:
(i)    assessment of the operations of the Executive Secretariat of the CCA;
(ii)   capacity and impact of IA, APAU and AMIS;
(iii)  effects and functioning of the re-organized agricultural services;
(iv)   Impact of TA financed under the project and sustainability of arrangements after
withdrawal of TA;



- 40 -
(v)   structure and operations of the administrative services in relation to the reorganized
services;
(vi)  improvements in productivity of resources in MAFNR and proposals for further
improving the budgetary allocation of resources;
(vii) impact of FARC and the research MIS in improving coordination of research;and
(viii) efficiency, water charges and cost recovery in irrigation.
4.38   These terms of reference would be submitted to the Bank for approval. The interim and final
reports of the consultants would be submitted to the Bank for comment and the Bank and government
would exchange views on the implementation of the recommendations especially with respect to
productivity improvements in the use of resources. lhis approach has proven successful under the
Sugar Industry Project where sensitive policy issues were involved. Assurances to this effect were
ktuinei at negotiations.
4.39   The supervision plan and Implementation schedules for the project are in Annex 9.



- 41-
V. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Main Benefits and Benefldarles
5.01 Successful agricultural diversification is of key importance to Mauritius's long term
development and a competitive agricultural sector is crucial to economic stability and preservation of
the island's natural resources. fhe project would contribute towards creating an enabling policy and
supporting framework for a diversified and competitive agriculture. Benefits expected to accrue from
the improved framework would include improved efficiency in agricultural services, increased
productivity of land and labor, increased nonsugar agricultural production, and higher incomes for
smallholders.
B. Economic Analysis
5.02   Since the project deals with broad institutional and organizational development its economic
impact is indirect. An attempt is made to justify the levels of expenditure in relation to reasonable
estimates of potential impact on sectoral and subsectoral performance. For the irrigation component,
which involves mainly institutional development for the longer term and pilot testing of surface
methods and op-ating arrangements, the economic justification is based on the potential returns and
expected costs on a per ha basis. Details on the analysis and background information are in Annex 10.
5.03   Sectoral components. GOM estimates that there is potential for at least 3% per annum
growth in the agricultural sector as a whole, yet output has been falling for the past three years in a
row. This poor performance has been linked in part to constraints in policy formulation and
management which this project tries to address. If the measures under the project are successful in
achieving even a small fraction of the potential growth the expenditures on sectoral management
would be justified. On the basis of an agricultural value added of Rs 3370 million in 1989, a growth
rate of only 1/10 of one percent would generate an internal rate of return (IRR) of about 17% on the
proposed invustment and recurrent costs of the proposals on sectoral management. A growth of 1/8
of one percent would generate an IRR of 27%. These costs and potential benefit relationships
indicate that the proposed levels of expenditure are reasonable in relation to the size of the sector and
its potential.
5.04 Research and Extension Components. In the nonsugar sector, GOM estimates that with an
appropriate policy and supporting framework a growth of between 5 to 6% could be achieved. The
improvements in research and extension are expected to have a direct and almost immediate impact on
output. There is existing potential in horticulture and livestock which could be more easily exploited
with additional technical support and guidance from MAFNR. The reorganized DARE would be
focussing on three subsectors-Foodcrops, Horticulture (fruits and flowers) and Livestock (including
poultry). With value added in the three targeted subsectors at Rs 640 million, the proposed
investment and recurrent expenditures for DARE would require a growth of 1.9% in output to
generate an IRR of 15%. If, with its improved planning and organizational arrangements, MAFNR is
successful in rationalizing the budget of the DARE and 50% of the incremental operating costs are
offset by savings then a growth of 1.7% in subsectoral output would generate an IRR of 16%. These
levels of additional growth are feasible, the three subsectors have been growing by about 5% on
average over the past three years and there is still potential for further growth even for the domestic



-42 -
market. In the livestock subsector alone, replacing 10% of dairy imports would justify the level of
expenditure,
5.05   Irrigation Components. Given the dwindling land base for agriculture, irrigation would
play an increasingly important role In increasing productivity and reducing risks in agricultural
production. This Is particularly true for high-valued crops for which irrigation is nearly always a pre-
requisite in Mauritius. At present, a large proportion of irrigation is used for sugar prc.ction and
this is likely to continue in the short run. At the individual level, economic returns (net of subsidies)
from surface irrigation of sugar would be low-about 10% and at most 14% if a rough estimate of the
periodic losses to drought under rainfed conditions is added to the benefits. From the national point
of view, however, the returns are much greater but difficult to quantify. Since there is an upper limit
on the level of sugar production, irrigation in sugar releases land elsewhere for other uses which are
invariably of a much higher value.
5.06   Irrigation for crops other than sugar is much more profitable but presently constrained by
organizational and marketing risks which are being addressed. For onion cultivation, returns from
low pressure sprinkler irrigation are estimated at about 16% (Annex 10). For other crops such as
litchis and vegetables, returns are estimated to be even higher.
5.07 On the basis of the land constraints in Mauritius and these preliminary estimates of the returns
on irrigation, the pilot components are justified as well as the institutional capacity to plan for the
longer-term.
C. Potential Risks
5.08   Experience from similar projects has shown that potential risks in the proposed project are
likely to relate primarily to delays in implem mning and resistance to the necessary institutional
changes, and secondarily to the technical/marketing problems associated with the development of
exportable crops/products at competitive prices. Institutional risks would be minimized through
agreement on dated actions, continuous monitoring by the APAU and external assistance in assessing
impact and defining follow-up actions (paras 4.31 and 4.32). In addition, close consultation with staff,
agencies, representative bodies, producers etc. have been carried out during preparation and would be
continued during implementation.
5.09   Technical risks would be reduced through the strengthening and improved efficiency of
research and extension (paras 3.24 to 3.26 and 4.17 to 4.19) which would maximize benefits from
experience already available in the country. The improvements and expansion of irrigation facilities
would reduce technical risks caused by inadequate control over water availability. Also the
coordinating mechanisms (CCA, FARC and AMAS) would: (i) improve exchange of ideas and
experience among technical staff as well as with the private sector; (ii) ensure that research and
extension are focussed on the relevant production problems; and (iii) ensure appropriate policy and
analytical planning support in production choices.
5.10   Marketing risks are being addressed by ongoing efforts. There are several agencies ( public
and private) involved in developing external markets. Assistance for infrastructure has been provided
by the EDF. Some supplementary studies would be financed under the project to provide a
supporting framework for reducing risks for smallproducers (paras 3.34 to 3.38).



-43 .
D. Sustalnabllty and Financial Implications for Government
5.11 The project would be institutionally and financially sustainable. The institutional
arrangements have been developed through lengthy consultation processes and explicit consideration
of the future demands and issues in Mauritian agriculture (Chapter 2). The arrangements would be
implemented as smoothly as possible. There is sufficient capacity in Mauritius to manage and
maintain these institutional arrangements and the decision by MAFNR to use LTC arrangements to
recruit locally for a number of key positions will facilitate tapping of the local potential and provision
of ajequate incentives.
5.12   At the sectoral level the proposed institutional arrangements do not supplant traditional
arrangements, instead they supplement them with stronger coordinating mechanisms, planning skills
and analytical. The various committees and consultation processes are sustainable since they are
closely linked to allocation of resources and work programs. The two high -level committees (CCA
and WRC) have been provided with permanent Secretariat back-up. The committees may appear
numerous but are necessary in Mauritius which has a tradition of decision making through democratic
processes and open discussion. For the internationally recruited TA-Executive Secretary CCA/Head
APAU and short-term consultancies for economic analysis and organizational review-efforts would be
made to recruit them from a single firm/agency with a strong international reputation in planning and
development. For the information systems, the consultancies for design, development and
implementation would be handled by a single firm -SIL set up by G-vernment for these purposes.
SIL is supported by a reputable external agency through a technical contract.
5.13   Arrangements for research and extension reflect consensus as well as appreciation of the
underlying issues. Coordination is still likely to be a problem but the expected improvements in
transparency in FARC and exchange of information through the AMAS would be major steps in the
right direction. The management structure and approach for research and extension in the DARE
follow systems proven in-country and elsewhere, taking into account increasing specialization and
trends in Mauritian agriculture.
5.14   The institutional arrangements for irrigation would also be sustainable. For the IA the
approach would be to establish a core team of key personnel reinforced with short-term consultancies
for specific activities. This approach would allow flexibility in overhead costs in case the irrigation
investment program is slower than envisaged. In order to ensure coordination and continuity, GOM
would be strongly encouraged to seek most of the consultancy requirements for the IA from a single
firm/agency. TA provisions under the loan also include annual technical review of the IA and
irrigation activities. Efforts would also be made to ensure sustainability of the proposed Water Users
Associations, the program would be started on a pilot scale and assessed before further expansion.
The design would take into account experience from elsewhere as well as local experience with
similar associations in small-scale irrigation.
5.15   Financial Implications and sustainability. Total project costs of about US$18 m represent
less than 10% of the public sector part of the Five-Year Modernization Program for agriculture (para
2.44). During implementation Govermnent's net contribution to the project would be about US$1.3
m per annum. Recurrent costs at the end of the implementation period would be about US$1.2 m per
annum of which US$0.43 would be for research and extension. Repayments of the loan would
include annual capital repayments of US$ 0.8 m plus interest. These costs are sustainable within the



-44 -
context of Mauritius. The present recurrent budget for MAFNR is about US$1 1.5 m . The project
also aims at efficiency improvements which should offset some of the additional costs to be borne. In
irrigation, improvements in O&M arrangements are expected to lead to reductions in the subsidies
currently financed by government. Water User Associations would be formed to take over the O&M
in the high pressure sprinkler systems. Once the repairs on existing systems are completed and
efficiency of water delivery has been improved GOM would be in a position to increase water
charges. Under the pilot surface schemes to be tested under the project farmers would be responsible
from inception for O&M. Efficiency improvements are also possible in the budgetary allocations of
MAFNR, especially within the AS where US$4.3 m out of a total of US$7.3 m is allocated for labor,
non-technical staff and subsidies on production inputs. These and other efficiency improvements
would be reviewed at the Mid -Term Review (para 4.37)
E. Impact on Women
5.16 Given the high levels of literacy and per capita incomes (para 1.02) as well as a legitimate
democratic process, there are no major issues facing women in agriculture in Mauritius. Tle country
is well advanced in its programs for women which are coordinated by the Ministry of Labor,
Women's Rights and Family Welfare. In addition, women also benefit under programs of the
Ministry of Cooperatives, MAFNR and under the IFAD Small-scale Agriculture Project. Women
have equal access and do participate in the various training, credit, subsidy and other programs
offered by these agencies. In addition to the general benefits for agriculture which are expected under
the project, women would benefit in particular from the increased emphasis on research and extension
for foodcrops, horticulture and ih estock. These are areas where women are playing an increasing
role as smallholder owner/operators. Women account for 40% of employment, as both laborers and
owner/operators, in agricultural small-scale operations. Existing programs (para 4.23) for developing
messages specifically for women would be strengthened and increasing attention would be paid to
nutrition, food preservation and agri-business training. Special emphasis would also be placed on
recruiting female extension officers and contact farmers.
F. Environmental Impact
5.17   The project is expected to have a beneficial environmental impact. The strengthening of
institutional capacity in DARE would facilitate the implementation of the agricultural component of
the Environmental Project (para 2.39) especially with respect to monitoring and improving the use of
pesticides. The strengthening of DARE and the improvement of coordinating mechanisms in research
would also facilitate the integrated pest management and fertilizer programs. The project would
complement these activities with consulting assistance to develop and extend to farmers, methods of
organic farming which were tested and developed under the IFAD Agricultural Project.
5.18  The irrigation component is not expected to have any negative environmental impact. Only
small dams would be built and the reservoirs should not pose any environmental threat. It is common
practice in Mauritius to stock the reservoirs with fish which eat the larvae of mosquitoes and other
insects. There are programs already in place for monitoring and preventative controls which would
be strengthened under GOM's comprehensive Environmental Program.



-4S -
VI. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Assurance
6.01   At negotiations, agreement was reached on the following acdons and assurances:
Conditions of Loan Effectiveness would be:
(i)    Establishment of the CCA and appointment of the Executive Secretary with
qualifications, experience and terms of reference mutually acceptable to the Bank and
Government (para 4.09);
(ii)   Establishment of the APAU and appointment of the Head and the Information Analyst
with qualifications, experience and terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (para
4.13);
(iii)   Establishment of DARE with satisfactory organizational arrangements and procedures,
and appointment of the Director and Assistant Directors (para 4.24); and
(iv)   Satisfactory reorganization of the IA (1ra 4.32).
Assurances and Actions on Sectoral Management Capacity
(i)    The terms of reference and qualifications of the Principal Economist (APAU) would
be acceptable to the Bank (para 4.13);
ii)   The Mid-Term Review would be carried out before November 30, 1994 (para 4.37);
and
(iii) The terms of reference for the Mid-Term Review would be acceptable to the Bank,
and Government would exchange views with the Bank on the implementation of the
recommendations of the review (para 4.38).
Assurances and Actions on Research and Extension
(i)    Arrangements for coordination between FSCs and DARE and between DARE and the
Agricultural Services would be as agreed (para 4.15 and 4.16);
(ii)   The terms of reference, experience and qualifications of the Director of Research and
Extension and the two Assistant Directors would be acceptable to the Bank (para
4.24); and



-46 -
(iii)   Arrangements for the Annual Meeting of Agricultural Scientists would be
implemented as proposed and a copy of the proceedings would be submitted to the
Bank for comment (paras 3.29).
Assurances and Actions on Water Resources and lrrigation
(i)    The WRC would be established by December 31, 1991 and would operate as agreed
(para 4.25);
(ii)   The Head of the Irrigation Planning Unit and other new technical staff would have
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank (para 4.32);
(iii)   A detailed training program would be finalized and sent to the Bank for comment by
May 31, 1992 (para 4.32);
(iv)   A pilot program of Water User Associations would be implemented and after an
assessment the Bank and GOM would exchange views by November 1, 1994 on the
potential for further action (para 4.32);
(v)    A study would be carried out before June 30, 1994 on efficiency and water charges in
irrigation, and the Bank and Government would discuss and agree at the Mid-Term
Review on an action program for implementing the recommendations of the study
(para 4.32);
(vi)   Specification and bid documents for works related to the first pilot surface irrigation
project would be sent to the Bank for approval no later than December 31, 1991 (para
4.34);
(vii)  The pilot surface irrigation system would be implemented as agreed and the Bank and
GOM would exchange views by December 1994 on the conclusions with respect to
technical and economic feasibility and any further expansion (para 4.34); and
(viii)  Detailed design specifications and bid documents for rehabilitation works would be
sent to the Bank for approval no later than December 31, 1991 (para 4.35).
Assurances and Actions on other Supporting Services
(i)    The studv on marketing constraints of small producers would be initiated by March
31, 1992 by consultants with terms of reference, qualifications and experience
acceptable to the Bank; and the Bank and GOM would agree on an action program by
December 31, 1992 (paras 3.34 and 3.35);
(ii)   The terms of reference, qualifications and experience of the short term technical
assistance to AMB on marketing and production technologies would be acceptable to
the Bank (paras 3.34 and 3.36);



- 47 -
(iii)   The monitoring program for AMB's operations would be designed by consultants with
qualifications acceptable to the Bank, and implemented by March 31, 1992 (paras
3.34 and 3.37); and
(iv)   The terms of reference, qualifications and experience of the consultants for the pilot
small-scale agribusiness study would be acceptable to the Bank; the study would be
initiated by December 31, 1991; and the Bank and GOM would exchange views on
the recommendations and progress with the implementation of the pilot project (paras
3.34 and 3.38).
Assurances on Reporting. Auditiny and Procurement
(i)    Procurement and disbursement procedures would be in accordance with Bank
guidelines and requirements (paras 3.52 and 3.53);
(ii)   Procedures on accounting and auditing would be in accordance with Bank guidelines
and requirements (para 3.57 and 3.58);
(iii)   Annual Work programs would be prepared for each component by the implementing
department/agencies, summarized by APAU and submitted to the Bank before March
31 of each year (para 3.59);
(iv)   Semi-annual progress reports would be coordinated by APAU for MAFNR
management and submission to the Bank (para 3.60);
(v)    A Project Completion Report would be submitted to the Bank no later than six months
after the closing date of the loan (para 3.62).
B. Recommendation
6.02   With the above assurances and covenants, the Project would be suitable for a loan of US$10.0
million on IBRD terms with 17 years maturity, including 5 years grace.



MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Project Componets by Year
Totals Includirs Continsncies                   Totals Includini Contin*ncies
(REES '0001                                      (iS '000)
1       2       3       4       5     Total       1      2      3      4      5    Total
A. IWUEIIN CWNCITT
1. EXECUTIIE SEWIAETIAT MCA                          34295.8 2,263.0 2546.8   797.2   938.0  9,70.9   228.9  157.2  176.9   55.4   58.2   676.5
2. MRICIRT1E   PILICT MI1T                             694.0   735.2 1,278.6   292.9   294.3  3#295.0    48.2   51.1   88.9   19.6   20.4   229.1
3. GRICULTINL AM  NWAMT   INWFOMTON SYSTEN          9,921.5   368.0   38.0    39.2    4.9  10,47.5   68990   25.6    2.6    2.7    2.8   M7
S-Total NAA t  CWACITT                                 13,911,3 3,366.2 3,863.4 1,119.3 1,173.1 23,433.4   966.1  233.8  268.3   77.7   81.5 1*627.3
t. RESEM    ND EXTENSISN
1. DIRECTlRTE CF AGRICOLtUM. RESEARCH AN EXTENEIN    52,340.1 7,070.6 7,434.2 7,98165 7,821.4 82,492,9 3,634.7  491.0  516.3  542.8  543.2 5,728*0
2. CORDINATION W RESEARCH ND EXJ ION                   594.4  1,755*6   678.7   719.5   762.6  4v500.9    40.6  121.9   47*1   50.0   53.0   312,6
Ssh-Toal RESEWARI   EXTEOSION                          52,924.3 9,926.2 3,113.0 8,536.0 84954.0 96,963.7 3,675.3  612.9  563.4  592.8  596.1 64040.5 
C. ItIG1ATION
1t STRIETHENIN O IRRIBAn  AmTNRMIT                  21,45.6 16,9.6 17,294.7 17,045*6 12,409.9 85,1543 1 946.5 1,16015 1,201.0 1,193.7  861*8 5,913.5
2. INIITS W EXISTING SYSTENS                        17,342.0      -       -        -       - 17,342.0 1,204.3      -      -      -      - 1,204*3
3. PIROT FROECTS                                    11,413.4 24,719.9 1,329.1   914.0      - 38,330.4   792.9 1716,6   92.3   63.5      - 2,665.3
5*Total IWRIATno                                       50,166.0 41,717.5 13,623.3 17,959,6 12,409.140,6767 3,483.W 2.997.0 1.,9331,247.2  661.8 9,7913
3. OTRSERCES
1. NETING CONSILTANCIES IS TAINING                   2,16369 1,45986   4O1.   406.8       -  4,632.8   150.3  115.2   27.9   28.4       -   321.7
2. PILOT AG  - 3UBIESS O TIONS AND TRIUNING            694.0   735.2   274.8   22.?       -  1,996.9    4.2   511   11   19.6           -   138.0
3. _SEIT TRAINING FIR F S                            1,156.0 1,003.5   549*6      -       -  2,09.2    90.3   697   33*2         -      -   18.1
Sit-Totl OTE SERVICES                                   4,013.9 3.397*3 1,225.?   691.7      -   ,328.8   273.7  235*9   N.1   48.0        -   647.3           . 
Total PIOJECT COSTS                                    121,015. 5743072 31,626e 23,306.6 22167. 260*625 83403.9 3M7? 2210*1 1963.7 1539.4 18.0988t
----- --    ------~~~a-
F*Man 21, 191 1123



MAURMUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENr AND SERVICES PROJECr
Summaruy Accounts by Year
Totals Includins Contingencies                         Totals Including Continsencies
(RI _S '000)                                            (USM '000)
1        2        3        4        5       Total        1       2       3        4       5     Total
I. INVESTNENT COSTS
A. CIVIL MORKS                            27,007.3 20,454.2        -         -        -  47,461.5 1875.5 1w420.4         -       -       -  3P295.
B. BUILDIN6S                              25,6166         -         -        -        -  25,616.6  1778.9         -       -       -       -  1,778.9
C. VEHICLES                               10946.4         -        -         -        -  10,946.4    760 2        -       -       -       -    760.2
D. FURNITURE AND EWUIPHENT                22t926.0    907.6         -        -        -  23,833.6  1.592.1    63.0        -       -       -  19,55.1
E. TRAINING                                1,657.9  1,236.4  1295.9  1,359.1  1,4311.    6,980.3    115.1    85.9    90.0    94.4       4.   484.7
F. LOCAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              3,814.4    627.2    222.1      78.5        -   49742.2    264.9    43.6    15.4      5.5        -    329.3
G. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - LONG             66503M8  68U41.0  6,915.0  5,223.5         -  25,483.3    451.7   475.1   480.2   362.7        -  19769.7
H. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE - SHORT            4,741.5  6,454.8  49561.7  24361o9  1,384.2  19,504.0    329.3   448.2   316.8   164.0   96.1  1,354.4
1. NISCELLANEOUS                          2,442.7  4W098.7    271.5    287.8    305.1   7o395.7    169.6   283.9    18.9    20.0    21.2    513.6
Total INNESTNENT COSTS                      105,656.5 40,609.9 13,266*2  9,310.8  3,120.3 171,963.7  74337,3 2,820.1   921.3   646.6   216.7 11,941.9
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES AND ALLOhANCES                8,551.6  8,993.4  9,554.8 10,128.1 10,735.8  479963.6    593.9   624.5   663.5   703.3   745.5  3t330.8
I. RECURRENT LOCAL TECHNICAL CONTRACT       782.0    854.9  1,081.0  1,145.9  1,214.7   5,078.5      54.3    59.4    75.1    79.6    84.4    352.7
C. GIN OF VEHICLES AND EOUIPNENT          3.536.8  4,170.9  5,135.2  4,811.7  4,041.7  21,696.3    245.6   289.6   356.6   334.1   280.7  1,506.7
D. ODI  OF WUILDINGS                        350.1    381.1    402.8    425.2    449.5   2,008.6      24.3    26.5    28.0    29.9    31.2    139.5
E. RESEARCH                               2,138,7  2,296.9  2M386.2  2,495.0  2M605.0  11,911.8    148.5   159.5   165.7   172.6   180.9    827.2
Total RECJURENT COSTS                        15,359,2 16,697.2 18,560.0 18M995.8 199046.6  98,658.9  1,066.6 1,159.5 12M8.9 1,319.2 1,322.7  69156.9               x
__ _    =     ==-_   ==: -==_ __=z          =t__   == :-  ___== =--   __ =                          -- ____
Total PROJECT COSTS                          121,015.7 57,307,2 31,826.1 28,306.6 22M167.0 260,622.5  8M403.9 3Y979.7 2,210.1 1,965.7 1,539.4 18,098.8
Februa.r 21, 1991 11:23



MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Cmlmtive         Project         Coumtry
BAD                 Disbursements   Didarsmnts         Profile         Profile
Fisal Ter            ... - ..      miltlion --------   ....-(X of Total) ---
FT 1992
sept 30.   1991                0.00              0.00        0              0
Doec 31.    1991               0.00              0.00        0              1
Iar 31,    1992                0.25              0.25        3              3
Jta a0,   1992,                0.25              0.50        5              4
FT 1993
Sept 30,  1992                 0.50              1.00       10              7
Dec 31,   1992                 0.50              1.50       15             10             110
Mar 31,   1993                 0.50              2.00       20             13
Jw30,   1993                   0.50              2.50       25             18            ioo .
FT 19940 
sept30,   1993                 0.S0              3.00       30             24
Dec 31,   1993                 0.50              3.S0       35             29             s 
ar 31.   1994                  0.50              4.00       40             34             e
jAu   30,  1994                0.50              4.50       45             39             70 _
FT 1995                                                                                    GU0C
Sept30.   1994                 0.50              5.00       SO             44
Dec 31,   1994                 0.50              5.50       SS             49                 _                                 /
Mar 31,   1995                 0.50              6.00       60             %              40
Jww 30.  1995                  0.50              6.S0       65             61             40 6
n  1996                                                                                    30 -
Sept 30,  199                  0.50              7.00       70             6S
De 31,   1995                  O.SO              7.50       75             70             20 -
ar 31,   1996                  0.50              8.00       80             75             20
umn 30,  1996                  0.50              8.50       as             so             10 _
FT 1997 
Sept 30.  1996                 0.25              8.75       as             4                  1992 11 10993 It   1994 It   1995 l 1 1996 1 I 1997   isis 1
owc31,   1996                  0.25              9.00       90as50211                                                                         v                  I
ar 31,   1997                  0.2S              9.25       93             92                                           IA Fisco Yearm
Jwm  30,  1997                 0.25              9.50       95             95                              a  Proct Prom*    +  Country Proffb                       >
Fr 1996                                                                                                                                                             r 
Sept 30,  1997                 0.20              9.70       97             97
Dec 31.   1997                 0.10              9.80       98             98
Mar 31.   1996                 0.10              9.90       99             99
June 30,  1998                 0.10             10.00      100            100
...............................................................................
Project Completion Dat.: JAm  30, 1998
Project Closing Date: Deceer 31, 1998



- 51 -
Annex 2
MAURlllUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Annex 2a                                Economic Indicators
Annex 2b                                The Agricultural Sector



- 52 -
Annex 2a
MAURrTMUS                                Page 1 of 3
AIGICULTUJRAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Sected Economic Indicators
......................................................................................................... -
Unit    1984      1965     1966    1967      1968        1969 1/   1990
.............................................................................................................................
Output
ODP at F.C.                             USS.       907      899      1222     1529     1725        1742       2071
Per Capita GNP Cat mrket pries)           USt    1063      1031      1397     1758     2015        1996       2300
Expenditur.
Gross Domestic Savings                  USS a      166      232      418       502      527         445        S27
Savirs Ratio                                X     17.1    21.6    28.5        2.4      25.5        21.5       21.4
Ffxed Investment                        USS n      196      201      289      3         595 V/      562        756
Investmnt a 2 of GOP N.P.                   X     18.0 0   1.7r    19.7    21.6    28.7             7.        30.7
Reat Growth Rates
GOP *t F.C.                                   X      0.4      6.9      8.9      8.4       6.1         3.8        5.4
of which:
Agricutture                                 X    -13.0    11.3    10.7    -3.1         -5.3        -8.6        3.5
Susar                                     X    -20.0    15.1    13.0    -4.4         *9.4       .13.5        3.0
Nemacturing                                 I      1.0    15.3    20.2        14.7      7.9         2.7        8.4
Sugar                                     X    -20.1     20.1    12.6    -3.9    -10.1          -13.7        2.9
EPZ                                       X      8.9    30.0    34.9        22.0     12.0         4.0       12.0
Restaurants & Hotels                        2      6.3      6.8    13.8    21.1        12.0         9.5       10.1
Government Services                         X      2.0      0.8       1.0      9.0      4.0         3.6        2.0
Fixed Irnvtment                               X      3.2     10.0    20.0    24.7        41.0 2/      7.0       18.0
Blatnce of Payments
Exports Goods nd Mon factor Services  USS m        509      576      U85      1214     1382        1400       1668
: orts GCode nd Non factor Services  U#S a         512      596      768      1176     1487        1562       1863
Visible Trade Balnce                    USS a      -15       -27      s5       -16     -162        -211       -279
Current A/c Balance                     US18       -29      -         73        38      -71        -127       -188
Overalt WP                              USS        -4         17      12r      216      138         113        101
Foren Exitlxc  e Raserves               US. m       33      s5       182      348       478          .
Tourism
Tourifm Arrivals                          000    123.8   148.9   165.3   207.6   239.3            265.3
Grorsa Ernirs                           UM  a       43       55       U        139      177
go. of Notels                                       55       55       56        60       66
Pubtlc Sector
Invstment                               US.         70       65      102      133   252 1/          1S0        271
EtploVmnt                                 000     83.0    63.5    8#.7    84.5         90.3          ..          .
totat EUploytent (Sept)                     000      282      338      377      406       424          ..
Inflation Rate                                X      5.6      6.7      1.8      0.5       9.2        12.6       12.2
CDP Narket Prices FY                      USS a     1085     1059     1256      1643     1952        2072       2266
Overall Budget Deficit  FT                US. *                -68      -60      -37      -38         -57        -45
Budget DOffeit/GDP H.P.                       X        ..     6.4       4.8      2.3      1.9         2.8        2.0
Debt Service Ratio                            X        ..    12.3      7.7       6.8     10.6         6.7
Source: Central Stetisticel Office, GO Nat1cnwl Accounts
I/ Estinmte
21 Includco purchase of two neu aircraft, as well as orIn  vessl In 1990.
mens not available



MAURrITIs
AGRIuCULTURAL MANAGiMENTrANDsERtvicEs PRojEcT
Co.thbudom of Major Sedos to Outpdt, bIe_am  _N Employment
............... ................................................. .....................................................................................
tkit      1982      1983      1964       1985      1966      1967      1988  19J0 1/  1990 I/
......................................... ..................................................................................... 
OP at F.C.                        US  *       922       907        873       8a9      1222      1529      1725       1742      2071
of which:
Agriculture                         X      15.3      13.8      14.4       15.3      15.3      14.6      13.2      12.7      12.6
Sumlr                             X      11.3       9.5       9.7      11.1      11.6       10.8       9.4       8.5       8.7
Nmfa ctwuing                        2      15.6      15.8      18.1      20.6       23.3      24.6      24.3      22.8      22.8
Sugar                             X       3.1       2.5       2.7       3.2       3.7        3.4       2.6       2.S       2.4
EPZ                               X      4.5        5.2       7.2       9.6      11.6       13.1      13.5      12.4      12.4
Rest  rant  A Hotels                X       2.4       2.6       2.5        2.4       2.5       2.7       2.8       3.1       3.2
aovt. serWices                      X        ..      12.5      11.4      10.4        9.5      10.3      11.6      11.2      10.8
Ffixd Invstment                  USS m        193       196        184       201       289       395      595'       562        756
of hich:
AgricuLture                         X       6.4       4.4       4.7       4.2        3.3       5.7       2.9       2.9
Nmmafacturing                       X      15.0      14.7      19.4      23.9       27.5      28.7      23.5      28.4
EPZ                                 X       1.8       3.1       8.1       13.1      14.4      12.9      10.9
NoteLs                                X       1.2       1.7        1.9       5.8       2.6       2.7       3.4
Pubtic Sector                         X      36.0      35.4      31.8       32.3      35.3      33.7    42.3*        26.7    35.P J
Totel E pt1yment                    000       294       282       305        338       377       406       424         ..        ..                                       w
of ihMch:
Agriculture                         2      29.2      28.9      26.9      24.7       21.8      19.3      18.5
Unaufacturing                       X      19.0      19.6      24.3      29.3       35.5      38.5      39.2
EPZ                                 X      11.8      11.9      17.0      22.3       28.6      32.0      33.7
Uestaurnts &  otels                   X       1.6        1.6       1.6       1.6       1.6       1.7        1.8
Pubife Swetor                         X                29.3      27.2       24.7      22.2      20.8          -
.................. ....................................... __.... w................................................................................................     . ....
1/ Estimtes
* Includes puraces. of two aircraft.
.   s not  vailoble
00 :3
0 0
W



MAURMUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMET AN) SERVICES PROEJCF
Structural Changes in the Eonomy (% shares)
~~~~~~~. . ... . .. ... ..... .. . ..... . ......... ................ ............................................
Value Added                                                            EploWylnt
Secs.or                1970       1976       1980       1986       1987       1989       1990          1976       1980       1986       1987       1988      1989
Agriculture            23.5       22.5       12.4       15.3       14.6       12.7       12.6          34.8       29.4       21.8       19.3       18.5
of which:
Sugar                  ..         ..         ..      11.6       10.8        8.9        8.7          31.3       25.9       19.2       17.1       16,2
Indwstry               24.4      25.0       25.9       31.6       32.5       31.5       31.9           21.6       24.5      38.3       43.3       44.2
of which:
EPZ                    ..         ..         ..      11.6       13.1        2.4       12.4             ..         ..      28.6       32.0       33.7
Services               52.1       52.5       61.8       53.2       52.9      55.7       55.5           43.6       46.1       40.7       37.5      37.5
of which:
Tourism
.......................................................... ............... ................................................................................... ... .... .. .... . ..
4'-
.  nws not avai(able
b >
oI b
Th
w



- 55 -
Annex 2b
Page 1 of 6
MAURTMUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
The Agrjcultumi Sector
A. SALIENT IEATUBES
1.    The agricultural sector is dominated by sugar which accounts for about 76% of
agricultural GDP at factor cost. The remaining 24% is divided among livestock (8%),
foodcrops (6%), fishing (4%), fruits and flowers (2%), tea and tobacco (3%), and others
(1 %) - Table 1. In 1989 sugar occupied about 77,000 ha, (90%) of the total harvested area
of 86,000 ha, the remainder was occupied by foodcrops (5,200 ha), tea (3,400 ha) and
tobacco (800 ha). Sugar is produced mainly on large estates, of which there are about 20
accounting for 60% of output. Smaliholders, about 33,000 households, account for 33% of
sugar output, the remaining 7% is produced by 30 medium-sized planters. 92% of owner-
planters cultivate less than 2 hectares of land each and another 6% cultivate plots of between
2 hectares and 5 hectares. 4% of total planters are tenant-planters while the rest are owner-
planters.
2.    Total employment in agriculture, in June 1988, was 82,300 of which sugar (including
milling) accounted about 60 %. Employment in large establishments (10 employees or more)
has been declining from 64,469 in 1975 to 56,711 in 1982 and further to 47,832 in 1989.
The largest decline has been in tea where employment has decreased 67% over the period
1975-89, followed by tobacco - 39% and sugar - 37%. Fishing has registered an increase in
employment of 21% over the period. Other agricultural activities have increased significantly
but still account for only 3% of employment in large establishments. Sugar estates and
factories accounted for 78% of the total employment in large establishments, while planters
cultivating more than 10.6 hectares accounted for I16%. Overall employment in large
establishments in sugar has declined from 57,773 in 1975 to 49,864 in 1982 and further to
42,099 in 1989. Employment in tea accounted for another 6% of employment in large
establishments; while planters cultivating flue-cured tobacco accounted for 2%, and fishing
accounted for another 1%. Employment in small establishments shows a steady increase in
numbers from 21,900 in June 1983 to 35,000 in June 1988 of which about 50% is accounted
for by non-traditional activities. Sugar accounts for only 20% of employment in small
establishments in agriculture and tea accounts for 23%.
3.    There is a small livestock sub-sector comprising about 26,000 head of cattle, 75,000
goats, 2,000 sheep and 9,000 pigs owned mainly by smallholders. There are a few
cooperatives involved in pig and poultry production. Poultry production is well developed
and satisfies national requirements. Extensive and commercial semi feed-lot production of
Rusa deer by about 60 enterprises, has been developed to a national herd size of about
50,000. Traditional production in the livestock sub-sector is gradually declining and is being
replaced by medium and large-scale operations but imports are still increasing - Table 3.



- 56 -
Annex 2b
Page 2 of 6
4.    The fisheries sector has been growing steadily since 1983 but has now reached full
potential, exports in 1988 were about USS14.0 million against Imports of US$7.0 million for
domestic production. Forest areas cover some 56,000 ha, of which 21,000 are Crown Lands.
5.    There is an emerging agro-industrial sector focussing mainly on horticulture for
export and fruits and vegetables for the domestic market and exports. This sub-sector has
been growing quite rapidly over the past two years - Table 2 - but it still accounts for only
2% of agricultural GDP. There is considerable potential for further expansion for both the
domestic market and exports.
B. lNSTITUTIONS IN AGRICLTURE
6.    The Ministyof Agriculture, Fisheries and Natural Resources _MENR , operates
through three broad formations: an administrative secretariat; technical services, namely,
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, and over two dozen parastata organizations, autonomous
institutions and boards. In addition, there are several non-statutory advisory committees set up
by MAFNR or on which MAFNR is represented. Sectorally, the sugar sub-sector and its
institutions numbering about a dozen, are the most important.
7.    The present structure of the Ministry is based on the parliamentary setup. The
Ministry is headed by the Minister, with a Permanent Secretary (PS) in supervisory control.
The Secretariat consists of three Permanent Assistant Secretaries, reporting to the Permanent
Secretary; they, in turn, are assisted by one or more Administrative Officers, each of whom
heads one or more administrative sections. The work distribution among these officers is
supervised by the Permanent Secretary. There is a full-time Establishment Officer for
personnel matters, a Chief Budget and Finance Officer and a Chief Stores Officer who report
directly to the Permanent Secretary. The field arm of the Ministry Is constituted by three
services: the Agriculture Service; the Forestry Service and the Fisheries Service. In addition,
there are several statutory functional bodies performing various executive, advisory or
promotional roles. The PS/his representative serves on these boards and committees.
8.    The main functions of the Ministry may be described as policy planning, program
planning administration, and provision of services directly through parastatals.
9.    The parastatals perform their functional roles in the statutorily assigned areas, in close
coordination with the Ministry. In addition, there are several Boards and Committees, some
being statutory, whose role is basically advisory and their deliberations assist the Ministry in
getting feedback, in policy formulation and program structure.
Technical Services of MAFNR
10.   The Agriculture-Service, located at Reduit, engages in research on crops other than
sugarcane and in livestock research, operates extension services, administers the tenancies of
Crown Land lessees, advises on land use and agricultural projects, provides health care,



- 57 -
Annex 2b
Page 3 of 6
veterinary services and other livestock services. Further details on research and extension
activities are in Annex 4.
11.   The Forestry Servic, located at Curepipe, manages the Crown Forest estates, protects
forest reserves, forest areas in river reserves and pas geometrique, undertakes forestry
plantation, wood extraction and some experimental research.
12.   The Fisheries Servic is responsible for protecting, developing and exploiting the
country's fisheries resources. The service has recently been reorganized to comprise four
divisions: Aquaculture, Artisanal and Bank Fisheries, Offshore Fisheries and Marine
Conservation. The Albion Fisheries Research Center is the only research and development
organization under the Fisheries Service.
13.   The three technical services also provide professional advice to the Minister and are
responsible to the Permanent Secretary for implementation of approved policies and programs.
The flow of information, proposals and professional advice is from the Services to the
Secretariat and the flow of instructions, approvals and orders from the Secretariat to the
Services. The operational relationships between the Boards and the Ministry sometimes takes
on a more informal form as each parastatal develops its own style, reporting system and level
of coordination, depending on the status and stature of the Chairman of the Board, and his
standing with the Minister or Permanent Secretary.
Coordination
14.   The Food and Agricultural Research Council (FARC) was set up in 1985 under an
independent Chairman appointed by the Minister of Agriculture. The Council consists of the
Permanent Secretary of MAFNR or his representative, and representation from all research
organizations, the Ministry for Rodrigues and the Outer Islands and other representatives
covering various agricultural activities, including the private sector, appointed by the Minister
of MAFNR.
15.   The main objective of the Council are to promote and harmonize research activities in
agriculture, fisheries and food production and maximize the benefits of such research. Its
functions are to coordinate and monitor research programs within the different institutions and
ensure, as far as possible, the proper dissemination and practical application of research
results. The funds necessary for FARC operations come from Government grants, special
funding for contract research and external aid funding for predetermined lines of research.
The Council is intended to act as the principal advisory body to the Minister of Agriculture on
all activities relating to research in agriculture, fisheries and food production. The FARC is
discussed further in Annex 4.
Sugar Sub-sector
16.   The sugar sub-sector comprises both parastatals and private organizations. The
institutions of the sugar sub-sector numbering about a dozen, are in general well organized
and efficient. At the apex is the Mauritius Sugar Authority (MSA) which was set up on July
1, 1984 to coordinate the actions and interests of different groups within the industry, and to
provide impartial and accurate information and advice to MAFNR on sugar industry policy



- 58 -
Annex 2b
Page 4 of 6
and planning. MSA has a wide range of statutory duties and powers including the formulation
of national policies and plans, the implementation of these plans, and the monitoring and
coordination of research, production and marketing for the sugar industry. Although MSA is
under the general guidance of the Minister of Agriculture, it is an independent body and its
five directors and large advisory council represent different interests within the industry, both
government and private.
17.   The Mauritius Chamber of Agriculture is a private sector body which represents
millers, estate owners and planters of the sugar industry. It was founded in 1853 and serves as
a forum for debate and policy formulation. In addition, it collects extensive statistics on the
sugar industry and other agricultural activities. The Chamber includes a Diversification
Branch, established in 1974, to encourage and monitor the production of food crops and the
raising of livestock on cane lands; as well as a Public Relations Office of the Sugar Industry
("PROSI").
18.   The Mauritius Sugar Industry Research Institute (MSIlR, established in 1953 deals
with all technical aspects of the sugar sub-sector: the growing and milling of sugarcane and
the use of sugar by-products. Estates and medium sized producers are in direct contact with
MSIRI. There is no intermediary extension organization and the research and extension
functions are completely integrated. Over the years, MSIRI has expanded its activities to
include other main crops (potatoes, maize, beans and groundnuts) which are grown in rotation
or as intercrops with sugarcane.
19.   MSIRI is known to be one of the world's foremost centers for sugarcane research.
However, the research program of MSIRI has paid very little attention to the specific
requirements or constraints faced by small planters. MSIRI has lacked the capacity to reach
smaliholders directly and formalized linkages with the extension services of MAFNR have
never been satisfactorily implemented. Smaliholders have had to depend on 'trickle-down'
effects from the estates for improved technology and their productivity has lagged behind
Fonsiderably.
I
20.   The Bank-assisted Sugar Industry Project (Cr. 2728 MAS, effective in 1987),
supported the creation, on a pilot scale, of a Farmer Service Center (FSC) Program to
provide integrated supporting services including extension to smaliholders in sugarcane-based
cropping systems. The FSC program fal!s under MAFNR, but outside the existing structure
for agricultural services within the Ministry. It is partially funded from the sugar cess through
SIDF. The FSC pilot program is considered successful by both the Government and
smaliholders. A decision has therefore been made by the Government and endorsed by the
Bank to expand the program to countrywide coverage. The FSC framework has also
facilitated the implementation of a Land De-rocking Scheme and the successful testing of a
pilot Land Area Management (LAMU) program which is aimed at resolving the problems of
organization of labor, transport and delivery.
21.   The Mauritius Sugar Syndicate is the sole sugar marketing organization in Mauritius.
The Syndicate is responsible for both exports, domestic sales and the shipping of sugar. The
Syndicate's 22 member Committee includes 14 miller's representatives, 4 large planter's
representatives and 4 small planter's representatives. The actual responsibility for receiving,
storing and loading sugar lies with the Sugar Terminal Corporation which manages the bulk



- 59 -
Annex 2b
Page 5 of 6
sugar terminal in Port Louis and is owned Jointly by the government and industry in a 58:42
ratio.
22.   Insurance of sugar against the vagaries of the weather and damage by fire is
compulsory in Mauritius. Crop insurance for sugarcane is provided by the Suigar Insurance
Fund Board (SIFB) and is backed by reinsurance overseas in case of major losses. The SIFB
also collects very detailed cultivation data on individual holdings.
23.   The sucrose content of cane is determined by the Cane Planters and Millers
Arbitration and Control Board which reports directly to the Chief Agricultural Officer of the
Agricultural Services. The 'C. ntrol Board' is a statutory body operating as a government
department. All its staffing costs are borne by Government payroll, its budget is voted by
legislature and, for technical matters, the General Manager of the Board is supervised by the
Chief Agricultural Officer. Disputes over the rate at which sugar accrues to planters or the
extraction rate are handled by the Board. The 'Control Board' also determines the boundaries
of factery areas and arbitrates in disputes between millers, planters and middlemen. Other
activities of the Beard include determining transport costs, deciding factory areas, checking
and control of weighbridges and approving varieties for planting.
24. , The Sugar Industry Development Fund (SIDF), another parastatal in the sugar
industry, is financed by a levy on exports to the EEC. Money accruing to the Fund in used to
finance research and special schemes designed to raise cane productivity that benefit mainly
smallholders and labor.
Tea Parastatals
25.   The Tea Board acts as an advisory and regulatory body to the tea industry and it is
responsible to MAFNR. It is a corporate body set up in 1975 to promote cooperation,
research and development in the production and marketing of tea. The Board regulates and
controls the marketing, import and export of tea, price fixation of green and processed tea,
and contracts entered into by planters, metayers and manufacturers. It is headed by a General
Manager assisted by an Agronomist, statistical and secretarial staff.
26.   The Tea Development Authority (TDA) was established in 1970 to develop the tea
industry in 2,663 hectares of Government owned land. TDA is headed by a General Manager
and includes 1,008 workers (300 staff and 678 pluckers, quality control workers, leaf
weighing workers and extension staff). Due to high labor costs of plucking tea, TDA is
encouraging alternative uses of land such as growing fruit, vegetables, bananas, sugarcane and
forests in low productivity and economically inefficient tea producing areas. In 1986. the
Government set up a new production company: the Mauritius Tea Factory Limited
(ITeafac:). Teafac has control of the existing factories at Belle Rive, La Cartreuse, Nouvelle
France, La Pipe (Midlands) and Dubreuil. "Teafacm is responsible for the purchase of green
leaf tea and the processing and marketing of black tea. TDA remains as the landowner
operating on a non-commercial basis offering services to smallholders who have sub-leased
land from it. The Tea Experimental Station aFES) at Wooton cond "cts clonal selection
research and performs fertilizer research on 25 hectares of land.



- 60 -
Annex 2b
Page 6 of 6
Tobacco Parastatals
27.   The Tobacco Board, a parastatal established in 1932, controls the tobacco industry
and consists of a Chairman assisted by a General Manager and 125 staff members of which
100 are factory workers and the rest are administrative, accounts, secretarial and extension
workers( a Senior Technician and 4 Inspectors.
Marketing and Services
28.   The Agricultural Marketing Board (AMB), a subsidiary of MAFNR, was established
in 1963 and regulates the supply to the domestic market of potatoes, onions, garlic, red beans,
navy beans, groundnuts, maize, lime, chillies, turmeric, locally produced rice and fresh milk.
It Is the main institution involved in the processing and marketing of food and agricultural
products. The objectives of AMB for "controlled products" are: (a) to ensure the provision of
efficient marketing facilities; (b) to provide storage, handling, transport and processing
facilities; (c) to regulate supply to the domestic market by purchasing surplus production and
importing to make up for shortfalls; (d) to stabilize cost of production and minimize price
fluctuations; and (e) to acquire and disseminate market intelligence. Floor prices are fixed
every year for Government subsidized 'controlled' commodities so that producers are
guaranteed a sales outlet for their output if the free market does not offer a better solution.
AMB also owns and operates storing and processing facilities to enable it to regulate market
supply of basic food products.
29.   The Mauritius Meat Authoritl (MMA) was set up in 1974 to establish and manage
abattoirs; purchase and import livestock for slaughter; market meat and by-products; control
and regulate the sale of meat; prepare, process and package the meat; and fix the price of
meat and meat products with the approval of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry. The
Authority has not been very effective in stabilizing the market to the satisfaction of the
Mauritius Meat Producers Association which represents private cattle producers in Mauritius.
MMA has been unable to purchase cattle and remove them from farms on agreed dates, thus
causing financial losses to the producers.
Irrigation Authorily
30.   The Irrigation Authority (IA), a parastatal body reporting to MAFNR, was established
in 1979 with the following objectives: (a) to study the development of irrigation and to make
proposals to the CWA for the preparation of schemes for the irrigation of specific areas; (b)
to implement and manage irrigation projects in every irrigation area and to perform all other
tasks incidental thereto; and (c) to undertake research into the optimum use of water made
available for irrigation by CWA. IA has a General Manager supported by a Principal
Engineer and Project Managers with a total strength of 39 officers (25 at headquarters and 14
in the field) including 14 agronomists. Present IA activities are concentrated on operation and
maintenance of the various schemes. Some assistance is also provided to small farmers
developing micro-irrigation projects. The IA is discussed further in Annexes 5 and 6.



-  61  -                                Annex  2b
MAURMTIUS                                    Table 1
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECr
Value Added at Factor Cost of Agriculture by Main Product Groups
Rs. Milion (Current Prices)
....................................................................................................
1933      196        1965       1936       1987     196       1969
............................ ................................................................................................................... 
Industrial Crops                    1,091.8   1,321.2   1,660.2   1,993.5   2,236.1  2,300.7  2,470.5
Sugarcane                        (1,010.0) (1,166.0) (1,538.0) (1,905.0) (2,124.4)(2,177.0)(2,350.0)
Tea (Green Leaf)                     C62.0)   0131.0)   (101.1)    (60.5)    (66.1)   (94.2)   (63.S)
Tobacco Leaf                        (19.8)    (24.2)    (21.1)    (26.0)    (27.6)   (29.5)   (37.0)
Foodcrops                              122.2     150.0      153.7      1S0.0      176.S    223.5    271.1
Fruits, FLouers nd Forestry            41.7       41.S       51.1       53.S       62.9     79.0      98.5
Livestock and Poultry Products         117.1     121.7      136.6      18S.6      224.0    245.0    269.5
Fishing                                45.8       64.7       67.1       67.2      107.8    144.7    166.2
Agriculturo Services and Other
Agricultural Activities n.o.s.          46.4      36.9       34.3       40.2       7S.1     73.6      74.2
TOTAL AGRICULTURE                   1,465.0   1,7.6.0   2,123.0   2,510.0   2,664.4  3,066.S  3,370.0
....................................................................................................
Source: Mauritius Ministry qf Economic Pltening and Development; Central
Statistical Office; Digest of Agricultural Statistics 1964, 1987 & 1969.



-  62  -                                 Annex  2b
MAURITlUS                                   Table 2
AGRICULiIJEAL MANAGEMEN'T AND SERVICES PROJECT
Exports of Agricultural and Food Products
FOB Value in Rs Million
1983      1984       1985      1986       1987      1988 1989 est.
Sugar                                    2678.9   2,522.6   2,866.6   3,533.0   4,310.4  4.467.0    4946.0
Molasses                                   63.3       61.5      89.1       90.3       72.9     92.0       66.0
Tea                                        97.0      249.1     178.4      104.4      89.8      88.0       87.0
Fish and Fish Preparations                 76.2      107.2     142.5      135.2      130.3    210.0      217.0
Vegetables and Fruits                       3.2        6.8      10.8       19.3       17.3     n.e.       n.a.
Cut Flowers and Foliage                     7.3        9.5      15.4       19.1       24.6     n.e.       n.s.
Other Agricultural and Food Products        8.2       17.8      17.6       21.8      35.2      n.a.       n.s.
Total Agricultural and Food Products  2,934.1   2,974.5   3,320.4   3,944.3   4,680.5          n.e.       n.a.
Total Domestic Exports                  4,223.3   5,067.1   6,532.8   8,917.8  11,308.5 13,220.0  14,542.0
Agricultural and Food Exports as X
of Total Domestic Exports                  69.5       58.7      50.8       44.2      41.4    n.a.        n.s.
Source: Nauritius Ministry of Econoric Planning and DesLopment; Central Statistical
Office; Digest of AgricuLtural Statistics 1987; May 1988.
n.a. a not available



- 63 -                               Annex 2b
MAURITIUS                                Table 3
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Inports of Alpicultural and Food Products
CEF value In Rs. Mleoun
1983     1984      1985      1986      1987    1988      1989
........................................................................................................
Live animls                             26.5       10.8     17.3      16.9      14.7    13.6    36.0
Cattte                                 23.5       5.8     11.1      12.6       8.0      9.2    30.0
Peat nd meat preparations               115.8    129.6    144.4    147.9    204.6   211.5   240.2
Neat and edible meat offals:
fresh, chilled or frozen              98.9    117.2    130.7    135.6    183.9   184.0   207.4
Neat and edible meat offals:
prepared or preserved                  16.6      11.9      13.2      12.3     20.7    26.9    32.8
Oairy products and eggs                 200.5    233.4    236.3    211.0    254.8   332.6   472.8
Nilk and cream                        157.5    169.6    181.3    160.5    195.5    54.9   386.3
Butter, ghee, raeese & curd            42.9      63.4     s4.7      s0.2      s9.2    77.4    86.2
Fish, crustaceans, moLusca nd
preparations thereof                     76.0      94.0     97.8    107.4    100.2   107.0   178.8
Fish - fresh, chilled, frozen         24.9      24.9      45.5      51.2      46.8    34.8    5s.1
Fish - dried, salted, smoked          20.6      20.6      23.0      11.4      12.5      5.3      3.0
Fish, crustaceans & molluses:
prqered and otherwise preserved        25.1      37.9     19.1      31.5      25.2    41.5    58.4
Cereals and e real preparations        484.5     585.2    606.2    445.6    497.9   621.0   861.7
Rice                                  210.0    269.6    279.8    162.8    209.2   200.8   412.0
"aize                                  50.4      44.9      34.7     32.8      42.6    38.1    73.8
Wheat flour                           176.2    224.6    243.4    198.7    180.4   218.1   161.8
Cereal preparations                   44.4       41.3     44.4      46.5      61.8    68.6    83.4
Vegetables and fruits                   124.9    116.2    127.7    113.1    167.3   200.4   2s6.3
Potatoes                               6.7       9.0       7.1       6.7      22.0    20.0    2S.3
Pulses                                 48.9      44.      64.4      53.9      76.3    58.7    73.4
Fruits & nuts, fresh or dried         36.8      36.7      30.8      28.S      37.3    49.0    80.3
Fruit preserved and fruit
preparations                           11.0      8.7       5.6        6.7     10.9    12.0    14.3
ugar (sugar preparations & honey)        7.4       8.9      11.6      13.6      16.6    26.5      28.7
Coffee, tea, cocoa, spices and
manufactures thereof                     30.4      28.8     34.5      38.7      63.0    5S.6      65.6
Chocolateo nd food preparations
containing cocoa                       9.3       6.3       7.7      10.0      1S.6     18.9    28.6
Spfce                                  13.4      15.2     17.6      20.9      36.4    24.7    25.8
Feeding stuff for animtls               37.6      37.7      38.5      43.4      54.5    81.6    80.0
is cellsanous food preparations          26.4     32.1      33.4      40.5      59.0    88.6   108.8
everage  *nd tobacco                     22.8     25.6      25.9      33.7      56.7    66.1      74.8
Non*atcoholic beverages n.e.s.          1.4      3.0       2.9        3.6      6.9      7.0      5.7
Alcoholic beverages                    14.7      16.4     18.9       25.0     42.7    47.7    S4.8
Tobacco, mnufactured                    0.3      0.8        1.4       1.7      3.4      4.6      5.7
Tobacco, unmwnufactured                6.4       5.4       2.7       3.4       3.7      6.8      8.1
vegetable olt end fate                  105.7    176.0    193.3       124.1    107.9   128.6   181.8
Total agricultural and food products  1,258.7  1,478.3  1,567.0  1,335.9   1,597.2 6,922.9 2,578.7
Totol fsport                          5,155.9  6,485.?  8,119.1   9,199.0  3,042.5 17,247.0 20,217.1
Total feports of agricultural and
food products as X of Total imports     24.4      22.8      19.3      14.6      12.2    11.1    12.8
.................. 0...................................  0..........................
source: NhEP, CSO; Annusl Diget of Stetistics 19d8: Juwe 1989; Jure 1990
n.e. * not vailaeble



- 64 -
Annex 3a
Page 1 of 2
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTRIURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJ 'CT
Consultative Committee on Agriculture (CCA)
Terms of Reference and Operations
1.    The CCA will meet at least once every year to
(i) assess agency (i.e parastatals, boards and main departments of MAFNR)
performance;
(ii) assess sectoral performance and developments; and
(iii) recommend upon policies, priorities and resource allocations for the agricultural
sector for the forthcoming year.
2.    Each agency would prepare a brief report outlining its achievements in the past year
and proposed work program for the forthcoming year. These reports would be submitted to
the Executive Secretary (ES) by March 31, the latest. The Executive Secretary may call upon
the APAU to assess the economic and financial aspects of achievements and proposals, if this
is not included in the reports, or if further assessment is deemed necessary.
3.    The reports with comments from the ES/APAU would be circulated to members of
the CCA at least two weeks before the date fixed for the review meeting.
4.    In areas, where there are major issues or Important programs, the members of the
CCA, with approval of the Chairman, may call upon the Head of the concerned
agency/agencies to attend the meeting and provide further clarification.
5.    Tbe APAU would prepare a report on sectoral performance and developments,
highlighting any major issue, such as policy constraints, technical, financial or marketing
constraints at producer level, agency performance, problems of coordination etc.
6.    The APAU would also prepare a summary of the individual work program proposals
supported with economic and financial analysis which would serve as guidance to the CCA in
making choices and assigning priorities.



- 65 -
Annex3a
Page 2 of 2
7.    After review of the proposals and reports, the CCA would make recommendations
upon the appropriate policies, priorities and work programs. Agency responsibilites would be
clearly defined.
8.    The CCA may also recommend from time to time independent assessment of
particular agency or agencies. The PS of MAFNR and the Executive Secretary of the CCA
would coordinate these assessments including preparation of terms of reference, recruitment
of consultants and general support. When this assessment includes one of the
research/extension agencies, the Executive Committee of the AMAS would be closely
involved in coordination.
9.    Additional meetings may be called at the request of members with the approval of the
chairman.
Membershia
10.   The CCA would be chaired by the Minister of Agriculture or in his absence the PS of
MAFNR. The Executive Secretary would be the Secretary. Committee members would
include the PS of Agriculture, a representative of the Chamber of Agriculture, representative
farmers from the sugar and non-sugar sectors and selected representatives from other
Ministries/public agencies. Depending on the nature of the issues being discussed the CCA
may invite other persons to its deliberations e.g the Director of Planning MEPD, the Financial
Secretary, the Energy Secretary, Head of the Water Resources Authority , or from among the
farming, marketing or exporting community.



- 66 -
Annex 3b
Page 1 of 2
MAURITlUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND FFRRVICES PROJECT
Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit (APAU)
Structure and Terms of Reference
1.    The APAU will be an advisory and supporting unit within MAFNR. It would be
responsible for providing analytical planning, evaluation and information services to the
Minister, PS, Administrative Secretariat, departments, agencies and parastatals of MAFNR as
well as to the CCA and its Secretariat. The Head of APAU would report to the PS of
MAFNR.
2.    The APAU would comprise two functional sections- a Policy Planning and Evaluation
(PPE) section and a Management Information Cell (MIC). The PPE, headed by a Principal
Economist, would carry out all the analytical aspects of the APAU's responsibilities. The
MIC would be headed by an Information Analyst responsible for coordinating the
implementation of the proposed Agricultural and Management Information System (AMIS).
3.    The responsibilities of the APAU would include:
() Economic Advisory Support
(a)   advising the Minister and PS on the economic and financial aspects of sectoral
issues;
(b)   ex-ante analysis of sectoral policies, programs and projects;
(c)    monitoring of implementation of sectoral policies, programs and projects, as
well as ex-post evaluation of performance and impact;
(d)   review of existing policies on subsidies and budgetary allocations in relation to
recent and projected country and sectoral developments and government's
strategy for the future;
(e)   advising and assisting departments, agencies and parastatats of MAFNR in
carrying out economic and financial assessments of their on-going and
proposed programs.
(f)   advising the CCA on the financial and economic implications of proposals
and policies based on rigorous analysis of alternative options;
(g)   synthesizing, in close collaboration with the technical staff of MAFNR and
with MEPD, national policies , sectoral constraints and potential into an
operational medium term strategy
dii) Information and Reporting Services
(h)   implementing the AMIS in MAFNR, including coordination of procurement,
consultancy arrangements, training and dealing with all information
technology issues;



- 67 -
Annex 3b
Page 2 of 2
(i)   liaising closely with the Central Informatics Bureau (CIB) on the
implementation of the AMIS and the training of staff;
(j)    preparing monitoring reports on on-going programs for malagement of
MAFNR and the CCA;
(k)   retrieving information for ad-hoc queries to MAFNR;
()    assisting the Executive Secretary in preparing the agenda for the CCA
meetings;
(m)   preparing summarized annual work programs as well as annual and semi-
annual progress reports on projects for MAFNR management and the
concerned donor agency for externally financed projects;
(iii) Monitoring. Evaluation and other Services
(n)   implementing the ongoing parastatal monitoring exercise;
(o)   monitoring of the progress of project/program implementation in relation to
the agreed target dates and alerting MAFNR management on potential
bottlenecks and slippages;
(p)    evaluating the impact of projects/programs, ex-post and during implementation
where feasible;
(q)   assisting in the coordination of economic and evaluation studies in the sector,
including preparation of terms of reference, recruitment and supervision of
consultants etc.
(r)   any other services as required by the Minister or PS of MAFNR.



- 68 -
Annex a
Page 1 of 13
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Research and Extension Services: Present and Proposed
A. Present Researcl Arrangements
1.    Intro[uction   The three main organizations which cover most of the research on
crops and livestock in Mauritius are: Mauritius Sugar Industries Research Institute (MSUU),
Agricultural Services (AS) of MAFNR and University of Mauritius. The Food and
Agricultural Research Council (FARC) was given the responsibility for the coordination of all
agricultural research on the island.
2. MSIRI was established in 1953 and is funded by a cess on sugar borne by all sugar
growers. The objective of the Institute Is to carry out research on sugarcane and interline
crops, which it conducts at its headquarters at Reduit, three experimental stations at Belle
Rive, Union Park and Pamplemouses, and on Sugar Estates. It also acts as the executive
agent for the Regional Sugar Training for Africa, set up by the Government of Mauritius
(GOM) in collaboration with UNDP, to give short term training on sugarcane agronomy and
sugar manufacture to sugar industry technicians from Africa and developing countries
elsewhere. It is well known internationally for its excellence in sugarcane research.
3.    The Institute is headed by a Director supported by an Assistant Director and functions
through nine divisions: Agricultura Chemistry; Biometry; Botany and Irrigation;
Canebreeding; Cultural Operations and Weed Agronomy; Entomology; Pathology; Sugar
Technology; and Food Crop Agronomy.
4.    MSMIR fals under the aegis of MAFNR but is allowed to function independently.
Funding from the sugar cess for MSIRI's activities are chanelled through the Mauritius
Sugar Authority (MSA) created in 1984 (under the Sugar Project -Ln 2728-MAS) to monitor
and coordinate all functions concerned with the sugar industry.
5.    One of the main contributory factors to the professionalism of the MSIRI has been the
fact that it derives its financial support mostly from its clients, viz. the sugarcne producers.
The other advantages of the present arrangement for the funding and management of MSIRI
are:
(a)   less dependence of MSIRI on Government's budgetary allocations has reduced
the cumbersome bureaucratic delays surrounding the use of funds, and
facilitated advance planning and Implementation of its research programs by
MSIRI;
(b)    MSWI has a strong incentive to Increase sugarcane production as the fuids
available to it are linked with production; and
(c)   its accountability to the producers has increased Its responsiveness to their
problems.



- 69 -
Annex 4a
Page 2 of 13
Despite the fact that MAFNR does not control either the day-to-day operations or the
funding of MSIRI, the latter is sensitive to the priorities of MAFNR and has diversifled its
research to include interline crops as well.
6.    Agricultural Services. Agricultural Services (AS) is the largest technical department
of MAFNR and is located at Reduit next to MSIRI. The AS is responsible for research for
the main non-sugar crops and livestock and for extension as described in paras. i2 to 30
below. The cropping activities of the AS are focussed on horticultural crops, pulses,
vegetables, flowers and fodder. AS is headed by a Chief Agricultural Officer (CAO), and has
three units: Crops, Development and Livestock, each headed by a Principal Agricultural
Officer (PAO). There are 13 divisions, each headed by a Divisional Scientific Officer(DSO):
5 in Crops (Agricultural Chemistry, Horticulture, Entomology, Agronomy, and Plant
Pathology); 4 in Development (Land Use and Projects, Livestock Exatension, Crop Extension,
and Agricultural Engineering); and 4 in Livestock (Animal Husbandry, Dairy Chemistry,
Veterinary Services, and Field Services. In addition to research and extension the divisions
are engaged in a variety of tasks, some of these tasks are regulatory and some involve input
services and disbursement of subsidies to farmers. Thus in the present set-up there are no
specialized research or extension divisions.
l 7.    Experimental stations. Research activities of AS are conducted in agricultural
experimental stations of which there are 14 for crops, and 7 for livestock. Experimental
research stations in crops are mainly divided between the Agronomy and Horticulture
divisions, and in livestock, they are related to Animal Production Division. Some divisions
like Plant Pathology and Entorntology have no experimental stations of their own but work in
collaboration with Agronomy and Horticulture divisions at the experimental stations.
S.    Universit of Mauritius.      The School of Agriculture of the University of
Mauritius (SAUM) undertakes a limited amount of research, focussing on basic research and
long term issues, avoiding duplication of the efforts of MSIR[ and AS. The main areas of
cunrent focus are: (i) research on the use of by-products of sugar industry for energy; (ii)
biotechnology; (iii) food and nutrition studies; and (iv) medicinal plants. The total faculty
comprl6es only 18 scientists and the majority of their time is devoted to their teaching
responsibilities, with less than 25% of their time available for research.
9.      gientiflc Manpower. The position regarding the availability of scientific manpower
in Mauritius is satisfactory. AS has 65 scientists 29 of whom are postgraduates; MSIRI and
SAUM have 18 scientists each with 14 and 13 postgraduates respectively. The qualifications
of most of the scientific staff and their achievements in a few areas would show that there is
considerable potential within the AS which could be utiised for the benefit of the farmers by
upgrading the facilities and improving the operating environment in the AS.
10.   FARC and research coordination.    Considering the multiplicity of organizations
involved in agricultural research, the three discussed above and others described in Annex -,
GOM established in 1985 a statutory body-the Food and Agricultural Research Council
(FARC) to coordinate all agricultural research activities in Mauritius, undertaken by the
various organizations. The main objectives of FARC, as spelt out in its constitution are to: (i)
promote and harmonize research activities in agriculture, fisheries and food production; Qii'
maximize benefits of such research; and (ii) deal in such other activities relating to research
in the above areas, as may be approved by the Minister. The functions of FARC are to:



- 70 -
Annex 4a
Page 3 of 13
(i)          coordinate, monitor and promote research programs of the different
institutions engaged in agriculture, fisheries and food production
without any prejudice to the existing legislation concerning these
institutions;
(ii)         ensure as far possible the pro5er dissemination and pr:actical
application of the results of any such research; and
(iii)        advise the Minister generally on matters related to food and
agricultural research and application thereof.
11.   FARC's coordinating role so far has not been very effective. The main reasons for
this have less to do with the statute of the FARC than with other factors. The research
organizations, which FARC is expected to coordinate, have different funding arrangements
with none of them depending upon it for their main source of funding, only for incremental
funds for new research. Under these circumstances, FARC can only su-ceed in coordinating
their activities through collaborative mechanisms and establishing its credibility as an impartial
coordinator of research. FARC's undertaking its own research activities, such as tissue
culture, has resulted in its image as another research organization without built-in linkages
with extension and farmers, and has not helped in achievement of its objective, namely
researh coordination. Additional measures to strengthen research coordination in a situation
such as in Mauritius include :(i) delineation of the roles of the participating organizations by
policy-makers in clearer terms; and (ii) establishment of rmechanisms for external monitoring
of the organizations, increasing their accountability and making them respond to the pressure
from the users of research to coordinate.
B. Present Extension Arrangements
12.   in Mauritius, the means of access to technology available to the sugar estates and
medium-sized producers, differs from those available to small farmers. The former have been
obtaining technical advice on sugar and the interline crops directly from the MSIRI without
the intermediation of an extension service. This arrangement has worked well due to the
small number of such clients, and cannot obviously be appropriate for the much more
numerate smallholders. AS is expected to provide extension for small farmers for all crops
including sugarcane, but the arrangement suffers from many drawbacks, which are more fully
described later, as a result of which smallholders were largely dependent on "trickle down"
effects from the estates for improved technology and their productivity consequently lagged
behind that of the biger farmers and the estates. This drawback was sought to be overcome
through the introduction of Farmer Service Centers.
(i) EVA
13.   The FSCs were started in 1987 on a pilot scale in four factory areas, under the Bank
assisted Sugar Industry Project. Technical Assistance for the Program was provided by the
British Overseas Development Administration. The program is intended to provide integrated
supporting servies (including extension) to smallholders in sugarcane-based cropping systems.
Though the FSC program falls under the aegies of MAFNR, FSCs were placed outside the
existing AS structure within the Ministry. The main factors which led to this decision were:



- 71 -
Anne 4a
Page 4 of 13
(i) smaliholder sugarcane growers needed many services in addition to technical
advice on crop produciton, importantly assistance in organizing labor and transport of
sugarcane to the factory;
(ii) the multiplicity of functions Including data collection, subsidy administration and
regulatory controls carried out by the extension services within MAFNR left them with
insufficient time to provide all the services required by the smallholder sugarcane farmers;
(iii) the lack of flexibility irnhererit in a government departmental set-up limited the
possibilities for responding to the expressed needs of the smaliholders within an acceptable
time-frame; and
(iv) since the linkage between the clients of research, viz. the sugarcane growers and
MSIRI, particularly in the funding of MSIRI, has been found successful, it was felt that a
similar approach should be tested for smaliholder extension services, by funding FSCs out of
the sugarcane cess, an arrangement which could not been concluded had the FSCs remained
part of MAFNR.
14.   FSCs have succeeded in establishing close contact with the farmers and MSIRI, and
providing the farmers with a package of services under one roof. More specifically FSCs: (i)
arrange periodic visits by FSC staff to the farmers' fields to discuss technical problems; (ii)
collect soil samples for analysis; (iii) advise farmers on seedcane supply; (iii) assist them in
establishing demonstration plots; (iv) arrange for labor through the LAMU ;; (v) assist them in
obtaining planting material for other crops, such as onions and potatoes; and (vi) assist them
in establishing cane nurseries. At the mid-term review of the Sugar Industry Project, the
World Bank mission felt that the morale and commitment of the FSC staff were of a high
order, and that they are in closer and more effective contact with their planter clientele than
the AS was prior to the establishment of the FSCs. The effectivenes of the FSCs is reflected
in the increased number of new sugarcane nurseries, increase in the soil samples sent for
analysis, involvement of FSC staff in the logistics of harvesting, more effective use of
mechanical pool, and marked increase in the demand for fertilizer and plant protection
chemicals.
15.   The FSC program is considered successful by both Government and smatlholders. A
decision has been made by Government, endorsed by the Bank, to expand the program to
country-wide coverage in the medium term. The FSC framework has also facilitated the
implementation of a Land De-rocking Scheme and the successful testing of a pilot Land Area
Management Unit (LAMU) program which is aimed at resolving the next level of constraints
facing the farmers - problems of organization of labour, transport and delivery.
16.   Extension services of AS     There are two extension divisions in AS, one each
for crops and livestock, both coming under the PAO (Development). Both these divisions
are supported by an Audio-visual unit based at HQ, which is a part of the Crops Extension
Division.
17.   Unkages with research is supposed to be achieved through participation by
research staff of AS in the weekly meeting of field extension staff at headquarters. For sugar
and the related crops extension staff attend monthly meetings arranged by MSIRI.



- 72 -
Anne 4A
Page S of 13
18.   The weekly meetings of the field staff (Senior Technical Officers) with the HQ
extension staff, are held separately for crops and livestock divisions. At these weekly
meetings a range of topics are discussed, many of them pertaining to administration.
Feedback from extension staff on the problems faced by the farmers in adopting extension
recommendations, and new recommendations to be given to them in the Immediate future do
not receive adequate focus. As a result research staff rarely attend these meetings, and since
farmers often contact them directly many researchers try to do their own extension without
the necessary training, staff and facilities.
19.   The monthly meetings organized by MSIRI on sugar and the related crops are
attended by both the staff of the Crop Extension Division and of the FSCs. These meetings
tend to be more in the nature of one way communication, than a dialogue where the
researchers' recommendations are subject to critical analysis by extension specialists from the
point of view of their adoptability within the constraints of small farmers. Within the
framework of the FSC program MSIRI has developed better linkages with extension staff and
small farmers but there is still room for improvement in the attention given by MSIRI to the
specific problems of small-farmers.
20.   Present organization of extension. The extension set-up of AS provides extension
services to both agriculture and livestock. Its Headquarters and field services are oriented to
serve all small farmers, including vegetable growers (about 4000), sugarcane planters (33000)
and livestock breeders (15000). Extension activities are performed by the Divisions of Crops
and Livestock Extension the latter becoming a separate one in November 1989. Both the
Divisions are provided media support by a Reduit based audio-visual information unit within
the administrative set-up of the Crop Extension Division.
21.   Crops Extension Division. The field extension staff are supported by three sections at
headquarters: (i) youth section, which focusses on the promotion of youth activities through
Youth Clubs (YC) and Young Farmers' Clubs (YFC); (ii) information section, whose
objective is to use mass media to disseminate extension messages and information regarding
the various activities of MAFNR; and (iii) audio-visual section, which undertakes graphic,
photographic and printing jobs for extension materials. Besides extension, the Division also
performs other functions such as: collection of agricultural statistics, assessment of damage to
crops due to various causes (e.g cyclones), sale of seeds and planting materials, fruit tree
sturvey, pest control on orchards and land indexing.
22.   The extension recommendations given to farmers by the Crops Extension Division
generally focus on: crop varieties; chemical weed control; fertilizer application and soil liming
for sugarcane; plucking, pruning and fertilizer application on tea crop; promoting cultivation
of maize, garlic and onions; pesticide application on foodcrops; control of diseases of fruit
crops; and promotion of citrus cultivation.
23.   Field organization for crops extension.    The district is the key administrative
unit for extension in the field. There are 7 agricultural districtsl/. These districts are
1/    Out of a total of 9 administrative districts, 7 agricultural districts are formed by
combining Port Louis and Pamplemouses into one district and Black River and Plaines
Wilhems into another.



- 73 -
,Annex 4a
Page 6 of 13
divided into 25 agriculture extension zones, 21 of them co-terminous with sugar factory areas,
2 with tea areas and 2 with coastal areas where generally vegetables, chiefly onions, are
grown. Each zone is further divided into 10 sub-zones for operational convenience, with
about 1500-2000 farmers in each sub-zone. The extension organization in each agricultural
district is headed by a Senior Technical Officer (STO). Each STO is assisted by 25 Technical
Officers (TO) and 25 Field Assistants (FA). The field activities of the division are carried out
through 4 Demonstration Centres and 15 extension sub-offices. The sub-offices have minimal
facilities, while those at the Demonstration Centres need to be improved.
24.   Organization of livestock extension.   A separate Livestock Extension Division was
set up in 1989. At the HQ this division is headed by a Divisional Scientific Officer. The
main topics in which extension advice is given by this division are: nutrition, detection of
animals in heat, clean milk production, improvement of hygiene, animal care, production of
fodder (incl. silaging), growing hedge (e.g. giant acacia), feeding of animals with
concentrates, deworming, use of fly traps, vaccination of poultry and increasing fat percentage
in milk. Breeders are given information on the incentives available to them under various
government programs. Other activities of the division include some administrative work such
as livestock statistics, enlisting the participation of breeders in various government projects,
technical support to YFCs in their projects in the North and East for milk collection. The
field staff of this division consist of one STO, 9 TOs and 1 Veterinary Officer. In addition
to the Livestock Extension Division, the Veterinary Services Division (VSD), headed by the
Principal Veterinary Officer also provides extension service to livestock farmers and breeders
through its field staff consisting of 8 STOs, 16 TAs and 33 Stockmen.
25.   Veterinary service centers.    VSD has 18 sub-centers, some of which share the
premises with crops extension sub-offices; and some are merely meeting points where
livestock breeders and animal keepers meet veterinary services staff for artificial insemination
and veterinary aids.
26.   Other livestock extension facilities.   In addition to the above there are some
facilities set up under bilateral assistance. A noteworthy project is "Maiso des Eleveurs"
financed by the French Government. Under this project, facilities were established at two
locations, viz. Henrietta (Vocoas) and St. Pierre (Moka), which include training halls,
molasses storage and purifying facility, tractors, fodder chipping equipment and implements
such as tractor mounted manure loader, ploughs etc. The main aim of the project is to group
small cow keepers in coops and motivate them to increase milk production through extension
and other services. MAFNR complements the efforts of the project through fodder cultivation
near these locations and a feed factory which manufactures feed concentrates.
27.   Demonstration centers.
Demonstration Centers (DC), of which there are four 2/, are the main points of
dissemination of crops technology. One STO is located at each of them, along supporting
staff, who connduct demonstrations on farmers' fields, undertake field visits, and do a variety
2/    Mapou, Flacq, Plaisance, and Riviere des Anguilles.



- 74 -
ADUx 4a
Page'  of 13
of administrative tasks (see para 3). The DCs have demonstration farms (2.25 acres) attached
to them, which are used by AS: (i) for conducting experiments and trials on new varieties of
vegetables, fruits and flowers; (ii) for sugarcane nursery from where setts are supplied to
planters; and (iii) for conducting demonstration on newly released MSIRI (sugarcane) and UM
varieties (e.g.Lucaena). The facilities at these centers are also availed of by the Veterinary
Services Division.
28.   Present extension management system. The extension methodology mainly consists
of 'i) group meetings of farmers when extension messages are given to them; (ii) field visits
unaertaken by Technical Officers (TO) and field assistants (FA) whenever farmers draw their
attention to any specific problems on their fleldsj/; (iii) answering farmers' questions when
they call on extension staff at the sub-offices which are kept open for this purpose between 1
p.m. and 3 p.m. on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays; (iv) arranging tours of farmers to
demonstration sites; and (v) extension through media. The field visits by extension staff are
not pre-scheduled and the farmers do not, therefore know the date and time of the visits.
This could result in farmers not being available on their farms at the time of tho field visit,
particularly in Mauritius where many farmers are part time farmers.
29.   Livestock extension follows more or less the same management system. In addition to
extension the VSD also implements some schemes of the GOM which are aimed at motivating
farmers to adopt better livestock husbandry practices.
30.   Training of extension staff. There are many meetings at the headquarters and DCs
between the senior officials of the department of the field extension staff (para 18). These
meetings do not result in any systematic training for the extension staff. The senior staff of
the AS themselves are not quite conversant with the latest research advance in their specific
areas and there is no training plan at present to upgrade their knowledge and skills.
C. Weaknesses In the present organization
of research and extension in MAFNR
31.   Research. The main weaknesses in the research system are:
(i)    There are very limited opportunities and incentives for the scientists to
specialize in their respective disciplines for a sufficiently long period. For instance, after
spending many years in Livestock a scientists could move to Horticulture and be made head
of Division. Promotion to management positions are presently based mainly on seniority.
(ii)    A researcher should be able to devote his full attention to research and
interaction with extension. Undc.- the present set up a variety of duties and responsibilities
are given to the researchers since each DSO is in charge of not only research but other
administrative and regulatory tasks which have become overwhelmingly time-consuming.
I/    Each TO is responsible for one zone, each of which has 10 sub-zones ( para 10).



- 75 -
Allnex 4a
Page 8 of 13
(iii)    Research and Extension are under two different PAOs and coordination, and
the consequent prioritization of research ts not possible at a level lower than the CAO, who is
not able to devote sufficient time and attention to these in the midst of his other duties as the
head of a department. Consequently there is very little coordination or research prioritization,
the available budget is distributed among the different divisions and each division undertakes
research in its area depending on the availability of budget and its own perception of
priorities.
(iv)   There is no regular interaction with extension and researchers try to do their
own extension.
32.   Extension.    The present extension set up is the result of incremental piecemeal
projects, some donor-assisted, rather than the product of a well thought out organization
structure. As a result, one finds many vertically linked hierarchies4/ . Further, some
facilities are not made full use of and some activities are duplicated.
33.   The other weaknesses are; (i) lack of periodic training of extension staff; (ii) lack of a
management system bringing together the field visits, demonstrations and media coverage in a
coherent fashion; (iii) poorly compensated staff who get inadequate travel allowances to be
able ta do their jobs properly to their satisfaction, and who therefore compare adversely with
the FSC staff whose service conditions are much better, and the consequent poor morale of
the extensiun staff; (iv) poor facilites in the extension sub-offices; (v) insufficient focus on
women; and (vi) the curricula of the pre-service institutions not reflecting the present and
emerging priorities of Mauritius agriculture.
34.   Administrative matters.     A problem common to both Research and Extension is
the considerable bureaucratic delays involved in the use of funds. Also possibilities for
financial planning are limited since the Head of the AS does not have updated information on
expenditures through the year. Research and extension operational activities are also
constrained by the present allocations of the recurrent budget which are based on past
priorities and which have now been overtaken by sectoral and country developemnts.
MAFNR presently lacks the capacity to carry out a major budget rationalization exercise.
The foundations for such an exercise are being created though the computerization of the
accounting system and the efforts by the Management Audit Bureau to group expenditures
around cost-centres/ programs within MAFNR.
A/    One example is the set-up for youth services, where the field units come directly
under the head office.



- 76 -
Anne 4a
Page 9 of 13
D. Future Trends in the Development bf Agriculture
In Mauritius
35.   The research and extension system should be able to respond to the emerging issues
and trends in Mauritian agriculture. These are:
(i)    Sugarcane will continue to be- the mainstay of the farm economy for a long
time, as the dynamics of diversification, limited in scope as it appears to be,
would take some time to be set in motion; recurrent cyclones make a tree crop
based farming system difficult, and the presence of rocks make any farming
system based on annual land preparation difficult.
(ii)   It is% very likely that farm sizes will continue to become smaller and smaller
and for a long time to come, due to ;cial values attached to land ownership,
even owners of small uneconomical parcels of land will be reluctant to sell
them. Therefore the La-rd Area Management Unit concept should be actually
pursued and extended to non-sugar cropping activities.
(iii)   Labor will become scarcer due to the youth firding jobs in the service sector
and export oriented industries.
(iv)   The number of part time farmers, called "gentlemen farmers" will increase, as
more and more people find employment in non-agricultural sector and still
prefer to attend to their land in their spare time or through hired labor; the
good communication network on the island would make such a choice viable.
(v)    T1e livestock sector will have to be considerably modernized with improved
levels of managemnent and nutrition accompanied by genetic improvement of
the stock. Land scarcity makes it compulsory to maximize the value added
per unit of area, and therefore only intensive production systems will be
feasible. Production would have to be more concentrated in terms of both
ownership and location tc benefit from economiec of scale and organization.
The two major areas of growth are likely to be deer for export and the
domestic market and intensive dairy production for the local market.
36.   Under these circumstances the likely scenario seems to be intensive production
systems - some livestock and high vdue crops, such as vegetables, crops, flowers, etc.,
which will be shared by a diminishing number of farmers (some part time) on the one hand,
and sugarcane farming on the other. Prol-iction units such as the LAMUs would become
more common and eventually these uni. could become small agribusiness enterprises with
professional management and shareholders ( who will retain individual ownership of their
land).
37.   Both research and extension systems should therefore become highly professionalized,
capable of winning the confidence of the farmers. The services would need to be pecialized
to attain the level of proficiency required and fieid extension staff would need to be
increasingly qualified over time.



- 77 -
Annex 4a
Page IO of 13
E. Rationale for the Proposed Reorganization
38.   The rationale for the reorganization springs from the identified weaknesses and the
need to make the research and extension system respond to the emerging needs of Mauritian
agriculture. The further reinforcing factors are:
(i)    FSCs have come to stay and have made their impact. Both the government
and the farmers seem to appreciate their positive contribution.
(ii)    FSCs would eventually take over extension for sugarcane throughout the
island, for all categories of farmers.
(iii) AS would focus on extension for non-sugarcane crops, and in the light of the
emerging specia!ization in high value crops, the skills of the AS staff would require
considreable upgrading.
(iv)    FSCs offer a favorable and acceptable model on which to base the extension
system cf AS; any reorganization of the present extension system of AS in the field must be
such as to have the capability of being complementary with the expanding FSC network with
minimum reorganization.
(iv)    At the field level all extension services must share the same facilities to the
extent possible and there should be coordination among them.
F. Proposed Reorganization of the Research and Extension System
of MAFNR
39.   Following review of the consultants' reports and intensive internal, discussions
MAFNR has decided to separate research and extension from the regulatory and other
services presently being carried out by the AS. A Directorate of Agricultural Research and
Extension (DARE) (Chart I) would be created within responsibilities for research and
extension for all crops(excluding sugar) and livestock. The AS (Chart 11) would handle
regulatory, input supply and production services. Due to concerns about cost efficiency and
quality control certain regulatory functions would remain with the DARE until MAFNR
management considers it appropriate to transfer these functions to the AS.
40.   Under the proposed structure DARE would be headed by a Director who will be
supported by 2 Assistant Directors (AD), one each for crops and livestock with each AD
responsible for both research and extension in his respective field. The main advantage of
this arrangement would be that extension would be more closely linked to research and each
AD will be responsible for ensuring that the results of his research program get to the
extension services and that the researchers respond to problems identified by extension.
41.   There would also be several other changes which should allow decentralized
management and improved operational efficiency focussed on priorities in research and
extension. First of all, as a Directorate increased financial delegation and flexibility in
o[erations would be possible under the Government's Manual of Financial Powers.
Secondly, the personnel management and incentive systems would be improved. Promotion



- 78 -
Annex 4a
Page 11 of 13
would not be based purely on seniority. MAFNR has decided in the interest of obtaining the
best possible management and leadership for the DARE to fill the positions of Director and
ADs by open selection from among all suitably qualified local candidates including
Government officials. Recruitment would be on a contractual basis for a fixed term at levels
of remuneration commensurate with responsibilities. It is also intended to introduce a
promotion system based on performance and qualifications in a specialized field in order to
build incentives for scientific staff to corntinue in their field of specialization. Provisions
would also be made for improving the qualifications of the scientists through degree related
and other training.
42.   GOM has also approached the British ODA about providing two advisers for rese arch
and extension.
Extension Arrangemens
43.   As discussed above and shown in the organigram for DARE (Chart I) the extension
division for crops would be under the AD for crops and the extension division for livestock
would be under the AD for Livestock. In order to coordinate extension activities across the
DARE an Extension and Training Coordinator (ETC) would be appointed. The ETC would
report directly to the Director and would be responsible for the proper functioning of both
crops and livestock extension services. Detailed terms of reference for the ETC are in Annex
4c.
44.   Extension field organiion   The field operations would be restructured. The basic
field unit for all extension activities would be the Agriculture Service Center (ASC). The
existing 4 DCs would be converted into ASCs and 2 will operate from the facilities of
'Maison des eleveurs'. ASCs will work on the FSC pattern but will include crops other than
cane and interline crops. There will be explicit work programs for the ASCs with clearly
identified functions. The ASC's will operate through extension sub-offices, 9 of them sharing
FSC facilities.
45.   Field extensionoperations    Along with the r-organization of the extension
services, their finctioning in the field would be made more systematic through the
introduction of a fixed schedule of visits by the extension staff to the farmers' fields and
regularity of workshops in which the extension staff and the researchers would participate.
The field extension staff would be closely supervised by the Senior Technical Officers (STO)
who would now be stationed at the ASC's. Considering that in Mauritius, many farmers are
part time gendemen farmers who might not be found on the field during the noon time,
extension would have to adopt a more flexible work schedule, and evening meetings with the
farmers would be arranged at pre-announced days.
Traning
46.   Extension workshgps  One of the key objectives of the re-organization is to make the
extension service more professional, through their regular training at the research stations by
the scientists. In fact, such 'training" would be more in the nature of "workshops", where
the scientists would obtain important feedback from the extension staff on the relevance of
their research recommendations to the field situations, and the areas where farmers would like
research to focus. The extension staff would also be ft"illtated to participate in similar



- 79 -
Annex 4a
Page 12 of 13
workshops organized by the FSCs. In order to ensure regular interaction at all levels between
research and extension within DARE there would be a meeting every two months at
headquarters of senior staff from research and extension. The meeting would be arranged by
the Extension and Training Coordinator and senior staff from the FSCs would be invited on a
regular basis, staff from the University and MSIRI would be invited when areas of relevant
interest are being discussed. Extension staff will also actively participate in the Annual
Meeting of Agricultural Scientists; they will comment on the relevance and adoptabilty of the
research proposals and provide feedback on experiences at the production level.
47.   Short term training for extension staff  In addition to the above workshops,
short term training on certain selected subjects would be arranged for the extension staff, to
improve their managerial, technical and communication skills. A comprehensive training
program would be developed for this purpose, which would be continually reviewed in the
light of the requirements of the farmers. The present national policy on short and long-term
taining programs for staff would be modified in order to implement the training program for
extensio staff. Training materials and trainers from the University of Mauritius, MSIRI and
the technical divisions of the Agricultural Services would also be mobilized for this purpose.
48.   Earmers" trainin   A comprehensive training program for farmers, young
entrepreneurs, commercial livestock breeders, farm women and irrigation water users is
essential in developing entrepreneurial skills for crops and livestock, post-harvest technology,
integrated pest and disease management, and elementary agriculture for members of
Agricultural Youth clubs. The project would supporn such training and identify resource
persons and their organizations for this purpose.
Media suppgr to field extension
49.   Mauritius is well suited for using the media, such as the radio and the television for
popagating extension recommendations, as the country has about 160,000 licenzed TV
receivers (approx. one TV receiver per household). Such programs would strengthen the
work of extension in the field.
50.   Extension focus on women and yth  In Mauritius, women not only perform
agricultural operations, but also play a key role in decisions on what crops to grow, especially
in the backyard, which foods to consume, what seeds and planting materials to select, and
how produceion activities such as seed selection, land preparation, planting, weeding,
fertilizing, plant protection and harvesting should be organized and undertaken At home,
Mauritan women often have an active role in the storage and processing of food and fruit and
are also responsible for aspects of animal husbandry. Women also play a very Important role
In the marketing of farm produce.
51.    It is therefore essential that extension should develop messages which are relevant to
the activities undertaken by women, particularly messages relating to nutrition and food
preservation. Multi-disciplinary extension messages for women would be developed and
disseminated by a Home Science Section within the Crop Extension Division. Extension
services for women would be supported by demonstrations and training programs in
specialized areas. Linkages with active womens' organizations wouild be established to
promote acitvities supportive of extonsion services to women. Linkages would also be



- 80 -
Amue 4a
Page 13 of 13
established with organizations promiting youth programs and providing training in
entrepreneurship.
Research Coordination
52.   As explained earlier, the chief mandate of FARC was to bring about coordination of
the research activities undertaken by the MSISRI and the AS, and to ensure that the priorities
within the research system are in conformity with the overall sectoral priorities. For a variety
of reasons explained earlier, FARC has not so far been able to fulfil these expectations.
53.   The project would emphasize FARC's coordinating role and provide for its
strengthening, so as to enable it to carry out its main functions as a coordinator of research,
and for recommending priorities and policies in agricultural research consistent with the
sectoral objectives, which, under the project, would be established by the CCA.
54.   In oeler to enable FARC to play its role more effectively, GOM would provide a
technical secretariat in FARC and the project would: (i) establish a Management Information
System (MIS) in FARC to monitor and evaluate the performance of the research programs,
and CiH) fund an Annual Meeting of Agricultural Scientists (AMAS)
55.   The chief means which FARC would be using for fulfilling its objectives, would be
through collection of information regarding the resource commitment for the various research
programs, their utility and relevance, and their contribution to the attainment of the overall
sectoral objectives. FARC would bring its superior technical expertise in research
management and analysis of research investments, to bear on the research organizations for
catlysing better coordination and adoptOon of more relevant research priorities.
56.   While FARC would be continually interacting with the participating research
organizations to monitor the progress of implementaiton of research programs, the main
forum where FARC's analysis of the current situation and future proposals would be
discussed is the Annual Meeting of Agricultural Scientists (AMAS).



MAURITrUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND NATURAL RESOURCES
DIRECTORATE OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION (DARE)
| Fln ^ >91 tle  1          | ~~~~~~~Ceerdinstor    l
Infte_tlon Center 
#                                                                            b~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Amrt. |1 reu                                                    Aet Director 
Agronmy   NrticuItere  Entemi.g  Pleait    Anltce      ahamizati@n     LDesok       etrnay             Livesoc
Pamlog    Ceitr3y   Research        Research    IRe. a Service.mitr
|  rl t t t . e              re                                                           r
W    __    s | I ,  -                                        - EtZ |     >
T                                                     I  W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
hr_n                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Farers



MAURrnIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENr AND SERVICES PROJECr
MINISTRY OF AGRICILTURE PORSTRY AND NATURAL RESOURCES
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
Chief Agricultural Officer
(C A O 
l           | Arb~~itration &   l
g            | Con~--trol' Board l
Principal Agric ultural Officert 4 
tP A O s     
|  Plant  |  | Seed & Plant       Animal         Land Use        Transport       Agricultural       Sales
Protection       Production          Production        and          Feed &         Engineering       & other
Services         Services          Services       Projects        Maintenance                       Services
'IQr



- 83 -
Annex 4c
Page I of 4
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Director of Agricultural Research & Extension
Terms of Reference
Resnonsibilities:  Head of the Directorate of Agricultural Research and Extension with
full administrative and financial control and responsibilities for the
operations of the directorate under the guidance of the PS of MAFNR.
Oualifications:    Post graduate Degree from a recognized University in any branch of
Agricultural Science (including Livestock) with a minimum of 10
years experience in research and or extension out of which a minimum
of 7 years as head of a diVision/department. Preference would be
given to candidates with experience, training and demonstrated skill
in research management. lnternational experience would be
considered an advantage.
1.    To establish the DARE and make it operational.
2.    To plan and execute research and extension programs for non-cane
crops and livestock in Mauritius.
3.    To provide technical and administrative suoport to DSOs and Assistant
Directors in implementing the programs.
4.    To identify the training needs of scientists in DARE, develop a phased
training program identifying suitable organizations and funding
sources to meet these requirements, and obtain epproval of the
program from management in MAFNR, MEPD and MOF.
5.    Develop close coordination with MSIRI and the University located at
Reduit to share the experience and rare facilities and to identify
collaborative research/development programs.
6.    To strengthen linkages with the parastatal bodies related to non-cane
crops and livestock and Farmers Service Centres to improve Extension
Service to the farmers.



- 84 -
Annex4
Page 2 of 4
7.    To collaborate with Executive Secretary CCA and PS in the Ministry
in recommending national priorities and financial requirements for
agricultural research and development.
8.    Carry out relevant duties which may be assigned from time to time by
the PS of MAFNR.
Assistant Directors (Crops and Uvestock)
Terns of Refrence
Responsibilities:   Assistant Director Crops will be the administrative head of crop
research and extension divisions and Assistant Director Livestock for
Livestock Divisions. Toey will have the full responsibility of planning
and execution of research and development programs in their
departments and will assist the Director in management of DARE.
Oualifications:     Post graduate degree in any branch of crop scienc.s for Assistant
Director in crops and livestock sciences for Assistant Director
Livestock.
Experience:         A minimum of 5 yvirs research or extension management experience,
with demonstrated managerial skills to be reinforced with appropriate
training in management.
Duties:      1.    Administrative and financial management of the department with fidl
responsibility and powers to implement the program.
2.    Developing direct relations with the parastatal bodies and other
organizations related to the divisions in his department.
3.    Provide support to the Director in management of DARE.
4.    Report to the Director and carry out duties assigned by him.



- 85 -
Annx4
Page 3 of 4
Divisional Scientific OMcer
Terms of Reference
Responsibilities:         The DSO will be the administrative and technical head of the
Division with financial powers and responsibility to implement
the projects in the Division.
Qualifications:     A minimum of a Masters Degree in the specialized discipline
(desirable doctorate degree) for which he will be DSO with a
minimum of 7 years experience as Scientific Officer in that
field. Demonstrated management capability to be reinforced
with appropriate training. International experience wouid be an
advantage. 'ltis post will be a selection post within the
Scientific Officers in the Division. Existing DSOs who do not
meet these qualifications would be given an opportunity to
acquire the necessary levels.
I .    Management of the Division under the guidance of Assistant Director.
2.    Planning and implementation of divisional research and evelopment
activities (Research, extension, Service and regulatory).
3.    Coordination of the activities within the division and with other related
divisions, particularly with Extension.
4.    Monitoring the progress in project implementation including the field
activities at out stations.
5.    Carry out duties assigned by the Assistant Director.
Extension and Training Coordinator
Terms of Reference
The Extension and Training Coordinator (ETC) will be overall responsible for
the proper functioning of the reformed extension system in Mauritius, focussing on livestock
and crops other than sugarcane. He will report to the Director of Agricultural Research and
Extension. The DSOs Extension will be responsible to him for all technical matters.
More specifically, he will:
I1.    be responsible for building up and maintaining a high level of professional
competence among extension workers at all levels;



- 86 -
Annex 4c
Page 4 of 4
2.    be responsible for supervising the work of the extension Divisions and for this
purpose undertake extensive field trips to observe the functioning of extension;
3.    review extension operations through visits to farmers' fields, paying particular
attention to farmers' awareness of the extension system, the extension workers' understanding
of the system, the professional knowledge and skills of the extension staff, the releva-.4e of
the extension messages and the adoption of extension .ecommendations by farmers;
4.    liaise with the research staff of DARE, FARC, and other research institutions
and provide an effective input into the formulatiov of the research strategy, keeping in focus
the farmers' priorities;
5.    liaise with public and private sectc'r organizations providing various support
services to farmels, such as inputs, credit and marketing, and ensure that the extension system
passes on to farmers the needed information regarding these services;
6.     ensure that the periodic training of tOie frontline extension staff and the
workshops with Subject Matter Specialist (SMS) from research take place according to
schedule, and that other researchers participate in the workshops as necessary;
7.    ensure that the materials required for extension and extension training are
prepared and available as needed;
8.    assist the Director in preparing a training plan for DARE on the basis of
identification of the training needs of the research and extension staff, and arrange for training
according to the approved plan in institutions within the country and where necessary outside;
9.    review and update the training plan continually;
10.   identify needs and prepare terms of reference for consultancy assistance in
preparing extension materials, training, etc., as well as coordinate recruitment and activities
of any such consultants; and
11. organize a bi-monthly workshop at headquarters of senior extension and research
staff.



- 87 -
Page 1 of 9
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICFS PROJECT
Irrigation and Related Issues
Irrigation
1. Areas under irrigation in Mauritius are estimated at about 16A,O0 ha (Fable 1)
representing about 16% of the cultivated areas in the country. Approximately 59% of these
areas are irrigated using sprinkling systems and 39% using surface methods. The need for
irrigation is essential in the western and northern coastal regions where the annual rainfaiU is
below 1500 mm but it is also required in the eastern and southern coastal regions where the
annual rainfali is only moderately higher than the above mentioned figure.
2.   A major part of the presendy irrigated areas (10,500 ha) is owned by the sugar estates
(SE's) and the balance (5,500 ha) is owned by individual planters (IP's). Out of the total
irrigated areas, government controlled areas amount to 8,143 ha of which 4,360 ha are owned
by the SE's and the rest by IP's. This public sector includes two large systems: the western
and the northern Plains as well as nine small schemes - See Table 2 for the details of the
main irrigation schemes.
3.   The Central Water Authority (CWA) and the Irrigation Authority (IA) are the main two
organizations involved with irrigation development activities in Mauritius. At the present
time, O&M is undertaken to ?. iarge extent by the CWA (4,000 ha in the Western Plains and
1,500 ha in the Northern Plains). However, a shift in responsibility to the IA is planned.
The degree of management of irrigation water varies considerably from one organization to
the other, and also from one scheme to another. For instance, the CWA operates and
manages all large main canals in the country in addition to smaller canals in some schemes
while the IA and the SE's usually take care of O&M up to the field level. Due to the high
O&M costs and low cost recovery rates, the CWA and to a lesser extent the IA are unable to
properly maintain the canals under their responsibilities.
4.   There are also other ministries and government agencies involved in varying degrees in
the formulation and execution of irrigation projects such as the Land Use and Projects
Division of the MAFNR, the Ministry of Cooperatives, the Rural Development Unit of the
Ministry of Economic Development and MSIRI. Unfortunately contacts and infbrmation
exchanges between these institutions are not always as they should be. The IA, a parastatal
body, rwas created in 1979 and is under the aegis of MAFNR. Its present organizational
arrangements are shown in Chat I of this Annex. As defined by its act of constitution, the
objectives of the authority are to:
(a)        study the development of irrigation and to make proposals to the CWA for
the preparation of irrigation schemes for specific ars;
(b)        implement and mar.age irrigation projects in every Itigaoti area and to
do all other acs hncidental thereto; and



- 88 -
Annx-x 
Page 2 of 9
(c)        undertake research into the optimum use of water made available by CWA
for irrigation.
However, the present IA activities are concentrated mainly on operation and maintenance of
the various ongoing schemes. Some assistance is also provided to small farmers developing
micro-irrigation projects.
S.   Sugarcane is far the dominant irrigated crop. Foo4 crops (approx. 1,000 ha) are
mainly grown in cane inter-rows and in rotation with cane after the last ratoon harvest.
Vegetables such as tomatoes, beans, chilies and onions are grown in addition to grour&dnuts
and maize under small-scale projects.
6.   A major issue facing agric-'lture is the increasing competition from other sectors for
land and water. Agricultural land is continuously being converted to other uses to meet the
increasing demand for infrastructure, housing and industrial buildings. Total land area under
sugarcane has gone down from 84,390 ha in 1983 to 83,100 ha in 1988. There is a
fundanental need to maximize the use of land and water in agriculture an given the
constraints on labor, increases in output would depend largely upon expanded irrigation along
with mechanization and use of agro-chemicals.
7.   Approp:iate engineering planning is required to maximize the use of land and water.
lbough water is in short supply in certain areas, taking the country as a whole, it is adequate
to meet all future irrigation demands. The total annual available water in M.gritius could
amount to about 1,600 million mW. Out of this, the readily available surface flows generated
by the 25 main catchment areas are uound 1,350 million mAlyear. Groundwater maximum
safe extraction rate could be in the range of 120 million mJ/year as calculated by
SOGREAH/SIGMA - 1983. Further more, it would be possible in the long-term to re-use
about 130 million m3/year of water from domestic and industrial origins. This total amount
of available water will be sufficient to increase the irrigated areas in Mauritius from the
present 16,000 ha to about 65,000 ha. This is based on the assumption that by the year 2040
the domestic and industrial demands of the country will not exceed 425 million m3/year.
8.   Irrigation schemes operated by the CWA, the IA, etc. under the present system are not
functioning properly. This is due to the limited number of staff and meager resources which
are partially a result of low recovery rate of water charges. Also amongst the other major
obstacles to efficient O&M are the lack of personnel, vehicles, machinery and access roads in
addition to water deliveries which do not often match ths crop water requirements. Moreover
the annual recurrent costs for the sprinkling systems prohibit any effective maintenance
9.   Defining the right irrigation method for future projects Is extremely important in
pliz Ming irrigation development in Mauritius. This is due to the fact that annual 0kM costs
for nligh pressure sprinkling irrigatiorn are high compared to those required by surface methods
or low pressure sprinkling systems often used in small scale projects in the country.
10.  Therefore, cost effective technological solutions for various regions and locations have
to be looked into in a comprehensive manner. Surface irrigation schemes using water stored
in small reservoirs dotted along the large number of rivers would be a solution to the problem
of high O&M costs. An identification report on this approach has been prepared by a



- 89 -
hAnnx S
Page 3 of 9
consultant financed under the Sugar Project (Ln 2728-MAS). The findings of this report have
been formally endorsed by GOM and adopted as the strategy for the future development of
irrigation in Mauritius. The proposed project would support the first phase of that strategy
which involves: institutional strengthening of the IA to better manage its existing
responsibilities and develop technical capacity to plan and supervise the future investment
program; rehabilitation of existing works; and pilot testing of the low cost approach.
Land Use Issues
11.  Efficient planning of irrigation is closely Interlinked not only with water resources
planning but also with efficient land use regulations and planning. A brief deseription is
presented of the evolution of land tenure arrangements, land administration and land use
planning.
12.  Land Tenure: To induce settlement, land grants were offered by the French, who took
officially possession of Mauritius in 1721, through their West Indies Company. These grants
ranged from about 60 to 260 ha. In 1765, the possession of the island were transferred from
the company to the French Crown. This involved ceding all the islands territory to the
Crown, hence the term "Crown Lands". However, concessions of land already made prior to
this transfer were recognized.
13.  There are considerable variations in this data concerning areas ccve-ed by land
concessions. By the end of the French rule in 1810, these areas were believed to be around
130,000 ha.
14.  By 1860, the British had altered the French agricultural policy of diverse crop
cultivation to one of almost exclusive concentration on sugarcane cultivation. Sugarcane was,
then cultivated by miller-planters and owners of large estates with the assistance, initially, of
slaves and later with labor from India. The failure of many sugarc:ne estates in the 1860s
and 1870s opened the way for significant "morcellement" (i.e. subdivision) of abandoned lots
in favor of laborers.
15.  During this period, the Government concerned by the diminishing forest cover, which
was due to illegal felling of trees by landowners (even on adjacent Crown Lands), passed an
Ordinance under which a newly formed Forest Department might acquire lands to enlarge
forest areas. And as a result, the Government purchased an estimated 12,500 ha of private
land for afforestation.
16.  A recent attempt at determining the extent of Crown and private lands was made in
1985. 1/ Results are shown below:
(a)        Total area of the island of Mauritius  186,477 ha
(b)        Crown Lands                             40,467 ha
J/ Anon - Report of the Fact Finding Committee on Crown Lands. 1985



- 90 -
anne 5
Page 4 of 9
(c)        Other Public Lands                       1,700 ha
(d)        Private Lands                           144,310 ha
17.  Sugarcane cultivation occupies about 87% of the arable lands and nearly 41% of the
total land area in Mauritius. It is planted either by the Sugar Estate (SE) or individual
planters (IP). Details of land tenure profile, for botb the SE and IP, are presented in Tables 3
and 4. It could be seen from these tables that, the average area cultivated by the SE's is
about 2,320 ha while the average land size for small sugarcane planters is approximately 1.00
ha.
18.  There is also a growing trend towards the reduction of plo0 sizes. -or example, on the
same cropped areas, there were 12,210 IP in 1970 compared to 18,400 IP in 1979. This is
mainly a result of the subdivision of private lands due to inheritance laws. In order to
prevent the creation of very small plots, the GOM has since 1985, by  ecuiy xnuctkon,
restricted the subdivisions of lands that would result In parcels less than 0.42 ha, or less than
0.11 ha if the subdivision takes p;.- among heirs.
19.  Since 1815, acquiring Cro.. n Lands is only made through public auctions. However,
illegal encroachment on these lands is practiced on small-scale and apparently it is tolerated
by the Government. On the other hand, squatting on privately owned land for a period of not
less than 20 years is a legal method of acquiring ownership of land.
20.  Private property extends as well to streams and rivers flowing through privately-owned
lands. The rights of water were confirmed by the Rivers and Canals Act, 1863, which,
however, restricts the use up to a limit where the rights of other riparian are not affected.
The creation of CWA in 1971 did not result in tht curtailment of these water rights. Any
such curtailment would entitle the owner to compensation according to the Mauritius
Constitution.
21.  Temporary leases are legally permitted in the country. On Crown Lands, three types
of leases arc practiced: (a) Land Settlement leases; they were covering a total of about 520
ha with 670 tenants, in 1984. The average duration of these leases is 7 years. (b) Food crop
leases, their average size is about 1.00 ha and run from year to year. Unfortunately their
total areas is not exactly known, but it is believed not to exceed 100 ha. (c) Sugarcane leases
which run generally for periods of 6-7 years and are entered into by both MAFNR and
MHLE. The above types of leases have some common features:
(a) Rent range of US$10-25/ha.
(b)  Prohibition against transfer, and
(c)  the right to resume the land by the Government.
Information on leases on private lands is limited to registered "Metayers" (share croppers) on
sugar estates only. For instance, there were about 1711 metayers in 1983, and nearly 85% of
them harvested plots less than 2.11 ha.



- 91 -
Abfn-x 
Page 5 of 9
22.  The Sugar Industry Efficiency Act of 1988, gave the MAFNR the sole right to Issue
Land Conversion Permits (LCP). Through these LCPs, people are giveii the right to convert
agricultural lands to Industrial zones, housing plots or tourists areas. The main aim of this
Act is to help the GOM in its effort to curtail the trend, of the last decade, of gradual loss of
agricultural lands. It is estimated that, at present, registered agricultural areas In the country
amount to approximav.y 100,000 ha.
Land Administration
23.  Sources of information on the use, acquisition and ownership of Crown and private
lands are inaccurate, inconsistent and inefficient. Present registration duties, fees and land
transfer taxes are excessive and land deed registration does not validate title. All this tend to
discourage potential buyers or sellers from entering the land market, thus preventing land
resources from shifting easily into more productive uses. Accordingly, there is a need to
substitute the present system of land registration by one that is efficient, simple, cheap and
reliable. Such a system would be available if titles' registrations were adopted and entries in
the register would automatically prove land's ownership. However, a precondition to the
enactment of a registered title legislation is the acceptance and initiation of cadastral surveys
and mapping.
24.  The system of cadastral mapping would provide the government with a beater
information base for land taxation and would facilitate land use planning and control.
Moreover, the possessioii of secure title would permit owner-cultivators to have greater access
to credit which, in turn, will encourage investments directed towards farms improvement. It
was estimated in 1988, that a new registration program would takj up to 5 years to be
implem"nted at an estimated cost of approximately US$13 million (excluding contingencies).
25.  The first step, though very modest, towards the implementation of this national land
registration started in 1990 by the establishment in the MELU of a "Crown Land Information
System' (CILS). This will be the first stage of a National Land Information Center (NLIC)
to be created by GOM with funds made available by the ODA.
Land Resources Planning
26.  In the past decade, the GOM has taken several steps towards the establishment of an
institutional framework for land resources plinning. For example, attempts at developing a
national master plan for physical development were undertaken and the National Physical
Development Unit (NPDU) was established within the MEPD. Unfortunately, most of these
efforts, have been constrained by the lack of consensus and cooperation between the
concerned bodies. In order to remedy this situation, the GOM in 1982 approved, in
principle, the concept of a centralized authority for land planning, development control, land
developmenm and marketing, a so-called Land Bank. Again, due to divergent views, the
progress in this, direction has been impeded. In 1986, new proposals aiming at solving the
problem of land resources planning were put forward by the Bank in consultation with GOM.
These proposals included the restructuring of the present Town and Country Planning Board
(TCPB) in order to allow it to handle the ftinctions of a central land planning authority. Once
more, this proposal never materialized.



*- 92 0-
Ane S
Page 6 of 9
27.  Finally, the GOM decided In June 1990 to create a new department within the MELU
to deal with land resources planning. This new department, the Land Use Planrning
Department would have a main office at MELU headquarters and S regional offices. The
main tasks of this newly created department would include:
(a) the establishment of a National Physical Development Plan (NPDP), data
collection for the various sectors has already been started by the MELU;
(b)  development control, and
(c)   detailed planning.
Two experts from CFTC are already in Mauritius to work for this project. Additional exprt
are expected to join the Land Use Planning Department to help in establishing the NPDP.
These will be recruited under the Environment Monitoring and Development Project finced
by the Bank and GOM.



- 93                         Annex 5
Page 7 of 9
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Table 1: Methods of Irrigation and Distribution of Irrigated
Areas within the Different Regions (1989)
Region                            Method of Irrigation Used
Sprinkling      Surface         Trickle          Total
(Ha)           (Ha)            (Ha)            (Ha)
North                      3844           836              63            4743
East                        935           591               -            1526
Center                      633           532               -            1165
West                       1245          3758             170            5173
South                      2826           490              25            33
Total                  ml            6207                           15998
SOURCE: Rao, T.H., Agricultural Services Project,
Technical Assistance to Irrigation, Report April 1990.



MAURrriUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECr
Table 2: Details of Government Managed Irrigated Areas (1990)
Sprinkling          Surface          Total        Management
/Drip                                          Provided
(ha)              (ha)             (ha)      by
SE (1)     IP (2)   SE        IP    SE           IP
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----__----------------------
1. Western Plains
System                    1500         -   1700       800  3200         800  CWAISE/Farmers
2. Northern Plains System
o Traditional                  -         -    500    1000   500          1000  CWA/SE/Farmers
o NPIP-stage I               660      1220       -        -   660        1220  VES/IA/SE
o  Souvenir Drip Proj.         -       163(3)    -        -      -        160  IA
3. Small-Scale projects
o Ferme St. Martin             -        14       -        -     -          14  IA/Farmers
o Plaisance                    -        65       -        -     -          65  IA/Farmers
o Trou d'Eau Douce             -        14       -        -     -          14  IA/Farmers
o Belle Mare                   -       218       -        -     -         218  IA/Farmers
o Palma East                   -       137       -        -     -         137  IA/Farmers
o Bel Ombre                    -        30       -        -     -          30  RDU/Farmers (4)
o Arsenal Litchi               -        12       -        -     -          12  Farmers
o Riche Terre                  -        78       -        -     -          78  RDU/Farmers
o St. Martin                   -        35       -        -     -          35  RDUIFarmers
---------------------------------------,. -----------------------------------------------------------
TOTALS        2160      1983   2200    1800  4360           3783
4143             4000             8143
Notes:                                                                                                      x
(1) SE = Sugar Estate       (2) IP - Independant Planter                                                 0 x
(3) Area after completion   (4) RDU - Rural Development Unit (MEPD)                                      
'0



- 95 -
Annex 5
Page 9 of 9
MAURMUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Table 3: Areas cultivated by the Sugar Estates by sizes (1985) I/
Size (ha)          Number      Total Area (ha)
SWO- 999         3             2,443
1,000 - 1,499     2             2,923
1,500- 1,990      5             8,737
2,000 - 4,999      9           26,727
> 5,000        1            5,481
Total              20          46,371
AWale4: Sugarcane Harvested by Individual Platers by Si    /
Size (ha)          Number      Total Area (ha)
0.01- 2.11        32,036       16,588
2.12- 4.22        1,832        5,044
4.23 - 10.55       625          3,209
10.56- 21.10        76          1,190
21.20 - 84.43        96         3.730
>  84.44        30         4,802
Total              34,967       34,563
11          Murltdius. 'Me Sugar Sector, Report No. 5812-MAS, March 1986.
2/          Mauritus. Adjustment and Growth, Country Economic Memorandum Report
No. 5533-MAS, April 1985



MAURrrIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
THE IRRIGATION AUTHORITY EXISTING ORGANISATION
IBOARtDI
S ENIOR CONFIDENIA
I C sASSISTANT      I                           PLIIUC RELaT N8
OFFICE
S  CONrR!Ee ja)                                    
* 1                         [ ~~~~~~~~~PROrEISI                   AD=   RATIO                  DEARIIT   |
DEPARTM                       DEPARTMENT D|Mf                                                 DOARA
I PRINCIPAI.NIM1F_                   1P      M,W.EI 8:ECMMRY                                            1ACCOUso
AsadmUs                                                                    * a..s                      I Purhamkg Officr
2~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ TExe liVnslb                                                     2  h   OI
2 TOAL r6                                                                   TOTAL 18                    TOTAL 13
TOTAL11                                                       Sm NPPSp      m- so
I Mmie        1N Labem                  1 Seofr Tedia Oier
* ogs.         48 D*nre                 4 Teobhad OMfe
* Sqe.*ox      32G GMan                 1 84951
6 WgdehrkAfndaf          i Clwk
i              11 ~~SOakdu                              5 Tradmmn Au  Tradesmn                                           I
30 Tradeu                               O      e
AeMt                                   4 Ddvm                                                         '1X
Tradem                                 12 Laboww                                                        
56cr amOffier                           4 WdneeVWAfndmia                                                mL
TOTAL 2|0                               TOTAL 8O



- 97 -
annog 6
Page 1 of 3
MAURITWUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Proposed Irrigation Arrangements and Training
Responsibilities of the restructured Irrigation Authority ([A)
In the following paragraphs the main responsibilities of the restructured IA (Chart 11) are
summarized. Final and detailed responsibilities and tasks would have to be prepared by MAFNR
and reviewe.' by the Bank prior to the loan effectiveness.
A. Irrigation Planning Uni
(a) identifying and planning new irrigation projects;
(b)  investigations and preparation of feasibility reports for small-scale irrigation system
including detailed designs and tender documents. In the initial years these functions
would be carried out mainly by consultants supervised by the IPU;
(c)   monitoring the progress of execution of works;
(d)  training staff on design, construction and water management techniques, as well as
training farmers trainers on different methods of irrigation and optimum utilization
of water;
(e)   conducting field research in collaboration with Extension and Research staff of
MAFNR, FSCs and MSIRT, on subjects such as water management techniques and
O&M of irrigation schemes. IPU research topics and programs would have to be
conducted in parallel with those undertaken by MAFNR in the various fields of
agronomy; and
(f)  conducting, monitoring and assessing of the Pilot Projects field programs and
preparing annual progress reports giving all details and results.
B. Construction Supervision DeDartment
(a)  tendering for works and tender analysis;
(b)  supervision of constnmction works; and
(c)   budget control of ', :ted works.
C. Operntii n an Maintenance Department
The operation activities will be:
(a)   organization of water distribution schedules on the basis of water availability and in
coordination with CWA;
(b)   establishing detailed operational schedules;
(c)   monitoring both the quantity and quality of water supplied by CWA and distributed
to farmers;



- 98 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 3
(d)   assessment of actual irrigation efficiencies based on crop water requirements;
(e)   estimating operating costs, water sales, irrigation dues, government subsidies and
cost recovery;
(f)   evaluation of ongoing irrigation projects; and
(g)  liaison with other government institutions and agencies.
Its maintenance activities would include:
(a)   maintenance of all civil works and equipment;
(b)   supervision of maintenance of small-scale projects;
(c)   organization of NPIP work program; and
(d)   estimating and monitoring maintenance costs.
TralningYPrgram
1.   Training of the IA permanent staff through appropriate fellowships and study tours is of a
considerable importance in ensuring the success of efforts to strengthen the IA. It also serves as a
valuable incentive to qualified staff. During the project period of 5 years, it is proposed to
conduct ten technical study tours of fellowships at the rate of one every half year. These tours
can extend to countries and specified projects so as to give an in-depth practical knowledge on
investigating, design and execution of irrigation projects relevant to the irrigation development in
Mauritius. Medium-size irrigation projects (up to 5,000 ha) would be very much relevant to the
local situation. The tours should also give an exposure on water management problems, farmers'
interaction and attitudes and command area development under furrow irrigation. Duration of a
tour can be for three to four weeks.
2.   Apart from study tours, there is a need to train the IA engineers and any other interested
engineers in the country at various levels so as to get them fully acquainted with various technical
skills associated with investigation, design and construction of new irrigation projects in addition
to theoretical and practical aspects of water management. Such training should give enough
confidence to engineers and other technical personnel in IA, to independently handle the above
mentioned technical aspects instead of being dependent on consulting firms even for small jobs.
TIherefore, it is proposed to conduct training programs discipline-wise for the entire project period
of 5 years. These training programs, to be held in Mauritius, will be for a duration of 6 weeks
conducted twice a year during the total project period of 5 years.
3.   The following are some subjects to be treated during these training programs (case studies
would be an integral part of the programs):
(a)   Investigation related to irrigation projects; topographical and soil surveys, soil
mechanics, hydrology, geotechnical studies, etc.
(b)   In-field water management: soil/water/crop relationship, crop evapotranspiration,
water duties, sprinkling and furrow irrigation, irrigation efficiencies, farmers'
participation, etc.



- 99 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
(c) Design of irrigation projects: small dams, weirs, spillways, canals, pipes, ready
reckoner tables, etc.
(d)   ConsL-uction of irrigation projects: equipment and infrastructure for small dams,
burrow areas, quarrying, quality control, project monitoring, fixing alignments, etc.
(e)   Construction equipment: selection of equipment, pumps, motors, efficiency, costs,
etc.
(f)   O&M of irrigation projects: canals and pipes, operation, pumps operation and
repairs, recurrent costs, farmers' organization and participation, etc.
It is suggested that the above programs to be repeated during the second half of the project period
and up to 10 officers would be trained during each program.
4.   The services of an international expert for a period of 8 weeks, every 6 months, would be
planned for the 5 years of the project. The expert, in coordination with IA personnel, will select
the subjects and structure of the training programs. He will be assisted in this task by a local
counterpart attached to the IPU. International experts working for IPU would also take part in
the training process by giving some lectures on specific subjects, each in his own specialty. A
detaided program will be prepared by this expert and will be submitted to the Bank for review
before March 31, 1992.
S.   In addition to the above mentioned training aspects, training extension personnel at the
MAFNR on subjects such as water management, O&M and farmers' organization will form an
integral part of the overall training program to be undertaken by the IA. This training program
will be conducted on a monthly basis, each for a period of one week, during the total duration of
the project.



MAUIIfls
AGRICULU L MANAGENEI AND SEVICES JRCJECr
THE IRRIGATION AUTHORITY PROPOSED ORGANISATION
rBOARD|
I AUM1.u                    I Fmm IOU
4 Acameit C0bd
1Conp_ftOp 8W
|NORTaEP PLAB PRoECr                                    WEIST^ER PLm       I M"
I~~~~~~~
|PEMTMO    |   W     E   AD|wwmTm E| | IONA ADRP I             E 8   AA             SMALSCALE RGTINi
wiHytE m 1                                                     on                2Tw
I~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _  S  .    ^t                                                o
. rg @r
C_C_~~~~* IrR MU a D.
t-_C.WX . Cm,&



- 101'-
Anneg 7
Page 1 cof 5
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MAN^GEMENT AND ,ERVICES PROJECT
Agricultural and Management Information System (AMIS)
Intlrod uct ion
1.1   The principal objectives of the proposed AMIS are to synthesize and integrate the
information collection and processing activities within MAFNR and its parastatals, and
thereby strengthen the institutional planning, monitoring and operational functions. The
proposed AMIS concept has been discussed with various organizational units in MAFNR, the
key parastatals, Management Audit Bureau (MAB) and Central Informatics Board (CEB) in the
Ministry of Finance, and the State Infomr tics Ltd. (SIL) to identify problem areas and
operational interdependencies, to delineate the information collection and maintenance
responsibilities, and to ascertain the staffing levels and capacities required to sustain the
AMIS. The proposals are consistent with GOM's Public Sector Information Strategy.
Detailed planning and functional specification would be carried out by SIL, the CEB would be
responsible for overall supervision. State Information Training Corporation (SITRAC) would
be responsible for training.
1.2   The proposed AMIS would comprise three major computer-based modules listed
below:
(a)    Development of agricultural information systems in support of
planning, assessment, extension and research activities.
(b)    Development of a parastatal performance monitoring and analysis
system.
(d)   Implementation of financial and administrative systems in the
secretariat and technical departments.
A fourth module -Systematization and automation of the data flows and linkages among
parastatals in the sugar sector and linkages with MAFNR- would be added at a later stage.
AMIS Concept for MAFNR
1.3   The proposed AMIS would be developed and implemented in a phased manner. The
candidate areas for automation would first be reviewed for efficiencies in procedures, codes
and forms, and a streamiined data framework be instituted. Concurrently, the basic system
concept and operational methodologies would be developed. Extensive staff training in both
the revised procedures and the automated processes would be Imparted during the actual



- 102 -
Anoex 7
Page 2 of 5
implementation of automatcd systems to ensure acceptance by the users and subsequent
successful operations.
1.4   The AMIS would comprise two cate3ories of systems - functional and institutional.
The functional systems (extension data, research, flnancial management, stock control, etc.)
would operate in the relevant operationa' departments on microcomputers. The institutinoi
system(s) would operate at the Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit (APAU) (initally on two
microcomputers and subsequently on the minicomputer and receive pre-defined and
summarized data from the functional systems ss will as the parastatals and other relevant
institutions, to allow the creation of an instin hinnal database. The institutional database would
generate managemenit, planning and control reports and allow for data analysis using
statistical, analytical and "expert systems" techniques. Some of the reports would be
transmitted to the concerned Principal Assistant Secretaries while others would be forwarded
to the PS and the Minister. The institutional database and system(s) would also satisfy ad-hoc
queries and appropriate data could also be extracted for transmission to the parastatals and
other sector ministries (e.g. budget requests/expenditure statements, CSO, MAB, MISRI,
etc.).
1.5    To the extent possible, the hardware and software tools employed in the AMIS would
confirm to the public sector standards defined by CIB. This is especially true of "core'
systems -- budget, general ledger, stock control, fixed assets, accounts payable and receivable
etc - which SIL is developing and will be utilized. Other "sector specific" systems -- non-
sugar crop data, plant fisheries research, institutional database and analysis etc. - would
either be custom-developed or implemented through packaged application software.
1.6    The ' lanagement Information Cell (MIC) within iwe APAU, respensible for operating
the institutional systems, would also function as the primary contact point and channel for the
exchange of data with other Ministries and parastatals. The minicomputer to be eventually
installed around Year 3 would be physically located at Reduit, but directly accessible by
APAU and other concerned units in Port Louis. The minicomputer would be utilized for
certain functional systems which could not operate on microcomputers (e.g. financial
management, stock control, etc.). This hardware architecture would require the leasing of
two dedicaLed telephone lines (9600 baud) between Port Louis and Reduit to provide back-up
and allow management in Port Louis to access the institutional database and generate reports.
AMIS Modules
1..   The proposed AMIS would be implemented through three discrete modules, some of
w .ich could be carried out concurrently, depending on internal capability and preferences of
MAFNR. Detailed features of the modules are as follows:
(a)    Agricultural Information System
This module would automate the principal extension and research activities
and production statistics on the non-sugar sector which comprises
approximately 6500 farm holdings. Some rudimentary data is currently
collected on crop type, acreage and yield by each of the 25 zones. Similar
data is collected on livestocke (approximately 35,00 keepers/breeders) and
analyzed by the Statistical Office. The AMIS would automate the record



- 103 -
annex 7
Page 3 of s
maintenance and analysis function through the design and implementation of
two microcomputer based systems for crops and livestock respectively- with
two machines per system located at Reduit. The data collection forms and
procedures would be streamlined to facilitate the recording of supplemental
data required, in conformance with the detail available for the sugar sector.
Whilst the systems would operate in the technical departments, appropriately
aggregated data would be transmitted periodically on diskettes at the outset,
and subsoquently via leaseel iines, to the APAU to be consolidated with the
other databases.
Another microcomputer would be installed in the Plant Pathological
Laboratory to enable the maintenance ot quarartine, taxonomy, pesticides,
biometeorological etc. databases. Tne AMIS would also support the
procurement and installation of "expert information systems"on relevant topics
such as nematodes and the development of other specialized applications as
well as potential linkages with external databases.
A microcomputer, together with a budgetary allocation for system
development services, would be made available at the Forestry Service to
enable the maintenance of statistics and monitor consumptions, wildlife, flora,
plantations, etc.
(b)    Monitoring of Parastatals
A recently concluded study identified some major performwnce monitoring
criteria for the MAFNR parastatals. These criteria, and others to be
developed in the future, would be investigated and app:opriate mechanisms
set-up to retrieve relevant data from each parastatal in a computerized format
wherever possible. At the APAU, a database would be created to register the
performance information. Standard reports would be generated to report
individual, and cross-organizational, performances and trends. The system
would ope, ate on one of the microcomputers installed at the APAU.
(c)    Administrative/Financial Systems
Implementation of this module would depend on progress achieved by
CIB/SIL in developing standard software to be used by all Ministries. The
Principal Finance Officer and Administrative offices would be provided with
eight microcomputers for data entry, editing and retrieval, with the general
led; :r being maintained on the minicomputer. The financial management
system (at the functional level) would be structured to incorporate the cost
center concept, and expenditure transactions would be entered by the Accounts
section. A brief review of the workload indicates a daily average in excess of
500 transactions. The system would sum the expenditures into relevant
categories and debit against the budget (votes). Periodically, this would be
transmitted to the APAU Institutional database system to support economic
analysis, determine direct and indirect costs of production, evaluate



- 104 -
Annex
Page 4 of 4
expend!ure trends and undertake cost comparisons by units and functions.
Also, the payroll transactions would be submitted to tne Data Processing
Department through either magnetic media or electronically. Other
administrative (eg. stock control, personnel, bibliographic, etc.) applications
would operate on either the minicomputer or the microcomputers depending
on the volume of transactions and the complexity of the systems.
Organizational Implications
1.8   The operational departments would operate their functional systems on
microcomputers, with the exception of staff involved in budgeting and expenditure control
who would utilize the minicomputer-based systems. The operational staff would undergo
extensive training to enable them to operate their systems. The microcomputers would be
located in the respective departments, and operational management would be responsible for
the timeliness, accuracy and integrity of their databases, and for the successful operation of
their systems.
1.9   The MIC in APAU would be staffed by an Information Analyst, a systems
analyst/programmer, a programmer/computer operator and a computer operator. The
Information Analyst would coordinate and monitor all internal systems' operations, organize
all external data linkages, and act as the 'focal point' for all information technology issues.
A Steering Group would be established of representatives of departments and agencies
involved in the systems. The Wnformation Analyst would work in close collaboration with the
Steering Group. The Information Analyst should have at least 5 years experience as a Senior
Systems Analyst. MAFNR has agreed to recruit a candidate locally under special contractual
arrangements. The remaining staff would come from within the Civil Service (MAFNR or
elsewhere) and would be trained by CIB/SITRAC.
Training
1.10 Extensive training programs would be built into the AMIS component. These would
comprise on-job and some theoretical training for user operational staff in procedural
mechanisms and microcomputer technology. Formal training programs would be devised for
the APAU staff to enable them to operate and sustain the institutional systems, to develop new
reports, and provide support in the effective operation of the various functional systems.
Implementation
1.11  The Information Plan for two modules - Agricultural Information Systems and the
Administrative/ Financial Systems- ',as been prepared by SIL and described in their report
of September 1990. The module on parastatal monitoring would be prepared once the
Director of APAU is in place to provide adequate guidance in defining the module.
Provisions have made under the project to finance two microcomputers for the AMB to start
computerization of the existing monitoring system and for linkages with the Agricultural
Information Systems. SIL is expected to prepare draft tender documents for th.a hardware by
June 1991 and complete functional specifications for the two modules already prepared by
August 1991, design and development of software would be done over the following seven
months and should be completed by March 1992 and the systems fully operational by June



- 105 -
Annex 7
Page 5 of S
1992. Functional specifications for the Parastatal monitoring and other management
information systems is expected to be carried out between September 1991 and March
1991, followed by design and development up to June 1992 and implementation over the
subsequent three months leading to fully operational systems by September 1992.
1. 12 The fourth module on systematization of data linkages within the sugar sector and with
MAFNR is of priority importance but little progress has been made on this module given the
complexities of the institutional arrangements. Presently the SIFB maintains a comprehensive
and up-to-date computer database on the sugar sectoe - location, agroclimatic, soil,
pests/diseases, planting cycle, acreage, yield, wastage,etc. The MSA and MSIRI also
maintain ancillary datasets, with MSA and FSC also retaining data on inputs affecting
production -- fertilizers, pesticides, labor etc. - on a representative sample basis. The data
need to be consolidated in an appropriately summarized database with automated data transfer
mechanisms. It is understood that MSA is exploring this concept. It is expected that once the
APAU is fully operational and the rest of the AMIS is functioning capability would be
established at the APAU to accomplish the necessary linkages with the sugar sector databases.
Appropriate programs would also be developed to analyze the data, facilitate short and long
term planning on inputs and outputs, and promote economic analysis.



- 106 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Technical Assistance Provided by t.ie Project
ITEM                                         MANMONTH   COST
(month)         (US$ m)
A -   Contracts with Firms/Institutes
(a) Single Package with one firm
o Head of Irrigation Planning Unit             48             0.49
o Investigation & Irrigation Engineers (2)     96             0.92
Subtotal                            1.41
(b) Separate Packages with different firms/institutes
o Economic Adviser
(Agricultural Policy Analysis Unit)          9              0.12
o Training Expert (Irrigation Authority)       20             0.31
o Potato Production Specialists (Agric. Mktg. Board)  6       0.09
Subtotal                            02
(c) Contract Financed wholly by Government
o Management Information Systems               LS                  *
B. Individual Contracts
o Executive Secretary, CCA/Head of APAU        36             0.36
o Institutional Spec. (Mid-term & Implem. Reviews)   5        0.08
o Information Specialists                      4              0.04
o Extension and Research Specialists           6              0.08
o Irrigation Review Specialists                5              0.08
o Senior Irrigation Adviser                    8              0.11
o Smallholder Marketing Specialists            3              0.04
o Export Marketing Promotion Spec.             4              0.05



- 107-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
o Exp. Packaging Technology Spec.               4              0.05
o Marketing Computerization Spec.               4              0.05
o Small-scale Agri-business Specialists         8              0.11
o Farmer Management Training Specialists       10              0.14
o Research Info. System Specialists             6              0.015 *
o Smallholder Marketing Specialists             6              0.013 *
o Marketing Information Specialists             4              0.009 *
o Agri-business Technicians                    12              0.029*
o Training and Subject Matter Specialists      16              0.038 *
Subtotl2
Local Technical Contracts              Man  Ym
Executive Secretary,
CCA/Head APAU                           3               0.054 *
Information Analyst                     3.5             0.034 *
Director, DARE                           5              0.094 *
Assistant Director, DARE (2)             10             0.169 *
Subtotal                            U
TOTAL Technical Assistance                           3.800
Expected to be available locally.



- 108 -
Annex 9a
Page I of 3
MAURITIUS
\GRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
A.    Preamble
The following actions would be conditions of credit effectiveness:
a)    Directives to be issued covering the organizational arrangements and
procedures for the CCA, APAU, DARE and IA;
b)    Appointment of: the Executive Secretary, CCA/Head APAU; Director,
Assistant Directors and Extension & Training Coordinator (DARE);
Information Manager (APAU);
Other actions which are expected to be completed before credit effectiveness include:
a)    Detailed design documents and bid specifications for the first pilot project
would be sent to the Bank for approval; and
b)    A pilot program of Water Users Assbciations for the Northern Plains Project
would be initiated.
B. PrEgjact IMDlementation
Ink                               Competion DM              Ago=
WAonths after loanRepnil
Effective Date o
Agreed Date
a) Sectoral Managem
- Appointment of Local                                APAU/PS
Director, APAU            +30                       MAFNR
- Appointment of Principal
Economist                 +3                        MAFI.,R



- 109 -
Annex 9a
Page 2 of 3
-Preparation of Tender
Documents                 June 1991                   SIL
- Purchase of Equipment    Dec. 1991                   MAFNR (APAU)
- Training                 Jan. 1992 onwards           APAU
- Completion of Functional
Specifications and Software
Development for the AIS and
Financial Modules         March 1992                 SIL
- Preparation of
Parastatal Modules        March 1992                 SIL
- System fully operational  Sept. 199^           .    SIL
b) Research & Extension
- Meetings DARE/FSC        Quarterly                   DARE
- Meetings DARE/AS         Bimonthly, Quarterly        DARE
- Mid-Term Review of
Personnel Policies        before Nov. 30, 1994        MAFNR
- Annual Meeting           annually                    FARC
(July or December)
- Research Information
System                    June 1992                  FARC
c) Irrigation
i) Appointment of Consultants
- IPU (ong-term)                  +1
- Review Expert (short-term)      + 15
- Training Expert                 +3
ii) Procurement
- Vehicles & Equipment            + 12                 IA
- Rehabilitation Works            +15.                 IA
- 1st Pilot Project               +15                  IA
- 2nd & 3rd Pilot Projects        +24                  IA
iii) Studies and Exchange of Views
- on Cost Recovery                by July 1994         IA
- on Water User Associations      by Nov. 1994         IA
- on Pilot Projects               by Dec. 1994         IA



- 110 -
Annex 9a
Page 3 of 3
d) Other Studies
(i)    Marketing Issues
- Initiated                       by March 31, 1992
- Agreement on Action Programs    by Dec. 31, 1992
(ii)    AMB Operations Design            by March 31, 1992
(iii)   Agribusiness Initiated           by Dec. 31, 1991
e) Annual Work Plans
ReDnting and Monitoring Evaluation
- Annual Work Programs            before March 31      APAU/MAFNR
of every year
- Semi Annual Reports             March and October   APAU/MAFNR
of every year
- Audited Reports                 by December 31       APAU/MAFNR
of every year
- Project Completion Report       December 31, 1998   APAU/MAFNR



- 111 -
Annex 9b
Page 1 of 3
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Supervision Plan
1.    Bank Suervision Input into Key Activities. The staff input indicated in the table
below is in addition to regular supervision needs for the review of progress reports,
procurement actions, correspondence, etc (estimated for this project to require 4 staff weeks
during the first three project years, and 3 staff weeks per year thereafter).
2.    Borrower's Contribution to Suervision. The Borrower will be required to submit or
to contribute to the following:
(a)    Progress Reports to be submitted as follows:
-     in the form to be discussed with Bank during the first field supervision
mission,
-     at the end of March and September of each year, and
-     by the APAU, which will consolidate the reports prepared by the
various project agencies.
(b)   Project review meetings with the participation of the various project agencies
tD be held normally in mid-March and mid-September of each year. The
meetings will be chaired by the Permanent Secretary, MAFNR.
(c)    The APAU will be responsible for coordinating arrangements for Bank
supervision missions, and for overall coordination of information required by
missions. The heads of Departments/agencies would be responsible for
coordinating information and supervision pertaining to their respective
departments/agencies.
(d)    Mission briefing on arrival, and wrap-up meeting will normally be chaired by
the Permanent Secretary, MAFNR with the participation of the Heads of
APAU, DARE, the DG of IA and any other representatives of the main
executing agencies as necessary.



- 112.-
Annex 9b
Page 2 of 3
IBRD Supervision Input into Key Activities
ADroximate          Activity                   Expected                    Staff Inpg
DAat                                           RMqirements 
August      Pre-effectiveness and             Task Manager                      8
Project Start-up mission:         irrigation Engineer
review of conditions of           information Specialist (ITF)
effectiveness, annual             Research/Extension Specialist
work program for the first
year of project, review of
irrigation works, management
information system review,
Research/Extension review,
Review of Procurement Documents
February    Follow-up on Procurement,         Task Manager                      6
Marketing Issues                 Irrigation Engineer
Marketing/Agribusiness
Specialist
September   Supervision mission, review       Task Manager                      8
of annual work programs,         Irrigation Engineer
review of accounting systems,     Research/Extension Specialist
review of MIS, Research and       Information Specialist (consultant)
Extension programs and            Financial Specialist
irrigation works on pilot
projects and rehabilitation
works
1993
March &     Two supervision missions,         Task Manager                      16
September   one to coincide with the          Irrigation Engineer
review of the annual work         Extension/Research
programs                          Information Specialist (consultant)
Research Specialist (AGRPS)



- 113 -
Annex 9b
Page 3 of 3
1994
March       Supervision Mission               Task Manager                       6
Irrigation Engineer
Marketing/Agribusiness
September   Mid-term Review                   Task Manager                       20
Institutional Specialist
Researclh/Extension Specialist
Etigineer,
other Specialists as required
1995
March &     Two supervision missions          Task Manager                       16
September   one to coincide with              Irrigation Engineer
the review of annual work         Extension/Research Specialist
programs                          Research Specialist (AGRPS)
1996
March &     Two supervision missions          Task Manager                       16
September   one to coincide with the          Irrigation Engineer
review of annual work             Extension/Research Specialist
programs                          Financial Specialist
Marketing Expert
1222
March &     Two supervision missions          Task Manager                       16
September   one to coincide with the          Irrigation Engineer
review of annual work             Extension/Research Specialist
programs                          Research Specialist
1998
March &     Two supervision missions          Task Manager                       16
September   one in March and second           Irrigation Engineer
in September to prepare           and other experts
the PCR                           as needed
TOTAL                             128



- 114 -
AnnexS
Page 1 of 3
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Key Indicators for Project Monitoring and Reporting
COMP-NENT                  Type gf Information to be reted
I. Sectoral Management
A. CCA
(i) Annual Meeting
-Preparation of Agenda     - Inputs and dates on which received from agencies
-Meeting                   - Date, Members Present, Major decisions/minutes.
-Follow-up                 - Action taken, by whom, dates etc.
- Agency assessment- arrangements, time-table etc.
- Feedback from producers, the local press, MCA.
(ii) Staffing and Coord.         - Progress in filling staff positions
Matters                    - Coordination meeting with agencies.
B. APAU
(i) PPE
-Sectoral Developments     - Brief review as prepared for CCA meeting.
-Economic support to CCA    - Specific proposals analyzed, recommendations etc.
-Economic support to       - Proposals analyzed, results of analysis, elapsed time
AgencieslDepts             taken for processing.
-other work                - Development Certificates approved, area of activity,
elapsed time in processing.
(ii) Management Information System
-Staffing                  - Progress in recruitment, qualifications of staff
-Training                  - Details on persons and type of training
-Modules                   - Progress in implementation, bottlenecks actions for
resolving, technical problems, user assessments.
-Reports                   - Summary reports on Agriculture Data and
Parastatal Monitoring
-Expert Systems            - Types installed, level of usage, user feedback.



_ 115 -
Annex 9c
Page 2 of 3
C. Organizational Assessment
-Agency                    - Objectives and details of assessment, responsibilities
Expected time-table, Progress on implementation.
Follow-up action.
-Project                   - Progress with implementation of arrangements under
each component. Bottlenecks. Actions taKen to
resolve etc.
-Mid-Term review           - As described in para 4.37
IL. Research and Extension
A. PARE
-Organization              - Progress with implementation of new arrangements.
- Including financial arrangements.
- Separation of staff and responsibilities from AS.
-Coordination              - Meetings with AS, frequency, decisions taken,
Follow-up etc.
- Meetings with FSC ( same as above).
-Staffing                  - Recruitment.
- Training program - progress in implementation
- Implementation of Performance Evaluation
recommendations.
B. Research Coordination
-AMAS                      - Agenda and Minutes of meeting.
-MARMIS                    - Progress with implementation, bottlenecks
User feed-back etc.
-FARC                      - Meetings, minutes etc.
m. Irrigation
The Irrigation Authority should periodically report on the following:
1. Pilot Project                 - Design and tendering
- Progress of the execution of civil works
- Planning of field programs
- Investment and O&M costs
- Results and evaluation of field programs
irrigation and water management
i J



- 116 -
Annex 9c
Psge 3 of 3
2. Ii QgatQne.ts                  - Monitoring performances of on-going irrigation
projects
- Works plans in the flelds of planning, investigation,
and design
- Progress of investigation, design and preparation of
prefeasibi'lty/feasibility reports and tender documents
3. laining                        - Training of IA permanent staff through study tours
and in-house
- Training of extension personnel
4. Qhers                          - Trawfer of O&M of NPIP I project to farmers
- Water Users Associations' activities
- Liaison with other government institutions
- Technical advice to farmers
- Research on optimum use of water and O&M under
different methods of irrigation
- International experts and local staff contribution to
all above mentioned activities
S. ConstriSon and O&M             - Tenders for works
- Construction works for new irrigation projects
- Progress of rehabilitation works for the Western Area
- Programs and budgets for the execution of works
- Data collection related to water sales, cost recovery,
agriculture productivity and profitability, etc.
- Irrigation dues and government subsidies for irrigation
- Work programs (forecasted and achieved) for all O&M
activities
- O&M costs
- Labor force deployment activities
IV. Studies and Training
-Marketing Issues          - Progress with implementation -
-AMB studies                  terms of reference, consultancy recruitment, reports
-Agribusiness                recommendations, follow -up
-Farmer Management         - Progress on arranging study tours
V. Other report
-Annual Work Programs      - Programs for the forthcoming year including details
on the research and extension programs and their
justification according to economic criteria.
-Procurement repoitt       - as described in para 3. 52
-Audit reports             - as described in para 3. 55 - 3.58



- 117 -
Anng 1Q
Page I of 2
MAURMUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.     rises, No shadow prices were used in the analysie  In Mauritius most markets
function efficiently and there are few distortion'. For foreign exchange, ofricial rates are
assumed to reflect real rates since the Mauritian Rupee floats in relation to a basket of
currencies. The average exchange rate of Is 14.4 per US $ for the quarter ending December
1990 was used in the analysis. Labor markets are also assumed to be efficient. The economy
has reached full employment and wages in agriculture are determined by the wages negotiated
for the sugar sector. These wages are agreed upon during the Tri-partite negotiations
involving Government, representatives of the employers and representatives of the labor
unions. For the purposes of the analysis, actual prices for the 1989/90 crop season were
used. In sugar cane cultivation the wage ratts were Rs 70 per man-day and Rs 40 per
woman-day, in onion cultivation the corresponding rates were Rs 50 and Rs 30 respectively.
Within the context of Mauritius, it can be safely assumed that differences in rates between
men and women reflect the relative difficulty of the tasks carried out. Women do mostly
weeding and difficult tasks such as cutting and loading cane are done exclusively by men. It
is also assumed that the variations across crops also reflect difficulty of work since in potato
cultivation rates vary between Rs 78 and Rs 89 per manday depending on the activity to be
carried out.
2.    Product prices used in the analysis are based on actual prices in the 1989/90 crop
season. The derivation of the net factory-gate price of sugar cane is explained in Table VII.
For other products, prices are based on AMB and market prices. Cost of production data for
sugar-cane and onions are in Table VI and 1X. Data on other products are in the project file.
3.    On the basis of potential returns in non- sugar agriculk,re and the rest of the
economy, it is assumed that the opportunity cost of capital for investments in agriculture is
about 15%.
Economic Analysis
4.    Each of the three major components of the project have been analyzed separately since
they are associated with different sets of benefits. The Sectoral Managem   component
addresses constraints on all agricultural activities and is therefore analyzed in relation to its
potentW impact on growth in the agricultural sector as a whole. On the basis of sectoral
value added of Rs 3370 million in 1989, a small fraction of additional growth (1/10 of 1%)
would be sufficient to justify the additional expenditures for setting up and maintaining the
arrangements under the component (See Table I). The Internal Rate of Return (IRR) on the
net benefit stream is about 17%. Recurrent cost provisions after the implementation period



- 118 -
Annex0
Page 2 of 2
include the incremental costs of the Coordinating Committee for Agriculture, additional staff
for the Agricultural Policy Unit and O&M for the information systems.
5.    The research and extension components are analyzed in relation to the three main
subsectors-foodcrops, horticulture and livestock- which will benefit from the proposed
improvements under this component. Value added in these three subsectors in 198' was
Rs 640 million. Additional growth of 1.9% in these three subsectors would justify the
proposed investments and recurrent costs ([able II). Recurrent costs Include operations of
DARE as well as for coordination and are estimated at Rs 6.0 million per annum after
implementation. If these costs are reduced by 50% as a result of successful budget
rationalization in MAFNR then a growth of 1.7% would be sufficient to justify the proposed
expenditures (Table III).
6.    The proposed investments in Irrigation are part of the long term strategy for
improving productivity in the agricultural sector and diversifying away from sugar. The
institutional strengthening of the IA is part of the long term capacity building which would be
required to manage the irrigation subsector. The rehabilitation works included under the
project are priority elements of a much larger program and it is difficult to isolate the benefits
for these elements. The larger program has been analyzed and determined to be viable by
Government. For the pilot con,ponents, an attempt has been made to analyze the economic
viability.
7.    The costs and benefits of sugar cane cultivation under surface irrigation are
summarized in Tables IV and V. Details on the price of sugar and cests of production are in
Tables VI and VII. At the individual level economic returns to sugar would be low, with an
IRR of only 10%., if the additional benefit of reduced risk is included then the return is
higher. An attempt has been made to quantify this additional bene;J in a very simplified
manner. It is assumed that under rainfed conditions, in the areas in which irrigation is used
in Mauritius, small farmers lose about 50% of their crop once in every five years. Such a
risk is reduced or eliminated with irrigation. This loss has been rougbdy converted into an
annual benefit under irrigation in Table ';r, leading to an IRR of 11% F'rom the national
point of view the returns to irrigation for r-ugar c'ne are much highar !"n amt the individual
level. Since there is an upper limit on the total amount of sugar piodvL-, irrigation in sugar
releases land elsewhere for conversion to otl;er uses which are invariabl, of a much higher
value.
8.    The viability of low pressure sprinkler irrigation is analyzed in relstion to its most
prevalent use at present- onion cultivation in marginal lands which were previously not
cultivated. Benefits and costs are summarized in Table VIII, details on co.;ts of production
are in Table IX. On the basis of these costs and benefits the IRR is estimaved to be 16% and
this use of irrigation appears economically viable at both the individual and national level.



-  119 -                             Annex  10
MAURITIUS                                  Table I
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis: Secloral M            mnag ent
Rs Million (Constant Pricos)
1        2        3         4        5        6         7        S     9-I20
...................................."u t'"r*"3'37'0.0.........................................................................
Value Added In 1909 In AgrIculture 3370.0
ENEFITS
Total Senf its 1/8 of 1X                4.2       4.2      4.2       4.2      4.2      4.2       4.2      4.2      4.2
Total  eneifIts 1/10 of 1X              3.4       3.4      3.4       3.4      3.4      3.4       3.4      3.4      3.4
COSTS
Totat coats                            12.9       3.0      3.5       1.0      1.0       1.0      1.0      1.0       1.0
Inc. Net Benofits ScenrIo 1            -8.7       1.2      0.7      3.2       3.2      3.2       3.2      3.2      3.2
Inc. Net lenefits Scenarfo I           -9.5       0.4     .0.1      2.4       2.4      2.4       2.4      2.4      2.4
Met Pment Value                       23.26
IRS Swanarlo 1                         26.92
IRA Scenario It                        17.3X
=.................................... ........................................................................................



MAURmIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Economkc Analysis of Research and Extension
Rs. Million (Constant Prices)
Scario I
1       2        3        4        S        6        7        8     9-20
. .....     ............................. __._._   _  .........  ..........  __  ...  _._..  ...........
BENEFITS
Fooderops
Value added 1989                     271.1
Growth at full potential      5.6"    15.2    15.2      15.2    15.2      15.2    15.2    15.2    15.2        15.2
Growth due to Project         1.9X     5.2      5.2      5.2      5.2      5.2      5.2      5.2      5.2      5.2
Fruit and Flowers
Value added 1989                      98.5
Growth at full potential      S.6"     S.S      S.S      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      5.5      S.S      S.S
Growth db  to Project         1.9X     1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9      1.9
Livestock and Poultry
Value added 1989                     269.5                                                                                                       a
Growth at full potential      5.6"    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1    15.1
Growth due to Project         1.9X     5.1      5.1      5.1      5.1      5.1      S.1      5.1      5.1      5.11
TOTAL
Value addbd 199                      639.1
Growth at full potential      5.6S    35.8    35.8    35.6    35.8    35.8    35.8    35.8    35.8    35.8
Growth di  to Project         1.9X    12.1    12.1    12.1    12.1    12.1    12.1    12.1    12.1    12.1
COTS
Total costs                           47.0      8.0      6.5      6.4      6.2      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0
Incr_antal Not Beeits               -34.9      4.1      S.6      5.7       S.9     6.1      6.1      6.1      6.1
Not Present Value                    25.85
Intenl Rate of Return                 15.4X
.. ......................... ..................................................... ---......................................... ....
1/ Growth in value added In the period 1987-89 has been neative due largely to dclfnes inn
vatli added of sugpr which accounts for 75X of agricultural value added.
2/ With better magement of available land and efforts to diversify Into new crops, horticulture
nd agro-processing, the overall agricultural sector is expected to grow 3X wattly upto 1995.
Iq2roveuent in mll planter productivity my increae sugar output by 1.52 amully upto 1995.
while the agriculturat diversification strategy Is expected to pull up non-sugar agriculture
at an al   average rate of 5.62 upto 1995.



MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Research and Extension
Rs. Million (Constant Prices)
Sceario II
..........................................................    .......................................................
1        2        3         4        5         6        7        8      9-20
................................................................................................................._.
BENEFITS
Foodcrops
Value added 1989                       271.1
Growth at full potential       5.62    15.2      15.2     15.2      15.2     15.2      15.2     15.2      15.2     15.2
Growth due to Project          1.7X     4.6       4.6      4.6       4.6      4.6       4.6      4.6      4.6       4.6
Fruit and Flowers
Value added 1989                       98.5
Growth at full potential       5.6X     5.5       5.S       5.5      5.5      5.5       5.5      5.5       5.5      5.5
Growth due to Project          1.7X      1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7
Livestock and Poultry
Value added 1989                      269.5
Growth at full potential       5.6X    15.1      15.1     15.1      15.1     15.1      15.1     15.1      15.1     15.1
Growth due to Project          1.7X      4.6      4.6      4.6       4.6      4.6       4.6      4.6       4.6      4.6
TOTAL
Value adde  1989                      639.1
Growth at full potential       5.62    35.8      35.8     35.8      35.8     35.8      35.8     35.8     35.8      35.8
Growth due to Project          1.72    10.9      10.9     10.9      10.9     10.9      10.9     10.9      10.9     10.9
COSTS
Total costs                            47.0       8.0      6.5       6.4      6.2       3.0      3.0      3.0       3.0
Incremental Net Benefits              -36.1       2.9      4.4       4.5      4.7      7.9       7.9      7.9       7.9
Net Present Value                     32.20                                                                                               :S
Internal Rate of Return                15.72                                                                                            '0
,,,,,,,,.,,...........................,,,................_............._..    _.        ..........,.......
1/ Growth in value dded in the period 1987-89 has been negative due largely to dectines in
value added of sugar which accounts for 752 of agricultural value added.
2/ With better management of available land and efforts to diversify into new cropsB horticulture
and agro-processing, the overall agriecultural sector is expected to grow 32 anually upto 1995.
liprovement in smalL planter productivity may increase sugar output by 1.52 anmully upto 1995.
while the agricultural diverslfication strategy is expected to pull up non-sugar agricutture
at an nnual average rate of 5.6X upto 1995.



- 122 -
Annex 10
MAURTIUS                                      Table IV
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Irrlption
Sugareane Culdvadon Per Hectare Analysis
(Rs. '000)
Sceario I
1990 constant Prices
..................................................................................................... .............................................................................................................. ..............
Year I Yeer 2   Year 3  Year 4  Year 5   Year 6 Year 7  Year 8  Year 9  Year 10-25
.....................................................................................................................................
SMFACE IRRIGATION
(ca) Invc tment Costs /hA 1/.2/
................
W1th Om                                 8,000    115.2    129.6   129.6   129.6   129.6   129.6   129.6   129.6  .129.6                 129.6
'lthout DM                              5.000       72.0      86.4    86.4    86.4    86.4    86.4    66.4    86.4    86.4                86.4
,.............................................................................................
Average                                 6,500       93.6       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0          0.0
(b)  Incremental Output
30 ton/ha at Rs. 527.45 3/                          15.8      15.8    15.8    15.8    15.8 .  15.8    15.8    15.8    15.8                15.8
(c)  Incrementol ProdAct1cn Costs 4/                      4.2       4.2      4.2      4.2      4.2      4.2      4.2      4.2      4.2          4.2
Cd)  0  N Costs  SSOAh                                   0.9      0.86    0.86    0.86    0.86        0.66    0.86    0.86    0.86            0.86
.....................................................................................................................................
Net Bkne its                                      -82.9       10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7    10.7                10.7
ERR of Net SBnefits                               12.1SX
.....................................................................................................................................
1/  Exchange rate Rs. 14.4/US$
V/ OstaiLs In Project Ffle - Econoole Antlyss
3/ Se Table VII
4/ Se Table VI



- 123-                                 Annex 10
MAURITIUS                                   Table V
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysts - I-gadon
Suprcane CultIvatIon Per HEcaro Analysis
(Rs. '000)
SenarIo n
1990 Constnt Priees
...................................................................................................................................
Tear I   YHr 2   YHr 3   Yor 4   Year 5  Y  r 6  Year 7  Yar a  YHr 9 year 10-25
SURFACE IRRIGATION
(C) Investm ent Costs h 1/02/
................
US#
With Cam                         8 000    115.2    129.6    129.6    129.6    129.6   129.6   129.6   129.6   129.6               129.6
Without Dom                      5000       72.0      86.4    86.4        $6.4     66.4    86.4    86.4    86.4    66.4            86.4
.. .................... ........................................ ................................
Average                         6800        93.6       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0          0.0
Cb)  Incremental Output
...................
30 tons/h. to t    527.45 3/                 0.0      15.8      15.8      15.6     15.6    15.8    15.8    15.8    15.8            15.8
Risk avodance benefit                        0.0       3.0       3.0      3.0       3.0      3.0      3.0     3.0      3.0          3.0
Cc)  Incre _ntol Productlon Coats 4/               0.0      4.2       4.2       4.2       4.2     4.2      4.2     4.2      4.2          4.2
f*   O & N Coats  $50/ha                           0.0     0.86      0.86      0.86     0.86    0.86    0.86    0.86    0.86            0.86
..........................................I..................................................................................
Not lnofits                                 93.6      13.7      13.7      13.7     13.7    13.7    13.7    13.7    13.7            13.7
ERR of Net Seneffts                        14.02X
........................... ........................................................  ........................
1/ Exchange rate Rs. 14.4/US$
2/ Detalts In Project Flle - Economic Analysis
3/ Assruing that without frrfgatfon about S0O of the crop Is lost waery 5 years, whih In turn converted Into on arnnual benofit.
4/ See Table VI



MAURlTIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMET AND SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Irrigation
Sugarane Cultivation
Average Annual Inputs per arpent over an eight year cane cycle
.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ........ . . . . . . ............. 
CUNIRRIGATED)             (IRRIGATED) MAIN PROJECT
Rate    Cuantity        Amount           Quantity        Amount
(Rs)                              (Rs)
tnputs
Labour - NwDays                     70.00       33.50        2,345.00            44.90        3,143.00
- V anmDays                 40.00        39.60       1,584.00             51.40       2,056.00
Transport - tonre                   40.00       23.50          940.00            36.00        1,440.00
Plant - 06 Dozer - hour            440.00        0.76          334.40             0.76          334.40
Fertiliser - S/A2 - kg                  2.61       25.00           65.25            25.00           65.25
- Triple Supers - kg        5.12        25.00         128.00             25.00         128.00
- wur of Pot. - kg          3.51        12.50          43.88             18.80          65.99                                       4-
- 17-8-25 - kg              4.42       225.00         994.50            225.00         994.50                                        1
Fugicide   - Aretan  - Lb               0.80        0.16            0.13             0.16            0.13
Plant Cane - tore                     300.00        0.63          189.00             O.4           132.00
............................................
Total Irqut Cost/arpent                                         6,624.15                         8,359.27
.....................................      .
Incremental Costs per hectare = Rs. 4164.27
Source: Irrigation Authority, Northern Plains Irrigation Project Stag I
I F3>



- 125 -
Annex IQ
Table VII
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Sugarcane Prices
Sugarcane prices at factory gate is based on the value of sugar and molasses produced
and is calculated as follows:
A.    Sugar produced
B.    Molasses
A. 
In (1989) avg. extraction rate for Mauritius was 10.46 percent i.e. 1 ton of
sugarcane produces 0.1046 t. of sugar.
76 percent were paid to the farmers and the rest 24 percent was milling cost.
Farmers are paid for 0.1046 x 0.76/100 sugar for each I ton of sugarcane
delivered at factory gate or 0.0795 per ton sugar.
Sugar price for 1989/1990 crop is Rs.7845 per ton paid by (Mauritius Sugar
Syndicate (MSS).
Farmers pay MSS, the following:
a) Sugar Insurance Premium       Rs. 656 t/sugar
c) Cess                          Rs. 420 tlsugar
Example:     For each I ton of sugarcane delivered at factory gate, farmers were paid
10.45/100 X (7.845 x 0.76 - 656-420)
= 10.46/100 (4886.2) = Rs. 511.10
B.    Molasses
I ton sugarcane produces 33 kg. of molasses.
MSS pays farmers (1989) Rs. 495.46 ton of molasses.
Ex. For each 1 ton of sugarcane, 0.033 t of molasses is produced.
Farmers were paid 0.033 x 495.6 = Rs. 163
C. Total prices for sugar and molasses
=     Rs. 511.10 + 16.35 = Rs. 527.45/ 1 ton of sugarcane.



- 126 -
Annex 10
MAURffUS                                        Table VIII
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Economic Analysis - Irrigation
Vegetable Cultivation Per Hectare Analysis
(Rs. '000)
1990 Constnt Price
........................................................................................................................ ..........................................................................................._
Year 1  Year 2   Y"r 3   Yecr 4   Yter 5   Yoer 6   Yew  T   Year 8   Year 9  Year 10t25
......................................................................................................................................
SPRINKLER SYSTEMS 1/
(a) Investment Costs
................
us,
P.ping Station wd Derocking  9,500              136.8      0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0           0.0
Dn + PS + Derocking                13.500       194.4      0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0           0.0
...................................................................................................
Average                            11,500 2/  165.6        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0           0.0
Cb) output
Onions
12.5 tons at Re.  7260/ton 1/                   0.0      91.0      91.0       91.0      91.0       91.0      91.0       91.0      91.0          91.0
Other vegetables 2rd season                      0.0     20.0       20.0      20.0      20.0       20.0      20.0       20.0       20.0         20.0
...................................................................................................
Sub Total tb)                                 0.0    111.0      111.0      111.0     111.0      111.0     111.0      111.0     111.0         111.0
Cc) Costs of Production
...................
Onios                                               0    68.9        68.9      ".9       68.9       68.9      68.9       68.9       68.9         68.9
Other Vegetables                                  0.0     11.0       11.0      11.0       11.0      11.0       11.0      11.0       11.0          11.0
...................................................................................................
Sub Total (c)                                    0    79.9       79.9      79.9       79.9      79.9       79.9      79.9       79.9          79.9
(d)  0 & N Costs    3300/ha                            0.0       4.3       4.3        4.3       4.3        4.3       4.3        4.3       4.3           4.3
......................................................................................................................................
Net lenf its                                  -165.6    26.8        26.8       26.8      26.8       26.8      26.8       26.8      26.8          26.8
ERR of Net lenfits                              15.69X
......................................................................................................................................
If Details In ProJect Fitls



- 127 -                       Annex 10
MAURITIUS                         Table IX
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Cost of Production (Onion) per ARP/Crop 1989
Catchi Variety (local variety)                         MRs
Labou             Cleaning:
First: 110 man days at Rs 50 per day                    5,500
Second: 40 man days at Rs 50 per day                    2,000
Prgnaratign fr:
Elanting: 110 woman days at Rs 30 per day               3,300
Bedding and Holing:
18 man days at Rs. 50 per day                            900
Watering seeds during 35 days
35 days at Rs 3S per day                                1,225
Weeding           First: 170 woman days at Rs 30 per day                   2,100
Second: 40 woman days at Rs 30 per day                  1,200
Third: 20 woman days at Rs 30 per day                    600
4 Kilos of black seeds at Rs 400                        1,600
Pest Control      Spraying: 24 man days at Rs SO per day                   1,200
Fertilizers       Manure and scum:
15 tons manure at Rs 100 per ton                        1,500
5 bags 13-13-20 at Rs 192 each                          960
4 bags Triple Super at Rs 226 each                      904
Ing2gidides        18 Doses Dithane M45 at Rs 27.00 each                    486
4 Doses Ridomil at Rs 95 easch                          380
12 Does Cernowett at Rs 13.50 each                       162
10 Doses Polivert at Rs 12.00 each                       120
12 Decis (Tin) at Rs 90 each                            1,080
WatchmaM          31 man days at Rs SO per day                             1,550
Harveing:         45 woman days at Rs 30 per day                           1,3S0
12 man days at Rs 50 per day                             600
JIrratiDi:       )During 4 months (irrigation dues)                         850
Average yield per Acre:
4-4.5 Tons/Acre
TOTAL                             29,567
LiS lerrigation dues                850
Net                               28,717
X24
Sue900
Source: AMB



MAURrrIUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMERr AND SERVICES PROJECT
Value Added at Fader Cost of Agrkulure by Main Product Group
Rs. Millo  (Curren  Pric)
.................................................................................................................................................   .............
1976     1977      1976      1979      1960      1961      1962       1963      1954       190S       1966       137    ;t96S        199
............................................................................................................................................................... ................................................................... 
Industrlat Crops                      767.8    735.4    7S6.3    963.2    648.         955.2  1.192.2   1.091.t   1,321.2   1,660.2  1993.5   2,238.1  2,300.?  2.47D.5
Sugarcams                          (741.2)  (701.5)  (M.2)  (953.0)  (596.0)  (899.3)(1140.0) (1.010.0) (1,166.0) (1.536.0) (1.905.0) (2,124.4)(2,17.O)(2,350.0)
Tee (Green Leef)                    (19.2)   (26.7)   (22.9)   (17.4)   (22.5)   (24.7)   (36.0)    (62.0)   (131.0)   (101.1)    (60.S)    (56.1)   (94.2)   (63.S)
Tobaco Leaf                          (7.4)    (7.2)    (6.2)   (12.6)   (28.3)   (31.2)   (14.2)    (19.8)    (24.2)    (21.1)    (28.0)    (27.6)   (29.5)   (37.0)
Foodkrop                               51.6      6S.2      69.8      70.2      69.0     96.2    108.0       122.2      150.0      153.7      150.0      16.S    223.5    271.1
Fruits, Flouers and Forestry           29.0      30.0      34.4      37.5      34.0     41.5      41.5       41.7       41.S       S1.1       53.S       62.9     79.0      93.5
Livestock  nd Poultry Products         55.3      66.4      65.5      81.0      90.3     99.8    114.2       117.1      121.7      136.6      105.6      224.0    245.0    269.5
Fishing                                15.4      22.0      27.0      26.3      24.7     27.5      34.3       4S.8       64.7       87.1       87.2      107.8    144.7    186.2
Agriculture Services nd Other
Agricultural Activities n.e.s.         18.5      20.1      22.0      25.8      27.4      36.5     39.8       4.4        36.9       34.3       40.2       75.1     73.6      74.2
TOTAL AdIJCULTItE                     937.6    939.1    977.0  1,224.0    914.2  1.256.7  1,530.0   1,465.0   1,736.0   2,123.0   2.510.0   2.8K.4  3,066.5  3,370.0
...... ......... ........... .....................___._....___.__.............   _..__...........................................
Source: PAuritiu Ninistry of Economic Plaming wd Developm et; Central
Statistical Office; Digest of Agriculturat Statistices 1984, 1987 & 1909.
o x



- 129 _
Annex 1I
Page 1 of 2
MAURMUS
AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT AND SERVICES PROJECT
Ust of Documents Available In the Project File
A)    General
FAO/CP,      Report of the Agricultural Diversification Mission, June 1986
B)    Research and Extension
Jain, T.C.,   Re-organization of Research & Extension Services in MAFNR, July
1980
Corbett,     Food & Agricultural Research Council (EARC). and the Organization
D.C.M.,      of Agricultural Research in Mauritius, October 1989
Ghosal, S.L., Consultant Study on Extension, July 1990,
C)    IEdgation
CWA,         Updating of Master Plan for Water Resources, Jrrigation,
Prefeasibility Report, July 1989
CWA,         Revision of Schema Directeur pour l'amenagement des Eaux,
S-bhese, July 1989
CWA,         Goodlands. Small-scale Irrigation Project, July 1990
CWA,         River Grand Marais Water Resources, July 1990
Irrigation
Authority,    Annual Re=orts and Accounts. 1986/1987 and 1987/1988
Kumar S,     Land Resources Planning in Mauritius. Working Paper, September
1986
MSIRI,       Smal Planter Studies. Souvenir Farming Systems Research Project -
Report on Plan 1, July 1988
Noronha, R., Land Administration, Land Tenure and Deeds Registration in
Mauritius, Working Eaer, September 1986



- 130 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 2
Rao, T.H.,   Agriculture Services Project..Technical Assistance to Irrigation,
Einal Rtort, April 1990
SIGMA,       Study of a Master Plan for the Development of Water Utilization in
SOGREAH,  Mauritius, Master Plan Report, October, 1981
Sir A. Gibb & Irrigation Development Strategy, April 1985
Partners
D)    Information Systems
SIL,         Management of Information System for MAFNR, September 1990
E)    Oer
1. Detailed Cost Tables
2. Background information for economic analysis.



IBRD 2255
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURE MANAGEMENT AND   C,no . -n
SERVICE PROJECT                                                      e.
ARTERIAL ROADS                   Stage
--~~ TRUNK ROADS                                                     Ant
OTHER MAIN ROADS
B   UILT UP AREAS                               _  .   t                   f 
SUGAR CANE
IRRIGATED AREAS
MAIN CANALS AND PIPES                                    Pipslinj
HYDRO ELECTRIC STATIONS
*-~~----   RESERVOIRS AND RIVERS
;r                                                  SM~~~~~~~~~~~~RIALLO SCHLEM
1 1 1 1  ILI   1I    _ \ \       *  _ 3A .M bA
(WS                   93 lhu d' u Dre
Ombr<~J <-t4 We More
5 AJImi Ukhl
o 2   4   A   a  10              6 bke o
D                ~~~~~~7 WM las
~~~~_bl.<dl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                                             souvenir=Wd~_  nd W* o j 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AUilrfIll



IeRD 2255
MAURITIUS
AGRICULTURE MANAGEMENT ANDN
SERVICE PROJECT                  N. Pi.
ARTERIAL ROADS               Stage
TRUNK ROADS                        J                              6/s
-  .      OTHER MAIN ROADS
BUILT UP AREAS
SUGAR CANE
IRRIGATED AREAS                                                R",
MAIN CANALS AND PIPES             .polin\
HYDRO ELECTRIC STATIONS
RESERVOIRS AND RIVERS
Le   rme                                     Le f o Ri.  et+
S SE n   LI                                 I       g   I
KLa Pipe S             7Puing1
?C1~~~p -                                                '  <SDl mr
kII Le %me  a t I  I
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WE 1911/ \       < *
1                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 Tro udlku Douce
g                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sou;"sc                      5 Arnal LIkbI
0   2  4   6   a  10         6 AkeTbr
o    2  3  4  58   d0 
"I'                         ,.                                 .   .    ,  j8           5    m r
m~~~- HE                                                       Souvwdf Ddp ft*IW~~~~~~~~aNurm



