FILE    fQ pl                           Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2329-BO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA
FOR A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
May 19, 1978
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1977             May 1978
Currency Unit - Bolivian Peso ($b)
US$1           a  $b.20.00                     20.00
$bl            -  US$0.05                       0.05
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IDB    -  Interamerican Development Bank
MTCCA  - Ministerio de Transporte, Communicaciones y Aviacion Civil
(Ministry of Transport, Communications and Civil
Aereonautics)
SNC    -  Servicio Nacional de Caminos (National Highway Service)
UNDP   -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID  -  United States Agency for International
Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                  I'he Republic of Bolivia
Beneficiary:               National Highway Service (SNC)
Amount:                    1IS$25.0 million equivalent
Terms:                     Twenty years including 5 years of grace at
an annual interest rate of 7.5%.
Relending Terms:           The proceeds of the loan would be passed to SNC
1s a grant.
Project Description:       The project seeks to improve road maintenance in
Bolivia by: (a) carrying out required road mainte-
nance, including deferred maintenance, in the
districts of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz;
(b) providing the necessary equipment, vehicles,
tools and spare parts; (c) strengthening the National
H'ighway Service; and (d) preparing a country-wide
highway maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading
program. It includes the acquisition of equipment,
spare parts, workshop tools and equipment, hand
tools for labor intensive maintenance, and the
provision of consulting services for technical
assistance and engineering and economic studies.
Project benefits consist of 12% average reduction
of vehicle operating costs; not quantified
benefits are reduced passenger time and accidents,
and prevented' economic loss by avoidance of road
closures. The project faces no special risks,
although realization of all the benefits will depend
on the progressive raising of the beneficiary's
efficiency.
Estimated Cost:                                                (US$ Million)
Local       Foreign       Total
Deferred maintenance        3.9          3.1           7.0
Equipment, vehicles,
tools and spare parts       2.0         15.4          17.4
Technical Assistance        0.4          2.3           2.7
Studies                     0.9          0.9           1.8
7.2        21.7           28.9
Contingencies               4.0          3.4           7.4
Total Project cost         11.2         25.1          36.3
This document has a rutrictai distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their oMcial duties. Its conlents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan:            The Bank would finance US$25.0 million; the Government
would finance the remainder.
Estimated
Disbursements:                                          (US$ Million)
Bank FY   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983
Annual                   3.0   14.3    3.4    3.1    1.2
Cumulative              3.0   17.3   20.7   23.8   25.0
Rate of Return:            The economic rate of return exceeds 100% (the benefit/
cost ratio is about 12/1 and the present value about
US$160 million).
Appraisal Report:          Report No. 2011a-BO dated May 18, 1978.



REPORT' AND RECOMNENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOLIVIA FOR A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Bolivia for the equivalent of US$25.0 million
to help finance a highway maintenance project. The loan would have a term
of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 7.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A report entit:Led "Economic Memorandum on Bolivia" (1546-BO) dated
March 23, 1977, was distributed to the Executive Directors. Country data
sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Despite the increasing importance of petroleum and natural gas
exports, as well as significant mineral deposits, Bolivia remains one of
the poorest countries in South America. The majority of its population is
engaged in traditional a,griculture. Even though Bolivia is one of the world's
foremost exporters of tin, only a small part of the labor force is employed
in the modern sector. Tlhe infrastructure is primitive and the road and
rail networks reach only a fraction of the country. The combination of strong
traditional ties within the indigenous communities and geographic, health
and educational obstacles to population mobility has perpetuated the demogra-
phic concentration on the inhospitable 3,000 to 4,000 m high plateau, the
Altiplano. About half of Bolivia's population lives a physically, culturally
and economically isolated subsistence existence in this region, which is rich
in mineral deposits but limited in agricultural potential.
4.        The 1952 revolution sought to put an end to the dual structure
which had characterized Bolivia's economy since colonial times and to deprive
the landowning and mining oligarchy of its economic base. This objective was
only partially achieved. Progress was made in eradicating feudal relations,
distributing the land and eliminating obstacles to labor mobility. The
agrarian reform and the nationalization of large mines, however, were followed
by falling production. GDP declined in the 1950s and did not recover to its
pre-1952 level until 1961. During the subsequent decade, output increased
steadily at an average annual rate of around 5%, providing for per capita
income increases averaging 2.5% p.a. As a result, GNP per capita, which had
fallen by 24% in the 1952-60 period, recovered to its 1952 level by 1970
and was more equally distributed. However, the momentum of economic growth
was again lost in 1969/71, when political instability led to declining private
investment and deteriorating public finances. The deLerioration of public



-2-
finances reflected a structural problem in the economy. Bolivia's public
sector is proportionately one of the largest in South America and a source of
livelihood for a sizeable segment of the population. With scarce employment
opportunities in the private sector, pressures to expand public employment
proved difficult to resist. Large expenditures on wages and salaries, combined
with a weak tax system, have limited the resources available for public invest-
ment. Moreover, the inability of the public sector to generate adequate
savings limited its capacity to utilize available external capital assistance.
5.        On coming to power in 1971, the present Government faced the need
to provide jobs for the unemployed and to revitalize investment and growth.
Initially, this task was complicated by a sharp deterioration in Bolivia's
terms of trade, which produced a weakening in the balance of payments and a
further deterioration in public finances, eventually leading to a substantial
devaluation in 1972. However, more rational economic policies were put into
effect and a more favorable climate for private investment was established.
New laws offering guarantees and incentives to private investors, especially
in the hydrocarbon field, were promulgated and claims pending from earlier
nationalizations were settled. The Government also improved public adminis-
tration and the pricing policies of some public undertakings. These policies
were successful in increasing private investment and in bolstering the rate of
growth.
6.        A number of important steps have been taken by the Government to
improve the living conditions in both the rural and urban areas. In the urban
sector, a new housing bank was created in 1974 to promote and coordinate the
financial aspects of low-cost housing and infrastructure schemes. In the rural
sector, investment is being directed towards integrated rural development
projects to provide basic social services, infrastructure, and credit and
extension services (see Part III below). More generally, the lack of suffi-
cient public investment projects suitable for external financing, which held
back economic and social development in the 1960s, is being overcome thanks to
efforts on the part of the Government (see paragraphs 13 below).
Recent Economic Developments and Prospects
7.        Bolivia's economic performance has continued to be strongly in-
fluenced by movements in its terms of trade, which have been particularly
volatile in recent years. The sharp increases in petroleum and mineral
prices in 1974 resulted in a major terms of trade gain, which led to a dra-
matic reversal in the balance of payments and increase in foreign exchange
reserves. While GDP increased by about 5%, improvements in the terms of trade
helped raise gross domestic income by more than 20%, permitting a substantial
increase in both consumption and investment. Moreover, this was accomplished
within the context of an unprecedented improvement in public finances. After
current deficits in 1970-73, the Central Government achieved savings equivalent
to one-third of its capital expenditure. For the public sector as a whole,
savings in 1974 exceeded 10% of GDP and covered nearly 90% of capital expendi-
ture. On the balance-of-payments side, a near doubling of exports permitted a
trade surplus which exceeded US$160 million despite a rapid increase in imports.
The current account balance showed a surplus for the first time in decades



despite a rapid increase in imports, and net capital inflows approached
US$90 million, nearly four times their 1973 level, as a result of substan-
tially higher loan disbursements to the public sector and increased foreign
investment associated with hydrocarbon exploration. Consequently, foreign
exchange reserves rose by a record US$112 million.
8.        The extreme dependence of the Bolivian economy on its foreign
sector was once more brought into focus in 1975 and early 1976 as, with
world economic recession, the country's terms of trade deteriorated and
export volumes declined. Mineral export earnings fell by well over 20%
as the weighted average of mineral prices declined by approximately 13%, and
shipments of most minerals fell as a direct result of the recesion and the
selling of speculative stocks on international markets. The situation was
exacerbated by the fact that exportable surpluses of crude petroleum were
reduced significantly for the second year in a row, owing to falling produc-
tion and rapidly rising dlomestic consumption of hydrocarbon derivatives.
While the export situation was helped by a significant price increase for
natural gas exports to Argentina, this did not compensate for the overall
decline in export receipts. On the whole, earnings from merchandise exports
declined by 16% in 1975. On the other hand, growth of GDP and investment
continued unabated. Expenditures for merchandise imports rose by about 41%
as new public investment projects gathered momentum and imports for consumer
durables and motor cars were relaxed. As a result, the balance of payments
current account shifted to a deficit of US$158 million in 1975. Despite
further substantial increases in disbursements of medium-term loans to the
public sector, net foreign exchange reserves fell by US$54 million to
US$134 million, or about three months of imports.
9.        The weakening of the balance of payments in 1975 was accompanied by
a deterioration of the fiLscal situation. The Central Government's budgetary
savings decreased to about 1.7% of GDP and increased borrowing from external
sources and the domestic banking system was necessary to finance growing
public investment, even though some public utilities strengthened their finan-
cial situation through increased rates.
10.       The authorities, reacting to the weakening of the external sector,
took action late in 1975 to tighten import restrictions. The growth in
payments for merchandise imports fell from 41% in 1975 to 9% in 1976 allowing
a US$13 million trade surplus. A small trade surplus was also achieved in
1977. However, largely as a result of rising interest payments, the service
balance deteriorated and the current account showed a deficit of US$184 mil-
lion (5.2% of GDP), the largest in recent times. This deficit was offset
by greatly increased net inflows of long and medium-term capital--a large
part of which was in the form of commercial borrowing. Uncertainty, caused
in part by the presidential elections to be held in July 1978, created
pressure on Bolivia's reserve position during 1977. Thus, despite the strong
performance in world tin prices, Bolivia's net reserves declined by US$150
million over the first 11 months of 1977. However, the country's reserve
losses were reversed in ]December and the balance of payments registered an
overall surplus equivalent to US$8 million for the whole year.



-4-
11.       Public sector performance remained weak during 1977 despite the
expansion of foreign trade activities, the main source of government tax
revenue. The overall public sector deficit exceeded 8% of GDP as in the
two preceding years. This situation is attributable in large measure to
effective pressures from decentralized agencies and state-owned enterprises
on the Government to finance expansion programs. This has been aggravated
by marketing difficulties in the State Rice Enterprise (ENA), in subsidiaries
of the Bolivian Development Corporation (CBF) and by inadequate pricing
policies for hydrocarbon derivatives. At the same time, inadequacies in
public sector financial management, increased availability of freely dispos-
able external credits and an expansionary monetary policy have accommodated
a large increase in total spending which, in turn, led to accelerated price
increases.  The rate of inflation rose from 9% in 1976 to 11% in 1977.  The
La Paz consumer price index, the only official price index, showed considerably
smaller increases, rising by 4-1/2% in 1976 and 8% in 1977.
12.       Since decentralized public enterprises are the main cause of the
public sector's weak financial performance, the Government intends to make
legal changes to allow private sector participation in state concerns.
Furthermore, the Government has taken measures to bring the state enter-
prises under more direct governmental control. The Presidential Directive
No. 2 of September 1977 sets out guidelines aimed at reducing public enter-
prises' excessive expenditures and at improving accounting procedures. It
also establishes a Technical Council on Public Enterprises chaired by the
Minister of Planning. A draft Law on Regional Development Corporations
is under consideration, intended to strengthen investment planning and
budget allocation procedures. In addition, tax administration should become
more effective through a new taxpayer register (that brings professionals
and large farmers on the tax rolls), an increase in the number of firms
subject to external auditing requirements and changes in indirect taxation.
13.       Economic growth prospects over the medium- to longer-term depend
heavily upon the Government's ability to increase export earnings. Mining
and hydrocarbons are likely to be major contributors to the necessary export
expansion. Investment in these sectors has accelerated in recent years.
Major emphasis has been placed on further growth and diversification of mining
output (e.g., zinc, antimony, tungsten and silver) and the development of
related processing industries, particularly metallurgy. The share of mineral
output refined domestically can be expected to increase substantially as a
result of expansion and diversification of refining capacities. Nevertheless,
it appears that the direct contribution to GDP growth and to the balance of
payments derived from the expansion of the metallurgical sector will be
limited at least over the medium term.  Past neglect of exploration and
mine development together with the decreasing ore grade of existing mines
are bound to limit expansion of output volume in the next few years until
new production facilities become operational. Over the longer-term, develop-
ment of Bolivia's mining potential will depend heavily on the scope and
quality of geological work. A minerals exploration fund is being established,
which will provide capital for prospecting and exploration activities espe-
cially to increase mineral reserves in known mining districts. Moreover, a



new mining law now under consideration seeks participation of foreign
investors in exploration and exploitation of mineral deposits including
potentially mineralized areas thus far considered as "fiscal reserves."
At the same time, the law will move Bolivia away from export taxes and
towards taxatV-n of profits.
14.       Explorations for hydrocarbons by the state-owned petroleum company
and private foreign concerns have had only moderately positive results.
A new oil field with immLediate commercial potential was discovered by
Occidental Petroleum in the Tita field in the Department of Santa Cruz.
Occidental's initial oil production this year is targeted at 7,000 barrels
per day, equivalent to 18% of Bolivia's daily output. Tesoro Petroleum
made a gas and petroleum strike in Tarija; the commercial potential of this
field has yet to be assessed. The State Petroleum enterprise has had a few
finds but in complex fractured rock structures with limited yields. Natural
gas discoveries have been more encouraging than crude oil discoveries; gas
reserves have increased from the equivalent of 30 years to 50 years of
production at present extraction levels. A contract has been signed with
Argentina to increase gas exports by 40% to 220 million cubic feet of gas
daily starting May 1979. This represents foreign exchange earnings of about
US$90 million per annum at current prices. There have been difficulties in
finalizing an agreement, made in principle in 1973, in which Bolivia was to
supply 240 million cubic feet of natural gas a day to Brazil in return for
substantial Brazilian assistance with various industrial projects. Thus
Bolivia is not yet realizing its potential earnings from natural gas exports.
15.       In an effort to reduce Bolivia's reliance on mineral and hydro-
carbon exports, the Government passed a law on Fiscal Incentives for Non-
traditional Exports in August 1977. These incentives are mainly intended for
agricultural products. Their impact is likely to be limited, in the short
term, however, in part because of the need to improve quality in order to
meet export market standards and to establish marketing arrangements.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
16.       Bolivia's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the end
of 1977 amounted to 1.4 billion and the service on this debt represented 19%
of exports of goods and non-factor services in that year. (When other medium
*           and long-term debts are included, the debt service ratio rises to 22%.)  As a
result of increased borrowing from commercial banks and suppliers' credits
over the last few years, the structure of the external debt has been worsen-
ing.  Thus, between 1971 and 1977 the average maturity of public sector
borrowing has decreased from 24 to 12 years, while the interest rate has
risen from 4.5% to 7.2% and the grant element of new loans fell from 36%
to 13%. This is a natural consequence of Bolivia's greater development
effort and increasing re!liance on the private financial markets. Because
of the heavy investment requirements associated with development of the
mining and hydrocarbon sectors and the large import content of these invest-
ments, Bolivia's trade gap and current account deficit can be expected to
rise for the next few years. The public debt service ratio is expected
to increase significantly over the next few years. However, as investments



-6-
in these sectors come to fruition, exports should accelerate. A gradual fall
in the debt service ratio is therefore to be expected in the later 1980s.
In view of the nature and growing size of Bolivia's debt, prudence in
selecting and investment external capital will be essential.
17.       Bolivia enjoys a substantial resource base in agriculture, minerals
and hydrocarbons which has to be developed to sustain rapid growth and, in
particular, rapid expansion of export earnings in the foreseeable future.
Bolivia can be considered creditworthy for some external lending on conven-
tional terms, as present policies designed to diversify and augment production
in the export sectors--including particularly mining, hydrocarbons and agri-
culture--continue.  The price of tin, the country's main source of exchange
earnings, depend on the investment cycle of industrialized countries as well
as on the stockpile policy of the United States. Bolivia's external dependence
on few nonferrous metals and minerals makes the balance of payments parti-
cularly vulnerable to market fluctuations, and this lowers the ratio of debt
service to exports that may be considered consistent with prudent debt
management. This consideration, together with Bolivia's somewhat constrained
capacity to generate additional savings, argue for a mix of lending on
conventional terms with some concessional loans. This is particularly the
case at a time when Bolivia's capacity to use foreign capital to good advantage
has expanded more rapidly than has its debt servicing potential. The review
of Bolivia's investment program by the Interim Consultative Group Meeting in
La Paz during April 3, and 4, 1978, led to the conclusion that the country
may be entering an adjustment period with somewhat lower rates of economic
growth and greater need for financial stability; a downward adjustment of
the ambitious targets set in the Five Year Socio-economic Development Plan
will be necessary.  Donors and the Bolivian authorities agreed to strengthen
their cooperation so as to ensure that the projects and programs with
external financing are both well planned and responsive to the country's
development objectives.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
18.       Although Bolivia is an original member of the Bank, it did not
obtain any Bank Group funds until 1964. Bolivia's tight budget constraints
and restricted capacity to service external debt have limited Bank Group
assistance until recently. Apart from a Bank loan for a gas pipeline,
Bank Group operations until FY75 were exclusively through IDA. After
Bolivia started to export, in small quantities, natural gas and petro-
leum, IDA's lending was reduced. To date, the Bank Group has approved
23 operations for Bolivia amounting to US$295.1 million, of which seven
have been fully disbursed. Net of undisbursed balances, Bolivia's debt
to the Bank and IDA in 1975/75 represented 7.2% of its public debt. The
Bank's share of the service on this debt is about 3%. Both figures are
expected to increase marginally by 1980.
19.       Bank Group lending to Bolivia has assisted in the development of
several sectors. US$45.2 million have been for agriculture where our lending
has helped the Government to initiate long term progress for the development



- 7 -
of a viable livestock industry, to increase agricultural, and alpaca and llama
wool production and to improve living conditions on the Altiplano, as well as
to strengthen the Agricultural Bank of Bolivia as a development institution.
The five credits for power projects, totalling US$53.4 million, have been
instrumental in modernizing the sector, expanding electricity services,
stabilizing the electricity supply and setting up a regulatory agency. Also,
a public power company was set up which has been operated in an efficient and
financially sound manner. A US$23.3 million loan was made for the construc-
tion of a gas pipeline from the Santa Cruz area to the border with Argentina.
Two loans and a credit for railways totalling US$75.0 million, of which
US$3.3 million were cancelled when the Borrower obtained funds from bilateral
sources to purchase locomotives, have helped to improve the quality of manage-
ment, efficiency of operaLtions and financial condition of the national railways.
A recently approved aviation development project will assist Bolivia's efforts
to develop agriculture in hitherto isolated areas and to provide efficient
freight and passenger traLnsportation. Three operations, for a total of
US$28.2 million, for medium- and small-scale mining aim at increased production
and improved sectoral coordination. A loan for a water supply and sewerage
project of US$11.5 million is expected to improve services in 70 rural communi-
ties. A loan of US$15 million for an education and vocational training
project will assist Bolivria to develop its human resources in a more effective
and rational way. Finally, a loan of US$17 million will help Bolivia to
mitigate the serious urban problems in La Paz and improve the living conditions
of the urban poor particularly in that city.
20.       Because of the narrow scope for private investment, IFC became
active in Bolivia only in 1973 through an investment of US$400,000 in a firm
producing cables and plastic products. Three IFC investments since then
have contributed to the establishment of a local market for long-term securi-
ties: an equity participation of up to US$550,000 in Banco Industrial S.A.
(BISA) in conjunction with a Bank loan of US$10.0 million for the same insti-
tution to assist in financing medium-sized industrial and mining enterprises;
an equity participation of US$337,500 in Banco Hipotecario Nacional to assist
in the development of mortgage banking; and a loan of US$2.3 million for a
72,000 metric tons per year mill for wheat and quinoa. Annex II contains a
summary statement of the status of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments
as of March 31, 1978, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
21.       Remarkable progress has been made in achieving the goals set for
Bank lending to Bolivia. On the macro-economic level, the Government has
made important strides towards formulating a coherent and consistent set of
overall economic policies.  On the sector and project level, public services
have been improved and the institutions strengthened. The financial position
of the railroads and power sectors compare favorably with that of similar
entities in other developing countries. Also, during the last two years, the
Government has established an excellent record in providing the required
counterpart funds for Bank-financed projects. Future Bank lending will con-
tinue to support Government efforts to establish infrastructure necessary for
sustained economic development while simultaneously improving the distribution
of the benefits of economic growth. In this context, recent Bank activities
have focused on the less developed regions and the lower income strata of the
population. At present, rural development, mining, industry, irrigation,
electric energy, railways and forestry projects are under preparation.



-8-
PART III - THE TRANSPORTATION SECTOR
General
22.       Bolivia, with an area of 1.1 million km2, is geographically divided
into the barren highland plateau, or Altiplano, the Andean valleys and the
lowlands. Population is concentrated in the Altiplano and the valleys.
Mineral exports are generated in the Altiplano; agricultural exports in the
eastern lowlands.
23.       Transportation in Bolivia is difficult and costly because of the
exceptionally difficult topography and the long distances among population
centers. Investments in transport required are relatively larger in Bolivia
than in other countries, making analysis and planning of modal allocation
particularly important. The major transport modes have played complementary
roles to meet particular requirements: railways, for Bolivia's export trade
of mineral products; domestic aviation, for passengers and perishable goods,
particularly beef; roads, mostly for domestic freight and passengers; waterways,
to provide access to otherwise isolated towns and villages in the lowlands;
and pipelines, to carry oil and gas.
24.       Since Bolivia relies heavily on exports and imports for the develop-
ment of its economy, the provision of reliable external trade routes assumes
particular importance. Being a mediterranean country, Bolivia has sought to
link its transport network with those of neighboring countries and to diversify
and modernize access routes to the Atlantic and the Pacific. It has relied
mostly on railways for this purpose. This reliance would persist in the
future while road transport may gradually play a more important role, especially
with respect to regional trade.
25.       The Ministry of Transport, Communications and Civil Aviation (MTCCA)
is responsible for planning and investment in the sector, except for pipelines
which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons. The
railways and the major airline are Government owned.
The Transport System
Railways
26.       Bolivia's railways consists of two meter-gauge systems linked
through Argentina: the 1,300 km Eastern system and the 2,100 km Western
system. External trade accounts for respectively 80% and 90% of freight
traffic by system. The Western system largely serves to transport mineral
products from the Altiplano to the Pacific Coast. It is also an important
transport mode for the rural poor. The Eastern system connects with the
Brazilian and the Argentine systems; it is the most important mode of surface
transport in the lowlands, where most of the agricultural exports originate.



- 9 -
27.       Since 1972, the Bank Group has partly financed three projects
of the Bolivian Railways (Credit 346-BO, US$8 million, December 1972; Loan
1121-BO, US$28.7 million, August 1975; and Loan 1422-BO, US$35 million, June
1977) consisting of the rehabilitation and modernization of track, rolling
stock, motive 1ower and workshops, and in technical assistance. The first
project has been completed satisfactorily; implementation of the second
project is well advanced; implementation of the third project is proceeding
satisfactorily. The third project includes a National Transport Survey and
initial technical assistance for highway maintenance.
Waterways
28.       The river transport system is made up of about 1,600 km of inland
waterways in eastern ancl northern Bolivia. Although quantities moved by
river are relatively small, river navigation plays a vital role in providing
access to isolated towns. Lake Titicaca is part of an important transport
corridor to the Pacific.
Aviation
29.       Air transport is a vital means of communication in Bolivia and is
likely to remain so because of the country's topography and population disper-
sion. There are approx:imately 300 airports in the country; 30 with scheduled
service.  Airports at La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and Trinidad account for
more than 80% of the regular passenger and 70% of the cargo traffic. Virtually
all other airports are in poor condition and can accept only small propeller-
driven aircraft. Demand for air transport has increased rapidly in the recent
past. The main objective of the Aviation Development Project (Loan 1423-BO,
US$25 million, June 1977) is to facilitate growth in domestic air transport by
adding two airports for jet aircraft and two smaller all-weather airports for
turbo-prop aircraft.
Pipelines
30.       The state oil company operates about 2,500 km of oil and 750 km of gas
pipelines. The oil pipelines run from the major production fields in the
lowlands to the Pacific seaport of Arica and to the Argentine border. A pipe-
line partly financed by the Bank (Loan 635-BO, US$23.25 million, September 23,
1971) carries natural gas to Argentina. Depending on the success of intensive
exploration efforts now under way and the confirmation of identified reserves,
significant new pipelin,e construction, especially to Brazil, may be undertaken.
Highways
31.       The highway sector is discussed in Section IV.



- 10 -
The Development Plan
32.       The Government's transport strategy as presented in the  Development
Plan (1976-1980) can be summarized as follows:  (a) establish a comprehensive
transportation system within the country and maintain adequate international
links; (b) continue the rehabilitation and modernization of the rail system,
particularly to serve the export-import needs; (c) extend and improve the
highway network to serve the needs of local and regional trade and to provide
rural communities with better access to markets and services; (d) upgrade and
modernize aviation infrastructure, particularly in the north and northeast;
(e) improve the river transport system to assist the social and economic
integration of the northeast; and (f) improve fleet and facilities in Lake
Titicaca.
33.       This strategy had to be translated into specific programs and
policies. This was achieved only partly in the Plan, which was mostly a list
of perceived investment requirements. The Plan addresses itself primarily
to new construction, but at present, the Government is giving increasing
emphasis to rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing infrastructure,
particularly highways. Transport investments in the Plan make up almost 20%
of total public sector investment.
Transport Planning and Coordination
34.       Transport planning and coordination in Bolivia has been weak.  In an
attempt to correct this deficiency, the UNDP financed a national transport
study, with the Bank acting as executing agency, which was completed in 1969.
It proposed a program for integrated transport development over the following
ten years. Most of the works recommended by the study have either been
started or included in the 1976-1980 Development Plan. Following one of the
recommendations of the study a Directorate of Planning and Coordination was
created and is now part of the MTCCA.
35.       At present, there is insufficient knowledge about transport facil-
ities and equipment, and their condition and ability to meet expected demands.
Although studies for individual projects have been undertaken, there has not
been sufficient coordination among them. The Government has decided to
undertake a National Transport Survey, to be carried out by the Directorate of
Planning and Coordination with assistance of consultants. The Survey is to be
financed partly under Bank loan 1422-BO ($1.5 million) and by an UNDP grant
($250,000), for which the Bank is executing agency. The Survey would provide
the necessary basis to plan further development of the transport infrastructure
and to define and introduce improved sector management policies. The Survey
is to start in mid 1978. Phase I of the Survey, which would be completed by
December 31, 1979, will involve the preparation of a comprehensive report on
transport development and policies; Phase II, which would be completed by
December 31, 1981, the implementation of policy recommendations. The Bank has
already proceeded with the selection of consultants and initiated contract
negotiations. The Government has agreed to consult the Bank on the measures
required to carry out the recommendations of the Survey (Section 4.05(b) of
the draft Loan Agreement).



- 11 -
PART IV - THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
The Highway Network
36.       Bolivia has a hiLghway network, under the jurisdiction of the National
Highway Service (SNC), totaling about 38,000 km, of which 3% is paved, 18%
gravel surfaced, and the remaining 79% earth roads. The highlands benefit
from 50% of the roads, the valleys 34% and the lowlands 16%. The network in
the highlands is well integrated. The rest of the network is composed of
branches often lacking adequate connections with each other and frequently
closed during the rainy season. Despite considerable investment undertaken
over the last ten years, many productive areas are still not connected to the
network and most of the roads have low standards and are generally in poor
condition. There is a need for added emphasis on maintenance, rehabilitation
and upgrading of existing roads, as well as construction of additional road
links.
Road Traffic and Overload:ng
37.       Road transport hias expanded rapidly in recent years; total vehicle
fleet increased by 9% per year from 1970 to 1975, to about 70,000 vehicles.
Of these, 70% are light vehicles, 25% trucks and 5% buses. Over the period
1970/76, the annual average consumption of gasoline increased 7%, and of
diesel oil 15%.
38.       An axle load survey was conducted in 1976 and suggests that overload-
ing is about 20%. The effort to improve highway maintenance would have to be
combined with a program to control widespread overloading of trucks. Legisla-
tion regulates dimensions and weight of vehicles. Enforcement, entrusted to
SNC, has so far never been attempted on a continuing basis. SNC would, there-
fore, have to develop the necessary organization, which, in view of the rela-
tive low volume of traffic and the high cost of permanent enforcement, would
require careful planning and evaluation. The National Transport Survey would,
in its initial phase, analyze the most effective way to control overloading
and facilitate development of an enforcement program. A program, satisfactory
to the Bank, for the enforcement of vehicle dimension and axle load regulations
throughout Bolivia would be adopted at the time of issuance of the final
report on Phase I of the Survey, expected December 31, 1979; enforcement of
the plan would commence three months later (Section 4.05 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
Highway Administration
39.       Bolivian highways are managed by SNC, a semi-autonomous agency under
the MTCCA. SNC originated from a Bolivian-American Highway Cooperative Service
and was established in 1955 with the assistance of the Federal Highway Admin-
istration under a USAID pirogram. SNC's organizational structure is basically
sound but needs to be strengthened. SNC has been overburdened with force
account construction works which taxed its managerial capabilities heavily,
resulting in a growing neglect of its maintenance obligations. The Govern-
ment is aware of the need to re-direct SNC's activities and plans to curtail



- 12 -
4C's direct involvement in construction and to strengthen its maintenance
capacity. SNC's field operations are hindered by an insufficient number of
t---ined mid-level technicians and foremen, in spite that a training center
was established in 1973 to remedy this deficiency and to train operators and
mechanics.
Highway Planning and Financing
40.       SNC is responsible for preparation of investment programs to be
submitted through MTCCA to the National Planning Council. The planning
department is presently understaffed to carry out its many tasks satisfac-
torily. The National Transport Survey and the technical assistance under
the proposed project would help strengthen it.
41.       Highway expenditures for the period 1971-1976, comprising construc-
tion, improvements, maintenance and administration have increased steadily
from US$13.8 million in 1971 to US$43 million in 1976. These expenditures
have been financed from earmarked road user charges (6%), from the national
budget (73%) and from external sources (21%). The revenues from existing
road user charges have, on the average, been sufficient to cover all highway
expenditures, including construction.
Highway Engineering and Construction
42.       Engineering design work by SNC staff has been limited to minor
projects and has been of adequate quality. Over the last decade SNC has
increasingly used consultants for engineering of large and medium size projects.
Traditionally, SNC has carried out rehabilitation and construction of secondary
and tertiary roads by force account through special regional units under a
project manager. A greater use of contractors will be made as SNC maintenance
effort increases. Until recently, the capacity of the national road construc-
tion industry has been sufficient, but the planned expanded activity in this
field will require participation of foreign contractors. The National
Transport Survey will address itself to the need to develop further the
domestic construction industry, including strengthening of its managerial
capability and technical know-how.
Highway Maintenance
43.       Road maintenance is financed under the SNC budget and carried out
by SNC's maintenance department through its nine field districts. SNC's annual
road maintenance program recognizes three levels of maintenance depending
on the road's traffic density: (a) permanent maintenance, carried out on 21%
of the road network; (b) temporary maintenance carried out on 20% of the
network; and (c) occasional maintenance carried out on 59% of the network.
Road maintenance expenditures remained almost constant during the early 1970s
and started to increase by about 10% per year since 1974, reaching US$7.6
million in 1976. The average annual road maintenance expenditures amount to
US$217/km, are still very low and not adequately distributed.
44.       A review of SNC maintenance operations showed that the volume of
maintenance is deficient and that maintenance policies and practices are not
fully adequate. The main shortcomings are: (a) maintenance of paved roads,



- 13 -
mostly surface treatments, is limited to some patching and surface dressing.
Periodic operations, e.g., patching, seal coat, surface treatments are
neglected as well as rehabilitation and strengthening; shoulder maintenance
is also inadequate; (b) maaintenance of gravel roads is impeded mainly because
high surface r ughness resulting from the use of oversized materials cannot be
diminished effectively, even by frequent grading; and (c) earth road mainte-
nance is widely neglected because of lack of equipment. The resulting surface
deformation and the lack of adequate drainage and slide controls cause high
operating costs and, also, extensive interruptions of traffic during the
rainy season.
Labor-intensive Maintenance
45.       The intensive use of labor in road maintenance is quite common in
Bolivia. The main sourcie of labor evolves from the duty of every citizen
between the ages of 18 and 60 to work for three days per year on road construc-
tion or maintenance.  This three-day highway service can be avoided by paying
a tax of the equivalent of US$0.50 per year, which SNC is proposing to raise
to US$5 per year, to increase the number of people willing to work. Another
source of free labor used with varying success is manpower supplied by some
well-organized rural communities, either on a voluntary basis or in exchange
for equipment hours from SNC. The tax-induced as well as the community-supplied
laborers are mostly unskilled and very often do not receive adequate tools for
their assigned tasks. These tasks are mainly right-of-way clearance, some of
the drainage maintenance, and most of the occasional maintenance.
PAART V - THE PROJECT
Project Development and Preparation
46.       A report entitled "Staff Appraisal of a Highway Maintenance Project,"
No. 2011a-BO, dated May 18, 1978, is being distributed separately. A Supple-
mentary Project Data Sheet is presented in Annex III. The project has been
prepared by SNC, with assistance from Bank staff. Negotiations were held
in Washington from May 2 to 8, 1978; the Bolivian delegation was headed by
Mr. Fernando Anker, Assistant Director, National External Financing Institute.
47.       At the time of the formulation of the current Development Plan, the
Government recognized that the upgrading and expansion of the road network
would have to be accompa,nied by improvements in road maintenance. The Bank's
April 1976 transport sector mission confirmed the priority of maintenance.
The Government subsequently requested Bank assistance in this field to
complement ongoing and planned assistance from IDB (highway construction) and
USAID (feeder road construction). The expansion of SNC's maintenance capacity
is perceived as a long-term objective to be achieved gradually, starting with
the improvement of field operations in key districts and leading eventually to
the preparation of a countrywide program for road maintenance, rehabilitation
and upgrading.



- 14 -
48.       The proposed project, which would be the Bank's first involvement in
Bolivia's highway sector, has two primary objectives: a) to carry out four-
year road maintenance programs in the districts of La Paz, Cochabamba and
Santa Cruz of about 15,000 kms of roads, including deferred maintenance programs
of about 2,000 kms; and b) to strengthen SNC. The roads covered are about 40%
of the national network and carry 75% of the traffic. The Development Plan
puts major emphasis on development in these three districts, which comprise the
most important urban, industrial and agricultural areas and represent Bolivia's
three distinct geographic regions. To achieve the project objectives, there
will be a need to acquire new, and overhaul existing, equipment, to implement
improved maintenance methods and to train personnel.
49.       The project components are:
(a) implementation, in the three project districts, of
four-year programs of current and deferred maintenance;
(b) acquisition of equipment and vehicles to complete and expand,
as necessary, the maintenance facilities in the three project
districts;
(c) acquisition of spare parts for preventive maintenance and
major overhauls, and construction or expansion of workshops and
warehouses;
(d) acquisition of training equipment and tools, traffic counters
and specialized equipment for the SNC soil laboratory, and of
hand tools for labor intensive maintenance operations; and
(e) consultant services for technical assistance at SNC headquarters
and in the project districts, and for engineering and economic
studies to prepare a program for rehabilitating and upgrading of
earth, gravel and paved roads.
Following acquisition of the necessary equipment during mid-1978 to mid-1979
field work would be carried out over the period mid-1979 to mid-1983.
The Four-Year Maintenance Program
50.       Surface-treated highways with satisfactory subgrade conditions in La
Paz district require intensive patching, whereas the surface-treated highways
in Cochabamba and Santa Cruz districts require rehabilitation and would be
maintained with the present policy of limited patching. The rehabilitation
of these roads would be studied under the project. The new asphalt concrete
highways in the Cochabamba and Santa Cruz districts require patching of a few
cracks. All surface-treated highways would receive regular right-of-way,
shoulders and drainage maintenance. SNC has accumulated a backlog of periodic
maintenance of surface-treated highways, which is to be eliminated by carrying
out maintenance above normal requirements on about 700 km of paved roads
during the project.



- 15 -
51.       All gravel roads with average daily traffic above 20 vehicles per
day in La Paz and CochabamLba districts and above 50 in Santa Cruz district
would be resurfaced with graded crushed or screened materials of much smaller
size than the coarse gravel currently used and would be watered and compacted
every third grading. Gravel roads with less traffic would not be resurfaced.
Each gravel road would receive one grading for every 7,000 to every 11,000
vehicle passes. Regular mkaintenance of gravel roads would stay at its present
level, but greater use of labor-intensive methods would be made. There is
also a backlog of adequate surfacing of gravel roads, which calls for surfacing
of about 1,400 km above normal requirements during the project implementation
period.
52.       Earth roads will receive grading frequencies increasing from its
present low level of one grading every 11,000 vehicle passes to frequencies
ranging from one grading every 1,500 to 4,000 vehicle passes, according
to their particular characteristics. Regular maintenance would be substan-
tially increased, mainly through labor-intensive methods.
53.       Average annual road maintenance expenditures in the three districts,
excluding deferred maintenance, would be about US$380/km, at the end of the
project. SNC would prepare detailed annual maintenance work programs for the
three project districts, and consult with the Bank on the scope and content of
these programs before including them in the SNC budget; for deferred mainte-
nance the programs would have to be approved by the Bank (Section 3.04 of the
draft Loan Agreement). SNC maintenance includes minor improvement works.
These works would be 10% or less than SNC budget for the project (Section 3.03
of the draft Loan Agreement).
Equipment
54.       The project would provide the equipment and vehicles required to
carry out the maintenance programs through the purchase of new equipment and
the overhauling of existing salvageable equipment; obsolete equipment would
be scrapped. The lists of equipment and vehicles, and the requirements for
tools and spare parts were reviewed and agreed during negotiations. In
addition, SNC would prepare by September 30, 1978, with the help of the
initial technical assistance provided under the Third Railway Project, a
detailed list of equipment units to be overhauled and start implementation of
a systematic scrapping program of obsolete units by July 1, 1979 (Section
3.05(a) of the draft Loan Agreement). The maintenance equipment, overhauled or
purchased under the project, would be used exclusively for limited improvement
and maintenance of roads in the three districts, and no further acquisitions of
maintenance equipment, would be made over the project period without prior
information of the Bank (Section 3.05(b) of draft Loan Agreement).
Workshops and Spare Parts
55.       To improve equipment availability, the project would include:
(a) expansion of existing workshops and warehouses in Cochabamba and Santa
Cruz and construction of new facilities in La Paz; (b) provision of work-
shop tools and equipment in the three districts and for the central workshop
at El Alto; (c) provision, of spare parts for preventive maintenance; and
(d) improvement of workshop and warehousing practices and management. SNC



- 16 -
-uld take all action necessary to ensure proper maintenance and repairs of
1_S equipment and vehicles; the Government would provide SNC sufficient funds
for the purchase of spare parts (Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement).
It wouid be a condition for disbursement for spare parts that SNC reorganizes
its supply and distribution system for spare parts in the three project dis-
tricts (Schedule 1, para. 4(ii) of the draft Loan Agreement).
Tools and Equipment for Labor Intensive Activities
56.       The project would assist in the efficient utilization of labor for
road maintenance operations, including highway service labor and community
labor, by providing technical assistance to improve the management of these
operations and an adequate supply of hand tools. In addition, the project
would provide intermediate technology equipment, such as agricultural tractors
with trailers, towed graders and drags, to be used independently or in com-
bination with hand labor in the maintenance of earth and gravel roads.
Training
57.       Although SNC is a well established organization, its manpower is
relatively poorly trained and accustomed to working under conditions not
conducive to efficiency. Training and introduction of improved planning and
management methods are necessary for long-term improvement of SNC's maintenance
capacity. SNC, with the assistance of consultants, would: (a) establish a
permanent training unit responsible for planning, implementing and supervising
all training activities; (b) expand and broaden the activities of its Training
Center and carry out a program for the training of about 1,000 equipment opera-
tors and drivers, mechanics, road and equipment supervisors and administrative/
accounting staff; (c) organize periodic workshops and seminars on maintenance-
related topics for middle and high level staff; and (d) prepare a five-year
manpower development program giving consideration to SNC's nationwide require-
ments. SNC would furnish to the Bank before December 31, 1978, a plan of
action to meet the above objectives. SNC would also undertake to carry out
a review of its personnel management policies to identify necessary improve-
ments, to be furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 1979 (Section
4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Technical Assistance
58.       Technical assistance would be provided in the following areas:
(a) maintenance organization and management; (b) maintenance programming;
(c) warehousing and workshop practices; (d) personnel training; (e) super-
vision of the deferred maintenance program; and (f) preparation of a country-
wide road maintenance project. Fourteen experts would be required over a
four-year project period for a total of about 350 man-months.
59.       Technical assistance to SNC is crucial for the successful implemen-
tation of the project. SNC would make available experienced counterpart staff
for the technical assistance provided under the project (Section 3.02(b) of
draft Loan Agreement), as well as that provided under the Third Railway Project.
The number and qualifications of the counterpart staff have been discussed and
agreed upon. A condition of effectiveness would be that SNC makes available
key counterpart staff (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 17 -
Preparation of Road Rehabilitation and Upgrading Program
60.       In order to meet high priority requirements identified during
project preparation, the proposed project includes detailed engineering and
additional eco-omic studies necessary to prepare a program for rehabilitation
and upgrading of about 3C0 km of paved roads and 900 km of earth and gravel
roads. The specific list of studies to be prepared would be established by
SNC in agreement with the Bank in the light of the recommendations of Phase I
of the National Transport Survey (Section 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
These studies would be carried out by consultants financed under the project.
Project Cost, Financing and Disbursements
61.       Total project costs would be about US$36 million.  The foreign
exchange component would be financed by a Bank loan of US$25 million. The
Government would finance the balance, as well as $22 million of recurrent
maintenance expenditures. The estimates for the technical assistance and
engineering services are based on recent contract negotiations by SNC, and
average about US$3,000 per month equivalent for Bolivian experts and US$7,800
for foreign experts.
62.       The proposed maintenance program would be in line with SNC's operat-
ing capacity; maintenance in other districts would be kept at least at present
levels (Section 4.06 of the draft-Loan Agreement). The Government has confirmed
that the funds needed to carry out the project in the three districts would
be provided promptly as needed to SNC (Section 3.01 of the draft Loan Agreement).
63.       Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:  (a) 100% of
foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures for equipment, vehicles,
tools and spare parts; (b) 46% of total expenditures for construction and
expansion of workshops and warehouses and for deferred maintenance; (c) 100%
of foreign expenditures or 85% of total expenditures for technical assistance;
and (d) 100% of foreign expenditures on 46% of total expenditures for consultant
services. Disbursements for deferred maintenance by force account would be
supported by monthly certificates approved by consultants financed under the
project.
Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
64.       SNC would be responsible for the execution of the project.  The
technical assistance services would be provided by consultants acceptable to
the Bank under terms of reference which were discussed during negotiations.
The scope of the technical assistance required calls for an established
international firm. Consulting services for road studies would normally be
entrusted to local firms or joint ventures of foreign and local firms, selected
following SNC established procedures. SNC would employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment be satis-
factory to the Bank (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
65.       The procurement: program for equipment, parts and tools, indicating
lot sizes and estimated costs, would be subject to prior approval by the Bank.
Contracts with estimated value of over US$50,000 would be awarded through



- 18 -
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines
for Procurement". Lots with estimated values of less than US$50,000 and
within an overall ceiling of US$1 million, would be advertised locally follow-
ing SNC's procurement regulations, which are satisfactory. When necesssary,
spare parts for specific makes of equipment, for individual orders of less
than US$50,000 and within an overall ceiling of US$250,000, would be procured
directly from established dealers in accordance with SNC regulations. Construc-
tion and expansion of workshops and warehouses would also be procured in
accordance with SNC regulations. Bids would be advertised locally since only
local contractors would be interested in these small-scale works.
66.       The progress of the project in each district would be monitored
through indicators covering (a) the volume of maintenance operations performed;
and (b) the efficiency of the equipment, assessed through systematic control
of equipment availability and utilization.
Project Risks
67.       Risks are limited and derive in part from the fact that this would
be the Bank's first project with SNC. It is possible that the implementation
of the specific maintenance programs would encounter delays. The annual
targets for the maintenance programs for the three districts take into account
the fact that the full development of the operational capacity and efficiency
of the districts would be realized gradually over the project implementation
period. Improvements in efficiency, however, may lag, unabling SNC to meet
fully the annual targets. In addition, delays in project execution could
ensue if the economic situation deteriorated so as to make impossible for the
Government to provide the required budgetary funds.
Economic Evaluation
68.       The evaluation was carried out by means of the Bank's Highway Design
and Maintenance Standard Model, adapted to Bolivian road conditions. The
Model has been used to simulate total costs for road maintenance and vehicle
operation of the "without" and "with" project cases over on assumed seven-year
economic life corresponding to the average economic life of the vehicles, and
equipment provided under the project. Benefits from implementing the project
were assumed to occur on account of reduced vehicle operating costs. On average,
about 12% of vehicle operating costs is saved by carrying out the project.
Benefits not quantified in the evaluation are reduced passenger time costs,
decreased or prevented economic loss due to road closures and reduced accident
costs. Road maintenance in the other districts, although not the object of
specific improved programs at this stage, would benefit from project measures
dealing with SNC central organization: improvements in the Central Workshop,
in the countrywide training of maintenance personnel and the systematic
exchange at a national level of maintenance information and experience in
periodic workshops and seminars. The evaluation performed is therefore
conservative.
69.       The proposed highway maintenance program is clearly well justified
with an overall benefit/cost ratio of about 12/1 and a net present value esti-
mated at about US$160 million when an 11% opportunity cost of capital was



- 19 -
used. The corresponding results for the three districts show a benefit/cost
ratio of about 16/1 for La Paz, of about 7/1 for Cochabamba and of about 8/1
for Santa Cruz districts with a net present value estimated at about US$112
million for La Paz, US$15 million for Cochabamba and US$37 million for Santa
Cruz districts respectively. Thus, for the project as a whole, the economic
rate of return would be well in excess of 100%. These high rates of return
reflect, of course, the fact that a small investment would permit to preserve
the productive capacity of the large investment made in highway construction.
70.       Sensitivity tests applied to the economic evaluation consider a
25% decrease in benefits and a two-year delay in the completion of the project.
The overall benefit/cost rartio would be about 9/1 and the net present value
about US$120 for the benefit decrease hypothesis, and 11/1 and US$116 million
respectively for the delay hypothesis, thus indicating that the project would
still be well justified.
71.       Most of the benefits resulting from savings in vehicle operating
costs would initially accrle to the road transport industry. Rates are fixed
by the Government; they are reasonable and have been virtually unchanged since
1973 despite substantial price increases for oil products in 1975. Under
the prevailing circumstances, it is likely that savings in vehicle operating
costs due to improved maintenance would be, to a significant degree, progres-
sively passed on to shippers, farmers and passengers over the project period
in the form of reductions or, more probably, avoided increases in rates for
road transport services. In addition to the benefits to be derived from
reduced rates, farmers would benefit from the increased availability of
transport; they are now suffering from the reluctance on the part of the
vehicle owners to travel over poorly or not maintained rural roads, parti-
cularly during the rainy season. The quality of service would also be sub-
stantially improved, bringing additional transport safety and punctuality,
as well as important passenger time savings, to the rural population.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Bolivia and the
Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
73.       In addition to the features of the Loan Agreement which are referred
to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, the following features
are of particular interest: (a) a condition of effectiveness is that SNC has
made available the required counterpart personnel to the technical assistance
consultants (Section 5.01 of the draft Loan Agreement); and (b) a condition of
disbursement for the spare parts component would be that SNC reorganizes its
supply and distribution system for spare parts in the three project districts
(Schedule 1, para. 4 of the draft Loan Agreement).



- 20 -
74.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATIONS
75.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
Page 1
TABLE 3AP
BOLIVIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                     --------------------------------------------
BOLIVIA                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     1098.6                                       MOST RECENT
AGRIC.      304.8                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE           CAMEROON       HONDURAS       PERU**
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     130.0      220.0     390.0             200.0        250.0       470.0
POPULATION AND VItAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            3.8        4.9         5.8*              6.8         2.5        13.3
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                        3.0        4.0       5.0                14.0        22.0        10.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        13.0      16.0       19.0                44.0        89.0       44.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE 1IRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         46.6       44.4      44.0                42.1        51.5       42.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          22.5       19.7      19.1                23.9        19.1        14.7
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)          ..     154.0         ..                  ..          ..       65.1/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       42.3       45.3      46.8                41.0        49.4       58.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ,.        2.8       2.8                 2.7         3.4         2.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 2.4        2.6       2.7                 1.8         2.7/a      2.8
URBAN                                 3.6        4.2       4.1                 6.1          ,.        4-7/b
URBAN POPULATION (X OF TOTAL)          29.2      32.3       34.0                20.5          ,,        52.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       42.4      41.9       41.6                43.0       48.1        45.0/a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       54.0      54.6       54.9                54.0       49.2        51.9/ai
65 YEARS AND OVER                     3.6        3.5       3.5                 3.0         2.7        3.l/a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.9        0.8        0.8                0.9         1.0         0.9/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0/a      1.0/a      1.0/a              1.2         1.5/b       t.5fa,b
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           ..         ..         ..                 ..       20.7
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..         ..         ..                 ..
EMPLOYMENT
__________
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         2000.0/b  2300.0    2500.0               3300.0       700.0/C   4300,0/a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (X)         67 .05' c 65.0/b    65.0/b               82.0       62.3f5      45.0
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)          14.0/g    16.0        11.0                 ..         8.0        4,7
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
K OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       36.0         ..                 .,       26. o/d
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       59.0        ..                  ..       60.6/t
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        4.0         ..                 ..2.
LaCEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..       13.0         ..                 ..
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..         ..                 ..
X OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..         ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             31700.0 /d 2300.0   2120.0             25960.0      3710.0 /e  1920.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON            ,,    2730.0    2370.0 /c           2470.0      9120.0      3200.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           580.0      490.0         .               480.0      570.0       470.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         69.0       76.0     77.0                98.0        99.0       99.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)             44.8/e    46.0       48.5                59.0        58.0        62.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        13.3fe    14.0 /d  14.4                  23.0/a    25.0          24.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4            11.0/b      7.4         *.                 ..       10.0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       64.0       68.0     74.0               100.0        94.0       107.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     12.0       21.0        ..                9.0        12.0        36.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             12.0       10.0     10.0                14.0 /b     12.0        12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                     14.0       11.0/e      ..               23.0        18.0        17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (X)                  ..       40.0        ..                12.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ,.         ..         ..                ..
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (X)                      89.0 /d      ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(X OF ALL OWELLINGS)                 22.0 /d                    ..         ..              ..
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (X)                    8.0 /d      ,.        ..                  ..
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)         73.0        ..      78.0                36.0        57.0       134.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)           3.0       4.0         ..                8.0         5.0        17.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)          11B.0     16O.0      177.0              201.0       127.0       415.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               1.0        1.0       0.9                  .         1.1         3,7
-____------------------------------_-_---_-_-_---_-_-_----_-_-_---_-_________--------- -- -
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yer between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1969 and 1971 and for Most Recent Estimates between
1973 ad 1 976.
* Provisional results of Bolivia's 1976 population census give 4.647 millions.
55 Peru has been selected as an objective country because of similar natural conditions end comparable human and resource endowments.
BOLIVIA      1960    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  1965;    Xc  As percentage of labor force in
employment;    /d  1963;   /I  1961-65 average.
1970    /a  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  As percentage of labor force in employment;
/c  Population;    /d  1964-66;    /e  Beginning 1969 the duration of general secondary education was reduced from
6 to 4 years.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    /.  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /b  As percentage of labor force in
employment;    /c  1972, including midwives.
CAMEROON    1970    /a  1964-66;    /b  13 years for East Cameroon.
HONDURAS    1970    /a  Largely due to emigration since 1969 of El Salvadoreaonresident in Honduras, population growth rate is lower than the rate
of natural increase;    /b  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;    /c  1967-68 population;
/d Registered, not all practicing in the country.
PERU         1970    Ia  Racludes Indian jungle population;    /b  1961-70;    /c  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force.
R8, April 21, 1978
DWINITIONS OP SOCIAL INDICATORS
Land Aces (thou km7)                                                                         Population per nursing pereon - Population divided by number of practicing
Tota  - Total surface area comprising land ares and inland waters,                              sae and female graduate nurses, "trained" or "certified" nurses, and
Ai .- Mout recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily or perna-                     auxiliary personnel with treeing or experience.
neotty for crops, paucores, market & kitchen gardens or to lie fallow.                     Popultion per hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
available in public and private general and specialteed hospital and
CiP peo c-pita (IS) - GNP per capita eatimates at current market prices,                       reahbilitation centers; excludes nursing homes and eatablish-enta for
ca-I-lated by sane con-ersion srthod as World Bank Atlas (1974-76 basis);                    cuwtodial and preventive care.
1960; 1970 and 1976 data.                                                                  Per capita supply of calories (7 of requirements) - Computed from energy
equivalent of net food supplies evailable in country per capita per day;
Popolatio- and oital statiutics                                                                evailable supplies comprise donestic production, imports leus erports, and
Populatioc (mid-year million) - Au of July first:  if nut available, average                   changes in stock; net supplies encludc animal feed, needs, q,san-itieu used
o,f two cod-year eutimates; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data.                                        in food processing and louses in distribution; requircnents were oucimartd
by FAO based on physiological needs for normal rtfoity and health csnsid-
yopopclwti   de-sity - per square I. - Mid-year population per square kilomneter               ering environmental teperature, body weights, age and sex distribhtiono of
(100 h-ctares) of total area,                                                                population, and allowing 107 for waste at household level.
Population densicy - per square km of agric. land - Computed as above for                    Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per capita
agricultural land only.                                                                      net supply of food per day; net supply of food is defined  a abo-e  require-
ments for all countries established by USDA Economic Research Services
Vital  tactistics                                                                              provide for a minisss  allowance of 60 grass of total protein per day, and
Crade birth rate per thousand, averae - Annual live births per thousand of                      20 gram  of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be anfmal
mid-your popolatioc; tea-year arithnetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970,                   protein; these standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein
an;d fiwo-year average ending in 1975 for moat recent  stimate                               and 23 grams of animal protein as an average for the  orld, proposed by PAO
C:oirle death rate p-e thousand. average - Annual deaths per thouasnd of mid-year               in the Third World Food Survey.
populatioa; ten-yenr arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                 Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of fond
year avernge ending in 1975 for most recant estimate                                         derived from animal  and pulses in grams per day.
Infant mortality rnte (/thou) - Annual deaths of infants under one year of age               Death rate (/thou) ages 1-4 - Annual deaths per thou.and in age group 1-4
per thousand live births.                                                                    years, to children in this  ge group; suggested as an indicator of
Life -p-ectancy at birth (yre) - Avcrage number af years of life remaining at                  malnutrition.
birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
ig woantries.                                                                             Education
Grosu reproduction rate - nonrage number of live daughters a wonan will bear                 Adjusted enrollment ratio - primary school - Enrollment of all ages as per-
it hot nomal reproductive period if she experiences present age-specific                     cectage of primary school-age population; includes children aged 6-11 years
fertility rttes; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                    but adjusted for different lengths of primary education; for countries with
for doveloping countriea.                                                                    universal edacation, enrollomot may exceed 1007. since som  pupils are helow
Popula-ien growth race (7) - tocal - Compound annual growth rates of mid-year                   or above the official school  ge.
popolatLo- for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                               Adlusted enrollment ratio - secondary school - Computed *a above; secondary
Pop,ilutio- growth rate (%) - -b-an - Computed like growth rate of total                       edocati n requires at least four years of approved primary instruction;
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability of                 provides general, vocational or teacher training in tructions for pupils
data among co-ncries.                                                                         of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence coureas are generally excluded.
Urhan P.uPlILion (X of total) - Ratio of urban to total population; different                Years of schooling provided (first and second levels) - Total years of
definitions af urban  reas may affect comparability of data among countries.                 schooling; at secondary level, vocational instruction may be partially or
coWlstaly salded.
ans ureti.re  (prcmt) - Childeem  (0-14 yesrs), wterieg-aga (15-  yeanrs)                   VYcatiasl aeroll_et (% of asceodarr) - Vocatioaml ittituttoma include
and retirod (65 years and over) as percantagee ef mid-year pepelaciem.                       teclmical, isiaserial mr ocher prsgra  hisfh eparaca lepapedestly or as
Ago dopendcngy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to those                   departments of secondary insctittiona.
c    - aim  15 thr-:gh 64.                                                                 Adult literacy rate () - Literate adult  (able to red and wite) as pe-
fcrrrsn[odoeondency ratio -  aRtio of population under 15 and 65 and over to                   ce.c. ge of total  adult population aged 12yare y    end over.
the laboo f(act in age greop of 15-64 years.
Faoily pacwing - ncceptors (cumulative  thou) - Cu,sulative number of acceptors              Housing
of birch-cortrol devices under sUapicen of national family planning program                Persons per room (urban) - Average ncmber of persona per room in occupied
wince i-espci-u                                                                              convent iona Idwellings in urban areas; dwellings exclude non-permanent
Coolly plamning - osrer  (7 of married women) - Percentages of married wmn of                    tructures and anoccupied parts
child-hearing age (15-44 years) who ass birth-conertl devices to a11 marriad               0neuPied d-elings withoet piped  ater f%) - Occupied conventianal dwellings
woe  nsn   ge group.                                                                 in urban and mrura  areas without inaida or outside piped water fa-iliti.a
,as percentage of a11 occpied dwellings
)Mp 1oLoso c                                                                                  ccatoectrfict  fofal dweIIIngs   Conventiena1 dwellings with
Totel labor force (thousand) - Economically active persans, including armed                    eletricity In living quarters as perent of total dwellings in uban and
fortco and onemployed bht excluding hausseives, students, etc.; definitions                  rural  res.r
In various Countries arc not comparable,                                                    Rl dwllin                          tricity (      -putd as abve for rurl
Labor force In agriculture (7.? gr ic7riultural labor force (in farming, forestry,              dw     eingn o ny.
h-cntig and fishing) as percentage of total labor force.
oomolnpyod (7. of labor ferns) - Unemployed are usually defined as parsons who               Consumption
ae ab,l and wilin kg t  take  a Ijob, ot  f   job on a given day, remained out             Rsdio receivers (per thou pop) - All types of receivers for radio broadcastc
of a  oh, and aeeking work for abpe coifd minimum perio   not exceeding on                   to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed receivers
o-ne; may sat he comparble between countries dueto different definitions                      in countria  end in years when regisLratton of radio sets Was in eftect;
of woplyed nnd sourc  of data, e.g., amplayment offi.e atatinin, smpla                        data for recent yeara may not be emparable sice moat coontrie, abolished
.u-eys, copulsor.y u-opIny-t insurance.                                                       lic-nsing.
Passenger cars (per thou pop)  pPassenger o-rs comprise motor cars seating
In-on dlotrihoti- - Percentage of private income (bath in cash and kind)                        lsthn eight persona; encludes ambulances,. he.arse  and military
reomied by richest 5%, richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest 40? of house-                    vehic ls.
holds.                                                                                     Electricitny (kwhvr pee nap) - Annual consumIption of tndustrial, coercisi
public and private 1eletricity In kilowatt hasra per ca pita, genrally
Dietir  -n of land owership-  Percentages of land o-eed by wealthiest 10%                       based on prodution data, itb',ut allowance for losses in grids b::t allow-
and pooret 117% of land owners.                                                               lug for imports and exports of electricity.
Newsprint (kg/yr per cap) - Per capita annu-  consumption in kilograms
iealoh and Hutricions                                                                           estimated from domestic production plus net imports of newsprint.
Population per physician - Population divided by n..ber of practicing
physicians qualified from a medical  chool  t university level.



ANNEX T
Page 3 of 5
BOLIVIA: ECONOMIC DO0VELOPMENEr IATA
(A.-.,.e i. US$ illiost)
ActolI                 Proviejo-l           Proi.cled                   1970-    1974-   1077-   10980-
N.is...aI Acco..ces                              1974          1975         1976         1977          1980         1985              1974      1977    1980    1985                1974       197 7      100         98
C-t-lgl 1977 Pri-e  L. Milli-e U010                                              rOG-h Rsl-                                A._P.rret of CDY
Grso.- oesi  p-od-c                             3,051         3,202        3,412        3,564         4.129        5.347               6.3       5.3      0.0      5.3              99.7      100.0      101.2      500.1
Gi-b  fo,- teoco  of trado (F                        0         -139         - 73             0         - 48       -    4               -         -        -        -                 0. 3       0.0      -12        -0.
0cc- dcn-ti, i-cone                             3.060        3,063         7,339        3.564         4,081        5.343               7 .2      5.2      4.6      0.5             100.0      500.0      100.0      100.0
1,090110 (loot, nOn)                  3~~    ~    ~~~~         ~~~~~76  702  740  828      937        1,213               7.6      12.0      4.2      5.3              10.8       73.2       23.0       22.7
Enforce (md. nfe) lle-o,,rccePccity,        -743         -556         -663          -721         -821       -1.127              14.9    -1.0        44       6.5             424.3      420.2      -20.1       -21.1
Ros..rce gao                                     -167           146          184           107          1.16          88               -         -        -        -               - 5.5        3.0        2.9         1.6
Coce:-pti..  cperdo farce                       2,311        2,543         2,870        2 ,971        3,442        4.421               5.1       0.7      5.0      5.1              713. 5     03.4       04.3       02 .7
Ec-   -efnp-rdiccoe-  (iod,  .-oks                 582          666          644           700          7355       0,008               8.7       6.3      2.6      6.0              10.0       19.6       18.5       10.9
Ooeneccbceavcngc                     ~~~~         ~~~~         ~~~~          ~~740  570  460  593  639   922             16.0    -7.5        2.5      7.6              04.5       16.6        15.7       17.3
Ncloei .   o. lng                                  719          4990         430           516          338          779              18.9    -10.5       1.4      7.7              23.5       14.5       13.2        14.6
Netchandise Trade.
Accual IDa as Cu005t Price                                                                                        As Ooceo  of Totl.Ipot
Con,:,er do-able  -od,c                           32.7         87.5         62.7          64.9         90.6        159,2            23.7       7.2    11.0    10.0                12.7        8.9        0.7        8.6
Icceusoe  co-dc-ble goode                        37.7          60.3         36.0         61.8         113.2        208.4            40.0      17.9    22.4    13.0                 8.8        8.5       10.0       11.2
Poets                                ~~~~         ~~~~          ~~~~         ~~~~        ~~~4.0  7.2  6.  6.2  00 2.   38.1      15.7    173       1.9.                          0.8        10          1.
Rca, sclerials 8sf. 80005           ~~~~        ~~~~115.  192.0 I 18.7       231          28.          474              19.4      22.      10.      10.7              26.9       29.2       27.         1.0
*  CapItal goods                               ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~177.2  223.7  235.7  267.  377.8  699.2            27.9      14.'7   13.2    13.71               4.         36,6       362          7.7
Ocher goods                                      42.8          522          87.:4        117.         162.2        287.6             7.7      40.0    110.4    1211.                          60        1.6        1.
Told  neockacdlee Ompooce (dl)     ~~~~~~430.0    602.0        637.6        730.9      1,842.5       1,855.7            22.0      19.3    12.6    12.2               100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0
op-ole                                                                                                                                                                                 A. T-rcen  of Total E.porfa
Primary p-edoc-                                 361.0         274.3        380.9        013.6         675.2      1,301.5            18.7      12.4      3.5    14.0               61.6       70.2       73.8       71. ,2
Fuels                                           223.4         188.0        185.4        134.9         230.8        420.0           103.3    .15.7    21.1    12.4                 38.A       20.0       26.2       24.8
ole Crode pefr-le                                (63.01       (63.4j       (64.03        167.5)      1119.6)      1268.2)          (47.8)     (2.37  121.00  (17.6)              (10.7)    (10.47      (13. 11    (15. 5)
T-Ie -eehadi.. sop-tce (f.b)                     387.2        462.5        575.3        648.5         9c5.0      1,731.4            31.6       3.4    12.2    13.6               100.0      130.0      100 0      1000C
oP.r  prc  iodec                                06.3          74.2         86.0        100.0         117.7        160.8
Iport price lede                                  85.1         05.0         96.7        184.0         124.6        170.4
Ioo  of Itrde iede                               101.4         77.6         889.         100.0         84.5         09.6
lopor-  -olo,  icde  (in1. ole)                  00.2          71.3         88.9        100.0         120.0        107.0
Valve Added by Sector                                         Ac-c1 Dacs at 1077 Prices end E.chee Oaftee                              Avera.ge A.n-a  Groel  ORes.                         Ae P.trogo  of Totld
1074         1075         1976         1977          1980         1085
Agrli-cor                                        554          501          612          620           715          891               0.0       3.8      4.9      4.5              18.2       17.4       17.7       16.7
edoscy icd   iecg                               900           873          060        1.010         1,162        1,5084              7.7       3.0      4.8      5.3              29.5       20.3       26.2       28.1
Ocrvccc  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.9                    1.738        1.840         1,3          2.202        2.952               6.0       6.6      5.2      5.6              523        54.3        54 .1      55.2
To..al                                        3,051         3.202        3,412        3,064         4.129        5,347               6.3       5.3      5.0      5.3             100.0      100.0      10.0.      100.0
Pbllic Finance                                                  Perc-t of GDP                                                          Detail os                                  Ae Psoce-  nO Otal
(CactrI Gcceree-Ot)                              1074         1975          1076         1077                                          Public S-1-c                                 (Fiv-Year Pla-
Ictreor tore ipte                  ~~~~~        ~~~~ ~ ~~13.1  13.1  13.5  12.9                                             oI- e Pt - r0an1976. 80
Iorrgclgcrecdiscree                ~~~~~        ~~~~~~10.8  10.6  11.6     10.5                                          9gccer                                                 .6
Bo,dg.tarys-i,ogs                               2 .3          2.5          1.0          2.4                                         Mit,iog  -od hydrcoarb..e                            23.4
P0411 0 sector naVooge               ~~~~         ~~~~          ~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9.3  55 72 62                lodoslr,ygdpeao2.
PulI  foe   -Icolo1 forv,aclo                 6.0         11.3         13.4          11 .5                                         Tocosport and  -osoo-ctio..e                        10.0
70bl11   --coll  and ecc     ..eer.r 0-2.5
C.rr.., E.p-,dit ... D.ofall                                                                                                                                                               150.0
(a  ( ctl  ....e.tecp-ditfor,               1974         1975         1076          1077
Goode atd ogroicoc                  15.0~~~~~~~~M  19.0       70.4          19.3                                                                                     Ac P-rl-  of fcos1
Baeead  gare                                  52.7          51.3         52.0         52.0                                          Figa-cc                                           1977.80
Tra-efor poyso-1tt                             29.0          24.9         24.8         25.0                                          P ri-al  sec-tor
Other                                           3.3          4.0           2.0          3.7                                          F-iegcccre,3.
Total cvr   .lcpendil.tcco                    100.5         100.0        400.0        100.0                                          P.blic  -ecto                                       3  0.
100.0
Sglected 1,,dilcaoc                               1970-        1974-        1977.         1980-
1974         1077         1980          1995
0100                                               2.84         3.68         3.63          3.50
,,tP,,,lftt001.2                                                2.38         0.9           1.0
A-orIecad-co...  -avlgcrot..                      10.9         10.0         13.0          14.4
rlargc_a  _cat.o.aI _aolgcr_ts                      .42        - .34           .04          .20
L.b- F.-   ..d D.lp- p- W.ik.,                                                                 V.11,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F Ic  Added_per W-rk-e
A""I""                           ~~~~~~~1970     17            90           17           907    11070              10_~76      190         17
Ageutr                                         ,0          140            6.            80            1.9          349         410..SI    20.7         30.0
Ogdcetry cod nivbog                 ~~~~         ~~~~       ~~~276  370  14.0  11.0       5.4        2.420       2 .540       205.8       197.3
_______                             ~~~~         ~~~~         ~~~~~ ~~~~446  680  22.0  21.0  7.3    2.834       2,106        241.0       190.6
ToocI                             ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~       ~~~~~2.029  2.517  100.0  100.0  3.7      1,176       1,356       100.0        100.0
/I Pro-islo..al



AUeNN I
Page 4 of 5
BOLIVIA:  BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNlAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(Current US dollars million.)
Aut-a                                       ProvisIonalPrjce
1972         1973       1974        1975        1976            1977                     1980          1995
A  enorn of balasnce of naYmonts
(incl. NFSF                               -260.6       -309.2    -485.1       -667.3      -711.2            -827.9               -1,167.8      -2,066.3
*,upores (incl. (IFI                                224.0        297.2      627 6       527.8       637.1             721.1                1,023.3       1,919.9
Resource boloner                                   - 35.9       - 12.0      142.5      -139.5      - 74.1            -106.8               -  144.5      -  146.9
Factor incore                                      - 21..       - 22.9    - 37.2       - 31.4      - 41.2            - 92.4               -  146.8      -  264.0
Not interest papments                           (- 13.4)    (- 18.0)  4- 19.6)   (- 25.9)   (- 37.1)              4- 54.1)             (-  135.0)   (-  247.9)
other factor service income (onit               (-  8.4)    (-  4.9)  (- 17.6)   2- 5.5)   (-  4.1)               (- 59 3)             )-   11.8)   (-    16.2)
CIrrent traus fort (ott)                             13.4         15.4       13.7        13.1        14.0              15.0                   24.8           33.3
Current  tcoinut balsuce                           - 44.3       - 19.5      119.0      -157.8      -101.3            -L14.2               -  266.3      -  377.6
Dier.t for-ign i..vstment                          - 13.4          4.6       16.7        53.4        12.1              11.0                   13.3           17.8
Uffirial rapitIt _ grants                             B.U         10.0        9.0         10.5         ..               ..                    20.4           20.0
Public M6IT loans
Disbursoments                                     122.5         37.0      108.0       150.4       292.2             427.5                  446.2         685.9
Oopsnentrs                                       - 28.4       - 30.3    - 50.7       _ 56.6      - 69.7            - 83.5               -  173.1      -  286.6
Set disbursements                                   794.)           6.7      57.3        93.8       222.5             344.0                  273.1         399.3
Dther long-term (cant
Dlsburteneon                                       17.7         24.0       14.2        16.4        25.0              25.0                   29.0          33.0
Oefsynents          _                            -  2.6          7.6    - 15.1       - 18.2      - 23.0            - 24.0                 - 27.0      -   31.0
Not disbn.n.ev.t.                                     15.1         16.4    -  0.9      _  1.8          2G.0             1.0                     2.0           2.0
Capito iveo ustin  n.e-    .                       - 40.9       - 32.1    - 89.6       - 42.5      - 74.0            -163.4                   1 19.6         24.8
Chb,,griuurvs- un                                  -10.6           13.9    -111.5        44.4      -61.3             -  8.4                 -23.6       - 36.7
Grunt sud ioans co=nitmnots
Torn) M6LT Loans                                    179.9         78.9      172.4       397.5       461.0             587.9                  509.1          747.5
108RD-                                                              -         -          32.0        68.0              92.0                   80.0          89.9
IDA                                                   .0          6.0        6.2         7.5         -                 -                     10.0            -
(thoilr muItiLateral                                 27.0         11.2       35.0       104.6        90.4              15.3                   95.0          95.0
.oucrunotens                                        (71.,         34.1       60.8       109.3        43.8             177.2                   55.0          61.3
Suppliers                                            40.1         16.6       13.8        44.2        46.3              55.5                   50.0           75.7
Finsnrial ivstituti.n.                               23.1          9.0       56.0        89.3       222.5             023.7                  199.1         405.6
"Ilev                                                LO.D          1.1        0.6        10.6         -                22.2                   20.0          20.0
C. Menor-vdu-  rloi
Grant elemnrt of totsl commitnents (7.               32.2         36.5       39.7        19.0         19.2             13.9
Averuge i-terost (7)                                  4.9          4.9        5.6         6.8          6.9              7.2
Au_r_ge -oruvit7 (years)                             19.2         22.0        25.6        17.6        15.0             12.4
Acreal debt ouretandig                    .ub)iconcernsl                                                                              Provisional
on Doe. 31, 1977                          debt  od deb t serniee                                     1974         1975        1976         1977
D. (ucevu-L debt                                        Disburted only    Peroent
IBRD                                                       42.1              3.1                A. Medium- and laos-term debt (disbursed only)
Do                                                         54.8             4.1
Othev mulelluteral                                          94.7             7.0       '           Ttal debt nutrtaediog (DOD end of period)             691.6         778.0    0,003.9         1,347 .
Cvereenmo tu                                               504.7            37.4                   Including undisburaod                                   S99.4    1,206.8    1,585.9          2,089.8
Suppli-rn                                                   89.9             6.7                   Pnblic debteonle                                       68.0         80.2        104.6          135.6
Finoncial i(stitrti-nt                                    438.8             32.6                     Inret                                               17.3         23.5         34.8           51.8
Ooodu                                                       69.8             5.2
Public debt nl t                                            53.0             3.0                B. Debt bsrden
Toral eblie M4LT debt                                    1,347.8           100.0
Debt servi-e  otie                                     10.0         15.2        16.4            18.8
E. Debt profile                                                                                       Debt -ser-  atio   L                                    13.6         16 2        17.1           24.1
Debt serniee/GDP                                        3.1          5.2         3.5            3.8
Tota) debt -eruice 1978-80/
eol DOD 0ed of 1977                                     60.6                                C' Ter-m
In,,ret t on DOD/DOD                                    2.5          3.0         3.5            3.8
D. Dpeneedonoy cries for M02LT debt
Gross dltbursemenr/mlp-orts (itl. tfe)                 22.3         22.5        41.1           51.6
Not transfer/importa (11el. 5fs)                        7.8         10.2        26.1           35.0
Nor trenstef/gres- disbursement                        34.9         45.1        63.4           67.8
E. E-..o.to
IRD DOD/total DOD                                     3.0           2.7         3.1            3.1
Bouk group disb./tntsl 0011                            8.9           9.0         8.4            7.2
01bD debt oernieo/totsl debt ser.ie-                    5.0          2.0         3.6            2.9
Bsnk group debt  _erni_o/tetal debt serviee             5.4          2.6         4.2            3.4
Invluding net dived  invrttnenticoone.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 5
CONTRACTED PU'BLIC AND PUBLICLY GUARANTEED EXTERNAL DEBT, 1969-1977
(US$ millions)
196S9    1970       1971      1972      1973      1974       1975       1976       1977'!
International Organizations          39.1       6.9      26.8      35.0      17.2      41.2      144.1      148.4      107.3
CAF                                 -         -         0.1       2.0       1.2       -         38.1        6.7        1.7
TBRD                               23.3       -         -         -         -                   32.0       68.0       92.0
IDA                                 7.4       1.4       6.8       8.0       6.0       6.2        7.5        -          -
TDB                                 8.5       5.5      19.9      25.0      10.0      35.0       66.5        73.7      13.6
Governments                          30.0      17.2      35.2      71.7      34.1      60.8      109.3        43.8      177.2
Argentina                           3,2      14,3       4.3       4.2       3.4       2,9         3.4        4.6       50.0
Czechoslovakia                      -         -         3.9       1.4       -         -          -          0.3        -
Germany F.R.                        1.7       1.4       -         -         -        28.6        -          5.2       21.7
United Kingdom                      1.4       -         -         6.8       -         -          1.0        -           -
USA                                22.7       1.5      25.3      40.0      26.5      28.8       26.9       26.3        75.5
USSR                                -         -         -        15.9       -         -          0.5        5.2        16.6
Others                              1.0       -         1.7       3.4       4.2       0.5       77.5         2.2      13.4
Suppliers' credits                   11.5       1.6       3.9      40.1      16.6      13.8       44.2       46.3        55.5
Argentina                           -         -         1.6       5.1       5.9       1.6        1.7         0.3        1.9
Belgium                             -         -         -         -         5.8       0.1        -          -          -
Canada                              -         -         -         -         3.7       1.9        -          -           -
Denmark                             0.7       1.3       -         0.8       0.2       0.2        4.9        -          -
Germany F.R.                        3.9       0.3       -         -         -         -         13.6        2.8         1.3
Israel                              -         -         -         -         -         -          5.5        -           -
Italy                               2.1       -         -        26.6       -         -          -          -           -
Japan                               -         -         2.0       6.4       -         -         10.8       19.5       10.3
Spain                               3.3       -         -         -         -         -          -          -          -
USA                                 -         -         -         1.1       0.9       1.9        2.4        -         25.2
Others                              1.5       -         0.3       0.1       0.1       8.1        5.3       23.7       16.8
Private Banks                         1.3       -        23.3      23.1       9.9      56.0       89.3      222.5      225.7
Brazil                              -         -        12.0       7.9       4.7      13.5        -         13.7        7.7
USA                                 1.3       -        10.0      12.8       1.5      34.3       63.9      146.2      159.8
Others                              -         -         1.3       2.4       3.7       8.2       25.4       62.6       58.2
Other                                14.1       4.1       0.1      10.0       0.4       0.6       10.6        -         22.2
Nationalization (US )                 -        78.6       -         -         0.7       -          -          -
Total /2                        96.2    108.4      89.3    179.9       78.9    172.4       397.5      461.0      587.9
/1 Provisional
/2  Net of adjustments and cancellations.
Source, Central Bank, TBRD Social and Economic Data Division.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOLIVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of March 31, 1978)
-------- US$ million ------
Loan or                                                      (Amount less cancellations)
Credit #   Year    Borrower             Purpose             Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
Fully disbursed loans and credits                           23.3      44.6
261       1971    Bolivia        Livestock                            6.8        1.1
455       1974    Bolivia        Mining/Manufacturing                 6.2        1.5
561       1975    Bolivia        Agriculture                          7.5        4.6
1121       1975    ENFE           Railways                  28.7                  3.1
1211       1976    Bolivia        Rural Development          9.5                  8.6
1238       1976    ENDE IV        Power                     25.0                 16.3
1290       1976    Bolivia        Mining/Manufacturing    10.0                   10.0
1324       1976    Bolivia        Water Supply and
Sewerage               11.5                 11.4
1331       1976    Bolivia        Small-Scale Mining        12.0                 11.5
1404       1977    Bolivia        Education and Voca-
tional Training        15.0                 14.3
1422       1977    ENFE           Third Railway             35.0                 34.3
1423       1977    AASANA         Aviation                  25.0                 25.0
1489       1977    Bolivia        Urban Development         17.0 /1              17.0
Total                                  212.0      65.1
of which has been repaid                 6.3      0.6
Total now outstanding                  205.7      64.5
Amount sold                 0.1                     -
of which has been repaid    -            0.1        -
Total now held by Bank                 205.6 /2  64.5
158.7
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   In addition, a loan and a credit of US$9.0 million each for the Ulla Ulla
Development Project were signed April 6, 1978. They are not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (As of March 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                             Amount in US$ million
Year           Obligator                Type of Business          Loan    Equity   Total
1973       Plasmar, S.A.           Cables and Plastic Product    0.3         0.1      0.4
1976       Banco Hipotecario
Nacional             Capital Market                            0.3      0.3
1976       Banco Industrial
S.A.                 Development Financing                    0.6       0.6
1978       Molino Andino S.R.L.  Plastic Products                   2.3      -        2.3
Total                           2.6      1.0       3.6
Repaid, cancelled or sold       1.2       -        1.2
Held by IFC                     1.4      1.0       2.4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
Credit 261-BO - Third Livestock Development Project, US$6.8 million, June 23, 1971;
Effective Date: September 15, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
After implementation slowed down in 1974, the project is now pro-
ceeding satisfactorily and the credit should be disbursed by the Closing Date.
Credit 455-BO - Mining CrecLit Project, US$6.2 million, January 18, 1974;
Effective Date: June 18, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and the credit should be
disbursed by the Closing Date.
Credit 561-BO - Agricultural Credit I, US$7.5 million, June 20, 1975;
Effective Date: December 15, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Funds originally allocated for cattle are fully committed; credit
demand for grape production has been as anticipated, whereas demand for sheep,
annual crops and sugarcane has been less than anticipated. Demand for sheep
and annual crops funds is expected to accelerate; demand for sugarcane is not
expected to materialize.
Loan 1121-BO - Second Railway Project, US$28.7 million, June 5, 1975;
Effective Date: August 6, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
Project progress has been satisfactory with performance targets
either having been attained or exceeded. The loan is now almost fully
committed.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Loan 1211-BO - Ingavi Rural Development Project, US$9.5 million, March 8, 1976;
Effective Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
There have been delays in the implementation of some components of
the project. Measures are being taken to speed up implementation of delayed
components.
Loan 1238-BO - Fourth ENDE Power Project, US$25 million, June 2, 1976;
Effective Date: August 23, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.
Loan 1290-BO - Banco Industrial Mining and Industrial Credit Project,
US$10 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: April 14, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Funds for the mining component are not expected to be disbursed
until funds available under credit 455-BO are used up. Commitments have
started.
Loan 1324-BO - Urban and Rural Communities Water Supply and Sewerage Project;
US$11.5 million, October 15, 1976; Effective Date: December 10, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The Government has requested that the water supply and sewerage
investments for the cities of Sucre and Potosi be cancelled inasmuch as these
cities are not prepared to proceed without substantial Government subsidies.
In spite of initial delays, the other components of the project are now
proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1331-BO - Small-Scale Mining Development Project, US$12 million,
October 15, 1976; Effective Date: July 15, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Project implementation has been delayed because of difficulties in
establishing procedures for the preparation of feasibility studies. Three
feasibility studies are expected to be completed by mid-1978.
Loan 1404-BO - Education and Vocational Training Project, US$15 million,
May 11, 1977; Effective Date: September 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan 1422-BO - Third Railway Project, US$35 million, June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 29, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
There was an initial delay in the preparation of tender documents
for spare parts. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan 1423-BO - Aviation Development Project; US$25 million, June 9, 1977;
Effective Date: September 29, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:             8 months
(b)  Agency which prepared project:             National Highway Service
(c)  Project first presented to the Bank:    November 1976
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:   March 1977
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:            November 1977
(f)  Completion of negotiations:                May 1978
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness:             September 1978
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        During negotiations assurances were obtained that:
(a)  the Government would consult the Bank on the measures
required to carry out the recommendations of the National
Transport Survey (para. 35);
(b)  at the time of issuance of the final report on the first
phase of the National Transport Survey, the Government would
adopt a plan satisfactory to the Bank for the enforcement
of vehicle dimension and axle load regulations throughout
Bolivia; enforcement of the plan would commence three months
later (para. 38);
(c)  expenditures for minor improvement works would be 10% or
less of SNC maintenance budget (para. 53);
(d)  SNC would consult with the Bank on the scope and content of
its annual maintenance work programs before their inclusion
in its budget; and obtain Bank approval for deferred mainte-
nance programs (para. 53);



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(e) SNC would prepare by September 30, 1978 a list of equipment
units to be overhauled and start implementing a scrapping
program of obsolete units by July 1979 (para. 54);
(f) the maintenance equipment, overhauled or purchased under the
project, would be used exclusively for limited improvements and
maintenance of roads in the three districts and no further
acquisitions would be made without prior information of the
Bank (para. 54) ;
(g) SNC would take all action necessary to ensure proper maintenance
and repairs of equipment and vehicles; the Government would
provide SNC with adequate funds for purchases of spare parts
(para. 55);
(h) SNC would furnish to the Bank a manpower development program
before December 31, 1978, and carry out a review of its personnel
management policies to identify necessary improvements to be
furnished to the Bank not later than December 31, 1979 (para. 57);
(i) SNC would make available adequate counterpart staff (para. 59);
(j) SNC would prepare in agreement with the Bank a detailed list of
studies for the rehabilitation and upgrading of roads, in the
light of the recommendations of the National Transport Survey
(para. 60);
(k) SNC would keep, road maintenance in other districts at least
at present levels (para. 62);
(1)  the Government would provide promptly as needed the necessary
funds to carry, out the project (para. 62); and
(m)  SNC would employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms of conditions of employment be satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 64).
2.        A condition of effectiveness would be that:
SNC has made available the required counterpart personnel to
the technical assistance consultants.
3.        A condition of disbursement for the spare parts component would be
that:
SNC reorganizes its supply and distribution system for spare
parts in the three project districts.






i+; t-:; J$r;  2 ;  i i 0- B R XA i l  <~~~~~~~~~~~~6 
J IA n z 2 E 0 0 r 0 5 E 4; 7 1 s & i 5 V . m ; I A ~~l,    i,t.    
r    J   iX~~~~~~~~~Snta Rosa   ,9  
f   9   t   $J  /  ffi uC0;t tr~~~Waw            3,s                                           -S   ;
Po.                                                                                            8     _JA\l,~ NDe $TM  YA   ;, , MWcM  TRI % v 
Z~ ~~ ~~~~~,0                                                                                                    fwdfyffncmOdiYiQB j.  Snt nk  i5 +,,  gg  
If v r  c  Q           9    0                                        t                        Puer2Fre         5 : e 
<,~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ii 9Cd e 5           B-        -                ,de by> &MtO Co r
3- C ufov3sre ;; .bf   Lab Pvu,UW   SUCRS  Tar3>as~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.r t<- bm;2 ju , C&Lt~~~~~~~~~~pa5,   fi 50- 
j iO e,, t R;aMulatsaPunaX 9t 4 /55;i> g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'   '   hs   AJ   S   O  1Lr  0Ez~c  /i  T ( // # \ \tv duy 1Camrit /,,,1-,-,>3 bo'#^ -, , ei, on 3f- ' iin
M                                                                           ng : b! r        t,t :       ue   l .+;
2C ; !   tusna                A       P c x d S    ntes  t)Eg  D P;AR  A ia  U  A  Y E;                    i         XBa.re
.4> / ; -< 5X \ i 'illa2 ar < LrD 503|t-
l <<---.| -WhQtte bt  g '  0 21  ~~>4  0; i SAnnjAn i-   0 ;WNfl                                           V        $.
1 80  f 0    -  0   9 -   0 '  0  ;  i    i   0; 0 0  S ait D ,ti W   0   i  ;  1  :  $;   ts,  ,  i   |      a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~J:



