Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2011b-BO
HL~ W3PY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
BOLIVIA
May 18, 1978
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
1 Bolivian Peso (b$)         =  US$0.25, divided into 100 cents
US$1.00                      =  b$ 20.00
1 million b$                 =  US$50,000
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Units of Weight and Measures:  Metric
Metric                          British/US Equivalent
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilogram (kg)              =  2.20 pounds (lb)
1 ton                        =  2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
ADT               Average Daily Traffic
CAF               Andean Development Corporation
COMIBOL           Bolivian Mining Corporation
CONEPLAN          National Economy and Planning Council
ENFE              The Bolivian National Railways
FHA               Federal Highway Administration
HDM Model         Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
IDB               Inter-American Development Bank
LAB                Bolivian Airways Line
MTCCA             Ministry of Transport, Communication and Civil Aeronautics
NTS               National Transport Survey
OD Survey         Origin and Destination Survey
SNC               The National Highway Service
UNDP              United Nations Development Program
USAID             United States Agency for International Development
YPFB              Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos
Link Acronyms used.in the HDM Model are explained in Table 3.2, Page 4.



FOR OFXIIAL UU ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
BOLIVIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...        .............................        I
A.   General *.*..*...*..*..*..*..**.....*..*............... .*......  . .-.0..  I
B.   The Transport System ... .. . ..o. ........ . ... . ...        2
C.   The Development Plan ..o ....... .. ..  .... ...o ... .       5
D.   Transport Planning and Coordination .... ......                 7
II.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ... o .....  .     ... . .o.o. ......... .     8
A .   The Highway Network . ..   ...... . ...... ..  .... .          8
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
and Regulations .. ... ... ..... ..  ....  . ... ...        9
C.   Highway Administration, Organization and
Training ... oo . ..       ........ .............           11
D.   Highway Planning and Engineering ... o .....o .....           12
E.   Highway Construction o........*..ooo.......                   13
F.   Highway Financing and Road User Charges    .... o...          14
G.   Highway Maintenance  ....... o.o ......... .... .....         15
III.   THE PROPOSED PROJECT ..o ....... o ... .oooo ........      .        17
A.   Project Development and Preparation ..ooo.... ....             17
B.   Objectives and General Description .. ......oo.               18
C.   The Four-Year Maintenance Program ...    ..........           19
D.   Equipment . . ... ...o..o   ......... .. .... . ..... .       21
E.   Workshops and Spare Parts ......*.oo ....... ooo..            22
F.   Tools and Equipment for Labor-Intensive
Maintenance Activities ....    .........o .....             22
G.   Training ...oo...........................                     22
H.   Technical Assistance .............. .............             24
I.   Preparation of Road Rehabilitation and
Upgrading Program ........... .... o...                     24
J.   Cost Estimates and Financing ...oo..o .......       ...       25
K.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring .. o. ....              28
L.   Impact and Adequacy of Technology ..  ............            29
M.   Project Risk  ooo..o..o ......... .o.     o ....... . .       29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Bolivia during November-December 1977.  The mission comprised Messrs. C.-H.
Mume (economist) and S. Miquel (engineer). The report has been edited by
Miss V.R. Foster.
Thi document has a mtrictd distribution and nuy be used by recipients only in te performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be dinclosd without World lak authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ......... . . . .  .................................. .  30
A.   General         ........................................  30
B.   Analysis Network ...............................         31
C.   Maintenance Activities and Unit Costs ..........         31
D.   Traffic  ....................................................  31
E.   Benefits ...................................................   31
F.   Economic Assessment . .......................... .       32
G.   Distribution of Benefits .................... ..         33
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ................        33
TABLES
1.1  - Freight Transported by Different Modes .... ..........         36
2.1  - Bolivian Road Network ................................         37
2.2  - Road Density in Geographic Regions Related to
Area and Population ...............................         38
2.3  - Motor Vehicle Fleet 1967-1974 .....       ..................   39
2.4  - Distribution of Vehicles in the Different Departments
and Geographic Regions ............................         40
2.5  -  Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Consumption 1967-1976   ......       41
2.6  - Average Daily Traffic (ADT) and Composition of
Traffic in the Three Project Districts       ...........    42
2.7  -  Vehicle Dimensions and Weights ......................         43
2.8  - Personnel of the Servicio Nacional de Caminos (1977)           44
2.9  - Geometric Design Norms for Highways ....       .............   45
2.10 - Highway Expenditures and Funding (1971-1976) ........          46
2.11 -  Road User Charges (1971-1976) ..0 ..      ..................  47
2.12 -  Road Maintenance Program 1976 ....... .................       48
2.13 -  SNC Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles Age and
Condition      .........................................    49
3.1  - Representative Links and ADT 1976 in the
Three Districts ...................................         50
3.2  - Analytical Network Inventory (4 pages) ....      ..........    51-54
3.3  - Maintenance Unit Costs and Cost Adjustment Factors ..          55
3.4  -  Vehicle Characteristics and Costs ....      ...............   56
3.5  -  Economic Vehicle Operating Costs with Project for
1982 for Selected Links ...       ....   57
3.6  -  Four-Year Maintenance Program in the Three Project
Districts (2 pages) ......      .........................  58-59
3.7  -  "Without" Project Road Maintenance Standards    ........      60
3.8  -  "With" Project Road Maintenance Standards       ...........  61
3.9  - Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles Age and Condition
in the Three Districts .....     .......................   62
3.10 -  Equipment, Spare Parts, Tools and Others to be
Purchased under Project for the Three Districts  ...       63
3.11 -  Estimates of Budgetary Requirements for Road
Maintenance Program (July 1, 1979-June 30, 1983)           64
3.12 -  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements ....      .............  65
3.13 -  Project Implementation Schedule .....      ................  66



- iii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
TABLES (Continued)
4.1 - Economic Maintenance and User Costs "With" and
"Without"  Project   ..................................................  67
4.2 - Project Summary of Economic Analysis (3 pages) ......    68-70
4.3 - Sensitivity Tests, Benefit-Cost Ratios and
Net Present Values ......... ......... .. ...........  71
ANNEXES
1 - The Proposed Four-Year Highway Maintenance Program
(July  1,  1979-June  30,  1983)  ......................  72
2 - Maintenance Equipment for the Highway Maintenance
Program  ...........................................   74
3 - Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical
Assistance on Highway Maintenance     .................  78
4 - Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project  File  ...................................................  86
CHARTS
I - Organization Chart of the Ministry of Transport,
Communications, and Civil Aeronautics .... .........   88
II - Average Daily Traffic 1976       ..........................  89
III - Organization Chart of the National Highway Service ..     90
MAP
IBRD 11455R3 - Railway and Road Systems
Messrs. Sologuren (engineer) with the Bolivian SNC, B. Brademeyer (systems
analyst) with MIT, P.E. Fossberg (engineering adviser) and T. Watanatada
(economist/systems analyst) with CPS and R. Mott and K.S. Ohbi (consultants)
provided assistance with the HDM model analyses of the proposed highway
maintenance project. Evaluation of Highway Roughness in Bolivia was done by
the Texas Research and Development Foundation.






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. General
1.01      Bolivia has an area of 1.1 million km2 and a population of 5 million;
it is the least densely populated country in Latin America. The population is
unevenly distributed within the three distinct geographical regions of the
country: 47% live in the highlands which represent 16% of the country's area,
33% live in the valleys which cover 20% of the area, while only 20% live in
the lowlands with 64% of the country s area.
1.02      The highlands (Altiplano) of Bolivia consist of the two major Andean
chains, with peaks rising to 6,500 meters, and the plateau, which lies at a
mean elevation of about 3,700 meters. Vegetation is sparse, but it supports
a pastoral economy which, together with subsistence farming, provides the
primary basis for the livelihood of the population. The highlands contain
mineral deposits which are the basis for the major economic activity. Some
manufacturing and processing have developed in major cities such as La Paz,
Oruro, and Potosi. La Paz is the leading industrial and commercial center of
the highlands and of Bolivia. Activities of Oruro and Potosi are primarily
associated with the mining industry.
1.03      The valleys (Yungas) lie between the eastern mountain chain of the
highlands and the lowlands of northern and eastern Bolivia. The terrain is
generally rugged, but a few broad valleys are found where economic activities
based on agriculture and livestock have developed. A great variety of crops
are grown, reflecting the wide range of climatic conditions. In the Cochabamba
Valley, there is considerable light industry.
1.04      The tropical and subtropical lowlands (Llanos) extend from the
foothills of the Eastern Cordillera to the Brazilian frontier to the North and
East, and to the borders of Paraguay and Argentina to the Southeast and South.
The northern lowlands are drained by tributaries of the Amazon River; the
southern lowlands by those of the Paraguay River. Agricultural production,
characterized by commercial crops such as sugar, rice, cotton, corn, and
tropical fruits, is concentrated in the area around Santa Cruz, the capital
of this rapidly growing region. The livestock industry is also important,
particularly in the Santa Cruz and Beni areas. There are dense tropical.
forests, which are exploited only to a limited extent. The petroleum industry
is a major factor in the economy of this region. Some manufacturing indus-
tries have developed in the city of Santa Cruz. The Government is determined
to develop the lowlands in order to realize their rich agricultural potential
and to relieve population pressure in the Altiplano.
1.05      Initial development of the Bolivian transport system was based on
railways and was oriented to serve mining operations and their export needs.
The road network was developed later to serve mostly domestic transport and
communication. Air transportation, which has grown rapidly in the last



-2-
10 years, services long-distance passenger traffic and gives access to exten-
-ve isolated areas. The principal river routes in Bolivia, the Ichilo-Mamore
and the Beni, are a means of supplying the vast areas in the North and
Northeast, and Lake Titicaca serves as a navigable link with the southern Peru
railway and the Pacific ports of Matarani and Mollendo. Pipelines were
developed over the last two decades to serve the petroleum industry.
1.06      Bolivia's transportation infrastructure is still in a formative
stage. The major transport modes have played, by and large, complementary
roles to meet specific requirements: railways, to haul most of Bolivia's
export trade of bulky mineral products; domestic aviation, to transport passen-
gers and perishable goods, particularly beef; highways, to carry mostly
domestic freight and passengers; and waterways, to provide access to otherwise
isolated towns and villages in the lowlands. The provision of adequate trans-
portation is further complicated by low traffic densities. The exceptionally
difficult topography and the long distances between scattered population
centers account for the relatively high cost of transport services and infra-
structure, necessitating careful analysis and planning of modal allocation
and investments.
1.07      Except for pipelines, the most important transport services in the
country, as measured in ton-km, are performed by road and rail. The relation-
ship between those services and water and air transport changed slightly from
1967 to 1974, with roads and aviation increasing their relative contributions.
Apart from the specialized role of pipeline transport, road transport accounts
for 65% of the remaining transport effort as compared to 28% for the railways
and small contributions by river, lake and air transport (about 2% each)
(Table 1.1). Between 1966 and 1976, freight traffic, measured in ton-km, grew
most in aviation (15% per year), river freight had the next largest growth
(12% per year), highway freight increased by 12% per year, rail freight grew
by 7% per year, while lake freight remained stationary. Traffic data are
incomplete, particularly for intercity road transport, although road transport
is the dominant mode for passengers. In 1975, intercity passenger transport
by railway totaled about 135,000 passengers, while domestic air transport
accounted for about 450,000 passengers. Passenger traffic has been growing
at rates between 5% and 10% over the last ten years.
B.   The Transport System
1.08      Most of the country is accessible by only one transport mode.  Topo-
graphy and the condition of existing transport infrastructure place serious
restrictions on the vehicles that can be used, i.e., 5-6 ton trucks on most
roads, 25-40 ton barges on the rivers, turbo-propeller aircraft of 5 tons
payload at most airports and relatively short trains. The main features of
the transport modes are discussed below.
(i) Railways
1.09      Except for petroleum and natural gas, the Bolivian economy relies
primarily on the railway system to carry its external trade. The system



-3 -
consists of about 3,400 km of meter gauge railway line (Map IBRD 11455R3).
The only line not operated by ENFE is that from Machacamarca to Uncia (105 km),
which is operated by COMIBOL, a Government-owned mining enterprise. The rail-
ways consist of two separate systems, the Western and the Eastern Systems,
which are linked only by a long indirect route through Argentina. Between
1966 and 1976, railway traffic grew regularly at an average rate of about 6%
per year for passenger services and 7% per year for freight, with particularly
rapid growth on the Eastern System. According to Bank projections, freight
traffic is expected to continue to expand at the average rate of about 4% per
year on the Western System and at 9% per year on the Eastern System, and
passenger traffic by 4% per year on the Western System and 10% per year on
the Eastern System.
1.10      The Western System was built between 1870 and 1920, largely to serve
the needs of the mining industry to transport mineral products to the ports on
the Pacific Coast. The system consists of about 2,100 km of railway lines,
linking the main towns in the southwestern part of the country and providing
access to the ports of Matarani and Mollendo in Peru, Arica and Antofagasta
in Chile, and (via Villazon) to the ports in Argentina. About 80% of the
freight traffic on the Western System consists of traffic for external trade.
1.11      The Eastern System, which was built during the 1950s, consists of
two major lines totaling about 1,180 km. The Santa Cruz-Corumba line (643 km)
connects with the Brazilian system, and the Santa Cruz-Yacuiba line (539 km)
connects with the Argentine system. The railways are the most significant
mode of surface transport in Eastern Bolivia, where most of the agricultural
exports, such as cotton, timber and sugar, originate. About 90% of the traffic
on the Eastern System consists of traffic for external trade.
1.12      In accordance with a 1967 agreement between the Governments of
Argentina and Bolivia, an extension to the Eastern System, from Santa Cruz to
the north, is being built by an Argentina-Bolivian Joint Commission. To date,
a stretch of 104 km between Santa Cruz and Santa Rosa has been built and
transferred to ENFE. The two Governments recently decided to phase out the
Joint Commission when the line reaches Yapacani. The Government has agreed,
under the framework of the Third Railway Project, that further extension of
the line beyond Yapacani would not be undertaken without a study of its
economic justification. The same applies to the project for the interconnec-
tion of the Eastern and Western Systems, which is now the object of preliminary
studies.
1.13      Since 1972, the Bank Group has contributed to three rehabilitation
and modernization projects for the Bolivian railway system. The First and Second
Railway Projects (Credit 346-BO, US$8 million, December 1972 and Loan 1121-BO,
US$32 million, June 1975) consist of rehabilitation and modernization of track,
rolling stock, motive power and workshops and technical assistance. The First
Railway Project has been completed satisfactorily, and implementation of the
Second Railway Project shows good results. The Third Railway Project (Loan
1422-BO, US$35 million, June 1977) includes the continuation of the rehabilita-
tion of track, telecommunications, rolling stock and workshops and a program
for technical assistance. This project also includes a National Transport
Survey (NTS) and provides advance technical assistance to highway maintenance
(para 2.31).



-4-
(ii) Highways
1.14      The highway subsector is reviewed in detail in Chapter II.
(iii) Waterways
1.15      The river transport system is made up of an extensive network of
inland waterways located in the eastern and northern parts of Bolivia, measur-
ing about 1,600 km. The system consists of five main waterways, as shown on
Map 11455R2. The most important river port is Puerto Villarroel, connected
by road to Cochabamba. The Mamore and Beni river systems, although part of
the Amazon basin, are isolated from the Amazon system by rapids. River naviga-
tion, although a low cost service, has inherent limitations due to seasonal
variations in water level. The rivers represent the only available surface
transport mode in these underpopulated areas. As such, they perform a vital
function, even though the quantities moved are relatively small (Table 1.1).
1.16      Lake Titicaca, the highest navigable lake in the world, supports
domestic and external transport. Its primary function is that of an alter-
native transport corridor to seaports of Matarani and Mollendo through the
Peruvian lake port of Puno. In terms of ton-km of freight traffic, lake
traffic is more important than river traffic (Table 1.1).
(iv)   Aviation
1.17      Air transport is a vital means of communication, despite its rela-
tively high cost, and is likely to remain so for a long time because of the
topography and low population density of the country. There are approximately
300 airports in the country, but only 30 have scheduled service provided by
Lloyd Aereo Boliviano (LAB), the Government-owned airline. Airports at the
four major cities -- La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and Trinidad -- account
for more than 80% of the regular passenger and 70% of the cargo traffic.
Virtually all other airports are in poor condition and can accept only small
propeller-driven aircraft. During the wet season, several of these airports
are closed for considerable periods because of flooding and other hazardous
conditions. Chartered cargo service is provided by several private operators,
who are normally engaged in the transport of meat from the Department of Beni
to La Paz and other cities in the Altiplano.
1.18      Demand for air transport has increased rapidly in the recent past.
The number of passengers using LAB's scheduled domestic flights increased
at a rate of 15% per year during the past five years; this was made possible
by the introduction by LAB of modern jet aircraft with higher passenger
capacities. The volume of chartered domestic air cargo, on the other hand,
did not increase appreciably during the same period because of severe aircraft
limitations and the continued vulnerability of many airports to poor weather
conditions. The main objective of the Bank's Aviation Development Project
(Loan 1423-BO, US$25 million, June 1977) is to facilitate growth in domestic



air transport by adding two airports for jet aircraft in Riberalta and Tarija
and two smaller all-weather airports for turbo-prop aircraft in San Borja and
Santa Ana.
(v)   Pipelines
1.19      The state oil company operates 2,462 km of oil pipelines and 754 km
of gas pipelines. The oil pipelines allow access from the major production
fields near Santa Cruz to the Pacific seaport of Arica and to the Argentine
border. The Bank-financed natural gas pipeline (Loan 635-BO, US$23.25 million,
July 1969) conveys gas to Argentina. Depending on the success of intensive
exploration efforts now under way and the confirmation of identified reserves,
significant new pipeline construction, especially to Brazil, may be undertaken.
(vi)   External Trade Routes
1.20      Bolivia's centers of activity are remote from the sea:  La Paz is
located 500 km from Arica and 1,200 km from Antofagasta. Santa Cruz, in the
eastern part of the country, is 2,500 km from Santos in Brazil. Bolivia relies
heavily on exports and imports for the development of its economy, and the
provision of reliable external trade routes assumes a particular importance
for its development. The main exports are minerals via Peru and Chile, crude
oil to Argentina and Chile, gas to Argentina, and agricultural commodities,
especially cotton and wood, to Argentina and to Brazil. Recently, major sugar
exports to Chile also took place. Imports are mainly wheat and flour from
Argentina and, via Peru and Chile, iron and steel, mechanical equipment,
vehicles and other durable goods. The principal ports which serve Bolivia are
those of Antofagasta and Arica in Chile, Matarani and Mollendo in Peru and, to
a lesser extent, Rosario in Argentina and Santos in Brazil.
1.21      Bolivia has sought to link its transport network with those of neigh-
boring countries and to diversify and modernize the various access routes to
the Atlantic or the Pacific Oceans. It has relied mostly on railways to
provide reliable connections with neighboring countries and access to ocean
outlets. This situation would persist in the future while road transport may
gradually play a more important role, especially with respect to regional trade.
At present, there are no highways competitive to the La Paz-Arica and Oruro-
Antofagasta railways, but some international freight is carried by truck over
low standard roads to Arica. Although there is a railway connection from
La Paz via Lake Titicaca to the Peruvian ports of Matarani and Mollendo, most
of the freight to and from these two ports is carried by more competitive
trucks. Some additional international traffic is carried by truck over low
standard roads through Villazon in the West into Argentina, whereas there is
almost no competition for the Santa Cruz-Yacuiba railway because of the very
poor condition of the roads in the southeastern region. There is no alterna-
tive road for the Santa Cruz-Corumba railway.
C. The Development Plan
1.22      The Government's present Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social
Development (1976-1980) includes, as major goals, the expansion of the main



-6-
-xport sectors -- hydrocarbons, minerals, agriculture and agro-industries --
__ order to break the foreign exchange constraint to development. The plan
recognizes that infrastructure such as transport and communications is basic
to the country's development, and it is given high priority.  The latest
Economic Memorandum on Bolivia (March 23, 1977) concurs with this view.
1.23      The Government's main transport strategy underlying its Five-Year
Plan can be summarized as follows:
(a)   establish a comprehensive transportation system that achieves
domestic integration of the country and adequate international
links;
(b)   continue rehabilitation and modernization of the rail system;
(c)   extend and improve the road network to serve high priority
sectors in the economy and to provide rural communities with
better access to markets and services;
(d)   develop air transport through an upgraded and modernized
aviation infrastructure, particularly in the north and
northeast;
(e)   improve the river transport system to assist the social and
economic integration of the northeastern region and improve
lake fleet and facilities on Lake Titicaca; and
(f)   achieve an efficient operation of each transport mode in such
a way that costs are low and services satisfy the demand.
1.24      This strategy, which covers long-term objectives, would have to be
translated into specific programs and policies. This was only partly achieved
by the current Five-Year Plan (1976-1980), which was mostly a list of perceived
investment requirements. The Five-Year Plan calls for investments, in projects
already started, of about US$475 million, excluding pipelines: 56% for high-
ways, 23% for railways, and 21% for aviation. In addition to these projects
already under way, the Government has under study some US$440 million in possi-
ble projects. The Five-Year Plan does not include capital investment for
waterways, which are relatively minor. This may be compared to total public
sector investment of US$2.4 billion, or almost 20%. Many of the projects
included in the 1976-1980 Plan, however, are merely listed, with little or
no attempt to assign economic priorities or to determine their sectoral and
regional impact on the country's development. The Plan (except for railways)
addresses itself primarily to new construction, but, at present, the Govern-
ment gives added emphasis to maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing
infrastructure, particularly roads. Although the targets of the current Plan
are, in some respects, over-ambitious, it is clear that Bolivia needs, in the
future, large investments in transport. The NTS (paras 1.28 and 1.29) would
answer the need for improved sector planning and coordination.



D.   Transport Planning and Coordination
1.25      The Ministry of Transport, Communications and Civil Aeronautics
(MTCCA) is responsible for formulating, directing and executing policy in
the transport sector. The investment proposals of MTCCA are reviewed by
the  National Economy and Planning Council (CONEPLAN) to determine the level
of investments in light of national priorities. Four of the five transport
modes are fully under the jurisdiction of MTCCA (Chart I): highways, rail-
ways, aviation, and waterways. Pipelines are under the jurisdiction of
Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales Bolivianos (YPFB) which, in turn, reports
to the Ministry of Energy and Hydrocarbons. The organizational setup for
planning and coordination is basically sound, but needs strengthening.
1.26      Important issues related to transport planning and coordination in
Bolivia need attention. As an example, Bolivia is likely to have to construct
and improve a substantial number of roads. This program, which may well cost
several hundred million dollars, must be carefully defined and evaluated
against the alternatives offered by the other transport modes. The Government
of Bolivia is considering the eventual construction of a highway between
Santa Cruz and Corumba (Brazilian border), practically parallel to the exist-
ing railway between those points. The high cost of constructing such a high-
way (about US$125 million) and the possibility that this highway is unlikely
to generate substantial traffic, but, rather, might divert it from the railway,
requires a careful economic study. In view of the possible uneconomic dupli-
cation of investments, the Government has agreed not to proceed with the con-
struction of this highway (Loan 1422-BO) until it has carried out an adequate
study to determine its economic justification.
1.27      Transport planning and coordination in Bolivia have historically
been weak. In recognition of this deficiency, a transport study financed by
UNDP, with the Bank acting as Executing Agency, was completed in 1969. It
proposed a program for integrated transport development over the following
ten years. Most of the projects recommended by the study have been started
or are included in the 1976-1980 Development Plan. One of the main recommen-
dations of the 1969 transport study was the creation of a Directorate of
Planning and Coordination. The Directorate was created and, for a time, was
attached to the Ministry of Coordination and Planning, but is now in MTCCA.
In 1972, the Government prepared terms of reference for a UNDP-financed
technical assistance program to strengthen the Directorate. The program was
canceled in 1976, after partial implementation, because of the lack of UNDP
funds.
1.28      At present, the gap in knowledge regarding transport facilities and
equipment, their condition, their age and their ability to meet expected
demands is serious. Although individual project studies have been undertaken,
there has been no sufficient coordination among them. The Government has
decided to undertake an NTS, to be carried out by the Directorate of Planning
and Coordination with assistance of consultants. The NTS would provide the
necessary basis to plan further development of the transport infrastructure



- 8 -
and also to define and introduce improved policies concerning sector management.
In the fields of highway and road transport, the NTS would, inter alia, review
the following matters and recommend necessary improvements: structure and
collection of road user charges, adequacy of axle load limitations and their
enforcement, structure of the road transport industry, and the ban on vehicle
imports. Phase I of the NTS would involve the preparation of a comprehensive
report on transport development and policies, followed by a two-year technical
assistance program (Phase II) for implementation of major policy recommenda-
tions (para 2.17).
1.29      The NTS, financed partly under Bank Loan 1422-BO (US$1.5 million)
and partly by a UNDP grant of US$250,000 for which the Bank is executing
agency, was to start in early 1978. The Bank had already proceeded with the
selection of consultants and initiated contract negotiations. At the beginning
of December 1977, the Bolivian Government, following the replacement of the
Minister of TCCA, informed the Bank of its intention to postpone the starting
date of the NTS. The main reasons indicated for the postponement were the
tight public budget for 1978, the lack of adequate counterparts and, most
importantly, possible interference of the election campaign activities with
data collection in the field. In April 1978, the Government informed the Bank
that the NTS would be started in July 1978. Therefore, Phase I would be com-
pleted by December 31, 1979, and Phase II would be carried out over the period
January 1, 1980 to December 31, 1981.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. The Highway Network
2.01      Bolivia has a road network, totaling about 38,000 km, under
the jurisdiction of the National Highway Service (Servicio Nacional de
Caminos - SNC); about 14% are primary roads, 10% secondary roads, and 76%
tertiary roads.  Only 3% (1,200 km) are paved, 18% (6,800 km) are gravel
surfaced, and the remainder 79% (30,000 km) are earth roads (Table 2.1).
The network follows the rather uneven population distribution in the three
geographical regions of the country (para 1.01). The highlands comprise 50%
of the roads, the valleys 34% and the lowlands 16% (Table 2.2). The road
system was expanded considerably during the sixties; total length of roads
increased about 4% annually over the period 1965-1971. Since 1971, the
expansion has continued at about 1% per year, while an increasing share of
road investments was directed at upgrading of existing roads (Table 2.1).
2.02      The network of the southwestern region of the country, corresponding
mostly to the highlands, is rather well integrated, connecting main cities
(La Paz, Oruro, Potosi) among themselves as well as with the populated area
around Lake Titicaca, and with the valleys to the north and east. Its southern
branch extends to Argentina, and its eastern branch leads through Cochabamba



into the lowlands of Santa Cruz. The rest of the network is composed of less
developed branches stretching through the valleys and into the lowlands, often
lacking adequate connections with each other (Map 11455R2).
2.03      Despite considerable investment undertaken over the last ten years,
Bolivia's highway network is still in its formative stage. Coverage is incom-
plete, and most of the roads, including primary links, have low standards and
are generally in poor condition. Only a fifth of the primary roads are paved,
mostly surface treated; some of the gravel and earth roads, even within the
primary system, are underdesigned for their present volume of traffic and do
not receive adequate maintenance. Moreover, gravel roads have, in general,
high roughness caused by the use of unscreened gravel. Earth roads are, to
a great extent, unimproved, lacking adequate drainage, and are, therefore,
frequently interrupted during the rainy season.
2.04      To serve the country's needs more efficiently, the present network
requires added emphasis on maintenance and rehabilitation, as well as construc-
tion of new roads and upgrading of existing ones. The primary network should
be consolidated in the highlands and valleys and extended into the northern
lowlands to achieve a development similar to that already obtained around
Santa Cruz, leaving long-distance, mainly international, connections mostly
to the railroad system. The secondary and tertiary road networks should be
extended and developed into a more efficient auxiliary road system to feed not
only the primary network, but also the railroads, river ports and airports.
2.05      The next phase of development of Bolivia's highway system would have
to rest on a broad-based planning effort consisting of a detailed analysis of
future transport demand and development objectives in the primary and secondary
sectors. The NTS would provide the necessary basis to develop a coherent
highway master plan and a well-balanced highway program covering upgrading and
strengthening of primary roads, construction and improvement of secondary and
tertiary roads and improved maintenance. The proposed project would initiate
the improvement and buildup of maintenance capacity in the three key districts
of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz and would set the stage for further buildup
of maintenance capacity as well as a program of high priority rehabilitation
and upgrading projects be selected on the basis of the NTS.
B. Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic and Regulations
2.06      Road transport has expanded rapidly in recent years, and the total
vehicle fleet increased by 9% per year from 1970 to 1975, reaching about
70,000 vehicles. Of these, 70% are light vehicles, 25% trucks and 5% buses
(Table 2.3). The regional distribution of the vehicle fleet is consistent
with the pattern of economic activity; 42% of the fleet is concentrated in
the Department of La Paz, and 20% each in the Departments of Cochabamba and
Santa Cruz (Table 2.4). These three Departments contain about two-thirds
of the country's population, and they account for about 70% of the gross
domestic product and 90% of the industrial output. Countrywide consumption of
gasoline showed average increases of 7%, and diesel oil of 15% per year over
the period 1970 to 1976 (Table 2.5).



- 10 -
07      SNC has been carrying out traffic counts and keeping statistics
since 1969, based on 20 permanent stations with pneumatic traffic counters
and about 120 temporary stations where manual counts are taken during seven
days, four times a year. Traffic levels have risen rapidly in Bolivia in
recent years, although from relatively low absolute levels. Representative
data concerning average daily traffic (ADT) suggest average growth of about
9% per year for the last five-year period. Only a few highway sections have
ADT of over 1,000 vehicles, namely the outskirts of La Paz, Cochabamba and
Santa Cruz. Away from the major cities, the ADT in these three districts
averaged about 750 for paved roads, about 60 for gravel roads, and about 17
for earth roads in 1977 (Table 2.6 and Chart II). Interurban traffic is
characterized by the predominance of trucks and buses. Data for the Depart-
ments of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz indicate that commercial traffic
amounts to 68% on paved roads, 76% on gravel roads and 77% on earth roads
(Table 2.6).
2.08      There are no large transport companies in Bolivia.  Intercity
passenger transport is in the hands of commercial firms and of cooperatives
with fleets of up to 40 vehicles and is organized into 25 syndicates which
control one or several routes. Freight transport is performed by privately
owned trucks also organized into syndicates. These syndicates are grouped
through provincial federations into a national confederation and play a key
role in representing the industry vis-a-vis the Government and in controlling
its operations. The industry has generally responded quickly to shifts in
demand, and the rates for buses and tariffs for trucks set by MTCCA seem
reasonable (paras 2.09 and 4.11). So far, trucking has complemented railway
transport. In the future, however, as the primary network is expanded and
improved, it would be important to adopt policies that would ensure the
economically efficient distribution of freight and passengers between these
two modes. The NTS would review the present structure of the road transport
industry and make recommendations for possible rationalization measures and
modal coordination policies.
2.09      The National Traffic Service registers and licenses all motor
vehicle fleets, and MTCCA issues licenses for commercial transport, assigns
routes and authorizes fixed tariffs for buses and ceilings for trucks after
negotiations with the syndicates. In 1976, the Ministry of Finance issued
a ban on vehicle imports to ease the country's balance of payments. This ban
has been subject to many exceptions for buses and trucks, and has, so far,
been effective only for light vehicles. The NTS would analyze the effects of
the ban on the capacity of the industry.
2.10      Law No. 11771, dated September 6, 1974, regulates dimensions and
weight of vehicles, and its enforcement is entrusted to SNC (Table 2.7). A
few overloading checks made in 1972 showed an average of 11% of overloads
surpassing load limits permitted on rear axles, with the highest percentage
of 24% detected on the Cochabamba-Santa Cruz road. A new axle load survey
was conducted in 1976 and suggests that overloading (single rear axle in
excess of 11 tons) has increased to about 20%, with the highest percentage,
about 45%, detected again on the Cochabamba-Santa Cruz road. The effort to
improve highway maintenance would have to be combined with a program to



- 11 -
control overloading of trucks. Enforcement has so far never been attempted
on a continuing basis. SNC would, therefore, have to develop the necessary
organization, which in view of the relatively low volume of traffic and the
high cost of permanent enforcement, would require careful planning and evalua-
tion. The NTS would, in its initial phase, analyze the most effective way to
control overloading and facilitate development of an enforcement program.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that, at the time of issuance
of the final report on the first phase of the NTS, by April 1, 1980, it would
adopt a plan satisfactory to the Bank for the enforcement of vehicle dimension
and axle-load regulations throughout Bolivia and that, not later than three
months thereafter, it would commence enforcement of such plan.
C.  Highway Administration, Organization and Training
2.11      Bolivian highways are managed by SNC, a semi-autonomous agency under
MTCCA.  SNC originated from a Bolivian-American Highway Cooperative Service
and was established in 1955 with the assistance of the Federal Highway Adminis-
tration (FHA) under a USAID program.  It replaced the former "Direccion de
Vialidad" which had become increasingly ineffective. The present organization
of SNC (Chart III) and its responsibilities to plan, build, maintain, and
administer highways are established in Supreme Decree No. 6684 of February 21,
1964, and in Law No. 7390 of February 15, 1965.
2.12      SNC is headed by a Director, assisted by a Deputy-Director and a
General Counsel, and supported by the "Consulting Council" composed of the
eight department chiefs. The eight central departments cover highway plan-
ning; highway design; highway construction; highway maintenance; bridge
design, construction and maintenance; equipment administration; finances;
and general administration. Larger highway construction projects are
administered independently by a Field Project Chief appointed by the Director
and coordinated with the departments at headquarters. Highway maintenance
is performed through nine districts, which correspond roughly to the admin-
istrative setup of the country into nine departments. Each district is headed
by a Chief Engineer, assisted by a Deputy, and is subdivided into two to six
residencies. Countrywide, there is a total of 36 residencies.
2.13      SNC's organizational structure is basically sound, but needs to be
strengthened. SNC has been overburdened with force account construction work
which went beyond its managerial capabilities, resulting in a growing neglect
of its maintenance obligations. Inadequate coordination between departments
and between central and field units have, over the last few years, diminished
SNC's effectiveness, and repeated staff changes at high management level
during 1977 have added to the problem. The present Minister of MTCCA is
aware of the need to restore SNC's organizational effectiveness; he plans
to curtail SNC's direct involvement in construction and to strengthen its
maintenance capacity. The NTS would analyze, inter alia, SNC's organization
and management system (para 2.17).
2.14      The personnel of SNC comprises about 140 engineers, 115 technicians,
530 administrative employees and 3,000 mechanics, operators and laborers, show-
ing a satisfactory overall balance between engineers and administrative and



- 12 -
operational staff (Table 2.8). Because of the relatively low level of
salaries, it is common for the engineers and the better trained personnel to
hold a second job; this understandably affects their effectiveness as far as
SNC is concerned. The yearly turnover of approximately 10% of the staff is
not unusually high, but it affects mostly the more capable among the younger
staff. In spite of the above limitations, SNC has considerable institutional
resilience, especially in the districts and residences which have more sta-
bility in their personnel. These units would bear the brunt of the effort
required for the proposed improvement of maintenance. They would be capable
of doing so with technical assistance and training to be provided under the
project.
2.15      SNC field operations are hindered by the insufficient training of
mid-level technicians and foremen. An SNC Training Center was established
at Patacamaya in 1973 to remedy this deficiency and to train operators and
mechanics. The training center has classroom and office facilities to accom-
modate about 30 people and an inadequate workshop. The teaching staff includes
one director and one general instructor. The center has lacked the investments
and operating budget necessary to develop its operations to the desired
level. It has carried out 15 short-term courses, training 300 operators and
90 mechanics. The upgrading and amplification of the center's activities
would be a major objective of the project. In fact, the advance technical
assistance provided under the Third Railway Project, inter alia, prepares the
necessary expansion of the center in 1978.
2.16      Other agencies cooperate with SNC in the development of the road
network: (a) regional development corporations or boards, set up in different
Departments, mainly in La Paz, Chuquisaca, Santa Cruz and Beni, often carry
out road improvement projects in collaboration with SNC, as is being done
under the Bank-financed Agricultural Project (Loan 1211-BO); (b) some larger
mining enterprises and the Government-owned oil company, YPFB, often supply
equipment or financing for maintenance of specific road sections important for
their activities; and (c) the Army Corps of Engineers and the Agricultural
Ministry's Provincial Development Committees construct a limited number of
roads (para 2.20).
D. Highway Planning and Engineering
2.17      SNC's planning department is responsible for long-term planning,
preparation of investment programs to be submitted through MTCCA to CONEPLAN
(para 1.25), economic analysis of these programs, feasibility studies of
specific projects, financial planning, preparation of the annual budget,
and coordination with other Government agencies and external financial insti-
tutions. The planning department is presently understaffed to carry out its
many tasks satisfactorily. Highway programs have lacked clear definition of
objectives and have not systematically included evaluation of economic prior-
ities. The inventory of the national highway network has not been updated
regularly. Traffic counts and complementary OD surveys are often incomplete
and not systematically used for projecting requirements. The NTS and the
technical assistance under the proposed project would develop the proper
conceptual framework for highway planning and would strengthen the planning



- 13 -
function within SNC. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that,
not later than three months after the issuance of the report on the first
phase of the NTS (para 1.28), it would consult the Bank on the measures
required to carry out the recommendations of the NTS, including, inter
alia, the recommendations concerning the organization of the road transport
industry (para 2.08) and the rationalization of road user charges (para 2.23).
2.18      Responsibility for highway engineering had previously been divided
between the construction department - to prepare specifications and to carry
out or supervise design work - and the planning department - to contract
consultants. A new department to take care of final engineering studies and
road design was set up in January 1978. The specifications for geometric
design of roads were established in 1972 by SNC and are generally satisfactory
(Table 2.9). Engineering design work by SNC staff has been limited to minor
projects and has been of adequate quality. SNC has increasingly used consul-
tants for engineering of large and medium size projects, relying either on
joint ventures of Bolivian and foreign firms or solely Bolivian. Design work
performed by consultants has been, in general, satisfactory, although there
have been some cases where closer supervision by SNC and less stringent
deadlines might have prevented serious problems.
E. Highway Construction
2.19      SNC's construction department is responsible for highway construc-
tion and for carrying out works either through contracting, by force account,
or in coordination with other Government agencies which perform special road
construction projects (para 2.20). Modern highway construction methods were
first introduced to Bolivia in the 1950s, when USAID and the FRA started their
technical assistance program and foreign contractors were employed to build
some of Bolivia's trunk roads. Two local firms that started as minor sub-
contractors at that time are now the largest construction companies in the
country, with capital of about US$25 million and US$5 million respectively
and with 100 and 20 engineers respectively. Four smaller companies are doing
highway construction jobs with capital of about US$1 million and a staff of
three to five engineers each. The quality of construction work performed by
these contractors is uneven, often affected by the lack of know-how in specific
matters such as compaction, surfacing material selection and pavement tech-
niques. Until recently, the capacity of the road construction industry has
been sufficient for Bolivian needs, but the planned expanded activity in this
field will necessitate participation of foreign contractors. Argentine,
Brazilian and Chilean construction companies have shown interest in partic-
ipating in Bolivian construction projects. The NTS will address itself to the
further development of the domestic construction industry, including ways and
means of strengthening its managerial capability and technical know-how.
2.20      Traditionally, SNC has carried out rehabilitation and construction
of secondary and tertiary roads by force account through special regional units
under a Field Project Chief (para 2.12). In recent years, however, SNC has
increasingly awarded construction projects to contractors through public
bidding. This trend will continue as the Government strengthens SNC's role in
maintenance and rehabilitation. The Army Corps of Engineers and the Provincial
Development Committees of the Ministry of Agriculture have also constructed



- 14 -
roads either in strategic areas or in relation to agriculture programs.
Sia,ce 1969, the Communal Development Service has carried out, with USAID
assistance, the construction of low standard penetration roads, about
6,0J0 km to date.  The roads have contributed toward improving communications
with rural areas, but have not been adequately maintained. A followup project
was initiated in 1977 to improve or construct 1,200 km of feeder roads in the
districts of La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz and northern Chuquisaca. A
special unit has been organized within SNC to carry out this project and to
prepare a similar one for southern Chuquisaca, Potosi, and Tarija. After
construction, these roads would be administered and maintained by SNC.
F.   Highway Financing and Road User Charges
2.21      Highway expenditures for the period 1971-1976, comprising construc-
tion, improvements, maintenance and administration, are shown in Table 2.10.
Over this period, the level of expenditures increased steadily from US$13.8
million in 1971-1972 to US$43 million in 1976, averaging about US$22 million
annually. These expenditures have been financed from earmarked road user
charges (6%), from the national budget (73%) and from external sources (21%).
Estimated contributions from road user charges to Government receipt are
shown in Table 2.11. The revenues from existing road user charges have,
on the average, been sufficient (US$23 million equivalent per year) to cover
all highway expenditures, including new construction.
2.22      The current Five-Year Plan (1976-1980) includes about US$600 million
investment in highway construction, about US$270 million for ongoing projects
and the balance for projects under study. This is, by all measures, an ambi-
tious target. Difficulties in financing have delayed or prevented execution of
the ongoing projects, and, for th; same reason, many of the projects under study
would have to be postponed or cancelled. The NTS would review the investment
priorities in roads and match them with foreseeable levels of expenditures to
develop a coherent road development program. The financing requirements of the
sector would, in turn, be used to assess the adequacy of road user charges.
The NTS would also propose measures to rationalize road user taxes, some of
which are now collected inefficiently (para 2.17).
2.23      A recent (November 1977) Bank staff review of Bolivia's energy
sector identified the need to increase substantially (more or less double)
prices for oil products in order to bring them closer to their international
equivalent and provide financing for large investments required in the energy
sector. 1/ The proposed increase would not significantly affect the demand
for intercity road transport (para 4.10). The impact of the proposed increase
would be assessed under the NTS, as part of the comprehensive review of road
user taxes, in relation to future levels of highway expenditures and inter-
modal coordination (para 2.17).
1/   Prices for gasoline are now about US$0.30 equivalent per US gallon
(US$0.08/liter) and US$0.27 per US gallon (US$0.07/liter) for
diesel fuel.



- 15 -
G.   Highway Maintenance
2.24      Road maintenance is financed under the SNC budget and carried out
by SNC's maintenance department through its nine field districts with their
"residencies" and camps. Each camp is, in general, responsible for 60 km of
primary and secondary roads and 200 km of rural roads. SNC's annual road
maintenance program recognizes three levels of maintenance reflecting the
roads' traffic density:
(a) permanent maintenance, carried out on 7,700 km of roads with
higher traffic (21% of the road network, Table 2.12) includes
right-of-way clearance, maintenance of drainage, maii_tenance and
patching of asphalt-treated surfaces, maintenance of shoulders,
and blading of gravel surfaces with frequencies reaching from a
conservative five times a year to an extremely high frequency of
57 times a year on heavy traffic roads with unusually coarse gravel;
(b) temporary maintenance, done on about 7,500 km of gravel or secondary
earth roads with lower traffic (20% of the network, Table 2.12), is
similar to permanent maintenance, but includes only 2 or 3 bladings
a year; and
(c) occasional maintenance, performed on only a small part of the
remaining 22,000 km of roads with little traffic, considers only
manual right-of-way clearance, drainage maintenance and irre-
gular repair of the surface with local material.
All maintenance levels also include emergency operations such as slide removal
and restoration of services. These three maintenance levels do not have clearly
defined borderlines, and their application is not rigorous. They do provide,
however, an effort to apportion resources to traffic. The planning of mainte-
nance operations would be reviewed and improvgd under the project.
2.25      SNC's maintenance program has also included minor road improvement
works consisting of partial straightening of curves, widening of the roadway,
and improvements of gradients, surfaces and drainage. These minor improvements
consumed an important proportion of the maintenance budget until the early
1970s (35% in 1972). In the last few years, however, they have been phased
out and now represent only 17% of maintenance expenditures (Table 2.10), and
their share is even lower in the districts of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa
Cruz. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that, during the execution
of the project, SNC would keep expenditures for minor road improvement works
in the three districts at 10% or less of its budgeted expenditures for road
maintenance in such districts.
2.26      Road maintenance expenditures remained almost constant during the
early 1970s and started to increase by 10% per year since 1974, reaching
US$7.6 million in 1976 (Table 2.10). The average road maintenance expenditures
amount to US$217/km and are still very low and unevenly distributed: 72.3%
is spent in permanent maintenance for 21% of the network with an average of
US$917/km; 7.5% is used for 20% of the networks with an average of US$97/km;



- 16 -
and 3.2% is spread over the remaining 59% of the road system, rendering an
average of only US$13/km (Table 2.12). These expenditures are less than
half of those in neighboring countries, Paraguay, Peru and Chile.
2.27      The main deficiencies in the Bolivian road maintenance can be
classified as follows:
(a) maintenance of paved roads, mostly surface treatments, is limited
to some patching and surface dressing. Periodic operations, e.g.,
patching, seal coat, surface treatments, are neglected as well
as rehabilitation and strengthening; shoulder maintenance is also
inadequate;
(b) maintenance of gravel roads is impeded mainly by the use of
oversized materials. Although there is an abundance of good
quality gravel or rock in the highlands and valleys, no screen-
ing or crushing is used. The resulting high surface roughness
cannot be diminished effectively, even by frequent grading.
Little attention is given to reposition or reinforcement of the
wearing course, and no watering or compaction is applied.
Additionally, drainage and slope maintenance are often
deficient; and
(c) earth road maintenance is widely neglected because of insuf-
ficient manpower and lack of equipment, partly caused by the
concentration of the available grading equipment on gravel roads.
The consequent surface deformation and the lack of adequate
drainage and slide controls cause high vehicle operation costs
and extensive interruptions of earth roads during the rainy
season.
The proposed highway maintenance project is geared to improve these mainte-
nance deficiencies.
2.28      The intensive use of labor in road maintenance is quite common in
Bolivia. The main source of labor evolves from the unique Bolivian duty of
every male citizen between the ages of 18 and 60 to work for three days per year
on road construction or maintenance. This three-day highway service (presta-
cion vial) can be avoided by paying a tax of b$ 10 per year (at present US$0.50
equivalent). The low amount of this tax (eroded by inflation over the years)
has induced more and more people to avoid active service. SNC is therefore
proposing to increase the highway service tax to US$5 per year, which undoubtedly
would increase the number of people willing to work. Another source of free
labor used with varying success in many residencies is manpower supplied by
some well organized rural communities, either on a voluntary basis or in
exchange for equipment hours to be rendered by SNC. The tax-induced as well
as the community-supplied laborers are mostly unskilled and very often do not
receive adequate tools for their assigned tasks. These tasks are mainly
right-of-way clearance, some of the drainage maintenance included in both
permanent and temporary maintenance, and most of the occasional maintenance.



- 17 -
Under the proposed highway maintenance project, SNC would, with the aid of
technical assistance, explore possibilities to further extend manpower avail-
ability for road maintenance and to increase its effective use.
2.29      SNC's maintenance equipment and vehicle fleet is neither adequate in
composition nor sufficient in quantity and quality. It barely has any crushing,
screening, watering or compaction equipment, and acquisition of other types of
equipment has been sporadic, depending mainly on the availability of external
funds. Two major equipment procurement programs were carried out during the
1960s with USAID financing, the latest in 1968-1969. No significant new equip-
ment procurement was done until a loan was obtained from Brazil in 1974. The
existing fleet of about 1,140 major units is aging and partially in poor condition.
Average age is 8.3 years for specialized machinery and 6.9 years for trucks
and vehicles; 25% of the equipment is more than 10 years old (Table 2.13).
SNC estimates that 32% of the fleet is in good working condition, 40% needs
repair or overhaul and 28% is to be scrapped within the next few years.
Estimates for the districts of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz show an
average equipment availability of 50% and a utilization of 70% of available
equipment, resulting in an overall equipment utilization of 35%. The proposed
project would aim at increasing overall equipment utilization and renewing the
fleet, adjusting its composition and carrying out overhaul of salvageable units
and scrapping of obsolete ones. The project would also aim at introducing
systematic renewal procedures.
2.30      There is a central workshop for major equipment repair in La Paz and
a small one in each district's headquarters. The central workshop is fairly
well equipped to carry out major overhauls for all districts, but the district
workshops are, in general, inadequately equipped to perform needed repairs.
Spare parts acquisition is insufficient and lagging, and storage and distri-
bution of spare parts are not efficient. Properly trained mechanics,
operators, and foremen are also very scarce. SNC equipment repair capability
would be improved under the proposed project.
2.31      Advance technical assistance for highway maintenance is being pro-
vided to SNC under the Third Railway Project, Loan 1422-BO (US$0.5 million).
Consultants Wilbur Smith (US) and their Bolivian associates have been retained
and are scheduled to commence their services in June 1978. They would help
strengthen management of highway maintenance, improve and amplify training
and initiate implementation of the proposed project. Additional technical
assistance would be provided under the proposed project to continue and
expand this initial effort.
III. THE PROPOSED PROJECT
A.   Project Development and Preparation
3.01      At the time of formulation of the current Five-Year Plan, the
Government recognized that the ambitious program for upgrading and expansion



- 18 -
of the road network would have to be accompanied by improvement in road
maintenance. The Bank's transport sector mission, organized in April 1976,
confirmed the priority of maintenance. The Government subsequently requested
Bank assistance in this field which would complement ongoing and planned
assistance from IDB (highway construction) and USAID (feeder road construc-
tion). The expansion of SNC's maintenance capacity is perceived as a
long-term objective to be achieved gradually, starting with the improvement
of field operations in key districts and leading eventually to the preparation
of a possible countrywide program for road maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading.
3.02      The proposed project, which would be the Bank's first involvement
in Bolivia's highway sector, has been kept simple and focused on a primary
objective: development and introduction of improved maintenance methods,
expansion of capacity, and training of personnel in the three key districts
of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. These three districts were selected
for the proposed road maintenance project because they constitute the most
important urban, industrial and agricultural areas of Bolivia and received
priority consideration in the Five-Year Development Plan. Their 15,000-km
road network comprises 40% of the national network, carries about 75% of
total traffic, and extends over large areas with very different climates,
topography and soil conditions, representing Bolivia's three distinct geographic
regions (paras 1.02 to 1.04). Highway maintenance activities are, by nature,
short to medium term, call for flexible programming and supervision and
should, therefore, be handled at the district level. Road maintenance in the
other districts, although not the object of specific improvement programs at
this stage, would benefit from project measures dealing with SNC's central
organization: improvements in the central workshop (para 3.13a) and in the
countrywide maintenance personnel training (para 3.16), and the systematic
exchange, at national level, of maintenance information and experience in
periodic workshops and seminars (para 3.16d). The project was prepared by SNC
with assistance from the Bank staff over the period March to November 1977.
The methodology used for project preparation is explained below (paras 3.06
and 3.07) and in Chapter IV.
B.   Objectives and General Description
3.03      The specific objectives of the project are:
(a) to carry out, in the three SNC districts of La Paz, Cochabamba and
Santa Cruz, over the period mid-1979/mid-1983 (para 3.25), the
maintenance required and to eliminate the backlog of deferred
maintenance;
(b) to strengthen the road maintenance organization at headquarters
and in the three project districts and to improve and rationalize
maintenance planning, procedures and standards;
(c) to complete the fleet of maintenance equipment and vehicles in
the three project districts and to improve its availability and
utilization for maintenance activities;



- 19 -
(d) to improve, through training, the capability of maintenance
personnel at all levels at headquarters and in the three
districts; and
(e) to prepare a countrywide highway maintenance, rehabilitation
and upgrading program.
3.04      The project components are:
(a) implementation, in the three project districts, of agreed
four-year programs (mid-1979/mid-1983) of about 15,000 km
of roads, including deferred maintenance of about 2,000 km;
(b) acquisition of maintenance equipment and vehicles to com-
plete and expand, as necessary, the maintenance fleet in
the three project districts;
(c) buildup of spare parts stock for preventive maintenance of
existing and new equipment and vehicles, and acquisition
of spare parts for major overhauls of salvageable equipment
and vehicles;
(d) acquisition of workshop tools and equipment, and construction or
expansion of workshops and warehouses;
(e) acquisiton of training equipment and tools, traffic counters
and specialized equipment for the SNC soil laboratory;
(f) acquisition of hand tools for labor-intensive road maintenance
operations;
(g) technical assistance at SNC headquarters and in the project
districts (i) to implement all phases of the project; (ii) to
develop and carry out training programs; and (iii) to assist
in the preparation of a nationwide maintenance program; and
(h) engineering and economic studies to prepare the program for
upgrading and rehabilitation of earth, gravel and paved roads.
3.05      The project would be carried out over a period of five years; it
would be initiated during the first year and would be implemented over the
four years mid-1979/mid-1983.
C.   The Four-Year Maintenance Programs
3.06      A review of SNC maintenance operations showed that the volume of
maintenance is deficient but also that the maintenance policies and procedures
are not fully adequate. It was therefore important in the preparation of the
project to adopt a methodology which would allow testing of alternative
maintenance policies on various types of roads within various traffic ranges.
In order to carry out this analysis, SNC, in agreement with the Bank staff,
adopted the Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM) developed by
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Bank on the basis of



- 20 -
research work carried out in Kenya. 1/ A special project was undertaken to
measure, in situ, road roughness coefficients in order to use the HDM model
under Bolivian conditions.
3.07      The basic steps leading to the determination of the maintenance
program are: (a) the condition inventory and traffic survey of the road
network of the three project districts (Tables 3.1 and 3.2); (b) assessment
and costing of maintenance activities (Table 3.3); (c) the estimate of vehicle
operating costs for various classes of road (Tables 3.4 and 3.5); and finally
(d) determination, through an iterative process of optimization, of the
specific maintenance programs to be carried out in the three districts over
the project period. The programs are defined in Table 3.6 in terms of annual
quantities for main types of activities. Table 3.6 also indicates expected
performance concerning use of equipment (specified in terms of availability
and utilization factors). Present road maintenance standards are shown in
Table 3.7. The maintenance standards to be applied as a result of the
iterative optimization process (para 4.09) under the programs for various
types of roads and classes of traffic are indicated in Table 3.8. Table 3.6
and Table 3.8 constitute a definition of the programs to be implemented. The
proposed programs are compatible with expected levels of funding (para 3.22).
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that, commencing in 1979, and
through the project period, SNC would review the detailed work programs for
each project district (Table 3.6) and would consult with the Bank on the
scope and content of these annual programs before their inclusion in SNC's
proposed budget.
3.08      The salient features of the maintenance programs for the three project
districts are presented in Annex 1. Average road maintenance expenditures in
the three districts, not including deferred maintenance, would be US$382/km at
the end of the project (Annex 1, Section 5). The optimization process stressed
the high cost effectiveness of surfacing gravel roads with graded crushed
materials of much smaller size than the natural gravel currently used by SNC.
This process also evidenced the need to undertake rehabilitation and strengthen-
ing of aging pavements, and it pointed out that the three districts have many
km of earth roads and some km of gravel roads which are carrying volumes of
traffic substantially above the threshold warranting upgrading. Upgrading and
rehabilitation projects would, however, require further preparation as provided
under the project (para 3.19).
3.09      The detailed network analysis showed that SNC has accumulated a backlog
of periodic resurfacing on gravel roads which would be eliminated under the
project by carrying out regraveling above normal requirements. A similar situa-
tion exists for pavement maintenance where deferred maintenance is necessary.
The deferred maintenance works have been integrated into the programs for the
1/  H. Hide, S. W. Abayanayaka, I. Sayer and R.J. Wyatt, The Kenya Road
Transport Cost Study: Research and Vehicle Operating Costs. TRRL
Report LR672, and J.W. Hodges, J. Rolt and T.E. Jones, The Kenya Road
Transport Cost Study: Research on Road Deterioration. U.K. Department
of the Environment TRRL Report LR673 (Crowthorne, Transport and Road
Research Laboratory, 1975).



- 21 -
project districts.  The cor esponding volume is shown in Table 3.6, amounting
in total to aboit 740,000 m of pavement repair (covering 700 km of roads)
and 1,000,000 m of resurfacing of gravel roads (1,400 km)).
3.10      Deferred maintenance would be carried out in the three project
districts by SNC force account as all other maintenance activities (para
2.20). Technical assistance and equipment for deferred maintenance are
included in overall project requirements. In addition, the Bank would
participate in the financing of direct costs incurred by the districts in
carrying out the deferred maintenance works. The annual program of work,
including quantity estimates and unit cost determined on the basis of
analysis of such direct cost, would be prepared by SNC with the assistance
of consultants each year at the time of preparation of the budget. Such
program would then be discussed and agreed with the Bank. The consultants
would supervise this work closely and would monitor efficiency and output.
This would provide SNC a firmer basis to assess the real cost of regraveling
and pavement repair for the planning of its maintenance program. These
arrangements were confirmed during negotiations.
D.   Equipment
3.11      A major component of the proposed project would be to renew and
expand the maintenance equipment and vehicle fleet of the three project
districts (Table 3.9) as necessary to provide them with adequate capacity
to carry out their respective maintenance programs. The analysis of equipment
requirements (Table 3.10) is presented in Annex 2. It took into account the
condition of the existing fleet (including planned overhaul), the overall
capacity required and the agreed targets for equipment performance. The list
of equipment, vehicles and tools, and overall spare parts requirements, as
well as the related purchasing schedule, were reviewed and agreed upon during
negotiations.
3.12      The project would also include overhaul of existing salvageable
units in the three districts (estimated number 200) and scrapping of obsolete
ones. Necessary spare parts would be provided under the project. The dis-
trict workshops would carry out the overhaul with technical assistance from
the consultants. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that SNC would
(a) prepare, by September 30, 1978, with the help of the advance technical
assistance, a detailed list of units to be overhauled and a scrapping program
and (b) start implementation of a systematic scrapping program by July 1, 1979.
The Government also confirmed that the new and overhauled equipment and
vehicles would be used exclusively for maintenance and minor improvement works
in the three districts and that no further acquisitions of maintenance equip-
ment units would be made over the project period without informing the Bank in
advance.



- 22 -
E.   Workshops and Spare Parts
3.13      To improve maintenance equipment and vehicle fleet availability,
workshop and warehousing practices would have to be modernized and a basic
stock of spare parts for preventive maintenance provided. To this end, the
project would include:
(a) expansion of existing workshops and warehouses in Cochabamba
and Santa Cruz and construction of new facilities in La Paz;
(b) workshop tools and equipment in the three districts and for
the central workshop at El Alto;
(c) spare parts for preventive maintenance for equipment and
vehicles in the three districts; and
(d) improvement of workshop and warehousing techniques and
management, including acquisition, storing, controlling
and distribution of spare parts.
The more efficient operation of the workshops would also require adequate and
timely allocation of funds to maintain a basic stock of spare parts. Stocks
are frequently depleted for lack of specific provision in the budget. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that SNC would take necessary action
for facilitating proper maintenance and repair of its equipment and vehicles,
and that adequate funds would be provided under specific allocations in SNC's
budget for purchases of spare parts.
3.14      Since the project provides spare parts only for the maintenance
equipment and vehicles of the three districts, the Government confirmed
during negotiations that spare parts (and all other goods and services)
provided under the project would be used exclusively for the maintenance
programs in the districts except as the Bank shall otherwise agree. Further,
the Government agreed that the reorganization of SNC's supply and distribution
system for spare parts for the three districts would be a condition for dis-
bursement for procurement of spare parts.
F. Tools and Equipment for Labor-Intensive Maintenance Activities
3.15      The project would assist in the efficient utilization of labor for
road maintenance operations by providing technical assistance to improve
the management of these operations, and an adequate supply of hand tools for
vegetation control, ditch and culvert cleaning, removal of slide materials,
shoulder and road bed repairs and spot regraveling. In addition, the project
would provide intermediate technology equipment, such as agricultural tractors
with trailers, towed graders and drags, to be used independently or in com-
bination with hand labor in maintenance of earth and gravel roads. Two of
these equipment combinations would be supplied to each district.
G. Training
3.16      Although SNC is a well established organization, its personnel are
relatively poorly trained and often employ inefficient work methods. The
training component included in the technical assistance of the proposed



- 23 -
project would make an important contribution toward meeting the operational
targets agreed upon by SNC and the Bank. Its aim is to improve staff produc-
tivity and operational efficiency through training, retraining and upgrading
about 1,000 skilled workers and low, middle and high level supervisors. SNC,
with the assistance of consultants (para 2.31), would:
(a) establish a permanent training unit within SNC which would
be responsible for the planning, implementation and super-
vision of all training activities;
(b) upgrade and expand the activities of the SNC Training
Center (para 2.15) by improving the existing mechanical
workshop and preparing short and long-term courses based
on better procedures and work methods required for road
maintenance. These courses would be addressed in par-
ticular to low-level road and equipment supervisors;
(c) carry out an expanded program for the training of about
1,000 personnel (400 equipment operators and drivers,
300 mechanics, 100 road and equipment supervisors, and
200 administrative/accounting staff). The program would
possibly include the setting up of a field Training
Production Unit (TPU). Personnel assigned to a TPU
would thus be trained under actual working conditions
while carrying out useful and much needed road
rehabilitation and maintenance;
(d) organize periodic workshops and seminars on different
topics related to maintenance management, accounting
and administration for middle and high level staff; and
(e) make a study of the manpower requirements of SNC for
the next five years, including related training needs,
and taking special account of overall maintenance per-
sonnel requirements.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that SNC would furnish to
the Bank by December 31, 1978 a plan of action satisfactory to the Bank
to carry out the training program. This plan, to be updated annually in
consultation with the Bank, would take into consideration any additional
studies and recommendations on training expected to be carried out by the new
consultant services proposed under the project. Further, the Government
confirmed that SNC would (a) carry out a review of its personnel management
policies to identify necessary modifications, which would be the object of
consultation with the Bank by December 31, 1979, and (b) use its best efforts
to retain in its employ, after the completion of the Project, the persons
working as counterparts to the technical assistance. Funds would be provided
under the loan for the purchase of training equipment (US$300,000) and the
recruitment of training specialists-instructors (US$432,000) for about 72
man-months.



- 24 -
H.   Technical Assistance
3.17      Technical assistance would be provided in the following areas:
(a) maintenance organization and management; (b) maintenance programming;
(c) workshop and warehousing practices; (d) personnel training; (e) super-
vision of the deferred maintenance program; and (f) preparation of a country-
wide road maintenance project. Fourteen experts (one Road Maintenance
Engineer-Project Manager, two Road Maintenance Engineers, two Equipment
Specialists, one Transport Economist, four Specialists in different fields,
and four Training Specialists) would be required over a four-year project
period for a total of about 350 man-months. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment (a) agreed to the terms of reference for the technical assistance, (b)
confirmed the number and qualifications of the counterpart staff for the
technical assistance and the dates at which SNC would make each counterpart
staff member available, (c) agreed that the availability of the counterpart
personnel to the project manager, to the equipment specialist, to the road
maintenance specialist and to the training specialist of the advance technical
assistance (para 2.31) would be a condition for effectiveness of the Loan,
and (d) confirmed SNC's commitment to consult with the Bank on any other
maintenance-related technical assistance over the project period.
3.18      The technical assistance to SNC is crucial for the successful
implementation of the project. SNC would have to provide experienced counter-
part staff for both the advance technical assistance and the assistance
provided under the project. An important objective of the technical assist-
ance would be to help SNC improve the availability and utilization of main-
tenance equipment by improving maintenance programming and warehouse, workshop
and field organization and work control. Support equipment for laboratory
and field tests and traffic counting would be provided under the project.
I.   Preparation of Road Rehabilitation and Upgrading Program
3.19      In order to meet high priority requirements identified during
project preparation (para 3.08), the proposed project includes detailed
engineering and economic studies necessary to prepare a program for rehabili-
tation and upgrading of about 300 km of paved roads and 900 km of earth and
gravel roads. The NTS (para 2.05) would confirm the specific sections to be
considered under the proposed rehabilitation and upgrading program in the
project districts as well as other districts not involved in the present
project. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that SNC would
(a) establish, at the time of the issuance of the final report on the first
phase of the NTS, a list setting forth the paved, earth and gravel road
sections for which detailed engineering and economic studies would be done,
and (b) furnish such list to the Bank for its approval.
3.20      During negotiations, the Government confirmed that, to assist in carry-
ing out the detailed engineering and appropriate economic studies of selected
road sections, SNC would employ consultants, whose qualifications, experience
and terms of conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank. The
number and scope of contracts to be awarded and their implementation schedule



- 25 -
would be determined by SNC in agreement with the Bank. The engineering
studies would pay particular attention to the opportunities to use labor-
intensive methods for upgrading of earth and gravel roads.
J.   Cost Estimates and Financing
3.21      The implementation of the project would entail recurrent expendi-
tures to carry out the agreed maintenance programs in the three districts
and capital expenditures, including deferred maintenance, equipment, technical
assistance etc. The Bank would participate only in the financing of the
latter, which are designated as project expenditures. The financing require-
ments of the project are presented in Table 3.11 and summarized as follows:
(US$ million equivalent - April 1978 values)
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983       Total
(half)                       (half)   4 Years
(a) Recurrent expenditures
in three project districts    2.4    5.0    5.4    5.8    3.2          21.8
(b) Project expenditures:
- Government                    3.2    2.3    2.2    1.8    0.8        11.3
- Bank                         15.6    3.8    3.5    1.6    0.5        25.0
Sub-total (b)           19.8    6.1    5.7    3.4    1.3         36.3
Total (a) and (b)       22.2   11.1   11.1    9.2    4.5         58.1
Total project costs would be about US$36 million with a foreign exchange
component of US$25 million, about 70%, which would be financed by the Bank.
The balance would be financed by the Government, which would also finance
about US$22 million equivalent for recurrent maintenance expenditures. The
proposed loan would, over the project period, cover about 43% of recurrent
and project expenditures in the three districts.
3.22      The proposed level of expenditures is in line with SNC's absorptive
capacity and within the financial capacity of the Government. During negotia-
tions, the Government confirmed that it would provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities services and other resources required to carry out
the project in the three districts. To obtain a satisfactory specification
of these items for the maintenance program, the Government confirmed during
negotiations that SNC would reorganize its maintenance accounting system
to show, from January 1, 1980 onward, itemized expenditures of routine and
periodic maintenance, minor improvements, rehabilitation, major improve-
ments and construction. Further, the Government confirmed that it would:
(a) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required to enable SNC to continue, after the project period, to
maintain adequately the roads in the Districts of La Paz, Cochabamba and
Santa Cruz, and to keep the maintenance of roads in the Districts other than
those included in the project at least at their present level; and (b) consult
with the Bank by July 1, 1981 on the program for improvement and strengthening
of highway maintenance, covering the entire territory of Bolivia, to be prepared
with the help of the technical assistance supplied under the project.



- 26 -
3.23      Project costs (summarized on page 27) are based on SNC estimates
updated to April 1978; they have been derived as follows:
(a) Constru2tion of warehouses and workshops: estimates for the
4,000 m of covered area are based on recent SNC contracts for
similar works; foreign exchange component is about 50%, taking
into account that these relatively small works would attract only
local contractors.
(b) Deferred maintenance: estimates of direct costs to be incurred
by the districts are based on current operating costs for SNC
field units applied to overall quantities (para 3.08); the
foreign exchange component amounts to about 44% including
imported materials, mainly asphalt, parts, lubricants, and
indirect foreign exchange costs (fuel, etc.).
(c) Equipment, vehicles, spare parts, workshops, tools, etc. (see
details Table 3.10): estimates are based on recent suppliers'
bids and quotations and price lists (spare parts) CIF La Paz
obtained by SNC for similar items. Spare parts requirements
have been estimated in relation to the value of the equipment:
15% of new equipment for initial stock, 5% of the renewal value
of existing equipment for constitution of preventive maintenance
stock and average requirements per piece of equipment to be over-
hauled   (US$1,000 for light vehicles, US$3,500 for heavy vehicles
and US$6,000 for heavy equipment). The foreign exchange component
corresponding to CIF Bolivia border price amounts to 90% of the
cost, the 10% local component representing internal transporta-
tion, preparation, delivery and dealer commission. No taxes are
levied on SNC imports.
(d) Consulting services: estimates for technical assistance are
based on rates negotiated for the recent advance technical
assistance to SNC (para 2.31); the 85% foreign exchange
component reflects necessary reliance on foreign experts. Esti-
mates for engineering services are based on cost for similar
ongoing studies; the 50% foreign exchange component reflects
the expectation that Bolivian firms would participate, with,
however, an important element of foreign expertise necessary,
particularly for pavement studies. The total number of man-
months of professional services would be about 350 for technical
assistance and 400 for road studies. Rates for man-months would
average about US$3,000 equivalent for Bolivian engineers
and about US$7,800 for foreign experts, including living
allowances, transportation and miscellaneous, which is in
line with current rates for similar services.
Physical contingencies of 10% have been allowed for deferred maintenance and
workshops and warehouses. Price contingencies have been estimated at 14% for
the foreign component and 50% for the local component, reflecting annual rates
of inflation, defined in the cost table on the next page.



Project Cost Estimates and Financing
Bank
In B$ million            In US$ million              Participation (US$)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   fec          Million      %
I. Civil Works
(a)  Workshops and warehouses                                       6        6       12     0.3      0.3      0.6      50       0.3        46
(b) Deferred maintenance (Table 3.6)
(i)   paved roads (700 km)                                   26       26       52      1.3      1.3      2.6      48
(ii)  gravel roads (1,400 km)                                52       36       88      2.6      1.8      4.4      44
Subtotal (i+ii)                                         78       62      140      3.9      3.1      7.0               3.1       46
Subtotal (a+b)                                          84       68      152      4.2      3.4      7.6               3.4       46
II. Equipment, Vehicles, Tools and Spare Parts (Table 3.10)
(a)  Maintenance equipment, vehicles and tools                     24      216      240     1.2    10.8    12.0         90     10.8        90
(b) Spare parts (initial stock, preventive
maintenance, overhaul)                                        6      60       66      0.3      3.0      3.3      90       3.        90
(c) Workshops, laboratory and training equipment
and tools, and traffic counters                               4      26       30      0.2      1.3      1.5      90       1.3       90
Subtotal (a+b+c)                                        34      302      336      1.7    15.1    16.8                15.1
III.  Technical Assistance and Training                                    8      46       54      0.4      2.3      2.7      85       2.3       85
IV.  Engineering and Economic Studies for Road
Upgrading and Rehabilitation                                      18       18       36      0.9      0.9      1.8      50       0.9       46
Base Cost (April 1978)                                            144      434      578      7.2    21.7    28.9                21.7
V.  Contingencies
(a)  Physical (10% of I and II (b))                                 8        8       16      0.4      0.4      0.8               0.3
(b) Price Escalation 1' (50% local and
14% foreign costs)                                           72      60      132      3.6      3.0      6.6               3.0
TOTAL ESTIMATED PROJECT                                224      502      726    11.2    25.1    36.3                 25.0
1/ Based on the following estimated annual price increases:
- Local: 17% for 1978 and 15% for 1979-83
- Foreign:Parts I, III, and IV 1978: 8%; 1979: 7.5%; 1980-85: 7%
Part II ...       ..  1978: 7%; 1979: 6.5%; 1980-85: 6%



- 28 -
3.24      Disbursement of the loan would be made as follows:
(a) 46% of total expenditures for construction and expansion of
workshops and warehouses and of the deferred maintenance
costs;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for direct imports or 90%
of local expenditures for local procurement of imported goods;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures or 85% of total expenditures
for technical assistance and training; and
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures or 46% of total expenditures
for engineering and economic studies.
The estimated schedule of disbursement is given in Table 3.12. Disbursement
would be made against normal documentation except for deferred maintenance
by force account, which would be disbursed against statements of expenditures
supported by monthly certificates of work performed, approved by consultants.
Documentation for these expenditures would not be sent to the Bank and would
be retained by SNC for review by Bank project supervision mission (para 3.10).
K.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
3.25      Execution of the project would be the responsibility of SNC.  The
maintenance program would not start before July 1979, allowing for the pro-
curement of the requested equipment and vehicles. The tentative project
implementation schedule, shown in Table 3.13, was reviewed and agreed during
project negotiations.
3.26     The technical assistance services would be provided by consultants
acceptable to the Bank under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
The magnitude and scope of technical assistance services clearly calls for an
established foreign firm. Decree 13946, regulating consulting activities
in Bolivia, requires that foreign consultants should associate themselves
with local consultants and that staffing should include at least 30% of local
professionals, unless not enough local professionals are available for the
specialized projects at hand (Article 11). During negotiations, the Govern-
ment confirmed that the proposed contract for technical assistance would fall
under the exception provided under Article 11. Further, the procedures
envisaged for selecting a firm were discussed, and, to ensure proper coordi-
nation with the advance technical assistance (para 2.31), the Government
agreed to the continuity of the counterpart staff through both technical
assistance programs.
3.27      Consulting services for road engineering and economic studies would
normally be entrusted to local firms or joint ventures of foreign and local firms.
Selection would follow SNC established procedures. The selection of the firms,
the terms of reference of the studies and the terms and conditions of the con-
sultants' contract would have to be acceptable to the Bank (para 3.20).
3.28      Procurement of equipment, tools, parts, etc. would be in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement" (March 1977). The procurement
program for equipment, parts and tools, indicating lot sizes and estimated



- 29 -
costs, would be subject to prior approval by the Bank. Contracts with
estimated value of over US$50,000 would be awarded through international
competitive bidding. Lots, equipment, vehicles, tools and parts, which can
be obtained from a number of sources with estimated values of less than
US$50,000 and within an overall ceiling of US$1 million, would be advertised
locally following SNC's procurement regulations, which are satisfactory.
When necessary, spare parts for specific makes of equipment would be procured
directly from established dealers in accordance with SNC procurement regula-
tions for individual orders of less than US$50,000 and within an overall
ceiling of US$250,000. The ceiling of contracts for which SNC would not
require prior approval by the Bank would be set at US$50,000.
3.29      Construction and extension of workshops and warehouses would be
procured through SNC regulations which allow for adequate competition. Bids
would be advertised locally since only local contractors would be interested
in these small-scale works (costs of about US$0.5 million each). During
negotiations, agreement was reached on all procurement procedures as out-
lined in paragraphs 3.26-3.29.
3.30      The progress of the project in each district would be monitored
through the indicators given in Table 3.6. Monitoring data would cover
(a) the scope of volume of maintenance operations shown by detailed and
aggregate measures of work performed; and (b) the efficiency of the equipment
fleet assessed through systematic sampling of equipment availability and
utilization. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that the above
indicators would be monitored following methods satisfactory to the Bank and
reported on annually.
L.   Impact and Adequacy of Technology
3.31      The project would have no significant environmental impact.  It
would improve highway safety, especially through repair of damaged pavements
and use of smaller size graded materials on gravel roads. The project would
have an employment impact since it would require about a 10% expansion of SNC
maintenance operation personnel and would make increased use of unskilled
labor through the highway service and voluntary labor (para 2.28). The
project would upgrade the qualifications of SNC personnel. It would assist
in making better use of tax-induced labor by supplying adequate tools and
improving its management. It would also consolidate and strengthen community
participation in road maintenance work by utilizing, in a more systematic way,
the limited experience gained so far and by setting up more efficient institu-
tional arrangements. The project would explore and possibly develop
intermediate technology methods for road maintenance.
M.   Project Risk
3.32      The main reasons for the poor level of road maintenance in Bolivia
have been the lack of an adequate understanding of maintenance requirements,
the insufficient capacity of SNC, caused largely by the poor condition of equip-
ment, and the lack of trained personnel. The project includes a comprehensive
set of measures to remedy these deficiencies. Direct participation of SNC staff
in project preparation has enhanced their perception of, and commitment to,
the project objectives. The funding requirements for recurrent and project
expenditures have been discussed in detail and agreed with the Government.



- 30 -
The magnitude of the proposed expenditures represents only a small percentage
of SNC's total funds and is well within the Government's financial capacity.
The participation of fully qualified international consultants in project
implementation would be an important element in achieving the project's
objectives.
3.33      Risks have been curtailed but are still present, especially since
this would be the Bank's first project with SNC. The procurement phase
of the project presents no special risk. It is possible, however, that the
implementation of the specific maintenance programs would encounter delays.
The annual targets of the maintenance programs for the three districts already
reflect the fact that the full development of the operational capacity and
efficiency of the districts would be realized gradually over the project
period. However, past experience with similar projects suggests that delays
in program implementation of one or two years are common even with the best
prepared projects. Another eventuality is that the expected improvements in
efficiency would not be sufficient to meet fully the operational targets of
the programs defined for each district. Sensitivity tests carried out on
both risks (para 4.10) showed that the justification of the project would not
be affected.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
4.01      The objective of the economic evaluation was three-fold:  first, to
ascertain the economic feasibility of the proposed highway maintenance project
as a whole; second, to take into account the different geographical conditions
in the districts of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz and third, to determine
an economically "optimal" scope and composition for the project. The evalua-
tion was carried out by means of the Bank's HDM model which was adapted to
Bolivian road conditions through roughness measurements on representative
roads in the three districts of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz, undertaken
by the Texas Research and Development Foundation (US) in 1977.
4.02      The HDM model has been used to simulate total costs for road
maintenance and vehicle operation of the "without" and "with" project cases
over the assumed seven-year economic life of the project, corresponding to
the average economic life of the project. The specific operations undertaken
by the HDM model were, inter alia, as follows:
(a) compute road deterioration and maintenance estimates for
both paved and unpaved roads as a function of the initial
design standard, the present road surface condition, the
volume and composition of the traffic during the current
year, the environment and the specified maintenance poli-
cies ranging from low to high levels;
(b) estimate vehicle operating costs over the representative
roads within the three districts as a function of surface
type and condition, environment, design geometry and
vehicle characteristics and costs; and



- 31 -
(c) estimate the current year's traffic volumes based on the
previous year's traffic and the projected growth rates
by vehicle type for both normal and generated traffic.
A draft user's manual describes in detail the methodology used in the HDM
model. 1/
B.   Analysis Network
4.03      For purposes of analysis, the networks of the districts of La Paz,
Cochabamba and Santa Cruz were each divided into 10 representative links on the
basis of updated inventories prepared by SNC in 1977, two to identify surface-
treated roads (only one for Santa Cruz), five for gravel roads and three for
earth roads. One additional link for paved roads with asphalt concrete was
considered for the districts of Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. There is a detailed
description of environmental and design characteristics and surface conditions
for each of the 31 representative links (Tables 3.1 and 3.2).
C.   Maintenance Activities and Unit Costs
4.04      Maintenance was divided into five activities for paved roads and
four for unpaved roads, each with its unit cost (Table 3.3). Table 3.7 de-
scribes the frequency of the execution of these activities in the "without"
project case, and Table 3.8 in the "with" project cases. The first is based on
available data, experience and observations in Bolivia, and the second on the
best estimate of the changes that would be affected by the project.  The "cost
adjustment factors" indicated in Table 3.3 are factors applied to the unit
costs given in the same table for each maintenance activity. These factors
vary, depending on the field conditions in the three districts, the intensity
of maintenance operations and the increased productivity caused by the imple-
mentation of the maintenance project.
D.   Traffic
4.05      Each of the 31 representative links defined above has a specific
level of traffic associated with it, as shown in Table 3.1. Existing traffic
volumes were established on the basis of traffic counts routinely conducted by
SNC and by special counts and origin and destination surveys carried out by
SNC in 1977. Road traffic is expected to grow at a rate of 7% in the district
of La Paz, 9% in the district of Cochabamba and 11% in the district of Santa
Cruz. The estimated growth rates seem reasonable and are in line with the
Bank's projection of GDP growth, which is expected to be in the 5-6% range.
The proposed highway maintenance project would generate traffic by reducing
passenger and freight costs. The operating cost elasticities for road trans-
port in Bolivia are moderate and were assumed on average, 0.3 for the typical
vehicle fleet. As a result, generated traffic in the first year of the
project implementation was estimated at about 4% of normal traffic.
E.   Benefits
4.06      Benefits from implementing the highway maintenance project were
assumed to occur on account of reduced vehicle operating costs. Vehicle
1/   Draft Highway Design and Maintenance Model User's Manual prepared by
Consultants in Management and Technology, Inc., Cambridge, Massachusetts
in September 1977.



- 32 -
operating costs were estimated on the basis of the information in Table 3.4
for both the "without" and "with" project cases. Vehicle operating costs
for selected links are shown in Table 3.5. On average, about 12% of
vehicle operating costs is saved by carrying out the maintenance project.
Benefits not quantified in the evaluation are reduced passenger time costs,
decreased or prevented economic loss due to road closures and reduced accident
costs. The evaluation performed is therefore conservative.
F.   Economic Assessment
4.07      In carrying out the economic assessment, adjustments have been
made to avoid the influence of taxes and subsidies and to account for the
present very low prices of oil products (paras 2;23 and 4.10). Economic
costs net of taxes and subsidies have been estimated for investment costs,
maintenance costs, and vehicle operating costs. A shadow rate of 2.25 for
gasoline and of 1.85 for diesel was used. Since the shadow price for labor
would be only negligibly different from its market price and since there
are no major distortions in the exchange rate, no shadow pricing was
applied to labor cost and to the exchange rate. The economic evaluation
considered the total economic costs of the proposed highway maintenance
project, including the economic costs of the investments under the project
as well as replacement costs during the analysis period 1979 to 1985.
4.08      The proposed highway maintenance program is clearly well justified
with an overall benefit/cost ratio of about 12.1 and a net present value
estimated at about US$160 million when an 11% opportunity cost of capital was
used. Thus, for the project as a whole, the economic rate of return would be
well in excess of 100%. These high rates of return reflect a situation when a
small investment permits the productive capacity of the large investment made
in highway construction to be preserved. The corresponding results for the
three districts show a benefit/cost ratio of 16:1 for La Paz, of 7:1 for
Cochabamba and of 8:1 for Santa Cruz with a net present value estimated at
about US$110 million, US$15 million and US$40 million respectively
(Table 4.1), and are explained in Annex I.
4.09      The scope and composition of the highway maintenance project
resulted fr'tm an iterative optimization process which was carried out for
each of the districts of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz. The selection
of the "optimal" (or at least more efficient) maintenance policy for each
of the 31 representative links was based on net present value criterion,
and only those which yielded a net present value greater than zero and
which maximized the net present value within the policy alternatives have
been selected for the proposed maintenance project (Table 4.2). The detailed
findings of the optimization process are described in Annex 1 and Table 3.8.
4.10      Sensitivity tests applied to the economic evaluation consider a 25%
decrease in benefits and a two-year delay in the completion of the project
(para 3.34). The overall benefit/cost ratio is 9:1 and the net present
value estimated of about US$120 million for the benefit decrease hypothesis,
nd 11:1 and about US$115 million respectively for the delay hypothesis, thus
indicating that the project is still well justified (Table 4.3). Finally, a
ensitivity test was carried out to consider a 100% price increase for oil
products as recommended by the recent Energy Sector Mission to Bolivia (para
2.23). The price increase would raise vehicle operating costs by about 20%,



- 33 -
which, in turn, would reduce traffic growth rates in the order of 0.9% (assum-
ing an average cost elasticity of 0.3). The incidence of the recommended
price increase for oil products on the proposed highway maintenance project
thus proved rather insignificant.
G.   Distribution of Benefits
4.11      Most of the benefits resulting from savings in vehicle operating
costs would accrue directly to the road transport industry. The extent to
which these benefits are passed on to the general public would depend on
competition within the road transport industry and/or on the rates and tariffs
set by MTCCA (para 2.08). Approved rates and tariffs are reasonable and have
been virtually unchanged since 1973 despite the substantial price increase for
oil products in 1975. Under the presently prevailing circumstances, it is
likely that savings in vehicle operating costs due to improved maintenance
would be, to a significant degree, passed on to shippers, farmers and passen-
gers over the project period in the form of reductions or, more probably,
avoided increases in rates and tariffs for road transport services.
4.12      In addition to the benefits to be derived from reduced rates and
tariffs, farmers would benefit from the increased availability of transport,
now suffering from the reluctance, on the part of the vehicle owners, to
travel over poorly, or not, maintained rural roads, particularly during the
rainy season. The quality of service would also be substantially improved,
bringing additional transport safety and punctuality, as well as important
passenger time savings, to a large segment of rural population.
4.13      A deeper examination of the factors determining the distribution
of road user benefits would be desirable but could not be attempted at this
stage for lack of data. The NTS would undertake a comprehensive study of the
present market structure, behavior and performance of the road transport
industry and make recommendations for improvements to better meet the country's
transport needs.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) adoption of a plan satisfactory to the Bank for the enforcement
of vehicle dimension and axle-load regulations throughout
Bolivia, at the time of issuance of the final report on the
first phase of the NTS, by April 1, 1980, and initiation of
enforcement of such plan, not later than three months thereafter
(para 2.10);
(b) consultation with the Bank on the measures required to carry
out the recommendations of the NTS, including, inter alia, the
recommendations concerning the organization of the road transport
industry and the rationalization of road user charges, not later
than three months after the issuance of the report on the
first phase of the NTS (para 2.17);



- 34 -
(c) SNC's minor road improvement works in the three districts to be
kept at no more than 10% of budgeted expenditures for road mainte-
nance during the project period (para 2.25);
(d) SNC to review, commencing in 1979 and through the project period,
the detailed work programs for each project district and to consult
with the Bank on the scope and content of these annual programs
before their inclusion in SNC's proposed budget (para 3.07);
(e) SNC to prepare, through the project period, annual work programs for
deferred maintenance, including quantity estimates and unit costs,
and promptly furnish such programs to the Bank for discussion and
approval, before their inclusion in SNC's proposed budget (para 3.10);
(f) list of equipment, vehicles and tools, and overall spare parts
requirements, as well as the related purchasing schedule (para 3.11);
(g) SNC to prepare, by September 30, 1978, a detailed list of equipment
to be overhauled and a program to scrap wornout units to be started
by July 1, 1979 (para 3.12);
(h) the new and the overhauled equipment and vehicles to be used exclu-
sively for maintenance and minor improvement works in the three
districts, and no further acquisition of maintenance equipment to be
made over the project period without informing the Bank in advance
(para 3.12);
(i) SNC to take necessary action for facilitating proper maintenance
and repair of its equipment and vehicles, and adequate funds to be
provided under specific allocations in SNC's budget for purchases of
spare parts (para 3.13);
(j) all goods and services provided under the project to be used exclu-
sively for the maintenance programs in the three districts, except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree (para 3.14);
(k) SNC to furnish to the Bank, by December 31, 1978, a plan of action
satisfactory to the Bank to carry out the training program, to
carry out a review of its personnel management policies in order to
identify necessary modifications, which would be the object of
consultation with the Bank by December 31, 1979, and to use its
best efforts to retain in its employ, after the project period, the
persons working as counterparts to the technical assistance (para 3.16);
(1) terms of reference for the technical assistance, the number and
qualifications of the counterpart staff for the technical assist-
ance and the dates at which SNC would make each counterpart staff
member available, and SNC's commitment to consult with the Bank
on any other maintenance-related technical assistance over the
project period (para 3.17);
(m)  SNC to establish, at the time of the issuance of the final report
on the first phase of the NTS, a list setting forth the paved,
earth and gravel road sections for which detailed engineering
and economic studies would be done, and to furnish such list to
the Bank for its approval (para 3.19);



- 35 -
(n)  SNC to employ consultants, whose qualifications, experience and
terms of conditions of employment would be satisfactory to the
Bank, to assist in carrying out the detailed engineering
and appropriate economic studies of selected road sections
(para 3.20);
(o) the Government to provide SNC promptly, as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required to carry out
the project in the three districts (para 3.22);
(p) SNC to reorganize its maintenance accounting system to show, from
January 1, 1980 onward, itemized expenditures of routine and
periodic maintenance, minor improvements, rehabilitation,
major improvements and construction (para 3.22);
(q) the Government (i) to provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required to enable SNC
to continue, after the project period, to maintain adequately the
roads in the Districts of La Paz, Cochambamba and Santa Cruz, and
to keep the maintenance of roads in the Districts other than those
included in the Project at least at their present level; and (ii) to
consult the Bank by July 1, 1981 on the program for improvement and
strengthening of highway maintenance covering the entire territory
of Bolivia to be prepared with the help of the technical assistance
supplied under the project (para 3.22);
(r) tentative schedule for project implementation (para 3.25);
(s) the proposed contract for technical assistance to fall under the
exception provided under Article 11 of Decree 13946 (para 3.26);
(t) procedures to select the firm for technical assistance, and
Government commitment to the continuity of the counterpart staff
through both technical assistance programs, in order to ensure
proper coordination with the advance technical assistance (para 3.26);
(u) procurement procedures (paras 3.26-3.29); and
(v) the project implementation indicators to be monitored following
methods satisfactory to the Bank and reported on annually
(para 3.30).
5.02      The reorganization of SNC's supply and distribution system for spare
parts for the three districts is a condition for disbursement for spare parts
(para 3.14).
5.03      The availability of the SNC counterpart personnel to the project
manager, to the equipment specialist, to the road maintenance specialist, and
to the training specialist of the advance technical assistance for highway
maintenance provided under Loan 1422-BQ is a condition for effectiveness
of the loan (para 3.17).
5.04      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of
US$25 million equivalent to the Government of Bolivia. The loan would be for
a term of 20 years, including a grace period of five years.
May 18, 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Freight Transported by Different Modes
(1967-1974)
1 9 6 7                            1 9 7 4
Ton-Km     % Sub-       %          Ton-Km       % Sub-       %
103      Total      Total          103        Total     Total
Road Transport             596,200      63.0      19.6         896,464       64.8     16.3
Rail Transport             293,600      31.1       9.7         396,000       28.6      7.2
River Transport             11,400       1.2       0.4          24,480        1.8      0.4                      1
Lake Transport              31,400       3.3       1.0          31,700        2.3      0.6                     O
Air Transport               13,300       1.4       0.4          35,378        2.5      0.6
Subtotal         945,900    100.0      31.1       1,384,022      100.0      25.1
Pipeline Transport
Crude Oil           1,923,000       -       63.1       3,747,000        -        68.1
Petroleum Products   176,000        -         5.8        376,000        -         6.8
TOTAL          3,044,900       -      100.0       5,507,022        -       100.0
Source: Ministry of Planning and Coordination
January 1978



- 37 -
TABLE 2.1
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Bolivian Road Network
A. Classification of the Road Network in km (1976)
Asphalt       Gravel       Earth       Total       %
Primary Roads          1,094         3,381          663      5,138       14
Secondary Roads            79        1,633       2,227       3,939       10
Local Roads                -         1,817      27,066      28,883       76
TOTAL              1,173         6,831      29,956      37,960      100
%                    3            18          79         100
B. Evolution of the Road Network in km (1965-1976)
Average Annual
Year      Asphalt       Gravel       Earth       Total         Growth %
1965          587        8,020      13,279      21,886
1966          587        8,095      14,514      23,196           5.99
1967          736        8,622      15,627      24,985            7.71
1968          736       10,568      13,892      25,126            0.56
1969          779       11,591      12,984      25,354           0.91
1970          950       11,640      13,047      25,637            1.12
1971       1,104        11,486      15,529      28,119           9.68
1972       1,140         6,551      29,009      36,700          30.52 1/
1974       1,163         6,560      29,590      37,313            0.83
1975       1,166         6,559      29,831      37,556           0.65
1976       1,173         6,831      29,956      37,960            1.08
Average Rate
of Growth
1965-1971  11.1            6.2        2.6         4.3
Average Rate
of Growth
1972-1976   0.7            1.1         0.8        0.85
1/ An updating of road classification was done in 1972, no data available for 1973.
Source: SNC
March 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Density in Geographic Regions related to Area and Population
Geographic                    Area            Population               Roads              Road Density
Region2
Km2         %      1000 pop,.   %          Km      %      Km/Km2      Km/1000
Highlands                 179,104   16.3      2,204.4   47.0       19,160   50.5       0.1070          8.69
Valleys                   214,247   19.5      1,528.3   32.6       12,800   33.7       0.0597          8.38              1
Lowlands                  705,230   64.2        955.0   20.4        6,000   15.8       0.0085          6.28              w
TOTAL             1,098,581  100         4,687.7  100        37,960  100         0.0346           8.10
Source: SNC and
Hugo Ossio Silva: "La Problematica Agropecuaria y Agroindustrial en el
Oriente Boliviano," Universidad Catolica, June 1977.
February 1978
toj



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Fleet 1967-1974
Vehicle Type                       1967      1968      1969      1970     1971      1972      1973      1974      1975      1975
Automobiles                      11,059   11,077   11,077   11,101   11,107   11,756   14,132   15,499   18,458
Vehicles owned by National-/
and Foreign Governments         4,341    3,850    3,851    4,788    4,788    4,865    4,632    5,135    5,764
Station Wagons                    3,334    3,587    3,585    3,585    3,262    3,262    3,610    4,076    5,017
Jeeps                             2,627    2,868    2,808    2,808    4,289    4,289    4,554    5,012    6,083
Pick-up trucks                    9,441    8,469    8,469    8,958    8,958    7,547    9,257   10,769   13,285
Total light vehicles             30,802   29,851   29,790   30,303   32,404   31,642   33,489   40,491   48,607             69.5
Trucks                           11,465   12,950   12,950   12,950   13,434   13,434   13,589   15,084   17,510             25.0
Buses                             1,830    2,224    2,224    2,224    2,513    2,513    2,854    3,135    3,819              5.5
Subtotal                   44,097   45,025   44,964   45,477   48,351   47,583   52,268   58,410   69,936    100.0
Motorcycles-2/                    2,150    7,119    7,298    7,298    4,517    4,517   11,130   12,417   14,809
TOTAL                      46,247   52,144   52,262   52,775   52,868   52,106   63,758   71,127   84,745
1/ Some of the vehicles owned by the National and Foreign Governments are trucks, buses or other vehicles.
2/ Figures given for 1967, 1971 and 1972 are not related to figures given for the other years.
Permanence of some partial figures throught 1968-1972 makes then unreliable.
Source: Statistics Bureau - Department of Operations - National Traffic Directory.
March 1978



- 40 -
TABLE 2.4
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Distribution of Vehicles in the Different
Departments and Geographic Regions
Department                   Vehicles            Z
La Paz                        29,024           41.50
Oruro                          4,721            6.75
Potosi                         3,700            5.29
Subtotal  Highlands      37,445          53.54
Cochabamba                    13,617           19.47
Sucre                          2,447            3.50
Tarija                         2,858            4.09
Subtotal  Valleys        18,922          27.06
Santa Cruz                    13,288           19.00
Beni                             281            0.40
Pando                         _                _
Subtotal  Lowlands       13,569          19.40
TOTAL                    69,936         100.00
Source: National Traffic Directory
March 1978



- 41.-
TABLE 2.5
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Consumption!/ 1967-1976
(in cu. m)
Years                  Gasoline                  Diesel
1967                    215.839                  58.733
1968                    239.289                  69.863
1969                    259.612                  80.290
1970                    270.883                  85.875
1971                    278.927                  91.789
1972                    292.256                 100.988
1973                    304.511                 114.368
1974                    321.197                 135.454
1975                    363.796                 173.403
1976                    385.598                 207.711
Average Annual Rate
of Increase              6.7                    15.1
l Total retail sales
Source: Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales de Bolivia
March 1978



- 42 -
TABLE 2.6
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Average Daily Traffic (ADT) and Composition of Traffic
in the Three Project Districts of La Paz, Cochabamba, and Santa Cruz (1977)
Road                                   Composition in %
Length                         Light                  Heavy
Road Type                     km          ADT              Vehicles    Buses    Vehicles
Asphalt Concrete                 50      3,324                35           9        56
Surface Treated              1,010         629                31         15         54
Paved                        1,060         756                32         14         54
High Traffic Gravel             806        184                21          15        64
Medium Traffic Gravel        1,154          50                30          16        54
Low Traffic Gravel           1.414           8                32           6        62
Gravel                       3,369          62                24         15         61
High Traffic Earth           1,324          90                19          3         78
Medium Traffic Earth         1,790          15                38           7        55
Low Traffic Earth            7,227           3                27          7         66
Earth                       10,341          17                23          4         73
TOTAL                  14,770          89                29         13        58
Source: SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 43 -
TABLE 2.7
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Vehicle Dimensions and Weights
(In meters and metric tons)
Maximum width                                   2.5
Maximum height                                  4.0
Maximum length
2 axles                             11.0
3 axles and more                    12.2
semi trailers                       15.3
other combinations                  18.3
Maximum load
Single axle                         11.0
tandem axle                         14.5
Source:   Law 11771 of September 9, 1974
March 1978



- 44 -
TABLE 2.8
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Personnel of the Servicio Nacional de Caminos (1977)
Central    Provincial
Category                                    Office      Divisions      Total
1.  Engineering
Service Chief and Deputy                    2           -             2
Department Managers and Deputies           10           -            10
Project and District Engineers              5          26            31
Resident Engineers                          -          82            82
Soil Engineers                              4           -             4
Mechanical Engineers                        2           8            10
Subtotal - Engineers                   23        116           139
Engineering - Technicians              __4         79          113
Total Engineering                      57         1eF          252
2.  Administratien
Department Managers and Deputies            3           -             3
Lawyers and Accountants                     7           -             7
Employees                                  93         297          390
Communications                              5          10            15
Total Administration Personnel        IW         307           513
3.  Operation
Road Supervisors                                      113           113
Mechanics and Operators                    61       1,075         1,136
Drivers                                    26         496           522
Laborers                                   76         440           516
Total Operation Personnel             163      2,124         2.287
TOTAL Personnel                       328      2,626         2,954
Source: SNC
March 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Geometric Design Norms for Highways
Max. Gradients (%)                          I Minimum
Category and                                         in straight align.                           Shoulder
Future                                           up to 1000m  above        Minimum Sight    I Width       Rolling
Ttaffic                     Design    Minimun          Sea-level              Distances        each        Surface
Volume                      Speed      Radius                                                  side       Width
(ADT)       Topography      KpH        (m)      Desirable  Maximum   Braking    Passing    (m)              (m)    Type of Pavement
Category I       Level             100        450          3         4         180         800        3.00      7.30    Asphalt Concrete
1500-3000 (Veh)  Hilly              90        350          4         6         150         600        2.50                or better
Mountainous        60       120          5          6         80          370       1.50
Category II      Level             100        450         3          4         180         800        2.00      7.30    Asphalt Surface
500-1500 (Veh)  Hilly              80        250         4          5         120         540        1.50      7.30      Treatment or
Mountainous        45        60          6         7          55         230        1.50       7.00     better                 -
Category III     Level              90        350         4          5         150         600        1.50      7.00    Asphalt Surface
200- 500        Hilly              70        170         5          6        100          460        1.15      6.70    Treatment
Mountainous        40        50          7         8          45         160        1.15      6.70
Category IV      Level         j    80        170         4          5         120         540        _._       7.00     tabilizedgravel
50  200 (Veh)  Hilly         i    60        100         5          6         80          370       _._        6.70    surface
Mountainous        40        40          7         8          40         160        _._       6.70
Category V       Level              50         80         5          6    i   60           270       -._        6.00    Stabilized  eart
10- 50 (Veh)   Hilly              40         50         6          8         40          160       _._        6.00   I surface
Mountainous        30        25          7         9          25         150        _._       6.00
Special Remarks
1. Traffic volumes refer to designed future volumes
2.  For traffic densities over 3000 veh/day, special characteristics will be determined through capacity calculations.
3.  For densities under 10 veh/day, an overall platform width of 4.50 m will be taken, and other characteristics
adopted according to each case.
4. Gradients are reduced by 0.5% between 1,000 and 3,000 a.s.l. and by 1% in higher altitudes.
5. Maximal length with continous gradients shall be determined with the criteria of not reducing speeds more
than 25 kph, especially for heavy vehicles.
6. Maximum superelevation is 10%, and it is to be established in relation to design speed and radius chosen.
7. Additional width in curves will be considered after analysis of traffic composition.
Source: SNC
March 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGRWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Highway Expenditures and Funding (1971-1976)
(In 1976 million B$)
Average
Million     Million
1971    1972    1973    1974    1975       1976             BR$          US$
A.  Expenditures
Construction                                81.6    89.0   121.1   249.0   266.0    412.7              203.2         10.2
Minor Improvements                          53.4    71.9    37.5    28.0    27.0        31.4             41.5         2.1
Maintenance                                120.0   131.4   128.3   126.4   137.0    151.4               132.4         6.6
Administration                              21.7    25.6    24.5    20.7    29.1        43.9            27.6          1.4
Others 1/                                     -        -      1.4    28.0    19.0    222.1              45.1          2.2
TOTAL 2/                              276.7   317.9   312.8   452.1   478.1    861.5              449.8         22.5
B. Funding (Domestic and External)
Earmarked Funds (Road User Charges)
Road User Tax (Trip Sheet)                 13.7    14.0    10.3       7.9     8.6       8.3            10.5          0.5
Highway Service (Prestacion Vial)           4.8      4.4     3.1      2.9     2.5       2.5             3.4          0.2
Customs from Agricultural Products          5.5      6.6     4.5      2.6     4.0       3.5             4.4          0.2
Fuel Sales Tax                             37.5    32.0      2.3      2.3      -         -             12.3          0.6
Subtotal  Earmarked Funds              61.5        57.0    20.2    15.7    15.1    14.3            30.6          1.5
BUDGET                                     180.0   254.3   290.3   360.0   403.5    540.9              338.2         16.9
Subtotal  Domestic                    241.5   311.3   310.5   375.7   418.6    555.2              368.8         18.4
USAID                                        6.7      4.5     0.1       -        -        -              1.9          0.1
IDB                                           -      17.0    29.9   192.1   184.7    133.4              92.8          4.6
Andean Pact                                   -        -       -       5.7    11.2       0.5             2.9          0.2
Subtotal  External                      6.7    21.5    30.0   197.8   195.9    133.9               97.6          4.9
TOTAL  Funding.2/.3/                  248.2   332.8   340.5   573.5   614.5    689.1              466.4         23.3
1/ Expenditures for buildings, plants, equipment and others
2/ Differences between expenditures and funding are carried over from year to year
3/  Average Funding 1971-1976:  Earmarked Funds:         6%
Budget                73%
External Financing:  23%
Source: SNC
Narcb 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road User Charges (1971-1976)
(in 1976 million B$)
Average
Million Million
1971     1972      1973     1974      1975      1976       B$        US$
Road User Tax                  1/      13.7     14.0      10.3       7.9      8.6       8.3       10.5       0.5
(Trip-Sheet)
Highway Service                1/       4.8      4.4       3.1       2.9      2.5       2.5        3.4       0.2
(Prestacion Vial)
Customs from Agricultural      2/      12.3     14.7      10.0       5.7      8.9       7.8        9.9       0.5
Products
Driving Licenses                        1.7      1.6       1.1       0.9      1.3       1.3        1.3       0.1
Tax on Freight and Passenger            0.5      1.4       0.6       0.3      0.6       0.6        0.7        -
Transport
Tax on Used Vehicle Sales              10.0     20.4      23.5      27.8     44.9      40.2       26.1       1.3
Vehicle Licenses                       12.9     12.7      11.7       8.3     12.1      21.5       13.2       0.7
Tires and Spare Parts Sales            14.0     14.4      19.1      14.7     15.0      16.0       15.5       0.8
Tax
Tires and Tubes Custom Duties          20.0     20.7      20.8      16.5     15.6      15.5       18.2       0.9
Vehicles Custom Duties                150.0    165.4    255.6    215.1    442.2    295.8         254.0      12.7
Spare Parts Custom Duties              10.0     11.4      10.0       7.9     11.7      11.9       10.5       0.5
Fuel Sales Tax                 3/      82.9     80.0      66.9      49.1     77.8    175.9        88.8       4.4
TOTAL                     332.8    361.1    432.7    357.1    641.2    597.3         452.1      22.6
1/ 100% going to SNC.
2/ Only 45% going to SNC.
3/ Only partial participation to SNC until 1973, none thereafter.
Source:  SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 48 -
TABLE 2.12
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Road Maintenance Program 1976
Length of      Amount Spent       Percen-       Average Cost per
Roads, Km      in US$1,000           tage        . km/yr in US$
Permanent
Maintenance        7,700            7,058             72.3            916.62
Temporary
Maintenance        7,540              733              7.5             97.21
Occasional
Maintenance       22,070              294              3.0             13.32
Total Road
Maintenance       37,310            8,085             82.8            216.70
Minor Road
Improvements       --              1,675             17.2              --
TOTAL       37,310            9,760            100.0            261.60
Source: SNC
March 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SNC Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles Age and Condition
Age Group in Years-,-/              Total    Average                Condi lion
Equip ent Type                     1-5    6-10    11-15    16-20    21-25    Units           Age       Good    Repair         Scrap
Jeeps                               21       11       -        -         -         32         3.8       15         14            3
Pick-up Trucks                      51       62       -         -        2        115          6.0       40         41          34
Wagoneers                           17       15        14      -         -         46          7.8      16          20          10
Busses                               3        -         4                1 l         8         8.3        3         4            1
Flat-bed Trucks                     50       36        18      -          2       106          6.1       48        34           24
Dump Trucks                         68      144        68       -         -       280          7.7      63        130           87
Workshop Trucks                      3        2         -       -        -           5         4.2       3           2           -
Tractor Trucks                       1        2         1       1         1          6       13.7        1           3           2
Water Tank Trucks                    g        7         9      _         _         25          7.3       7         10            8
Water Sprinkler Trucks               3       12         -      -         -         15          7.4       3          9            3
Asphalt Distributor                  3        1         1       -         1          6       17.7        4           1           1
Asphalt Tanker                       2        1         -     _         _            3         3.7       2          1            -
TOTAL Vehicles               231      293       115       1         7        647         6.9      205        269         173
Motorgraders                        84       54        22     11        30        201         8.9       70         72           59
Tractors                            62       35        38      -         7        142         7.4       51         61           30
Front-end Loaders                   37        6        18     13         -         74         8.1       28         21           25
Cranes                               1        -         -      -         2          3        14.3        1          -            2
Compactors                           8       11         -       -                  19         6.5                   4           11
Compressors                         15       20        18      -         -         53         8.7        8         27           18
CrushinR Plant                      -         -         -       I                            19.0                                1
TOTAL Construction            207     126         96     25        39        493         8.3      162        185         146
Equipment
TOTAL                         438     419        211     26        46      1,140         7,5      367        454         319
Percentage                          38.4    36.8       18.5    2.3       4.0      1D0          _        32.2       39.8        28.0
1/ Most of this equipment was purchased with foreign financing and its procurement has been concentrated in certain years:
Years      Units                        Years      Units              -          Vears      Units
1956        61                          1968       349                           1974        76
1964       170                          1971        47                           1975       259
1976        80
2| Includes minor repair and overhaul
3/ Equipment to be scrapped 1977-1981
Source: SNC and Hiaiaion Estimates
March 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Representative Road Links and ADT 1979 in the Three Districts
Type of                   ADT           La Paz          Cochabamba         Santa Cruz            Total
Surface         Link-l   Range      Lenl.th   ADT      Len th   ADT      Length   ADT       Length    AJDT
(Km)         (K~Om)             (Km)
Asph. Concr.       ACO1       >500          -      -          104   704          50  4,779         154   2,027
Surf. Treatm.      STO1       >500         195   842         284   989          434  1,161         913   1,037
Surf. Treatm.      ST02       <500          38   170           97   322          -       -         135      279
Subtotal:  Paved                      233   732         485   794          484  1,535      1,202   1,080
Gravel             GROl       >200         203   278           39   491          41    297         283      310              1
Gravel             GRO2   100-199          319   162         106   180           93    184         518      170              @
Gravel             GRO3    50- 99          105    98         220    94          228      70        553       85              C
Gravel             GRO4    20- 49          540    38           37    29          24      32        601       37
Gravel             GR05      1- 19         754    11         844      8         470      17      2,068       11
Subtotal:  Gravel                  1,921    77        1,246    54          856      63     4,023        67
Earth              EA01        >30         154    74           38    69       1,132    113       1,324      107
Earth              EA02    10- 29          967    26         150    23          673      18      1,790       23
Earth              EA03      1-  9       2,388      5      1,087      5       3,411       3      6,886        4
Subtotal:  Earth                   3,509    14        1,275      9       5,216      29    10,000       21
TOTAL                              5,663    65        3,006   154        6,556    145    15,225       117
1/ Acronym   of Links are explained on Table 3.2, page 4
Source: SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



51 -                                               TABLE 3.2
Page 1 of 4
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Analytical Network Inventory 1,
DISTRICT LA PAZ
PAVED  ROADS                            GRAVEL  ROADS                             EARTH ROADS
ROAD  SYSTEM:  LA PAZ                   ROAD SYSTEM: LA  PAZ                    ROAD SYSTEM: LA  PAZ
LINK STlL: EL ALTO-SICASICA 195.0 KM   LINK GRIL: R.SEC-DES UND-YO 203.0 1M    LINK EAlL: PTEVILLA-COROICO 154.0 KM
SECTION NUMBER                 ____1_    SECTION NUMBER                1      2      SECTION NUMBER                     1_
Start Station (km)                 0.0    Start Station (km)          0.0    0,0    Start Station (km)                  0.0
End Station (km)                   0.0    End Station (km)            0.0    0.0    End Station (km)                    0.0
TERRAIN                                   TERRAIN                                    TERRAIN
Topography                       Flat     Topography                Ond    Moun      Topography                      Moun
Ground Cover                     Scar     Ground Cover              Scar   Dens      Ground Cover                     Dens
Altitude (m)                    3900.     Altitude (m)             3900.  2600.      Altitude (m)                    1500.
SOIL                                      SOIL                                       SOIL
Soil Type                        Good     Soil Type                Good    Medm      Soil Type                        Good
Subgrade CBR                     20.0     Subgrade CBR               1.0    1.0      Subgrade CBR                      1.0
WEATHER                                   WEATHER                                    WEATHER
Annl Rainfall (mm)               622.     Annl Rainfall (mm)        622.  1332.      Annl Rainfall (mm)              1332.
Seas Lengths (Mos)                        Seas Lengths (Mos)                         Seas Lengths (Mos)
Dry                              8.0      Dry                      12.0   12.0       Dry                             12.0
Wet                              4.0      Wet                       0.0    0.0       Wet                              0.0
Regional Factor                  0.00     Regional Factor           0.00   0.00      Regional Factor                  0.00
ROAD GEOMETRICS                           ROAD GEOMETRICS                            ROAD GEONETRICS
Geometric Standard               Fund     Geometric Standard        Fund   Low       Geometric Standard               Low
Length (km)                     195.0     Length (km)              119.0   84.0      Length                          154.0
Surface Width (m)                 7.0     Surface Width (i)          7.0    4.5      Surface Width (m)                 4.0
Shoulders Width (m)               1.5     Shoulders Width (m)        0.5    0.0      Shoulders Width (m)               0.0
Road Rise (m/km)                 30.0     Road Rise (/lkm)          20.0   50.0      Road Rise (m/km)                 80.0
Road Fall (m/km)                 30.0     Road Fall (m/km)          20.0   50.0      Road Fall (m/km)                 80.0
Curvature (deg/km)               50.0     Curvature (deg/km)        90.0  300.0      Curvature (deg/km)              300.0
SURFACING                                 SURFACING                                  SURFACING
Surface Standard                 SFTL     Surface Standard          GRVL   GRVL      Surface Standard                 ERTL
Surface Material                 SFTL     Surface Material          GRVL   GRVL      Surface Material                 ERTL
Surf. Thickness (mm)             170.     Surf. Thickness (mi)    150.   100.        Surf. Thickness (mm)               0.
Shoulder Material               Grva      Shoulder Material                          Shoulder Material
Shldr Thkness (mm)               170.     Shldr Thkness (mm)          0.     0.      Shldr Thkness (smi)                0.
Structural Number               0.90      Structural Number         0.00   0.00      Structural Number                0.00
Mod Structural Number            2.60     Mod Structural Number  *****  *****        Mod Structural Number
ROUGHNESS (MM/KM)                         ROUGHNESS (MM/KM)                          ROUGHNESS (MM/KM)
Dry                          2500.        Dry                     15875. 12410.      Dry                            12000.
Wet                          2500.        Wet                         0.     0.      Wet                                0.
RUT DEPTH (MM)                            RUT DEPTH (MM)                             RUT DEPTH (MM)
Dry                                0.     Dry                        30.    40.      Dry                               30.
Wet                                0.     Wet                         0.     0.      Wet                                0.
LOOSENESS (MM)                            LOOSENESS (MM)                             LOOSENESS (N)
Dry                             *****     Dry                         3.     3.      Dry                                4.
Wet                           ******      Wet                         0.     0.      Wet                                0.
MOISTURE CONTENT (%)                      MOISTURE CONTENT (%)                       MOISTURE CONTENT (%)
Dry                            *****      Dry                        3.0    4.0      Dry                               4.0
Wet                             *****     Wet                        6.0    6.0      Wet                               6.0
CRACKING (SQ M/nM)              300.0    CRACKING (SQ M/KM)       ****** ******    CRACKING (SQ M/KM)
PATCHING (SQ M/KM)                 0.0    PATCHING (SQ N/KM)       ****** ******    PATCHING (SQ M/KM)
SERV INDEX (PSI)                *****    SERV INDEX (PSI)          *****  *****    SERV INDEX (PSI)
SURFACE HISTORY                           SURFACE HISTORY                            SURFACE HISTORY
Years Since:                              Years Since:                               Years Since:
Construction                     0        Construction               0      0       Construction                      0
Last Chip Seal                   0        Last Chip Seal             0      0       Last Chip Seal                    0
Equiv. Axle Loads                         Equiv. Axle Loads                         Equiv. Axle Loads
(000,000'S) Since:                        (000,000'S) Since:                         (000,000'S) Since:
Construction                   0.00       Construction            0.00   0.00       Construction                    0.00
Last Chip Seal                   0.4      Last Chip Seal            0.0    0.0      Last Chip Seal                   0.0
1/ Acronyms of Links are explained on page 4
Source:  SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



TABLE 3.2
Page, 2 of 4
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Analytical Network Inventory 1/
DISTRICT LA PAZ
r A V E     DR OA S DYAV     RADS                                                                                    RRL RUN
ROAD SYSTI:  COCILUAM8A                     ROAD SYSTEM   COCHARAUBA                  ROAD SYSTIM:  COCHAR&NMA                       ROAD SY5TUI:  COCHAoAIOA
LINK ACIC: QUTLLAC-CONPITAL 104.3 KM    LINK STlC: COCHARRA-EPIZANA 284.0 EK           LINK  GRiC:  SIBERIA   39.3 KM              LIREK taC  INOTEPVUCO-CONDA  38.0 EN
SECTION NUMER                             SECTION NUNBER          ______1               SECTION NWMBER                    1         SECTIO  NUMBER
Start Station (km)              0.0       Start Station (km)            0.0             Start Station (km)             0.0          Start Station (km)              5.o
End Station (km)              104.3        End Station (km)             0.0             End Station (km)                .0          End Station (km)                0.0
TERRAIN                                    TERRAIN                                      TERRAIN                       NOUN          TERRAIN
Topography                   MtDN          Topography                 MOUN              Topography                   NOUN           Topography                     OND
Ground Cover                  SCAR         Ground Cover               MEDN              Ground Cover                 DENS           Ground Cover                  NEDM
Altitude (m)                 2700.         Altitude (m)              2900               Altitude (a)                 2800.          Altitude (a)                 2600.
SOIL                                       SOIL                                         SOIL                                        SOIL
Soil Type                     MEDM         Soil Type                  MEDM              Soil Type                     POOR          Soil Type                     POOR
Subgrade CBR                  8R.          Subgrade CBR                9.0              Subgrade CBR                   1.0          Subgrade CbR                   1.0
WEATHER                                    WEATHER                                      WEATHER                                     WEATHER
Annl Rainfall (mm)            541.         Anal Rainfall (n)          541.              Anal Rainfall (a)            1500.          Annl Rainfall (am)             541.
Seas Lengths (Mos)                         Seas Lengths (Mos)                           Sas Lengtha (Moo)                           Seas Lengths (Kos)
Dry                           7.0          Dry                        8.0               Dry                          12.0           Dry                          12.0
Wet                           5.0          Wet                        4.0               Wet                           0.0           Wet                            0.0
Regional Factor               0.00         Regional Factor            0.00              Regional Factor               0.00          Regional Factor                0.00
ROAD GEOMETRICS                            ROAD GEONETRICS                              ROAD GEOMETRICS                             ROAD GEOMETRICS
Geometric Standard            FUND         Geometric Standard         FUND              Geometric Standard           FP13M           Geometric Standard            LOW
Length (km)                  104.3         Length (km)               284.0              Length (km)                   39.3           Length (km)                  38.0
Surface Width (m)              7.3         Surface Width (n)           5.5              Surface Width (a)              8.3           Surface Width (n)             35
Shoulders Width (a)            2.0         Shoulders Width (a)         1.0              Shoulders Width (a)            0.3           Shoulders Width (n)           0.0
Road Rise (n/3m)              60.0         Road Rise (n/k3)            60.0             Road Rise (m/km)              50.0           Road Rise (r/km)             50.0
Road Fall (m/km)              60.0         Road Fall (rn/km)           60.0             Road Fall (m/km)              50.0           Road Fall (n/k3)             50.0
Curvature (dog/km)           150.0         Curvature (deg/km)         100.0             Curvature (deg/km)           150.0           Curvature (deg/km)          180.0
SURFACING                                 SURFACING                                  SOUACING                                        SURPACING
Surface Standard             ACOC         Surface Standard           SFTC            Surface Standard                GRVC           Surface Standard           ERTC
Surface Material             ACOC         Surface Material           SFTC            Surface Material                GRVC            Surface Material          ERTC
Surf. Thickness (mo)          60.         Surf. Thickness (ms)        20.            Surf. Thickness ()              150.           Surf. Thickness () 
Shoulder Material            GRVA         Shoulder Material          GRVA            Shoulder Naterial                              Shoulder Materiel
Shldr Thkness (=)             50.         Shldr Thkness (m)           20.            Shldr Thkness (m)                              Shldr Thkneu s (mm)        osOO
Structural NHaber            3-00         Structural Nunber          0.90            Structural Number               0.00           Nod Structural NuRber
Mod Structural Nunber        4.05         Mod Structural Number    2.05              Mod Structural Number          *ases
ROUGItNESS (MM/KM)                        ROUGHNESS (1M/KM)                          ROUGHNESS (MM/KE)                              ROUGHNESS (MM/EM)
Dry                        L500.          Dry                      2500.             Dry                         15875.             Dry                     12410.
Wet                        1500.          Wet                      2500.             Wet                             0              Wet                          0
RUT DEPTN (MM)                            RUT DEPTH (MM)                             RUT DEPTH (MM)                                 RUT DEPTH (rM)
Dry                           D.          Dry                         0.             Dry                            50.                                         40.
Wet                           o.          Wet                         0.             Wet                             O             Wet                          0.
LOOSENESS (IMN)                           LOOSENESS (IM)                             LOOSENESS (M)                                  LOOSENESS (M)
Dry                        ass*s          Dry                                        Dry                              3Dry                                       3.
Wet                       assess          Wet                                        Wet                              0.            Wet                          0.
MOISTURE CONTENT (M) NOISTURE CONTENT (M) NOISTURE CONTENT (Z)                                                                       DRy                 )
Dry                        asses          Dry                      *****             Dry                             6.0            Dry                         3.0
Wet                        as**s          Wet                      ***               Wet                             6.0            Wet                         6.0
CRaCXING (SQ M/KM)           30.0         CRACKING (SQ M/IEI)       300.0            CRACKING (SQ N/KE)            ******           CRACKING (SQ M/KE)        ***
PATCHING (SQ M/KE)            0.0         PATCHING (SQ N/KM)          1.4            PATCHING (SQ N/KM)            ******           PATCHING (SQ M/KM)        assess
SERV INDEX (PSI)            asses         SERV INDEX (PSI)          *                SERV INDEX (PSI)                               SERV INDEX (PSI)           asses
SURFACE HISTORY                           SURFACE HISTORY                            SURFACE HISTORY                                SURFACE HISTORY
Years Since:                              Years Since:                               Years Since:                                   Years Since
Construction                 0            Construction                               Conetruction                    0              Cst Chip Seal               0
Last Chip Seal                           Last Chip Seal             0               Last Chip Seal                  0             Eqiv  Axle Loads
Equiv. Axle Loads                         Equiv. Axle Loads                          Equiv. Axle loLoads
(000,000 S) Since:                       (000,000'S) Since:                         (000,000'S) Since:                             (000,000'S) Since:
Construction               0.00           Construction             0.00              Construction                  0.00             Construction              0.00
Last Chip Seal              0.4           Last Chip Seal            0.2              Last Chip Seal                 0.0             Last Chip Seal             0.0
V/ Acronyns of Links are explained on page 4
Source; SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



-    -3                                                                        TABLE 3.2
Page 3 of 4
BOLIVIA
uIGMAY MAINtUWI PROJECr
Analytical Netaork Inventor,
DISTRICT SANTA CRUZ
PA V    D   R O A D S                                             GR A V E L   R O  A D S                     I A R T H   R O A D S
IOAD SYSTEM:  SANTA CRUZ                      ROAD SYSTEM:  SANTA CRUZ                  ROAD SYSTEM:  SANTA CRUZ                  WIlO SYSTEM:  SANTA CRUZ
LIX ACS: STA. CRUZ-GUAB87A  50.3 EM           LINK STlS: MAIR-STCR CUA-YA 433.8 EM    LINK GRIS: CAMIRI-BOY    41.0 KM              LINK EAS: HAIR-PFO  STAROSA 1132.0 rM
SECTION NUMBER                 _              SECTION NUMBER       _       -1I       2     SZSlIm -S U1 ESECTION _Am-  1 _2
Start Station (kI)                132.6       Start Station (kI)          0.0      0.0     Start Station (k)           0.0           Start Station Cka)       0.0       0.0
End Station (ks)                  182.9       End Station (km)             0.0     0.0     End Station (ks)            0.0           End Station (kI)         0.0       0.0
TERRAIN                                       TRAiN                                        TERRAIN                                    TERRAIN
Topography                        FLAT        Topography                 uON    ?L&        Topography                 OD0             Topography             OND      FLAT
Ground Cover                      MEDM        Ground Cover              DENS   DIN         Ground Cover              MEDM            Ground Cover           MtDM      DENS
Altitude (a)                      350.        Altitude (m)             1000.    400.       Altitude (m)              700.            Altitude (a)          1800.      330.
SOIL                                          SOIL                                         SOIL                                      SI
Soil Type                         POOR        Soil Type                 MEDM   POOR        Soil Type                 POOR            SoilPOOR
Subgrade CBR                       8.0        Subgrade CbR              15.0     8.0       Subgrade CBR               1.0            Subgrade CBR            1.0       1.0
'YA'THE                                        ETER                                        WEATHER                                   WEATHER
ATol Rainfall Cm)                1243.       Annl Rainfall ()          1243.  1243.        Annl Rainfall (m)         800.             Anni Rainfall (m)  654.        1332.
Seas Lengths (bos)                           Seas Lengths (Moe)                            Seas Lengths (Moe)        12.0            Seas Lengths (Moe)
Dry                               6.0        Dry'                       7.0     7.0        Dry                      120Dry                                 12.0      12.0
Wet                               6.0        Wet                        5.0    5.0         Wet                       0.0             Wet                    0.0       0.0
Regional Factor                   o.oe       Regional Factor            0.00   0.00        Regional Factor           0.00            Regional Factor        0.00      0.00
ROAD GEOHETRICS                              ROAD GEOMETRICS                              ROAD GEONETRICS                            ROAD GEOMETRICS
Gdometric Standard                FUND       Geometric Standard        2M        FUND     Geometric Standard         4FUND           Geomtric Sta) dard   LO           L.5
Length (km)  50.3     Length (km)                60.8   173.0    ~~Length (Is)                 4.               wSh(.                 90      15.
surface Width (m)                  7.3       Surface Width (m)           5.1      6.5     Surface Width (7)             *            Surface Width (m)    35           45
Shoulders Width (C)                3.0       Shoulders Width (m)         1.2     1.5      Shoulders Width (a)          O            Shoulders Width (i) 7             U
Road Rice (u/Is)                  15.0       Road Rise (u/Is)           50.0    30.0      Road Rice (rn/Is)          6DORoad RLise  (rn/Is)                 0          00
Road Fall (n/kI)                  15.0      Road Fall (r/kI)            50.0    30.0      Road Fall (r/kI)           60.0            Road Fall (m/kI)      70.0       20.0
Curvature (deg/kI)                10.0      Curvature (des/kI)         150.0  li.0        Curvature (deg/kI)        300.0            Curvature (dg/Is)  300.0        300.0
SuRFACDC                                   MAC                                         m c                                       SWUACLIC
Surface Standard               ACOS        Surface Standard         SFTS      WiTS     Surface Standard            GRVS          Surface Standard        ERTS       ERTS
Surface Material               ACOS        Surface Material         SFTS      srms    Surface Material             GRVS          Surface Material        ERTS       ERTS
Surf. Thickness (_)             76.        Surf. Thickness (am)    20.         20.    Surf. Thicknecs (am)         100.          Surf. Thickness (mm)    0.           0.
Shoulder Material              GRVA        Shoulder Material        GRVA      Gm       Shoulder Material                         Shoulder Material
Shldr Thkness (on)              30.        Shldr Thkness (on)         20.      240     Shldr Thkness (m)             0.          Shldr Thkness (m)         o.         O.
Structural Number              5.00        Structural Number        0.90      0.90   .Structural Number            0.00          Structural Number       0.00       0.00
Mod Structural Number          6.05        Mod Structural Number  2.42    195    Nod Structural Number    *****                 Mod Structural Numbera****        *****
ROUGHNESS (MM/KEG)                         ROUGHNESS (MM/RM)                           ROUGHNESS (MM/DC)                          ROUGHNESS (MM/KM)
Dry                           1500.        Dry                      3400.    2500      Dry                        8000.           Dry                    7750.     8500.
Wet                           1500.        Wet                      3400.    250.    Wet                              0.          Wet                       0.        0.
RUT DEPTH (MM)                             RUT DEPTH (MM)                              RUT DEPTH (HM)                            RUT DEPTH (MM)
Dry                              0.        Dry                         0.       0.    Dry                            40.          Dry                      40.       40.
Wet                              0.        Wet                         0.       0.    Wet                             0.          Wet                       0.        0.
LOOSENESS (MM)                             LOOSENESS (MM)                              LOOSENESS (M)                              LOOSENESS (M)
Dry                           ****         Dry                      *****    *****    Dry                             3.          Dry                       4.         4.
Wet                          scans         Wet                     **asas  assess    Wet                              0.          Wet                       0.         0.
MOISTURE CONTENT (X)                       MOISTURE CONTENT (R)                        MOISTURE CONTENT (X)                       MOISTURE CONTENT (i)
Dry                           *****        Dry                                         Dry                           3.0          Dry                      4.0        4.0
Wet                           a*           Wet                                         Wet                           6.0          Wet                      6.0        6.0
CRACKING (SQ M/DC)                0.0      CRACKING (SQ M/DM)        600.0   300.0   CRACKING (SQ M/KD)            ***            CRACKING (SQ M/DC)   *ea*es       ***
PATCHING (SQ M/DC)                0.0      PATCHING (SQ M/DM)          1.4      0.0   PATCHING (SQ M/DC)           *              PATCHING (SQ M/KD)   *
SERV INDEX (PSI)               *****       SERV INDEX (PSI)          *                 SERV INDEX (PSI)             *             SEPV INDEX (PSI)        *
SURFACE HISTORY                            SURFACE HISTORY                             SURFACE HISTORY                            SURFACE hISTORY
Years Since:                               Years Since:                                Years Since:                               Years Since:
Construction                     90        Construction                 0        0     Construction                   0           Construction              0          0
Last Chip Seal                    0        Last Chip Seal               0        0     Last Chip Seal                  0          Last Chip Seal            0          0
Equiv. Axle Loads                          Equiv. Axle Loads                           Equiv. Axle Loads                          Equiv. Axle Loads
(000.000'S) Since:                         (000,000'S) Since:                          (000,000'S) Since:                         (000,000'S) Since:
Construction                   0.00        Construction             0,22    0 00       Construction                0.00           Construction           0.00       0.00
Last Chip Seal                  0.0        Last Chip Seal            0.4      0.2      Last Chip Seal               0.0           Last Chip Seal          0.0        0.0
1/  Acronyns of Links are explained on page 4
Source:  SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 54 -
TABLE 3.2
Page 4 of 4
1. Acronyms of Links
a) First two letters represent type of surface:
AC = Asphalt Concrete
ST = Surface Treatment
GR = Gravel
EA = Earth
b) Third letter represents District:
L = La Paz
C = Cochabamba
S = Santa Cruz
c) Last number represents decreasing ADT ranges according to
Table 3.1.
2. Estimation of Cost Adjustment Factors - CAF (Table 3.3)
a/ Cost Adjustment Factors  (CAF)   for the "Do Nothing" Policy in
Cochabamba are 1.00, except for earth roads maintenance activities,
where lower costs compared to gravel roads are reflected by lower
CAF.
b/ "Do Nothing" CAF for La Paz and Santa Cruz reflect relative cost
variations for each activity as compared to Cochabamba.
c/ CAF for improved activities in each district result from multiplying
the corresponding "Do Nothing" CAF by two factors: the first
reflecting the increased cost (if any) of the improved maintenance
operation (for instance, added cost for watering and compaction in
gravel road grading operations or increased cost for crushing or
screening and mixing in gravel resurfacing), and the second
reflecting the net reduction in unit costs to be obtained by improved
productivity and by reduction of overhead through the technical
assistance and the implementation of the project.
Source: SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Maintenance Unit Costs and Cost Adjustment Factors
(in April 1978 US$)
Total Costs                                    Cost Adjustment Factorsl/
Maintenance Activities   Unit   Financial   Economic                  Without Program                           With Program
La Paz   Cochabamba   Santa Cruz        La Paz   Cochabamba   Santa Cruz
Paved Roads
Patching                 m           4.09        4.04        0.95       1.00          1.10           0.86       0.90          1.00
Surface Treatment        m 2         2.30        2.29        0.95       1.00          1.10           0.86       0.90          1.00
Overlaying               m3         57.00       59.60        0.95       1.00          1.10           0.86       0.90          1.00
Rehabilitation           km    27,660.00  28,085.00          0.95       1.00          1.10           0.86       0.90          1.00
Routine Maintenance 2/  km         180.00      172.07        0.90       1.00          1.10           0.86       0.95          1.05
Gravel Roads
Grading                  km         48.00       49.24        0.95       1.00          1.05           1.71       1.80          1.89
tii
Spot Regravelling 3/    m3           6.00        5.94        0.90       1.00          1.25           1.00       1.12          1.40
Gravel Resurfacing       m 3         4.30        4.47        0.90       1.00          1.20           1.38       1.53          1.84
Routine Maintenance 2/  km         135.00      129.32        0.90       1.00          1.10           0.86       0.95          1.05
Earth Roads
Grading                  km         48.00       49.24        0.76       0.80          0.84           0.68      0.72           0.76
Spot Gravelling 3/       m3          6.00        5.94        0.90       1.00          1.25           0.81      0.90           1.13
Routine Maintenance 2/  km         135.00      129.32        0.54       0.60          0.66           0.51      0.57           0.63
1/ Cost adjustment factors were estimated as explained in Table 3.2, page 4.
2/ Includes culvert and ditch cleaning, yegetation control and .shoulder repairs.
3/ Includes washouts and roadway repairs.
Source:  SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
A, VEHICLE DLSLPIPTIUNS                 VEHICLE CHARACTERISTICS AND COSTS
------------------ (in April 1978 US$)
NAME                               LIGHT VH      MEDM,8US      LARG.BUS      MED,GS,T       MED.DL.T      HEAV.TRU
VEHICLE TYPE LI'DE                     A             5              5             5             5              5
FIIEL TYPE                         GASOLINE      GASOLINE       DIESEL       GASOLINE        DIESEL        DIESEL
BRAKE HORSEPOWER                     135.0o 00        JO'        210.00         135 oo        130.00        276.0
GROSS VEH wGHT (MET1?IC TONS)          2,3V         10.940         14.50          9,Jo         10.5O          17,50
AXLE EQUIVALENCY FACTOR                 .o0 0.82                    1.77          0,27          0.41           4.08
Be FINANCIAL COISTS
ma ----------------------------------------------
NEW VEHICLL                        112100ov      30960.80      75756.00       13098,70      15791.60      57941,tO
COST/TIRE                             67.5U        160.50        226.00         160,50        184.30        322,80
MAINTENANCL LABOR CltST/HR             5.10          5.80           7.50          5,80          5.R0           7,50
CREW COST/HR                           1.30          1,70           2.00          1,70          1,70           2,00
VALUE UF TIME/HR                       *.@0    00 Q.                0.00          0,.0          0.00 6,00
ANNUAL OVERHEAD COSTS (T015             .00          9.00           0.00         0u00           0.00           0.00
ANNUAL OVERHEAD COSTS
X (IF U1PEPATING COSTS,          15.00         20.00         20.00         20,00          20,00         20,00
INTEREST RATE (Z)                     23.oo         23.00         23.00          23.00         23,00         23,00
FUEL L LUBRICANTS (COST/LITREj          PETROL _      ,08      DIESEL FUEL ;    0 07         ENGINE OIL c    0,60
Ci, ECONOIMIC C1JSTS
-----------------------------------------------_
NEW VEHICLE                         6221.40      2114u.40      67380.20       11277,20      13595,60      52773.50
COST/TIRE                             54.Ko        130.40        1t3.6U         13u,40        149.70        262,20
MAINTENANCE LABOR C1OST/HR             5.$40         5.40           7.0u          5,40          5.40           7,00
CREW CUST/HR                           1.20          1.60           1.90          1,60          1,60           1,90
VALUE IJF TIME/HR                      *.o           0 .00          0.00          0,00          0.00           0,00
ANNUAL OVERHEAD CO)STS (TUI            *.0O          0.00           0.00            0 oO        0.00           0.00
ANNUAL OVCRHEAD COSTS
X OF O)PELATJNG CO'STS,          15.0V         202.00        20.               v ,uO      20 ,00        20,00
INTEREST RATE (1)                     11.vo         11.go          11.00         11,vO         11.00          11,Oo
RATIO UF SPARE PARTS
TO NEW VLHICLE COST                  .18R         0.88          0.88           0,8A          0.88          0,88
FUEL L LUBRILANTS (CLOST/LITRE)         PLTROL       0.18      DIESEL FUEL ;    0,13         ENGINE OIL t    0,56
D, VEHICLE UTILIZATInN
AVERAGE NLIMBL'1 Ut
PASSENGEGIS PER VfHlC[L              3            23            37             It            It            10
ANNUAL CREW HOIURS                    15v@.         2400,         32u0.          ?u0tj.        2000,          3200,
ANNUAL ojPERATIN4G Hi OURS             500.         1200.o        2000u.         luu0,.        1800,          20#00,
ANNUAL KILIIMETERS DIIIVLN           25000,        36000, *9.3v0                               60,909
AV VEHICLE LIFE (YLARS)                  A,             7,            9.                   8,             8,
Source: SNC and Bank Consultant
March 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Vehicle Operatinq Costs with Proiect for 1982 for Selected Links
(In ADril 1978 US$ per Vehicle-km)
Link      Light Vehicle      Medium Bus      Large Bus _    Medium Gasoline Truck     Medium Diesel Truck      Heavy Truck
La Paz
ST 2L         0.349            0.556           1.076                0.518                    0.444                0.885
GR lL         0.297            0.495           0.812                0.483                    0.390                0.675
EA 1L         0.356            0.552           0.979                0.648                    0.501                0.718
-L
Cochabamba
AC 01         0.205            0.503           0.702               0.458                     0.366                0.664
GR 2C         0.297            0.549           0.903               0.484                     0.410                0.822
EA 2C         0.369            0.547           0.842               0.489                     0.405                0.776
Santa Cruz
AC 1S         0.143            0.325           0.674               0.260                     0.250                0.580
GR 2S         0.311            0.542          0.904                0.476                     0.404                0.822
EA 2S         0.374            0.552          0.858                0.492                     0.410                0.790
Source:  SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978
'A



- 58 -
TABLE 3.6
Page l of 2
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Four Years Maintenance Prowrams in the Three Project Districts
A.  Tentative Indicators for Deferred Maintenance
Maintenance Operations                      Second                                        First
per District and Total                     Semester                                     Semester
1979      1980        1981       1982        1983
1. Pavement Maintenance, expressed in
thousands sq m equivalent of patching
La Paz                                     36       111         113        120          32
Cochabamba                                 11        42          41         48          13
Santa Cruz                                 13        47          46         52          15
Total Three Districts                60        200        200         220          60
2. Gravel Resurfacing, expressed in
thousands cu m of gravel, and in (km)
La Paz                                 48  (52) 120  (140) 156  (215) 192  (312)  84  (133)
Cochabamba                             19  (16)  48  ( 45)  62  ( 70)  77  (101)  34  ( 59)
Santa Cruz                             13  (16)  32    47)  42  ( 72)  51  (100)  22  ( 46)
Total Three Districts             80   84  200   232  260   357  320   313  140   238
B. Tentative Indicators for Current Maintenance (See Page 2)
C. Tentative Indicators for Equipment Management
Equipment Management Indicators             Second                                       First
per Districts and Average                  Semester                                     Semester
_____________ _____________ __________ __  1979  1980  1981        1982       1983
1. Equipment Availability-/ (%)
La Paz                                     54        55          58         62          65
Cochabamba                                 55        56          59         62          65
Santa Cruz                                41         45         48          56          65
Average Three Districts                    50        52          55         60          65
2. Equipment Utilization    (%)
La Paz                                     79        79          80         82          83
Cochabamba                                 61        65          70         77         83
Santa Cruz                                70         72         75          79         83
Average Three Districts                   70         72          75         80         83
1/ Availability and Utilization as defined in Annex 2 Table 1.
Source: SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 59 -
TABLE 3.6
Page 2 of 2
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Four-Year Maintenance Programs in the Three Project Districts
B. Tentative Indicators for Current Maintenance
Maintenance Operations                        Second                                            First
per District and Total                       Semester                                         Semester
1979        1980        1981        1982        1983
1. Pavement Maintenance, expressed in
thousands sq m equivalent of patching
La Paz                                        39           89         107         124          88
Cochabamba                                    12           34          40          49          37
Santa Cruz                                    14           37          43          55          40
Total Three Districts                   65          160         190         228         165
2. Gravel Resurfacing, expressed in
thousands cu m of gravel, and in (km)
La Paz                                   42  ( 46)i 70  ( 82)  54  ( 75) 41  ( 66) 30  C 47)
Cochabamba                               17  ( 14)  32  ( 30)  23  ( 26) 16  ( 21) 12  ( 21)
Santa Cruz                               11  (.14)J  18  ( 26)  15  ( 26)|11  ( 22)  8  (17)
Total Three Districts            . 70  ( 74)1120  (138)  92  (127) 68  (109)150  ( 85)
3. Grading of unimproved gravel Roads
In  km (without watering and
compaction
La Paz                                    3,500         5,400       2,500    2,000      1,000
Cochabamba                                1,700        2,850        2,000       650        300
Santa Cruz                                1,400        2,550       1,600        650       300
Total Three Districts                6,600       10,800       6,100    3,300       1,600
4. Grading of Improved Gravel Roads
in km  (with watering and
compaction)
La Paz                                      550        3,300       6,800    7,900       4,000
Cochabamba                                  200           550      1,600    3,000       1,500
Santa Cruz                                  150           350      1,000    1 800         900
Total Three Districts                  900        4,200   |  9,400   12,700        6,400
5. Grading of Earth Roads in km
La Paz                                    2,800        6,000       6,700        6,900       3,500
Cochabamba                                1,300        2,460       2,700       2,900       1,500
Santa Cruz                                9,900       22,100      24,440      27,200      14,000
Total Three Districts               14,000       30,560      33,840      37,000      19,000
6. Gravel  Roads Spot Regravelling
in thousand cu m.
La Paz                                        90          190         210         233         114
Cochabamba                                   36            80          85          93          46
Santa Cruz                                   24           50           57         62           30
Total Three Districts                  150          320         352         388         190
7. Earth Roads Spot Gravelling
in thousand  cu m.
La Paz                                        14           29          32          35          18
Cochabamba                                    5           10          11          12            6
Santa Cruz                                   21           43          47          53          26
Total Three Districts                   40           82          90         100          50
Source: SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 60 -
TABLE 3.7
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
"Without" Project Road Maintenance Standards
MAINTENANCE ACTIVITY   UNIT
Standard Applicable to
Asphalt Concrete
La Paz Links: None        Patching                 sq.m   Patch 10% of unpatched cracks
but not more than 100 sq.m/
km/yr
Cochabamba Links:
AClC 1/                                                Includes drainage, vegetation,
Routine Maintenance    km       shoulder, and miscellaneous
Santa Cruz Links:                                         activities
AClS
Standard Applicable to
Surface Treated
La Paz Links:  STlL,      Patching                 sq.m   Patch 10% of unpatched cracks
ST2L                                      but not more than 100 sq.m/
km/yr
Cochabamba Links:
None                                                   Includes drainage, vegetation,
Routine Maintenance    km       shoulder and miscellaneous
Santa Cruz Links:                                         activities
None
Standard Applicable to
Gravel Roads
La Paz Links:  GR1L,      Grading                  km     Grade every 7000 vehicle passes
GR2L, GR3L, GR4L, GR5L                                   to 9000 mm/km initial roughness
Cochabamba Links: GR1C   Spot regravelling         cu.m   Replace 20% of gravel loss but
GR2C, GR3C, GR4C, GR5C                                   not more than 20 cu.m/km/yr
Santa Cruz Links: GRlS,  Gravel resurfacing        cu.m   Resurface when surface thickness
GR2S, GR3S, GR4S, GR5S                                   50 mm using latr gravel to a
restored thickness of 100 mm
Routine Maintenance    km       Includes drainage, vegetation,
shoulder and miscellaneous
activities
Standard Applicable to
Earth Roads
La Paz Links:  EAlL,      Grading                  km      Grade every 11,000 vehicle
EA2L, EA3L                                               passes
Cochabamba Links:
EAlC, EA2C, EA3C         Spot regravelling        cu.m   Replace 0.0 cu.m/km/yr
Santa Cruz Links:
EAlS, EA2S, EA3S         Routine Maintenance    km        Includes drainage, vegetation,
shoulder and miscellaneous
activities.
1/ Acronyms of Links are explained in Table 3.2, page 4
Source: SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 61 -
TABLE 3.8
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
"With" Project Road Maintenance Standards
MAINTENANCE ACTIVITY       UNIT                        STANDARD
I.   Standard Applicable to Asphalt Concrete
La Paz Links:       None                        Patching                   sq.m      Patch 90. 1 of unpatched cracks
Cochabamba Links:  AC1C 1/                      Surface Dressing           sq.m      Surface dress when unpatched cracks
exceed 30. % road surface area
Santa Cruz Links:  AClS                         Routine Maintenance         km       Includes drainage, vegetation, shoulder,
and miscellaneous activities
II.   Standard Applicable to Surface Treated
(a) La Paz Links:        STlL, ST2L             Patching                   sq.m      Patch 90. % of unpatched cracks
Cochabamba Links:  None                    Surface Dressing            sq.m      Surface dress when unpatched cracks
exceed 30. % road surface area
Santa Cruz Links:  None                    Routine Maintenance          km       Includes drainage, vegetation, shoulder,
and miscellaneous activities
(b) Cochabamba Links:  STIC, ST2C               Patching                   sq.m      Patch 10. % of unpatched cracks but not
more than 100 sq.m/km/yr
Santa Cruz Links:  STlS                    Routine Maintenance          km       Includes drainage, vegetation shoulder,
and miscellaneous activities
III.   Standard Applicable to Gravel Roads
(a) La Paz Links:       None                    Grading                     km       Grade every 15,000 vehicle passes to
5,000 mm/km initial roughness
Cochabamba Links:  GR1C                    Spot Regravelling           cu.m      Replace 20. % of gravel loss but not
more than 20 cu.m/km/yr
Santa Cruz Links:  GR1S, GR2S              Gravel Resurfacing          cu.m      Resurface when surface thickness is
60 mm using latr. gravel to a restored
thickness of 120 mss
Routine Maintenance         km       Includes drainage, vegetation, shoulder,
and miscellaneous activities.
(b) La Paz Links:        GR1L, GR2L, GR3L,    Grading                       km       Grade every 11,0)0 vehicle passes to
GR4L 2/                                                     5,000 mm/km initial roughness
Cochabamba Links:  GR2C                    Spot Regravelling           cu.m      Replace 30. % of gravel loss but not more
than 50 cu.m/km/yr
Santa Cruz Links:  GR3S 2/                 Gravel Resurfacing          cu.m      Resurface when surface thickness is 60 mm
using latr. gravel to a restored thickness
of 120 mm
Routine Maintenance         km       Includes drainage, vegetation, shoulder,
and miscellaneous activities
(c) Cochabamba Links:  GR3C, GR4C 2/            Grading                     km       Grade every 7,000 vehicle passes to
5,000 mm/km initial roughness
Spot Regravelling          cu.m      Replace 30% of gravel loss but not more
than 50 cu.m/km/yr
Gravel Resurfacing         cu.m      Resurface when surface thickness is 60 mm
using latr. gravel to a restored thickness
of 120 mmn
Routine Maintenance         km       Includes drainage, vegetation, shoulder,
and miscellaneous activities
IV.   Standard Applicable to Earth Roads
(a) La Paz Links:        EAlL                   Grading                     km       Grade every 4,000 vehicle passes
Cochabamba Links:  EA1C, EA2C              Spot Regravelling           cu.m      Replace 20 cu.m/km/yr
Santa Cruz Links:  EAIS                    Routine Maintenance          km       Includes drainage, vegetation, shoulder,
and miscellaneous activities
(b) La Paz Links:       EA2L, EA3L              Grading                     km       Grade every 1,500 vehicle passes
Cochabamba Links:  EA3C                    Spot Regravelling           cu.m      Replace 20 cu.m/km/yr
Santa Cruz Links:  EA2S, EA3S               Routine Maintenance         km       Includes drainage, vegetation, shoulder,
and miscellaneous activities
1/ Acronyms of Links are explained in Table V7, page 1*.
2/ Links GR4S, GR5L, GR5C and GRSS                    Grading                      km       Grade every 7000 vehicle passes to
to be maintained according to                                                            9000 mm/km initial roughness
present standards:                                 Spot Regravelling            cu.m    Replace 20% of gravel loss but not
more than 20 cu.m/km/yr.
Gravel Resurfacing          cu.m     Resurface when surface thickness 50 mm
using latr. gravel to a restored
thickness of 100 mm
Routine Maintenance         km       Includes drainage, vegetation, shoulder
and miscellaneous activities
S4urce: SNC and Miasion Eatimates
MArch 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles Age and Condition in the Three Districts
Age Group in Years                  Total    Average                Condit-on
Eguipment Type                    1-5    6-10    11-15    16-20    21-25    Units            Age       Good    RepairJ       Scrap-
Jeeps                                5       5        -         -         -         10         5.5        4          5           1
Pick-up Trucks                      15      25        -         -         -         40         6.3       15         15.         10
Wagoneers                            5        3        4        -         -         12         8.0        4          4            4
Busses                               3      -         -         -         -          3         1.0        3         -           -
Flat-bed Trucks                     14        5        6        -          2        27         6.8       12          6           9
Dump Trucks                         57      72        28        -         -        157         6.6       53         68          36
Workshop Trucks                      1      -         -         -         -          1         2.0        1         -           -
Tractor Trucks                     -        -         -          2         1         3        18.3       -          -            3
Water Tank Trucks                    4        2        3        -         -          9         6.8        4          2            3
Water Sprinkler Trucks               1        7       -         -         _          8         8.0        2          4           2
Asphalt Distributors                 3       1         1        -          1         6         7.6        3          1            2
Asphalt Tankers                      2       1        -         -         -          3         3.7        2          1          _
TOTAL Vehicles               110      121        42         2         4      279          6.6      103        106          70
Motorgraders                        31      18         2        _         13        64         8.2       26         18          20
Tractors                            29      12         8        -         -         49         6.1       25         16           8
Front-end Loaders                   11       4        12         3        -         30         9.0        8         11          11
Compactors                           6       8        -         -         -         14         6.4        4          4           6
Compressors                        -        15         4        -         -         19         9.3        5          6           8
Crushing Plant                     -        -         -         -          1         1        19.0       -          -            1
Total Construction Equipment        77      57        26         3        14       177         7.8       68         55          54
TOTAL                        187      178        68         5        18      456          7.1      171        161         124
Percentage                          41.0    39.0      14.9       1.1       4.0    100          -         37.5       35.3        27.2
1/ Includes minor repairs and overhauls.
2/ Equipment to be scrapped 1977-1981.
Source:  SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 63 -
TABLE 3.10
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Equipment, Vehicles, Spare Parts, Tools, and Others to be
Purchased Under Project for the Three Districts
(CIF La Paz; in AprU 1978 US$1,000)
1 9 7 9                  1 9 8 0               1 9 8 1              T O T A L
Unit   Number               Number                Number                Number
(i)  Maintenance Equipment and Vehicles        Costs  of Units   Cost    of Units   Cost          of Units   Cost       of Units   Cost
Motorgraders 120 H.P.                      55       42       2,310        4         220         6         330        52       2,860
Tractors 75 H.P. with Trailers & drags  17          12         204        -          -          -          -         12         204
Self-propelled rollers 8-10 tons           22       16         352        8         176         7         154        31         682
Tractors with bulldozers 155 H.P.          64       11         704        1          64         -          -         12         768
Front end loaders 1.5 ml                   48       11         52         3         144         2          96        16         768
iu p trucks 4 and 5 m3                     22      100       2,200                   66        10         220       113       2,486
Aggregate Spreaders                        21        6         126        -          -          -          -          6         126
Water tank trucks - 6 m3                   22       19         418        7         154         7         154        33         726
Water pumps 3 1/2"                           1.5    30          45       t0          15        10          15        50          75
Mobile Patching plants                     16        3          48        -          -          -          -          3          48
Crushing Plants 30 m3/hr                  280        2         560        1         280         -          -          3         840
Triple Deck Screening Plants 60 m3/hr  140           3         420        -          -          -          -          3         420
Single Deck Screening Plants 30 m3/hr   30           2          60        -          -          1          30         3          90
Compressors with Tools 365 cu. ft.         22        6         132        -          -          -          -          6         132
Service Trucks with crane and tools        25        2          50        -          -          -          -          2          50
Truck with painting equipment              25        1          25        -          -          -          -          1          25
Wagoneer Type FWD vehicle                   10       2          20        -          -          -          -          2          20
Wagoneer Type FWD vehicle with
2-way radio                              11        6          66        -          -          -          -          6          66
Heavy Duty FWD pick-up Truck                 8       6          48        -          -                     -          6          48
Heavy Duty FWD pick-up truc w/ tools        9        6          54        -          -          -          -          6          54
Jeep-type vehicle with 2-way radio          8       14         112        -          -          -          -         14         112
Hand-Tool for labor                      Global      -         200        -          -          -          -          -         200
Subtotal                                               8,682                1,119                   999                10,800
(ii) Spare Parts
For Preventive Maintenance;
Initial Stock for new equipment (15%)                       1,302                  168                   150                 1,620
Additional stock for existing equipment (5%)                   580                  -                                          580
For Overhaul
Light vehicles                                                 30                   -                     -                     30
Heavy vehicles                                                220                   80                    50                   350
Heavy equipment                                               186                  133                   101                   420
Subtotal                                               2,318                  381                   301                 3,000
(iii) Workshop, Laboratory and Training
Equipment and Tools
Workshop Equipment                                             800                   -                     -                   800
Traffic Counters and Laboratory Equip.                         200                                        -                    200
Training Equipment and Tools                                   300                                        -                    300
Subtotal                                               1,300                   -                     -1,300
TOTAL                                                 12,300                1,500                 1,300                15,100
Source:   SNC and Mission Estimates
March, 1978



- 64 -
TABLE 3.11
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY M4AINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimates of Budgetary Requirements for Road Maintenance Programs (July 1. 1979-June 30.1983)
(In April 1978 USS million)
1979 11   1980       1981      1982       1983 2/ Total
I. Recurrent Expenditures
Administration and Labor        1.5        3.1       3.4        3.7        2.0       13.7
Materials                       0.5        1.1       1.2        1.3        0.7        4.8
Fuel and lubricants             0.2        0.3       0.3        0.3       0.2         1.3
Spare parts                     0.2        0.5       0.5        0.5       0.3         2.0
Subtotal                   2.4       5.0        5.4        5.8       3.2        21.8
II. Project Expenditures
Deferred Maintenance            0.6        1.6       1.8        2.2       0.8         7.0
Acquisition of equipment,
spare parts and tools        13.7        1.7       1.4         -         -         16.8
Workshops and Warehouses        0.6         -         -          -         -          0.6
Technical Assistance            0.7        0.7       0.7        0.4       0.2         2.7
Engineering and Economic
Studies                       0.4        0.8       0.6         -         -          1.8
Contingencies                   3.8        1.3       1.2        0.8       0.3         7.4
Subtotal                  19.8       6.1        5.7        3.4       1.3        36.3
TOTAL  (I) + (II)         22.2      11.1       11.1        9.2       4.5        58.1
Government Contribution         6.6        7.3       7.6        7.6        4.0       33.1
bank Financing                  15.6       3,8        3.5       1.6        0.5        25,0
III, Recurrent Expenditures per District
La Paz                          1.0        2.2       2.4        2.5       1.4         9.5
Cochabamba                      0.5        1.0       1.1        1.2       0.7         4.5
Santa Cruz                      0.9        1.8       1.9        2.1       1.1         7.8
Total                      2.4        5.0       5.4        5.8       3.2        21.8
IV.  Deferred Maintenance per Districts
La Paz                          0.26       0.69      0.78       0.96       0.35       3.04
Cochabamba                      0.13       0.34      0.38       0.47      0.17        1.49
Santa Cruz                      0.21       0.57      0.64       0.77      0.28        2.47
Total                      0.60       1.60      1.80       2.20      0.80        7.90
1/ Only second semester.
2/ Only first semester.
3/ Two decimal points are shown to keep adequate proportions.
Source: SNC and Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 65 -
TABLE 3.12
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(in 1978 US$ million)
Quarterly                   Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year                Disbursement                 Disbursement
1979
September   1978
December    1978                      -                           -
March       1979                    0.3                         0.3
June        1979                    2.7                         3.0
1980
September   1979                   6.0                          9.0
December    1979                    6.6                        15.6
March       1980                    1.0                        16.6
June        1980                    0.7                        17.3
1981
September   1980                   0.7                         18.0
December    1980                    1.4                        19.4
March       1981                    0.6                        20.0
June        1981                    0.7                        20.7
1982
September   1981                    0.7                        21.4
December    1981                    1.5                        22.9
March       1982                    0.5                        23.4
June        1982                   0.4                         23.8
1983
September   1982                    0.4                        24.2
December    1982                    0.3                        24.5
March       1983                    0.3                        24.8
June        1983                    0.2                        25.0
Assumption:  Loan Effectiveness                    October  1978
Start Technical Assistance                         March    1979
Start Delivery Equipment and Spare Parts           May       1979
Start Highway Maintenance Program                  July      1979
Start Consultant Services                          November 1979
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 66 -                          ~~~~~~~TABLI 3. 13
-      4           - oC4    444
.4                    ^5                    o   
= .4.                                 U   
4.4 ~    ~      C '44                ,              o     o Q
_ 
o      4 p.                               1                                  .4          '
Z    ~    ~        4    .         _________C
_0                    .4 _ .4 c44'                                                  X 4
o4~                           1'                                         o .4.       4
-,     ,.4                                                             44  0 
_ t   ,                 _    ___    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. =  4o
c4      ,4                .4 '   4                     o.
u     >        s        t    C     E44  44                    a 1    4   -
5          c        3     zo    *    u.44   .          4.4   .
.~ ~ ~ ~~~' =o                   8                                    44.       44fc 5 . -           
44          _   ,        .4       44    o    4      4   4oX 
,. .4-           2        8      K'        2       C 8              N             8          3
04   !  ,4               S        8    a                            44  4. < Q  m 



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Economic Maintenance and User Costs "With" and "Without"_Project
(Discounted at 11% in 1978 USS million)
LA PAZ
Benefit/
"Without" Project                    "With" Project             Without Minus With Project    Cost         Net Present
Maintenance Costs  User Costs   Mainteance Costs  User Costs   Maintenance Costs  User Costs  Ratio                 Value
Paved Roads
STlL                   4.037             288.512          6.217             215.789        -2.180                72.723               70.543
ST2L                   0.708               10.391         0.848               9.433        -0.140                 0.958                0.818
Gravel Roads
GR1L                   1.437              107.008         2.985              84.838        -1.548                22.170               20.622
GR2L                   1.702               90.402         2.614              78.581        -0.912                11.821               10.909
GR3L                   0.455               17.443         0.736              15.514         -0.281                1.929                1.648
GR4L                   1.667               34.778         2.816              31.741         -1.149                3.037                1.888
Earth Roads
EA1L                   0.238               16.821         0.366              15.964         -0.128                0.857                0.729
EA2L                   1.032               24.532         1.725              21.753        -0.693                 2.779                2.086
EA3L                   2.300               21.191         2.749              17.690         -0.449                3.501                3.052
Subtotal          13.576              611.078         21.506             491.303        -7.480              119.775  16.0:1    112.295
COCHABANBA
Paved Roads
AClC                   0.199              106.419         0.216             106.396         -0.017                0.023                0.006
Gravel Roads
GRIC                   0.628               29.505         0.904              26.103         -0.276                3.402                 3.126
GR2C                   0.718               34.876         1.336              30.055         -0.618                4.821                4.203
GR3C                   1.471               40.710         2.618              34.139         -1.147                6.571                5.424
GR4C                   0.148                2.321         0.269               2.033         -0.121                0.288                0.167
Earth Roads
EA1C                   0.040                4.401         0.076               4.154         -0.036                0.247                0.211
EA2C                   0.091                5.535         0.133               5.211         -0.042                0.324                 0.282
EA3C                   0.501               11.867         0.814              10.234         -0.313                1.633                 1.320
Subtotal           3.796              235.634          6.366             218.325        -2.570                17.308   6.7:1       14.739
SANTA CRUZ
Paved Roads
AC1S                   0.049              163.509         0.048             163.508          0.001               -0.001                 0.001
Gravel Roads
GRlS                   0.455               17.689         0.730              15.743         -0.275                1.946                 1.671
GR2S                   0.638               23.861         1.065              21.054         -0.427                2.807                 2.380
GR35                   1.121               24.847         1.997              22.830         -0.876                2.017                 1.141
Earth Roads
EAlS                   1.854              192.506         3.816             169.725         -1.962               22.781                20.819
EA2S                   0.439               22.962         1.194              15.327         -0.755                7.635                 6.880
EA3S                   1.583               23.107         2.313              18.104         -0.730                5.003                 4.273    ;
Subtotal           6.139              468.481         11.163             426.291        -5.024                42.189   8.4:1       37.165
TOTAL             23.505            1,315.193         3 9.035          1,135.919       -15.074               179.272  11.9:1    164.198    .
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 68 -                          TABLE 4.2
Page 1 of 3
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Summary of Economic Analysis
(in April 1978 US$ million)
District La Paz
This table gives results of analysis for all links for the specified discount
rate.   Alternatives which maximize the net present value are selected for
each link.
Discount Rate - 11.0%                    Alternative             Net Present Value
Paved Roads
Link ST1L                       195. Km  ALT4 - ALT1                   70.544
ALT3 - ALT1                   65.578
ALT2 - ALT1                   29.254
Link ST2L                        38. Km  ALT4 - ALT1                    0.818
ALT2 - ALT1                    0.283
ALT3 - ALT1                    0.040
Gravel Roads
Link GRlL                       203. Km  ALT3 - ALT1                   20.622
ALT2 - ALT1                   20.446
ALT4 - ALT1                   19.976
Link GR2L :                     319. Km  ALT2 - ALT1                   10.909
ALT3 - ALT1                   10.892
ALT4 - ALT1                   10.611
Link GR3L :                     105. Km  ALT3 - ALT1                    1.648
ALT4 - ALT1                    1.597
ALT2 - ALT1                    1.584
Link GR4L                       540. Km  ALT3 - ALT1                    1.887
ALT2 - ALT1                    1.860
ALT4 - ALT1                    1.675
Link GR5L                       754. Km  ALT3 - ALT1                  - 0.577)
ALT2 - ALT1                 - 0.670) 1/
ALT4 - ALT1                  - 0.795)
Earth Roads
Link EAlL                       154. Km  ALT3 - ALT1                    0.730
ALT4 - ALT1                    Q.636
ALT2 - ALT1                    0.465
Link EA2L                       967. Km  ALT4 - ALT1                    2.086
ALT3 - ALT1                    1.923
ALT2 - ALT1                    1.199
Link EA3L                      2388. Km  ALT4 - ALT1                    3.053
ALT3 - ALT1                    2.437
ALT2 - ALT1                    1.249
1/ Not included in the proposed highway maintenance program.
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 69 -
TABLE 4.2
BOLIVA                        Page 2 of 3
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Summary of Economic Analysis
(in April 1978 US$ million)
District Cochabamba
This table gives results of analysis for all links for the specified discount
rate- Alternatives which maximize the net present value are selected for
each link.
Discount Rate -  11.0%                    Alternative            Net Present Value
Paved Roads
Link  AC1C :                     104. Km ALT4 - ALT1                   0.005
ALT3 - ALT1                  0.005
ALT2 - ALTI                  0.005
Link  STlC                       284. Km ALT4 - ALT1                 -10.288)
ALT3 - ALT1                -10.288)  l/
ALT2 - ALT1                -10.288)
Link  ST2C :                      97. Km ALT4 - ALT1                 - 4.271)
ALT3 - ALT1                - 4.271)  1/
ALT2 - ALT1                - 4.271)
Gravel Roads
Link GR1C                         39. Km ALT2 - ALTl                   3.126
ALT3 - ALT1                  3.119
ALT4 - ALT1                  3.002
Link GR2C                        106. Km ALT3 - ALT1                   4.202
ALT2 - ALT1                  4.188
ALT4 - ALT1                  4.173
Link GR3C                        220. Km ALT4 - ALT1                   5.423
ALT3 - ALT1                  5.260
ALT2 - ALT1                  5.048
Link GR4C                         37. Km ALT4 - ALT1                   0.167
ALT3 - ALT1                  0.128
ALT2 - ALT1                  0.060
Link GR5C                        844. Km ALT4 - ALT1                 - 0.481)
ALI3 - ALT1                - 0.660)  1/
ALT2 - ALT1                - 0.819)
Earth Roads
Link EA1C                         38. Km ALT3 - ALT1                   0.211
ALT4 - ALT1                  0.196
ALT2 - ALT1                  0.132
Link EA2C                        150. Ka ALT3 - ALT1                   0.282
ALT4 - ALT1                  0.272
ALT2 - ALT1                  0.176
Link EA3C                       1087. Km ALT4 - ALTI                   1.319
ALT3 - ALTI                  1.141
ALT2 - ALTI                  0.699
1/ Not included in the proposed highway maintenance program.
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 70 -                          TABLE 4.2
Page 3 of 3
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Summary of Economic Analysis
(in April 1978 US$ million)
District Santa Cruz
This Table gives results of analysis for all links for the specified discount
rates. Alternatives which maximize the net present value are selected for
each link.
Discount Rate - 11.0%                     Alternative            Net Present Value
Paved Roads
Link AClS                         50. Km  ALT4 - ALTI                  0.001
ALT3 - ALT1                 0.001
ALT2 - ALT1                 0.001
Link STlS                        434. Km  ALT2 - ALT1               -10.605)
ALT4 - ALT1              -11.570) 1/
ALT3 - ALT1              -19.456)
Gravel Roads
Link GRlS                         41. Km  ALT2 - ALT1                  1.671
ALT3 - ALT1                 1.667
ALT4 - ALT1                 1.583
Link GR2S                         93. Km  ALT2 - ALT1                 2.380
ALT3 - ALTI                 2.377
ALT4 - ALTI                 2.282
Link GR3S                        228. Km  ALT3 - ALT1                 1.141
ALT2 - ALT1                 1.118
ALT4 - ALTI                 1.097
Link GR4S :                       24. Km  ALT3 - ALT1               - 0.007)
ALT4 - ALT1              - 0.007)  1/
ALT2 - ALT1              - 0.009)
Link GR5S :                      410. Km  ALT4 - ALT1               - 0.246)
ALT3 - ALT1              - 0.294)  1/
ALT2 - ALT1              - 0.355)
Earth Roads
Link EAlS :                     1132. Km  ALT4 - ALTI                22.876
ALT3 - ALT1               20.819
ALT2 - ALT1               12.500
Link EA2S :                      673. Km  ALT4 - ALT1                 6.880
ALT3 - ALT1                5.351
ALT2 - ALT1                2.990
Link ZA3S                       3411. Km  ALT4 - ALT1                 4.273
ALT3 - ALT1                2.856
ALT2 - ALTI                0.573
1/  Not included in the proposed highway maintenance program
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SENSITIVITY TESTS
Benefit/Cost Ratios and Net Present Values
(discounted at 11% in April 1978 USS million)
Best Estimate                     Benefits Decreased by 25%            2-year delay in Project Implementation
Benefit/      Net                   Benefit/          Net                     Benefit/           Net
Cost       Present                  Cost           Present                    Cost            Present
Ratio        Value                  Ratio            Value                    Ratio             Value
Paved Roads                                  LAPAZ.
STIL                             70.543                                  52.362                                    50.264
ST2L                             0.818                                   0.579                                     0.576
Gravel Roads
GRlL                             20.622                                  15.080                                    14.640
GR21,                            10.909                                   7.954                                     7.740
GR31,                             1.648                                   1.166                                     t. 161
GR4L.                             1.888                                   1.129                                     1:283
Earth Roads
EAIL                              0.729                                   0.515                                     0.513
EA21,                             2.086                                   1.391                                     1.450
EA31,                             3.052                                   2.177                                     2.154
Subtotal         16.0:1      112.295                                  82.351
12.0:18231                                14.8.1          79.781
COCHABAMBA
Paved Roads
ACIC                              0.006                                   0.000                                     0.003
Gravel Roads
GR2C                              3.126                                   2.276                                     2.217
GR2C                              4.203                                   2.998                                     2.967
GR3C                              5.424                                   3.781                                     3.809
GR4C                              0.167                                   0.095                                     0.112
Earth Roads
EAIC                              0.211                                   0.149                                     0.149
EA2C                              0.282                                   0.201                                     0.199
EA3C                              1.320                                   0.912                                     0.925
Subtotal          6.7:1       14.739                  5.0:1           10.412                     6.2:1          10.381
SANTA CRUZ
Paved Roads
AClS                              0.001                                   0.000                                     0.000
Gravel Roads
GRIS                              1.671                                   1.185                                     1.178
GR2S                              2.380                                   1.678                                     1.~676
GR3S                              1.141                                   0.637                                     0.765
Earth Roads
EAIS                             20.819                                  15.124                                    14.759
EA2S                              6.880                                   4.971                                     4.871
EA3S                              4.273                                   3.022                                     3.010
Subtotal          8.4:1       37.165                  6.3:1           26.617                     7.8:1          26.259
TOTAL            11.9:1      164.198                  8.9:1          119.380                    11.0:1         116.421
Source: Mission Estimates
March 1978



- 72 -
ANNEX I
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
The Proposed Four-Year Highway Maintenance Program
(July 1, 1979-June 30, 1983)
1.   Paved Roads
Most surface-treated roads (about 1,150 km) are weak for the present
traffic level and would need immediate rehabilitation, for which the proposed
project provides the required preparation. The two surface-treated links in
La Paz have satisfactory subgrade conditions, and patching of 90% of the
unpatched cracks would be the most economic alternative, requiring about
1,000 m2 of patching per km per year. The two surface-treated links in
Cochabamba and the one in Santa Cruz have very differentiated subgrade condi-
tions, varying within relative short distances from CBR values as low as 4 to
values as high as 28. The analysis, based on average conditions, showed that
intensive patching or surface treatments are not economically justified.
As a consequence, continuation of the present limited patching policy
(150 m2/km/year) was considered during the project period, and immediate
rehabilitation after July 1983. During the implementation period of the
project, SNC should study the details of the different conditions of surface-
treated roads to define a more accurate pavement maintenance policy on a
section-by-section basis.
The two asphalt concrete links in Cochabamba (at present in con-
struction) and in Santa Cruz (completed in 1977) have an adequate strength
and would require only patching of a few cracks (10 m2/km/year). All paved
highways would receive regular right-of-way, shoulders and drainage maintenance
during the project period.
2.   Gravel Roads
All gravel roads with ADT above 20 in La Paz and Cochabamba and about
50 in Santo Cruz would be resurfaced with graded crushed or screened materials
of much smaller size than the coarse gravel currently used by SNC in a thickness
of at least 0.10 m. The links with more than 100 ADT in the three districts
would receive a 0.15 m thick layer of graded crushed or screened gravel.
Maintenance of gravel roads before their resurfacing and of those not to be
regraveled would continue at the present level. Maintenance of gravel roads
would be considerably improved after they have been resurfaced and would
include watering and compaction every third grading.
After resurfacing, the benefits are rather independent from the
grading frequency, even in the range investigated of one grading for each
7,000, 11,000, or 15,000 vehicle passes. The "optimal" grading frequency was
considered for the program (Table 3.6). Spot regraveling requirements have
been considered to replace, every year, 20% of gravel loss.



- 73 -
ANNEX I
No substantial changes have been foreseen in regular maintenance
(right-of-way cleaning, slope control, slide clearing and drainage mainte-
nance) of gravel roads, other than the effort to make more accentuated and
intensive use of labor-intensive methods.
3.   Earth Roads
Little maintenance is done at present on most earth roads.  The
program foresees a substantial increase in regular maintenance of earth
roads, with the maximum possible use of labor-intensive methods.  Grading
of earth roads should be increased from its present low average frequency
of one grading for every 11,000 vehicle passes to intensive frequencies
ranging from one grading every 1,500 to every 4,000 vehicle passes.  The
optimal grading frequency was chosen for all links in the three districts,
except for link one in Santa Cruz. For this link, the optimal grading
frequency was of one grading for every 1,500 vehicle passes, demanding one
grading every two weeks on 1,324 km of earth roads in the first year and
requiring 53 motorgraders a year. Since these high density traffic earth
roads are under consideration to be improved to gravel standards as soon as
possible, the second best alternative was selected, one grading every 4,000
vehicle passes, reducing grading requirements to one every 35 days for the
first year and motorgrader needs for this link to 21.
An average spot graveling of 10 m /km of earth roads has been
considered necessary for repair of localized weak spots in earth roads.
Regular maintenance of earth roads would also be substantially increased,
mainly through labor intensive methods.
4.   Regional Differences
The main differences in economic results for La Paz, Cochabamba
and Santa Cruz accrue from: (a) more intensive maintenance of the surface
treated pavements in La Paz built on subgrades with a uniform satisfactory
bearing capacity, as compared to the surface treatments in Cochabamba and
Santa Cruz on uneven and partially weak subgrades, which would require
immediate rehabilitation; (b) above average concentration of high traffic
density gravel roads to be improved under the project in La Paz; and
(c) above average concentration of earth roads with unusually high traffic
densities in Santa Cruz.
5.   Road Maintenance Expenditures
Road maintenance expenditures per km, not including deferred main-
tenance, would be, at the end of the project: US$446 for La Paz, US$418 for
Cochambamba and US$310 for Santa Cruz, with an average of US$382 for these
three districts.
May 1978



- 74 -
ANNEX 2
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Maintenance Equipment for the Highway Maintenance Program
1.        The estimate of equipment to be procured for the proposed highway
maintenance program (July 1, 1979-June 30, 1983) in the districts of La
Paz, Cochabamba, and Santa Cruz was based on an inventory of the present
maintenance fleet in the three districts, prepared by SNC in September 1977
(Table 3.9). The existing fleet in the three districts, composed of 456 units
(not including small equipment such as generators, pumps, plate compactors,
concrete mixers) is in slightly better condition than the country's average
(Table 2.13). Average age is 7.8 years for heavy equipment and 6.6 years for
vehicles; 38% of the fleet is in good working condition, 35% needs repair or
overhaul and 27% is to be scrapped within the next few years. This situation
is likely to deteriorate until start of the project in July 1979. About
200 units will be in need of major overhaul at that time.
2.        Fleet availability (total time of 2,000 hours a year less time lost
because of equipment breakdown or preventive maintenance, divided by total time),
fleet utilization (available time less standby time, divided by available
time), and total fleet utilization (availability x utilization) could be estab-
lished separately for different types of equipment and vehicles, in each one
of the three districts, based on reports by the residencies from January 1 to
June 30, 1977 (Table I of this annex). Average fleet availability is 55%
in La Paz and Cochabamba but only 41% in Santa Cruz. Equipment utilization is
79% in La Paz, 61% in Cochabamba and 70% in Santa Cruz, rendering a total
utilization of 43%, 33% and 29% respectively. As an average for the three
districts, fleet availability is estimated at 50%, utilization at 70% and
total utilization at 35%.
3.        The project should increase availability and utilization of the old
equipment and vehicles according to the estimates given in Table 2 of this
annex, which also indicates availability and utilization percentages for the
new equipment.
4.        The required hours per year for each type of equipment were estimated
based on the maintenance program's production targets (project indicators) for
every year and on the equipment output figures under Bolivian conditions.
The maintenance program equipment requirements were established by subtracting
usable hours of the present equipment from the required hours.
5.        The estimation of economic life of the equipment was done as follows:



- 75 -
ANNEX 2
(a) Economic life of equipment in developed countries is accepted to be:
Hours
Vehicles                                5,000
Construction equipment                 10,000
Plant                                  15,000
(b) Because of the capital constraints in Bolivia and of low cost of
labor for equipment maintenance and overhaul, an increase of 25% of
hours of economic life has been assumed.
(c) According to total utilization per year of new equipment given in
Table 2, average life in years can be estimated as follows:
Year    Utilized Hours       Accumulated   Economic Life in Years
1         1,260                1,260
2         1,350                2,610
3         1,360                3,970
4         1,330                5,300
5         1,290                6,590       Vehicles:         5
6         1,200                7,790
7         1,200                8,990
8         1,200               10,190
9         1,200               11,390
10         1,200               12,590       Construction
11         1,200               13,790         equipment:      10
12         1,200               14,990
13         1,200               16,190
14         1,200               17,390
15         1,200               18,590        Plant:           15
April 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Equipment and Vehicle Fleet Availability 1/ and Utilization.2/ in the Three Districts (January 1-June 30 1977)
Heavy Equipment Heavy Vehicles Light Vehicles Miscelaneous Equip. Total Average 4/
Units  %         Units   %        Units   %           Units  %         Units      %
Availability 1'                     53                51               67                 68                   54
La Paz     Utilization 2/                 62   85          53    73         42    68            22   27         179       79
Total Utilization 3/                45                37               46                 18                   43
Availability                        53                54               72                 56                   55
Cochabamba Utilization                    57   59          44    67         39    67            32   33         172       61
Total Utilization                   31                36               48                 18                   33
Availability                        37                42               69                 33                   41
Santa Cruz Utilization                    58   72          52    68         33    66            14   25         157       70
Total Utilization                   27                29               46                  8                   29
Availability                        48                49               69                 55                   50
TOTAL   Utilization                   177   72         149    69        114    67            68   29         508       70
Total Utilization                   35                34               46                 16                   35
1/  Availability = Total Time- Workshop Time           2/  Utilization = Available Time - Standby Time
Total Time                                            Available Time
3/ Total Utilization = (Availability)x(Utilization) = Total Time - (Workshop Time + Standby Time)
Total Time
4/ Estimated weighted average based on average prices: US$38,000 for heavy equipment unit US$20,000 for heavy vehicles;
US$ 8,000 for light vehicles and US$ 2,000 for miscelaneous units
Note:  Some of the vehicles in the inventory (Table 3.9 ) arrived during or after the first semester 1977; miscellaneous                  C
equipment was not included in the inventory.
Source:  SNC and Mission Estimates                                                                                                        I s
Fehrtuary 1Q78



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Variations over the Years in Fleet Availability and Utilization of Existing and New Equipment and Vehicles
Years:      1         2          3          4          5          6   1/
Existing Equipment and Vehicles
Average Fleet Availability          Hours      1,000    1,100      1,200       1,300      1,400      1,400
%          50        55        60          65         70         70
Utilization of available time          %          70        75        80          83         86         86
Total Utilization                   Hours        700       825       960       1,079      1,204      1,204
(Availability)x(Utilization)          %           35        41        48          54         60        60
New Equipment  and Vehicles
Average Fleet Availability          Hours      1,800    1,800      1,700       1,600      1,500      1,400
%          90        90        85          80         75         70
Utilization of available time          %          70        75        80          83         86         86
Total Utilization                   Hours      1,260    1,350      1,360       1,330      1,290     1,204
(Availability)x(Utilization)          %           63        67.5      68          66.4       64.5      60
1/ After the 6th Year the factors are constant and the same for old and new equipment and vehicles
Source:  SNC and Mission Estimates                                                                                t|
March  1978                                                                                                       " M



- 78 -
ANNEX 3
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the
Technical Assistance on Highway Maintenance
Objectives
1.        The purpose of the technical assistance is to provide consultant
services over a period of about four years, as a continuation of the services
provided by the advanced technical assistance under Loan 1422-BO. The
principal objectives are:
(i) to assist SNC in the implementation of the highway maintenance
project in the three districts;
(ii) to improve and expand the organization and procedures related
to highway maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement;
(iii) to introduce appropriate management systems which will assure
effective planning, budgeting, scheduling, directing and
controlling of maintenance, rehabilitation and improvements;
(iv) to improve the overall management and utilization of the maintenance
equipment and vehicle fleet;
(v) to determine current and future manpower requirements and related
training needs arising from the highway maintenance program, and
to recommend and assist in implementing a phased training plan for
maintenance personnel at all levels; and
(vi) to assist SNC in the preparation of a countrywide road maintenance
project.
Scope of Consulting Services
2.        The project shall be carried out under the authority of the Director
of SNC. The consultant shall advise and assist in the development and imple-
mentation of improved practices for organization and management of maintenance
operations in the three districts considering later expansion to the whole
country. This work shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the
following functional areas:
(i) Maintenance Organization and Management
3.        (a)  strengthening the management capabilities of SNC's maintenance
department for planning, scheduling, performing and controlling



- 79 -
ANNEX 3
highway maintenance and minor improvement programs and
operations, and for preparation of road rehabilitation
and upgrading projects;
(b) developing and implementing improved general accounting
practices, and establishing a cost accounting system
appropriate to support maintenance management systems,
differentiating between regular and periodic maintenance,
rehabilitation, minor and regular improvement of roads;
(c) establishing an organizational framework at headquarters,
district and residence levels, and in the field, for
carrying out maintenance operations more effectively; and
(d) investigating and recommending measures to increase avail-
ability and utilization of tax-induced and voluntary manpower
for labor intensive road maintenance procedures.
(ii) Maintenance Program
4.        (a)  implementation of the highway maintenance program as defined
in the highway maintenance project for the three districts,
stressing differentiation among operations in the three
geographic regions;
(b) determination of priorities to be assigned to different
roads or road sections for execution of pavement maintenance
and regraveling, both for deferred maintenance and current
maintenance programs;
(c) review of the annual maintenance programs and project
indicators (Table 3.10) and confirmation of work accom-
plished in the previous year;
(d) location of the most adequate sources of suitable material
required for the performance of the maintenance program, and
study of transportation and handling problems;
(e) investigation of present labor-intensive techniques in
Bolivia and their development and application, considering
experience in similar projects in other developing countries
and current experience in Bolivian rural road improvement
projects;



- 80 -
ANNEX 3
(f) analysis of the maintenance standards used in the project
evaluation through the Highway Design and Maintenance
Standards Model and recommendations for their confirmation
or improvement according to Bolivian conditions; special
attention should be given to establishing most efficient
grading frequencies per vehicle passes on gravel and earth
roads, and most efficient relation of patching and surface
treatment of paved roads to traffic density and composition;
and
(g) continuation and updating of road roughness measurements in
Bolivia using the Mays Ride Meter, and following and comple-
menting work performed by the Texas Research and Development
Foundation.
(iii) Equipment and Workshops
5.        (a)  review and updating of maintenance equipment and vehicle fleet
inventory, prepared with the help of the advanced technical
assistance, including detailed survey of existing equipment and
vehicles requiring major overhaul;
(b) final review of equipment and vehicle procurement list and
preparation and execution of procurement program;
(c) final review and implementation of SNC's scrapping program
for the three districts;
(d) improvement of collection, recording and interpretation of
data on fleet availability and utilization, on equipment
and vehicle output and on operation costs;
(e) annual review of equipment-related indicators;
(f) improvement of present practices and controls for preventive
maintenance of vehicles and road maintenance equipment;
(g) preparation and control of equipment and vehicle overhaul
programs;
(h) improvement of workshop organization and management practices
for servicing and repair of equipment and vehicles;
(i) development and implementation of improved practices for
acquisition, storage, control, and distribution of spare
parts, materials and supplies; and



- 81 -
ANNEX 3
(j) control of exclusive use of all vehicles, equipment, spare
parts and materials procured under the project for road
maintenance and minor improvement works within the three
districts.
(iv) Personnel Training
6.        To assess the current and future manpower requirements and related
training needs, the consultants, among other things, shall:
(a) assess the effectiveness of the current policies regarding
recruitment, career development and remuneration, and
recommend any organizational changes required to create
an environment in which training can be most effective;
(b) update the inventory of all maintenance personnel in the
country, divided between headquarters and districts,
skilled and unskilled, and broken down by categories and
levels, and evaluate the capability and potential of
personnel currently employed to better assess training
needs;
(c) develop a phased training plan for different categories
and levels of personnel, addressed in particular to middle
managers and technical staff involved in planning and in
road and equipment supervision of maintenance works;
(d) assist in the formation of a permanent training unit within
SNC, including its structure, functions and related budget,
which would be responsible for the planning, implementation
and supervision of all training activities, including
eventual organization of a Training Production Unit (TPU)
which would be involved in deferred maintenance works;
(e) assist in the organization of periodic conferences or
seminars for middle and higher management level specialized
in different topics related to maintenance management,
accounting, and operations to interchange and spread infor-
mation and experience on maintenance matters in general,
and on the project's maintenance program in particular;
(f) determine the number and types of instructors required and
formulate and participate in implementation of special
courses for these instructors;



- 82 -
ANNEX 3
(g) improve present training activities at the Patacamaya
center, developing and implementing priority courses on
maintenance work methods and equipment, servicing and
repair, for middle-level supervisors, foremen, operators
and mechanics, recommending needed expansion of existing
physical facilities and acquisition of required equipment,
material and audio-visual elements;
(h) make a study of the manpower requirements of SNC for
the next five years, including related training needs
and taking special account of overall maintenance
personnel requirements; and
(i) establish a system to monitor and evaluate the results of
training.
(v) Preparation of the Countrywide Road Maintenance
7.        Based on the experience obtained through the implementation of the
highway maintenance project in the districts of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz,
and on the findings and recommendations of the Transport Sector Survey included
in the Third Railway Project (Loan 1422-BO), the technical assistance would help
SNC in the preparation of a countrywide road maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading project. In particular, it would provide advice and assistance to:
(a) coordinate activities and studies carried out under the
highway maintenance project with the NTS;
(b) interpret and implement the recommendations related to
highway maintenance;
(c) review, complement and systematically update all road
inventory, traffic, economic and financial data provided
by the NTS and relating to highway maintenance and to
planning of highway rehabilitation, improvement and con-
struction;
(d) collect complete information on road maintenance and minor
improvement operations outside the three districts; on
maintenance equipment and vehicles inventory, condition,
availability and utilization; on workshops and warehouses;
on management of equipment and spare parts, and on any other
information required for preparation of the countrywide road
maintenance project;
(e) assist SNC in preparing a list setting forth the paved, gravel
and earth sections for which detailed engineering and further
economic studies will be done (provided under the proposed
highway maintenance project) in light of the NTS recommenda-
tions of priorities assigned to specific road rehabilitation
and upgrading projects;



- 83 -
ANNEX 3
(f)  complete collection of information on road roughness
in Bolivia using the Mays Ride Meter, and applying,
countrywide, the procedures used in the three districts;
(g)  prepare a countrywide road maintenance project following
the procedures and criteria used for the preparation and
appraisal of the road maintenance project in the districts
of La Paz, Cochabamba and Santa Cruz.
Staffing
8.        Staff requirements and the duration and timing of their services,
agreed upon in principle during appraisal in Bolivia and slightly adjusted
later, are shown in Table I of this annex and was discussed and agreed
during negotiations. A total of about 350 man-months would be required
during the project period.
Schedule
9.        The project would be carried out over a period of 48 months in five
phases of work including:
(i) review and evaluation of existing situation;
(ii) implementation of technical assistance and detailed plan of
operation;
(iii) coordination with National Transport Survey;
(iv) implementation of maintenance project in the three districts;
preparation of countrywide project; and
(v) overall program monitoring.
Manuals and Reports
10.       All manuals shall be performance-oriented, and most reports shall be
directed toward documenting accomplishments and results. They include a
report on future highway maintenance needs and manuals on highway maintenance,
equipment management, accounting and budgeting, administration and training.
During the course of the project, the following reports would be required:
(i) Inception Report: Within two months of the starting date,
stating the consultants' detailed work plan and schedule for
accomplishing the project objectives (20 copies in Spanish).
(ii) Progress Reports: At two-month intervals after submission of
the Inception Report, listing the consultants' field staff,
work performed during the reporting period, difficulties and/or
delays encountered and proposed remedial actions and the plan
for the subsequent four months (20 copies in Spanish).



- 84 -
ANNEX 3
(iii)  Draft Final Report:  Three months before closing date, summarizing
the work performed for both tasks and the findings and recom-
mendations for a future highway maintenance program (20 copies
in Spanish).
(iv)  Final Report:  Incorporating all revisions deemed appropriate
by the consultants within two months after receipt of comments
from the Government on the Draft Final Report (50 copies in
Spanish).
Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
11.       SNC would be the contracting Government agency.  Counterpart personnel
at headquarters and in the districts would be provided from among permanent
employees of SNC.
May 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Staffing and Scheduling of Technical Assistance
Scheduling of Consultants (Proje ct Years)                     months
Staffing                                      First   I  Second   I   Third         Fourth          Consul-       Counter-
tants          parts
At Headquarters
Project Manager (Road Maint. Special)    =       == ===,= ====    =                                    52 1/          52
Equipment Manager (Operat. and Maint)  =48                                                                        48
Soils and Pavement Engineer                                                                           12              24
Warehouse Specialist                       -         - =-====                                         24             48
Accountant                                 -         - _                                             24              48
Transport Economist                                                                                   18              30
Computer System Analyst                                                  ===                                          24
190            274
At Districts
Road Maintenance Specialist               ======== =                                                  48              48
Equipment Superintendent                           ==== =====  ==            =                        40              40-
1     ~88             88     00
Training
Manpower Specialist                                                                                   12              __
Road Maintenance Specialist                             - =                                           24              48
Equipment Operation Specialist                                                                        18              42
Equipment Maintenance Specialist          L18                                                                         36
TY            126
TOTAL   350            488
1/ Four additional months for preparation of final report.
Foreign Cost:  350 Man-months at US$6,000 each = US$2,100,000; Transportation US$250,000; Total US$2,350,000.
Local Cost:  350 Man-months at US$1,000 each = US$350,000; Miscellaneous US$50,000; Total US$400,000.
Source:  Mission Estimates                                                                                                 X M
February 1978



- 86 -
ANNEX 4
BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.   Reports, Studies and Data on the Transport Sector
Al. Plan de Desarrollo Economico y Social 1976-1980 (The Five-Year
Development Plan) Ministry of Planning
B.   Reports, Studies and Data Relating to the Project
Bl. Highway Inventory, 1967
B2. Traffic Statistics, 1973
B3. Report on Maintenance Operations, 1976
B4. General Balance SNC, 1976
B5. Folder with Complete Data of the Equipment Division
B6. Cost Analysis and Unit Costs for Highway Construction (Baquero)
B7. Rationalization of Maintenance Costs (Baquero)
B8. Vehicle Park Statistics
B9. National Fuel Consumption at Department Level, 1938-1976
B10. Description of Road User Charges
Bll. Revenues from Road User Charges
B12. Road Network, 1960-1974
B13. Road Maintenance Costs Tables
B14. SNC Personnel Chart
B15. Traffic Densities, 1969-1976
B16. ADT Charts, 1973-1976
B17. List of External Loans for Highways
B18. Report and Charts on Vehicle Weight Surveys
B19. Bolivia Rural Roads I (USAID)
B20. Bolivia Rural Roads II (USAID)



- 87 -
ANNEX 4
B21. Evaluation of Highway Roughness in Bolivia (Texas Research and
Development Foundation)
B22. HDM - Model - Program Documentation
C.   Working Papers prepared by Bank Staff and Bank Consultant
Cl. HDM - Model Outprints - La Paz, Cochabamba, Santa Cruz
C2. Consultant's Report: Vehicle Operating Costs, Vehicle Fleet
Characteristics and Traffic Growth Rates.
(Robert Mott, October 10, 1977).
April 1978



BOLIVIA
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Transport,
Communications and Civil Aeronautics
MINISTER
SUBSECRETARIAT                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~SUBSECRETARIAT OF                      SUB SEC RE TARIAT OF
OF TRANSPORT                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMUNIECATIOHS                      CIVIL AERONAUTIC S
E -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
DIRECTORATE OF
ANN INIG CSTRA IRNAT IRON
DAND STATISTICS
F
IDIRECTORATE OF           -L LEG AL
|ECONOMIC COUNSEL                C. |  ONSEL
D IRECTORATE OF              PERSON M1EL    j
ADltlNISTRATION             DIREC.TORAE )
DItRECTORATE          DR  ECTORATE OF           DIRECTORATE OF          DIRECTORATE OF                                 OF |        I   POSTAL                             OF                 ECTORATE OF
OF RAILWAYS       AUTOMOTIVE TRANSPORT    IER   AN  FAROINE           L PROJECT CONTROL               TECCMmUNICATIONS               DIRECTORATE            CIVIL AERONAUTICS                    L AIR WORKS
LE'FE
IJINT ARGENTINA-BOLIVIA1         ILCOMAYO RiVER
RA LWAY COwMMISSION             BASIN PROJECT
SNC     S- oio.  oN-   l d, C.-!o... JN-1-   R..d. S-l.)
SN}Dfi    so ,.oio t.ocioool de 4.50 olli OR irool
(NNH   io0l eeOroogcl    d      dl 1                                                                                                                                                                  I
EKFPe   Enpre. iational de PerrOcarlr        00tina   08ld1
AASAiA    Ad.- in--racidn AutAnoo par. SorvIolot to As,$tercib
. 1. Na-ego       AOrta (Air Navigatlon AsSist.nce
A.." in,srrarion)
L    ,l oyd Ae,to Rol l 100i0bn
ENTIEL           - i-I Naon0   d. Tolon.o I ioltS (N.tlo,.I
TS IrCttOOflions Co"tpOfyl
Source:  Minittry of TroanporEt  Co_uniCations and Civil Aeronautics.



- as-
BOLIVIA
HIHWAY MAiNJrNANCI PROJECT
NatiOn4a Hishvaj S.r-t.
Planning D.p*rtuett
AVEIAC! DAILY TLAFFTC - 1976
Primary and Secondary Road.



BOLIV1A
HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Organization Chart of the National Highway Service (Servicio Nacional de Caminos - SNC
I   DIRECTOR
| G ENERAL COUNSEL  - -  - -                      |                                       CONSULTING COUMCIL
|DEpUTY DIRECTOR|
Maintenance             Plannt   | lCo ntzitiox Dld                                           E'lprent                Finances    | Administration
I                                            
0~~~~
1       1                           ~         ~        ~          ~         ~~1  I         4) I
0 ~ ~ ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 04
|Administration i   Engineering  I|Equipment   | FMaintenance  |                        AdminietratioW   En8ineering  ||Equipment    1  Construction|
W301r iL   Illli SW    0il ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r i                                                    il  
Source: SNC
March 1978



0 E J r ;;; 0 0- 0 B; R 0 xA _j                                          ";    n; GYt
0 0 X X: E 0i. 7 g S t ;i - i aD i tR> k3l -. Lr;
.;  .:,: . 3 ' '       ., .;  i  0 '  : ' /                                                                                MAIr 0lza`Dk  
;  :Q.cTf3   V; C   /  oSntaRoa              ' '     . J          -30;3         i;          i n :  -   gz i       9t Q tlDRAILWAYS                                               z
j>[ c8;_R091J Mat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ebNb  ur>-i    :    ;-- -9-999 99 --  -r- ?
ti    :  ;;.\   arenri                                  \                 i9                     i9J    i      t;t  -T     m -;99zRtw6M>!j3SNSr>tNC.J
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~!                                                 van\                                                  to \   fn     I   3-    *      O.)  --- -------<99B:bJtze9 : 
PO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|5                                                                                       ROD  (IN             MM  U     -        Jr4   X7r -COSRUT  N 1   -fpls 
r  00 \* | / \ < 0 - ; i ~~~~~~~~~bRTO fW    M                                                                                          d60 gL-;0-R  A AG.t9Ntto}h zSlabrF--g':9
; ~~~~~~~,F ptHeath                                                                                                                                      paSes       ,        ,          ;-''- e.i ,s....... . .  M , ..(ji;t
;  i  0 :t  1            @                                                          _ aM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0agdcleno                   ls                                                 t;
E i J; 3 r L} A: ~~~~~~~~~~SanRml ,                                                   <39.- R3r ;       !-6    -  -05A8'r. 9
P   E   R    U                   b un antaAnBars                            i3-90,I, Anai ,,5fi
Sulin.~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~ ~       ~~_ QS..t Ros.                                        5       W* .          :,  
00 Y    -  C  a.  j       3~~Buetavrg   Rreabqet                                                                                                       Puert FreyuZc'a'ELm i                      7s
0   *;  'A- ,  5*   7        /$  9          San ~~~~~~Borja     TtM   t           R   NIDAD            =FerorY                                                               iE   r!       ;  
9..  ...........                                                         0,sum aqeP)X   bfeG rdtotu/g .. 
0~~~~~~~~~~                na -                                                                                                                   pmSCR6 nbc        {    iFbz
tr9 333qbS EB3 5|F. >.>                     >      Trapaya3            <E);;;       14) 1  /tU\ CY.
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l m                                            *Pruc                     rq iot 0                                             n 1t   CO -  - --   -  - -  --  -  - -
20 ;, Q - lL 1 ): , f Uyu9~~ L X Huacanst so            p at   m    S v   ,- ~3t
'''    Cr 5,                                             Ineud         v'inllaz2, .,or,  
C c~H 0           -l  Ptuaa Xcoavii otsoi--r ury  .    1 1 
;}g:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R                                                          azn';Xl 'u_I:5e 
l > MA g 0: 0 D E; iA . R L G;; E S ;tItT,/ I i; N A;; t \, - :SANTA CR                                .         s  
11,71o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ "                                                                          jE0t     i;{'ti.;9Ta81rtsbwi   J,i:'09. al



