ISDS
THE WORLD BANK GROUP                                                 AWorldtFrec ol rovertyk
infoShop
Report No AC8
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated. 04/01/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Pro ect Data
Country: POLAND                                   Project ID: P066512
Project: Poland: Coal PSAL I                      Task Team Leader. John E. Strongman
Authorized to Appraise Date: August 12, 2003     IBRD Amount ($m). 200 00
Bank Approval: December 2, 2003                  IDA Amoun1t ($in).
Managinig Unhit: COCPD                            Sector Mining and other extractive (34%); Other
Lending Instrument. Sector Adjustmenit Loan (SAD)  social services (33%); Vocational training (33%)
Status: Lending                                   Theme: Small and medium enterprise support (P),
Land management (P); Other social protection and
risk managemenit (P), Other environimenit and natural
resources management (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The proposed Hard Coal Programmatic Sector Adjustment Operation (PSALI) is the first of three
proposed operations requested by the Government to Support implemenitationi of the Government's
2003-2006 Hard Coal Sector Reform Program  The Government has requested the Bank to provide
financing equivalent of up to half of the cash costs of the 2003-2006 Program. The 2003-2006
Program, whiich follows on from the previoLis 1998-2002 Flard Coal Sector Reform Program, will
continiue the process of restructuring the Polish hard coal sector so that the sector becomes profitable
and is privatized, environmental performance is improved and the negative social impacts of
restructurinig are mitigated.
The first PSAL is expected to be a single tranche operatioin expected for approval in late CY2003. This
project will containi the policy framework and triggers for furtlher Bank support later in the Program
which is expected to conisist of an investment loan to directly support physical mine closure
expenditures and a second PSAL to support implementation of the Program in later years and, in
particular, privatization of the industry.
I.A.3. Project Description
The project will help finanice the first 1-2 years of the Governmienit's 2003 - 2006 Hard Coal Sector
Reform Program. The main features of the 2003-2006 Program are as follows



2
ISDS
*   Termniation of production in 2003 at 7 additional mines and decommissioning and relhabilitation of
the 7 mine sites in 2003/2004
*   Employmlent restructuring to reduce employment by 35,000 workers from 2003 to 2006 includinig
the involuntary layoff of about 8,000 surface workers in 2003
*   Social mitigation to assist any min1ers subject to involulitary layoffs includinig labor redeployment
assistance (such as counselinig and re-training) and regional development and job creation initiatives
*   FuLnding of carry over costs of "Miners Leave" redundancy packages previously received by
workers during tihe 1998 - 2002 Hlard Coal Reforn Program.
*   Early privatization of the Bogdanka Mine (probably 2003) and the two best coal holding companies
- Katowice and Jastrebska (probably 2004)
*   Consolidation of the sector by merging the 5 other weaker coal holdinig companiies into one
company (Polish Coal Company) with finanicial and physical reorganization of operations to
achieve break even and then privatization by the end of the Program
l.A 4. Project Location: (Geographic location, informationi about the key environimenital and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximiity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other cultirally or socially sensitive areas )
The Project is located in the Silesia region of Southerin Poland. Silesia is highly industrialized with coal
fired power generation, steel and other industry In the region. Total populationi of the region is about 6
million, the majority of whom live In urban, suburbani and semi-rural settings. The region does not have
any unuisual or unique environlmenltal featires The coal mines are not located near to any protected
areas, or sites, or critical natural habitats, or other culturally or socially sensitive areas. There are 3 coal
holding companies in the region (operating 37 mines includinig the seven to be closed) plus 3 indepenidenit
mines (for a total of 40 operating mines) Total industry employment is about 140,000 people Over
100,000 workers have left the coal sector in the last 4 years.
B. Clheck Environmental ClUassification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments
The proposed environmenital classification for the project is Category B (Partial Assessment) The main
environmental risks associated with the project are (a) the possible failure to decommission the 7 mines in
an enviromnentally acceptable manner; or (b) the possible failure to deal with subsidence Issues at the 7
i-nines in a satisfactory and timely manner. These risks are considered to be well known, modest and
manageable as discussed below, thereby warrantilig a Category B classification.
Restructuring of the Hard Coal Sector commenced in 1998 and was supported by two Bank loans, the two
tranche Hard Coal SECAL I (approved June 1999 and closed October 2000) for $300 million and the single
tranche Hard Coal SECAL 2 (approved August 2001 and closed December 2001) for $100 million. Both
prolects received enviroiinienital classification B.
A Sectoral Environmental Assessmenit (SEA) was prepared under SECAL I which included mine specific
environmental action plans for each operating i-nine SECAL 2 included a commitment by the Government to
ulidertake three additional environmental studies in support of the SEA relating to (i) subsidence; (ii) saline
water discharge; and (iii) compliance with environmenital requirernents.
SECALs I and 2 supported implemilenitationi of the 1998 - 2002 Hard Coal Reform Program wlichi involved
expenditires by the government and the mininig companies for closing mines and reducing production,
mitigating past enviromile1tal impacts and improving present environim1enital performance



3
ISDS
While the 1998-2002 Program as approved by the Governmenit largely involved mine closures and social
mitigation, imiproving coal industry environlmental performance was a key objective under both of the Bank
projects whichi required that a Sector Environmienital Assessment (SEA) be undertaken and actions
implemented to improve environmilenital performiance.
The main findings of the SEA were that the main environimenltal impacts from the coal mines are saline
water discharge into the local river system, surface disposal of waste fiom the mnies and coal washiing
plants, ground subsidence in certain areas from underground mining and methanie release from some mines
Based on the findings of the SEA, Environmental Action Plans were prepared for each operating mine and
were included in the company operating plans During the period of the two SECALs the main
environmental improvemiients were that salt content of waste water from the minies was reduced by about
30% and surface disposal of solid wastes was reduced by about 25%.
The proposed project supports implementation of the 2003-2006 Hard Coal Reforn Program which involves
further expenditures by governmenit for closing additional mines, reducing production, mitigating past
environmiental impacts and further actions by the mining companies to imiprove environimienital performanice
The physical closure and reclamation work under the new project is a contilnuationi of the work started under
SECALs I and 2 and the Bank is familiar with the risks involved The main environlmenital risks for the
project as noted above relate to (a) possible failure to decommission and rehabilitate the mine sites properly;
and (b) possible failure to address the subsidenice issue in a satisfactory manner, especially in the case of
mines which operate under urban areas These risks, wlhich are the same as under SECALs I and 2 are
considered fully manageable
With regard to mitigating the first risk, in accordance with the procedures for a Category B project, an
Environimienital Management Plan will be prepared for each of the seven mines, discussed at a public
consultation and reviewed by the Bank prior to appraisal. In addition, the Government will commit under
the overall policy framework for the Programmatic lending as well as in the Letter of Sector
Development Policy (LSDP) to ensure that the work to decommission and rehabilitate the seven mine
sites is fully funded and carried out according to the Environimenltal Management Plans. The closure of 5
mines belonginig to the Polish Coal Companiy (Kompania Weglova) will be undertaken by the Mine
Restructuring Company (SRK) wh1icil was responsible for mine closLire under SECALI and SECAL2 and
has demonstrated a strong and reliable capability in this regard. The closLire of the remaining 2 mines
will be undertaken one each by Katowice Coal Holding Companiy and Jastrebska Coal Holding Companiy
who have also previously undertaken mine closure work in a fully satisfactory manner.
With regard to the mitigating the second risk, the known impacts of subsidenice are relatively modest and
relate largely to minor damage such as cracks in walls of apartment bulildiligs which are repaired by the
coal company responsible for the damage. A detailed survey of any subsidenlce damage associated witi
the 7 mines will be undertakeni during project preparation and a plan developed and implementation
started to repair any damage in addition, to improve overall sector performiance, a survey will be
undertaken of subsidenice at all existing and closed mininlg operations to examine whether any more
serious problems exist and to ensure that repairs are being made in a timely mann1er. The Governm1ent
will commit under the LSDP to ensuring that the repair of subsidence-related damage is under-taken by
the companies in a timely maniner
The project will also include continlued imiplemilenltationi of environmenital improvements at operating mines
and will support implementation of actions to improve coal industry environimlenital performance resulting
from the findings of the three studies iniltiated Llider SECAL2 .



4
ISDS
The Program specifies that all the mines/mining companies will be privatized by the time that the Prograni is
completed in 2006 - and it is expected that one minie will be privatized under the project This creates a
potential longer term risk that private owners may not operate in an environmentally responsible manner
Under the first two SECALs, it was determined that Governmenit has good capabilities to monitor the
environmenital performance of in ining companies and enforce environilental regulationis with the exception
that the coal mining companies (which are all presently state-owned and cash-starved) have only been
paying part of their environmental fees and fines.
While privatization is much more a matter for the proposed next project (PSAL2 wilich will be
introduced into the FY06 lending program), under this project, the Government will be asked to provide
assurance in the LSDP that (i) it will obtain commitmenits from new private owners that they will adhere
to environmental regulations and stay current on all environmenital payments, and (ii) that, by the end of
the Program, all coal mining companiies (irrespective of ownership) will be paying in full any and all
environimenital payments associated with ongoing mulilig activities.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                                 Applicability
Environmenital Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                    * Yes C No     G TBD
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                             C Yes 0 No     0 TBD
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                        C Yes * No     CTBD
Pest Managemilenit (OP 4 09)                                 QD Yes * No    Q TBD
CLltural Property (OPN 11.03)                                OYes * No      O TBD
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4 20)                 XYes * No                        TBD
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                        C Yes * No     G TBD
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                  0 Yes 0 No     C TBD
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)          0 Yes 0 No     O TBD
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7 60)*                  C Yes * No     C TBD
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejzudice the final determ iination of the parties' claills
on the dispzuted areas
Section 11 - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Sumnmary of Key Safeguard Issues Please fill in all relevant questions If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data
Il.D. Ia. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated withi the proposed project. ldenitify and
describe any potential large scale, significanit and/or irreversible impacts.
Following is an assessment of the applicability of the Bank's safeguard policies
*      Environmenltal Assessmente- the project supports physical mine closure activity and this
safeguard policy     is applicable
*      Natural Habitats - the hard coal industry is located in Silesia, a relatively well developed,
industrialized  and urbaniized region of Poland and the project does not impact natural habitats
*      Forestry - the project does not impact forestry so this safeguard policy is not applicable
*      Pest Management - this is a coal mining restructuring project and there are no pest
management issues    so this safeguard policy is not applicable
*      Cultural Property - there are no cultural property issues so this safeguard policy is not
applicable
*      Indigenous Peoples - there are no indigenous peoples involved so this safeguard policy is not



5
ISDS
applicable
*      Involuntary Resettlement - mines are being closed not opened so there are no resettlement
issues.(either  involuntary or voluntary) so this safeguard policy is not applicable
*      Safety of Dams - as the coal mining involved is underground, part of the mine waste is stored
underground and there are no waste rock or tailings dams so this safeguard policy is not applicable
*      Projects in International Waterways - there are no interniatiolial waterways involved so this
safeguard     policy is not applicable
*      Projects in Disputed Areas - the project is not in a disputed area so this safeguard policy is not
applicable
With regard to the applicability of the Environmental Assessment Safeguard Policy, as discussed in the
previous section, the main environimenital issues for the project relate to sound mine decommissioning
and mine site reclamation. This involves sealing uliderground mine workings, demolishing surface
plant and equipment; rehabilitating mine sites and waste disposal areas; and ensuring that no future
subsidence will occur and that any present subsidence had been properly mitigated. Because all mines
are underground mines, mine sites and ancillary facilities and infrastructure such as waste dumps are
quite small and impacts are localized.
The environmiental issues at the mines to be closed are already well knowni because under the first two
SECALs Environmental Action Plans (EAPs) have been prepared for each of the mines to be closed (as
well as for the mines that remain in operation).  Mine closures were undertakell properly ulider
SECALs I and 2 and there are no new issues or circumstances to be dealt with Implementation of the
environmenital action plans started under SECALI and continIued under SECAL2 The project will
support continued imnplementation of these Environilental Action Plans
The project has no large scale, significant or irreversible major negative environmental impacts. To the
contrary the project will support clean up of past enviroimental liabilities through the environmentally
responsible decommissioning and rehabilitationi of closed mine sites. The project will also include
continued implementation of environmental improvemenits at operating mines
To the extent that there is a major risk, it relates to social issues. There is a significant chanige for the
new 2003-2006 Program (which the project supports) compared to the previous 1998-2002 program
(which SECALs I and 2 supported) in that the additional proposed mine closures and redundanicies
must take place at a time when the national and regional unemploymilent rates are now about 18%
compared with aboLit 6% whieni the program started in 1998.
This risk is well recognized by both the Government in preparing the Program and the Bank team in
preparing the project. As a result, both the Programil and the project each place a very strong focus on
designing and implementinig social mitigation actions to support workers who are being made redundanit
in the present difficult labor market situationl. In addition, structural reforms to help realize increased
economic growth and higher employimient are at the heart of the recommended economic measures and
proposed Bank activities in the recently approved November 2002 Counltry Assistance Strategy.
As part of the 1998-2002 Program, social mitigation measures, includinig early retirement packages and
attractive lump sum severance packages, xvere developed specifically for redundanit undergroulid coal
miners. For the new 2003-2006 Program, the govermiienit has opted to take a more general approach
and focus efforts not only on support for reduLidant coal industry workers seeking to re-enter the job
market but also on encouraginig new job creation throughlout the Silesia Region



6
ISDS
To this end, an Inter-Miniisterial Team was appointed by the Prime Minister to prepare a set of regional
development initiatives for Silesia to support implementation of the Coal Reforn Program. The team
prepared a Social Mitigation, Regional Development and Job Creation Program for Silesia which was
submitted to and approved by the Cabinet at the end of Januai-y 2003. This social mitigation program
includes a proposed 6-9 month "stipend" for redundant surface miners and various new measures for
regional and local economic development
The World Bank project team includes a team of social specialists who will address these Issues taking
into account experience from the first two SECALs, coal restructuring projects in other countries
(Russia, Ukraine and Romania), coal restructurinig and associated local economic development
experience in industrialized countries (especially the UK), and the Banks experience in supporting labor
market improvements in Poland The team has recently received the Governmenit's social program and
is now examining it In addition, members of the social team have made two visits to Silesia (in January
2003 and February 2003) to discuss labor redeployment activities and local economic development and
job creation initiatives with local and regional officials and local business community representatives.
The design of new measures will also learn from the design of measures and experience gained in the
on-goling World Bank supported Rural Developmenlt Program (RDP). Since layoffs will likely start in
second quarter 2003, initiatives are already underway to expand the Labor Redeployment Component
and possibly the Micro Credit Component of the RDP to include the two main mining voivodships
11.D.Ib Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component
Not applicable.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
Mines will be decommissioned and rehabilitated in the project area leading to an expected improvement
in the natural environment. Future land use is uncertain but could include new businiess and light
industrial development. Any land use planninig activity would require due attention to environmental
aspects. The Governmiienit of Poland is fully cognizant of these aspects.
ll.D.2. In light of I, describe the proposed treatmlenit of alternatives (if required)
There are considered to be no alternatives to closing excess coal mine capacity - keeping excess capacity
open would involve large operating subsidies whicih the Government is not prepared to pay and which the
Bank would strongly discourage.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
The borrower has addressed safeguard issues and taken actions to minimize and mitigate potentially
adverse impacts, not only of the project, but also of the overall industry through environmental
maniagemilenit plans developed ulider SECALs I and 2 as described above, and will continue to do so
under the current project. Future work will also take into account the results of three recently completed
environmental studies which were started under SECAL2.



7
ISDS
These studies are. (a) methiodology to estimate the true economic costs of subsidence impacts, (b)
additional mine specific mitigating actions necessary to assure full complianice with Polish
environilmenital regulations by the end of the 2003-2006 Programn, and (c) cost effective alternatives to
the proposed modifications to the Debiensko desalination facility. The findinigs of these studies wvill be
reviewed durinig project preparation and key follow up actions agreed It is expected that
implementation of the actions will be started under the project and that the Governmenit will make a
commitment in the LSDP to complete implementation of the agreed actions
II D.4 Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechaniisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people
The major stakeholders under the projects include national Governmenit, mininig companies, trade
unionis, employees and their families, and local and regional Governments. The potentially affected
people are (i) mineworkers whio wvill be made redulidanit and their families; (ii) communities impacted
by subsidence.
NGOs, local government officials and community representatives have been inforimied of the Bank's
activities through various informial meetings and consultationis throughout the Banks support of the
restructuring program (in SECALs I and 2). The Bank conducted a detailed survey of stakeholders and
a workshop wvith all key stakeholders to discuss the results of SECAL 2. The surveys and workshiop
results are showin in the ICR. Environmental improvemenit were noted as one of the successes of the
project. Consultation with stakeholders is ongoing. A meetinig with local NGOs was held in Katowice
in January 2003 and furthier discussions and consultationis will be held tilroughout project preparation
including a half day consultation worksihop in Katowice, prior to appraisal, presently planned for May
2003.
The ICR for SECAL2 is a public document and other materials will be prepared and released in
accordance with the Bank's disclosure policy
E. Safeguiardls Classification Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
SI . - Significant, cuLImulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutionlal risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[XI S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are)limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
[ ] SF. - Finanicial intermediary projects, social development funds, communlity driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framevwork or programmatic approach to address
safeguard Issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmiental Assessment/Analysis/Maonagement Plan:         Expected       Actuial
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 6/30/2003      Not Available
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             7/1 5/2003     Not Available
Date of submission to InfoShop                              7/31/2003      Not Available
Date of distributilng the Exec Summary of the EA to the ED  Not Applicable Not Applicable
(For categomy A projects)



8
ISDS
Resettlement Action Plan/Framewvork-                        ExApected       ctual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-counatry" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submissioni to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Fram11ewvork            Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-counitry" disclosure                           Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan.                                       Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop                             Not Applicable Not Applicable
Darn] Safety Management Plan*                               Expected       Actutal
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of submissioni to InfoShop                            Not Applicable Not Applicable
If n-counltry disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why
Not applicable
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             John E. Strongman alMarch 17, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists Il  Bernard Baratz/Person/World Bank       March 17, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  David Herbert Fretwell/Person/World Bank  March 1 7, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                        Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. HIolt                            March 21, 2003
Sector Manager/Director:      Rashad Kaldany                              March 30, 2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
'  EA --CH   ' t FEEK2RACr.   ,- STE MA~P _C   l - H6l&ASE  . 



