Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7224 POL 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Hard Coal Social Mitigation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated April 14, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7224 POL 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated April 14, 2004, between REPUBLIC OF POLAND (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS  (A)  the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated March 3, 2004, 
describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to restructure the hard coal 
sector and to improve performance of the sector (hereinafter called the Program), and declaring 
the Borrower’s commitment to the implementation of the Program;  
 
(B) 
the Borrower having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project; and  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions, and the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set 
forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“
1998-
2002 Hard Coal Mining Reform Program” means the Borrower’s program 
for reform of the hard coal sector for the period 1998-2002; 
 
(b) 
“ARP” means Agencja Rozwoju Przemyslu Spolka Akcyjna, a joint stock 
company under the Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head Office located in Warsaw, 
registered in the National Court Register – Business Registry under the number KRS 
0000037957, established to monitor industry efficiency; 
 
(c) 
“Bogdanka” means Lubelski Wegiel “Bogdanka” Spolka Akcyjna, a joint stock 
company under the Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head Office located in Bogdanka, 
registered into the National Court Register – Business Registry under the number KRS 
0000004549; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“Budryk” means Kopalnia Wegla Kamiennego “Budryk” Spolka Akcyjna, a joint 
stock company under the Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head Office located in 
Ornontowice, registered into the National Court Register – Business Registry under the number 
KRS 0000077669; 
 
(e) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in       
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(f) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for Severance Payments 
(hereinafter defined) and Reemployment Incentives Payments (hereinafter defined) referred to in 
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(g) 
“Financial Agreement” means the agreement entered into annually between the 
MoELSP (hereinafter defined) and: (A) each of the Participating Companies, pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and (B) ARP;  
 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(i) 
“IMCMC” means the Inter-Ministerial Coal Monitoring Committee established 
by the Borrower to oversee implementation of the Program of Restructuring of the Hard Coal 
Mining Sector for 2003-2006 (hereinafter defined); 
 
(j) 
“JSW” means Jastrzebska Spolka Weglowa Spolka Akcyjna, a joint stock 
company under the Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head Office located in Jastrzebie 
Zdroj,  registered  in  the  National  Court  Register  –  Business  Registry  under  the  number            
KRS 0000072093; 
 
(k) 
“KHW” means Katowicki Holding Weglowy Spolka Akcyjna, a joint stock 
company under the Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head office located in Katowice, 
registered 
in 
the 
National 
Court 
Register 
– 
Business 
Registry 
under 
the 
number                        
KRS 0000046994;  
 
(l)  
“KW” means Kompania Weglowa S.A., a joint stock company under the 
Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head Office located in Katowice, registered in the 
National Court Register – Business Registry under the number KRS 0000057506; 
 
(m) 
“MoELSP” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Economy, Labor and Social 
Policy;  
 
(n) 
“Operational Manual” means the Operational Manual for the carrying out of the 
Project, prepared and adopted by the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(o) 
“Participating Companies” means JSW, KW, KHW, Bogdanka, Budryk, and 
SRK (hereinafter defined), and for purposes of Part C of the Project the term shall also include 
other eligible companies receiving budgetary transfers for Severance Payments under the 1998-
2002 Hard Coal Mining Reform Program, and “Participating Company” means each and any of 
the Participating Companies; 
 
(p) 
“Program of Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006” 
means the Borrower’s program for reform of the hard coal sector for the period 2003-2006, which 
includes net reduction of industry employment through benefits for eligible employees, re-
skilling, reemployment and small business start-up incentives; 
 
(q) 
“Reemployment Incentives Payments” means payments under the Project to 
employers for hiring and reskilling surface workers who are being separated from the 
Participating Companies in accordance with the Program of Restructuring of the Hard Coal 
Mining Sector for 2003-2006; 
 
(r) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of 
funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
 
(s) 
“Severance Payments” means the payments, including benefits and on-going 
commitments, to be made under the Project to employees of the Participating Companies who are 
being separated from said Participating Companies in accordance with the Program of 
Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006 and the 1998-2002 Hard Coal 
Mining Reform Program; 
 
(t) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;  
 
(u) 
“SRK” means Spolka Restrukturyzacji Kopaln S.A., a joint stock company under 
the Commercial Code of the Borrower, with its Head Office located in Katowice, registered in the 
National Court Register – Business Registry under the number KRS 0000027497; and 
 
(v) 
“Technical and Operational Plans” means the plans prepared by KW, JSW, 
KHW, Bogdanka and Budryk and on an annual basis providing technical and business parameters 
for the calendar year. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred sixty million Euro     
(EUR 160,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of: (a) the reasonable cost of Severance Payments and  
Reemployment Incentives Payments required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; and (b) the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to  
one million six hundred thousand Euro
 
(EUR 1,600,000). On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty-five one-
hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge commences to 
accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General Conditions to but not 
including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy-five one-hundredths of one percent 
(0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance with 
the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest, commitment and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in full on   
March 15, 2014. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions 
of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency; 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate, or 
vice versa; and 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on said 
Variable Rate. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out the Project through: 
(i) the MoELSP; (ii) the ARP; and (iii) the Participating Companies, with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, administrative, and technical practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. The Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall transfer through its budget the 
proceeds of the Loan to the Participating Companies under Financial Agreements to be entered 
into between the MoELSP and each Participating Company, under terms and conditions which 
shall have been approved by the Bank, including those set forth in paragraph 5 of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. The Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall exercise its rights under each 
Financial  Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any Financial Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the objectives of the Project; and 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall cause ARP and the 
Participating Companies, to maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with consistently applied accounting 
standards acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect their operations and financial condition and 
to register separately the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall cause ARP and the Participating 
Companies, to: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), audited, in 
accordance with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
(6) months after the end of each such year (or such other period agreed to 
by the Bank):  (A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to 
in paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year (or other period agreed to 
by the Bank), as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by 
said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records, 
accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement  
(Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through 
the MoELSP, shall cause ARP and the Participating Companies to: 
 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained, until at least 
one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit report for, or covering, 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made; 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports or statements of expenditure are included in any  
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting obligations 
set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through the MoELSP, cause ARP to 
prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Loan, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds; and 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual
 
and planned Project implementation. 
 
(b)  
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from 
the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar 
quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 4.03. The Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall cause the Participating 
Companies to make readily available to the public, during Project implementation, their audited 
financial statements in full, including footnote disclosures. 
 
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause JSW, KW and KHW to maintain a hard budget 
constraint which will be monitored on a cumulative monthly basis and shall include all relevant 
information in the FMRs for the Project. 
 
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause preparation and submission to the Bank by March 
31, 2005, of: (a) an assessment of the 2005-2006 financial prospects for JSW, KW and KHW, 
including any need for further employment restructuring in addition to the Program of 
Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006, taking into account: (i) employment 
levels; (ii) the balance between capacity and sales; and (iii) the relationship between production 
cost, domestic prices and export prices; and (b) a report on progress regarding privatization of 
JSW, KW, KHW, Bogdanka and Budryk. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
a situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out; and 
 
(b) 
the Borrower, ARP or any Participating Company, shall have failed to perform 
any of their obligations under the respective Financial Agreement.  
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:  
 
(a)  
the Financial Agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, between the MoELSP and 
ARP, and the MoELSP and each of the Participating Companies have been executed on behalf of 
the MoELSP and ARP and the MoELSP and the respective  Participating Company; and  
 
(b)  
the 2004-2010 business plans of KW, KHW and JSW have been adopted by the 
management of the respective company. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
u1.
Swietokrzyska 12 
 
00-916 Warszawa  
 
Republic of Poland 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
     Facsimile: 
 
MINF 
 
    48 
22 
826 
6670 
 Poland 
 
 
 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
1 (202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
64145 (MCI) 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Warsaw, 
Republic of Poland, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF POLAND 
 
By /s/ Andrzej Raczko 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Roger Grawe 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
EUR
)
to be financed
(1) Severance 
Payments 
 
(a) under Part A of  
56,000,000 
80% 
 
the Project 
 
(b)  under Part B.1 of 
5,000,000 
80% 
the Project 
 
(c)  under Part C of 
80,000,000 
80% 
the Project 
 
(2)       Reemployment Incentives   
3,000,000 
80% 
 
 
 
Payments under  
 
  
 
Part B.2 of the  
 
  
 
Project  
 
 
(3)  
Front-end fee 
1,600,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(4)       Unallocated 
14,400,000
TOTAL 160,000,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding EUR 40,000,000, may be made in respect of 
Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of this Schedule on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after January 1, 2004; and (b) Categories 
1(b) and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph A.1 of this Schedule until ARP has in place a 
Page  13
-
12
-
database, acceptable to the Bank, which includes surface workers eligible for Severance 
Payments under Part B of the Project.  
 
3. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) Severance Payments; and      
(b) Reemployment Incentives Payments, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower. 
 
4. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, such reports 
to include the FMR and any other information as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower 
(Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before 
any withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Bank 
only a statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the three 
and six month period following the date of such request.  
 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Euro a special deposit account in the National 
Bank of Poland or in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment in 
the case of a commercial bank. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b)  
if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part A.4 of 
this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based Disbursements; or 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished 
to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and accounts for the 
Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which 
withdrawals were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, as the case may be.  
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement. 
Page  15
-
14
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not  
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of 
EUR 16,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which in 
the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to 
or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from 
the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once the 
total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from 
the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  16
-
15
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit 
into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or 
more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.4 of this Schedule 1 
applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the three-month period following the date of such reports. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the
 Project is to improve the efficiency of the Borrower’s hard coal 
sector by supporting the implementation of the expected employment restructuring during the 
calendar year 2004 of the Program of Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-
2006 and on-going commitments from the 1998-2002 Hard Coal Mining Reform Program.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Severance Payments for Underground Workers
Provision of Severance Payments to eligible underground workers in accordance with the 
Program of Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006. 
 
Part B
:
Severance Payments, Reskilling, and Reemployment for Surface Workers
1. 
Provision of Severance Payments to surface workers in accordance with the Program of 
Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006. 
 
2. 
Provision of Reemployment Incentives Payments to employers hiring and reskilling 
redundant eligible surface workers in accordance with the Program of Restructuring of the Hard 
Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006. 
 
Part C
:
Severance Payments Under the 1998-2002 Hard Coal Mining Reform Program
Provision of  Severance Payments to eligible miners in accordance with the 1998-2002 
Hard Coal Mining Reform Program. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2005. 
 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Implementation Program 
 
1. 
The Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall: (a) carry out the Project in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual; (b) maintain said Operational 
Manual in form and content at all times satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) manage the Special 
Account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
2. 
The Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall be responsible for overall Project coordination 
including:  
 
(a) 
preparation of disbursement applications under the Loan; and 
 
(b) 
maintenance of records and accounts related to the Project for the carrying out of 
the obligations referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
3. 
The Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall assign to ARP responsibility for overall 
Project monitoring, including: 
 
(a) 
preparation of all reporting requirements under the Project; and 
 
(b) 
carrying out of monitoring and evaluation activities under the Project.  
 
4. 
The Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall cause the Participating Companies to carry out 
the Project in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual 
and this Agreement. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall ensure that each Financial Agreement, shall 
include, inter alia, provisions, whereby: (a) the Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan 
available to the Participating Companies in the form of a budgetary transfer for the carrying out 
of the Project; (b) the Participating Companies shall be required to implement the Project in 
accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in the Operational Manual and the 
provisions of this Agreement; and (c) the Participating Companies shall each be required as part 
of their responsibility for Project implementation: (i) to maintain the Project financial records and 
accounts and make them available to ARP for the monitoring thereof; and (ii) to prepare and 
furnish to the ARP starting on May 1, 2004, quarterly reports on the progress of Project 
implementation. 
 
6. 
The Borrower shall take necessary action to ensure adequate funding of the Program of 
Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006 on an annual basis. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
7. 
The MoELSP shall ensure that the IMCMC shall meet at least every two months during 
Project implementation for the purpose of monitoring progress under the Program of 
Restructuring of the Hard Coal Mining Sector for 2003-2006. 
 
8. 
By July 31, 2004, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on progress 
in implementing Part B of the Project, and, thereafter, shall take all measures required to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of Part B of the Project based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
9. 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Treasury, shall: (a) by September 30, 2004, submit 
to the Bank a report as to the readiness of KHW for privatization; and (b) by December 31, 2004, 
submit to the Bank a report as to the readiness of JSW for privatization. 
 
10. 
By December 15, 2004, the Borrower shall make available to the Bank the draft 
Technical and Operational Plans for the calendar year 2005, including cash flow plans and 
environmental protection plans, for KW, JSW, KHW, Bogdanka, and Budryk, for review and 
discussion with the Bank prior to their finalization.  
 
11. 
The Borrower, through the MoELSP, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about November 30 of each year until completion of the Project, a report integrating 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by December 31 of each year until completion of the 
Project, or such later date as the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the Program and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions 
and recommendations of said report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
