                                    Initial Project Information Document (PID)
                                                                                                 Report No: AB120


Project Name                       POLAND-Poland: Coal PSAL 1
Region                             Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                             Mining and other extractive (70%); Vocational training (20%); Other social
                                   services (10%)
Theme                              Small and medium enterprise support (P); Land management (P); Other social
                                   protection and risk management (P); Other environment and natural resources
                                   management (P)
Project                            P066512
Borrower(s)                        GOVERNMENT OF POLAND
Implementing Agency(ies)           MINISTRY OF ECONOMY, LABOR AND SOCIAL POLICY
                                   Address: 00-950 Warszawa, Plac Trzech Krzyzy 3/5
                                   Contact Person: Mr. Marek Kossowski Deputy Minister
                                   Tel: +48-22-6281887          Fax: +48-22-6934006        Email:
                                   sekretariatmk@mg.gov.pl
Environment Category               B (Partial Assessment)

Date PID Prepared                  June 11, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date                August 12, 2003
Bank Approval Date                 December 2, 2003


1. Country and Sector Background
The Polish economy still experiences a situation of low growth and high unemployment with relatively
high real interest rates and low inflation. At the end of the last decade, the macroeconomic environment
deteriorated progressively. The aftermath of the Russian crisis triggered a new round of enterprise
restructuring, which led at the macro level to a significant decrease in investment, negatively effecting
GDP growth, and a hefty increase in unemployment. As of February 2003, unemployment stands at 17.8
percent of the labor force.

The sharp economic slowdown that emerged at the end of 2000 led to a deteriorating fiscal position, as
the budgetary consequences of the unfavorable economic dynamics were not adequately recognized.
When inflation rebounded during 1999 and 2000 into double digits, the Monetary Policy Council (MPC)
progressively tightened monetary policy by raising its refinancing rate to a peak of 24.0 percent in
August 2000. As a consequence, and in combination with possible over-investment during the high
growth years of 1996-99, domestic demand (in particular investment) declined significantly starting in
the second half of 2000.

While inflation had indeed declined impressively to 0.8 percent (year-on-year) as of end 2002, so had
GDP growth. Recent Monetary developments point towards an easing of monetary conditions however,
real interest rates remain high at around 6 percent compared to less than 3 percent in the Euro area.
Nonetheless, the monetary easing is likely to help growth prospects. Strong export growth during
2001-02 helped maintain GDP growth in positive territory. Combined with stagnating domestic demand,
GDP growth declined to 1 percent in 2001 and increased only marginally to 1.3 percent in 2002. The
weakness in import demand, caused by the contraction in domestic demand led to a market improvement
in the current account deficit to 4.1 percent of GDP in 2001 and an estimated 3.6 percent for 2002.

Re-establishing a virtuous cycle, whereby foreign and domestic savings are channeled back into

                                                      2
                                                                                                        PID



productive investments, rather than financing Government recurrent deficits, requires addressing some of
the structural dimensions of the public sector deficit and its management. Improving the developmental
impact of public expenditures while reducing the general government deficit should create room for
further reduction of domestic interest rates, creating a more favorable macroeconomic environment.
These developments would, in turn, set the conditions for returning to high growth rates of GDP that
Poland witnessed during the last decade.

It is against this backdrop that the Government is continuing with its coal sector reform program and this
first Programmatic Sector Adjustment Loan will be prepared for Board consideration. While the recent
slowdown in real GDP growth has exposed some weaknesses in fiscal management, the overall
economy's potential for growth remains sound, as reflected in the continuation of strong growth in
exports to the European Union. Indeed promoting growth and completing the economic transformation
will require renewed efforts toward the privatization of State owned enterprises, improving
competitiveness throughout the economy and imposing greater fiscal discipline on all levels of
government. The proposed operation contributes toward achieving these objectives. It contributes
toward the restructuring and eventual privatization of the hard coal sector. In doing so, it helps reduce
the fiscal drain the sector imposes on the budget. It also helps increase the sector's productivity,
providing a net contribution to the overall economy. Coal sector reform will also be an important step
towards EU accession.

2. Objectives
The objective of the Project is to support the preparation and implementation of the Government's
Program of Hard Coal Sector Restructuring for 2003-2006, so that its objectives can be achieved in a
socially sustainable manner including improvement of the sector's environmental impacts and eventually
privatization of the sector so that its burden on public finances can be eliminated.

 The proposed Hard Coal Programmatic Sector Adjustment Operation (PSAL1) is the first of three
 proposed operations requested by the Government to support implementation of the Government's
 2003-2006 Hard Coal Sector Reform Program. The Government has requested the Bank to provide
 financing equivalent of up to half of the cash costs of the 2003-2006 Program. The 2003-2006
 Program, which follows on from the previous 1998-2002 Hard Coal Sector Reform Program, will
 continue the process of restructuring the Polish hard coal sector so that the sector becomes profitable
 and is privatized, environmental performance is improved and the negative social impacts of
 restructuring are mitigated.

 The first PSAL is expected to be a single tranche operation expected for approval in late CY2003. This
 project will contain the policy framework and triggers for further Bank support later in the Program
 which is expected to consist of an investment loan to directly support physical mine closure
 expenditures and a second PSAL to support implementation of the Program in later years and, in
 particular, privatization of the industry.

                                                        3
                                                                                                          PID



3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The operation is included in the CAS which was presented to the World Bank Executive Board on
December 10, 2002. During the CAS preparation, the Government requested support for enterprise
restructuring and, in particular, further Bank support for the coal industry reforms as one of its highest
priorities. In light of the these discussions, the CAS includes the following assessment under the
development theme of enhancing private sector-led growth and employment creation: "The Bank will
continue its ongoing dialogue on changes needed to Poland's bankruptcy legislation and procedures and
on other issues bearing on successful enterprise restructuring. The Bank will assist Poland's enterprise
restructuring plans primarily through continuation of the assistance to the coal reform program, which
began in 1999. Two previous coal sector adjustment loans have successfully supported capacity and
employment downsizing, planning for privatization, improved management and corporate governance
arrangements including a hard budget constraint on the coal companies, and helped mitigate the effects of
the industry reform on individuals and local communities through retraining and financial assistance.
The continuation of the Bank's support for the coal sector program would include a third adjustment
operation."

The Bank can play a key role in providing support in the following specific areas:

         (a) supporting the design and implementation of the social mitigation initiatives (including
         redundancy packages and active and passive labor market initiatives) and associated social
         monitoring activities to make sure that all social initiatives are in line with latest knowledge of
         what works and what does not work regarding job creation initiatives;

         (b) reviewing the establishment of the new coal company KW and the Year 2003 operating plans
         for KW, and the other companies JSW, KWK and MRC to verify that they are responding in a
         responsible and efficient manner and that they are meeting their payment obligations on current
         liabilities to Government;

         (c) verifying that the establishment of KW achieves costs savings and does not impede
         competition in the industry;

         (d) supporting the design and implementation of coal sector privatization for the entire industry
         which will be a far more complex and difficult task than for most other sectors in Poland because
         of the present supply/demand imbalance; the uncertain future coal market and the environment;
         social and financial liabilities of the coal industry; and competition from other fuels;

         (e) ensuring that meetings are convened with local communities so that the Program takes into
         account the views of coal mining communities;

         (f) ensuring that the Program includes environmental improvements; and

         (g) ensuring that appropriate implementation and monitoring arrangements are in place.

4. Description
The project will help finance the first 1-2 years of the Government's 2003 ­ 2006 Hard Coal Sector
Reform Program. The Reform Program was approved by the Council of Ministers on January 28, 2003
and has the following objectives:

    the economic objective ­ to improve profitability and financial liquidity of the sector so it is capable
    of regular payments of its liabilities including payments of environmental fees;

                                                       4
                                                                                                          PID



    the social objective- to mitigate the social consequences of the new proposed sector restructuring.

The objectives are to be achieved by reform in the areas of industry structure; employment restructuring;
mine closure and liquidation; financial restructuring; and privatization. Following discussions with the
Trade Unions, the Program was modified and the Amended Program as approved by the Council of
Ministers includes the following:

      Termination of production in 2003 at 7 additional mines and decommissioning and rehabilitation of
      the 7 mine sites in 2003/2004 - the PSAL 1 project will focus on assuring that mechanisms will
      exist for the closure of mines, that the mines to be closed are the least economic, and that the mines
      are closed with good environmental practice, mitigating the negative impacts of mining operations.
      Employment restructuring to reduce employment by 35,000 workers from 2003 to 2006 including
      the involuntary layoff of about 8,000 surface workers in 2003 - the project will focus on assuring
      that employment restructuring is implemented based on a well coordinated and well funded social
      mitigation program including regional development and job creation programs.
      Social mitigation to assist any miners subject to involuntary layoffs including labor redeployment
      assistance (such as counseling and re-training) and regional development and job creation initiatives
      - the project will focus on assuring that mechanisms exist for the social mitigation, labor
      redeployment and regional development program be implemented with good institutional
      coordination and implementation arrangements.
      Funding of carry over costs of "Miners Leave" redundancy packages previously received by
      workers during the 1998 - 2002 Hard Coal Reform Program.
      Early privatization of the Bogdanka Mine (probably 2003) and the two best coal holding companies
      - Katowice and Jastrzebska (probably 2004) - the project will focus on assuring that mechanisms
      exist for the privatization process to be prepared to achieve the objective of successful transactions
      taking into account the complexities of the sector as well as attracting the good quality investors.
      Consolidation of the sector by merging the 5 other weaker coal holding companies into one
      company (Polish Coal Company) with financial and physical reorganization of operations to
      achieve break even and then privatization by the end of the Program - the project will focus on
      creating mechanisms for the KW to operate in an efficient manner by reducing costs and improving
      liquidity and thereby creating a basis for the program objectives to be achieved.

The 2003 -2006 Reform Program follows on from the first Hard Coal Sector Reform Program which ran
from 1998 to 2002. Hard coal represents the backbone of the Polish energy sector providing over 60 % of
total energy consumption in Poland and about two thirds of power sector fuel supplies, and accounting
today for about 2% of GDP. At the start of the first Coal Restructuring Program in early 1998, the
industry consisted of seven joint stock coal holding companies (operating 54 mines) and ten other coal
mines set up as individual limited liability companies (of which two were still operating). The industry
had a total employment of 243,000, production capacity of 132 million tons per year and suffered very
large losses of 3.3 PLN billion in 1997, 4.2 PLN billion in 1998, and 3.2 PLN billion in 1999. The sector
was a severe drain on the government budget with large arrears regarding VAT, social security taxes
(ZUS), environmental fees and fines and occasionally workers income taxes (PIT). It is also a major
polluter that fails to pay its environmental fees and fines. Thus, the Government has made reform of the
coal sector one of its top economic priorities. During the first Hard Coal reform Program, major progress
was made toward closing uneconomic mines, reducing production, reducing employment in the sector,
environmental improvement. Steps were also taken toward privatization. As of end 2002, employment
has been reduced to 141,000, 26 million tpy production capacity has been liquidated and production has
been terminated at 24 mines, leaving 42 mines operational. The Polish coal industry achieved a profit of
0.2 PLN billion in 2001 and is estimated to have achieved the same in 2002.

                                                      5
                                                                                                           PID



However, there is still considerable excess capacity and surplus labor, most exports are unprofitable and
the financial performance of the industry remains fragile. Thus, the Government has introduced the
2003-2006 Program as outlined above. The significant change for the 2003 -2006 Program (which
PSAL1 supports) compared to the previous 1998-2002 program (which SECALs 1 and 2 supported) is
that additional mine closures and redundancies must take place where the national and regional
unemployment rates are now 15 to 18% compared with 6 to 8% when the program started. As a result the
Reform Program and the World Bank PSAL1 operation must both place a very strong focus on social
mitigation issues where new initiatives are needed to deal with this difficult situation.




5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($200.00)
IBRD ($200.00)
FOREIGN MULTILATERAL INSTITUTIONS (UNIDENTIFIED) ($50.00)
Total Project Cost: $450.00

6. Implementation
The primary implementing agency for the project is the Ministry of Economy, Labor and Social Policy.
Implementation of the activities of the Reform Program will be conducted by the Ministry of Economy,
Labor and Social Policy, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of State Treasury, Ministry of Environment, the
coal mining companies, and local and regional Government. The Ministry of Finance is the primary
counterpart to the Bank.

The new Reform Program will run from 2003 to 2006. Disbursement under PSAL1 would support the
Program implementation in 2003 and 2004.


7. Sustainability

The employment downsizing, mine closures, and environmental improvements are all considered
sustainable. The Government's Restructuring Program involves the permanent severance of coal industry
workers and the irreversible closure of complete mines and parts of mines. Workers who accept a
redundancy package are not eligible for rehire in the coal industry. The mines to be closed and closure
plans under SECAL 1 and 2 were reviewed by independent experts who have confirmed the
irreversibility of the closures and the closure of capacity is verified by an independent regulatory
authority in Poland. The same procedure will be used for PSAL1. The preparation of mine by mine
environmental management plans and the better information available and increased involvement of the
environmental authorities should help ensure the sustainability of environmental improvements in the
sector. By closing excess capacity and laying off surplus workers, supply and demand can be brought
back into balance, prices strengthened, efficiency increased and costs reduced which should help restore
profitability on coal operations. Financial restructuring provisions will help address past financial
liabilities so that by the end of the program the industry is able to operate on an overall profitable basis
with no direct or indirect government subsidies in a sustained manner. The final step of the reform
process is privatization which should further ensure the sustainability of the reforms.

8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector

The preparation and supervision of the SECALs 1 and 2 have been integral to the preparation of PSAL1
and provide the basis for the areas of emphasis, proposed conditionality and approach to key issues such

                                                     6
                                                                                                      PID



as employment restructuring, capacity restructuring, financial restructuring, financial performance,
environmental performance and privatization.

The social component of PSAL1 builds on the Employment Promotion and Services Project (Loan
3338-POL) which helped to create a country-wide labor services system, including labor re-deployment,
retraining, and small business assistance, with a special focus on Upper Silesia, and introduced modern
labor re-deployment programs throughout Poland. Further valuable lessons for actionable programs, and
notably the importance of fast acting and targeted income support with demand driven labor
re-deployment programs have been derived from other labor redeployment operations in the ECA region.
These other operations include operations with direct linkages to privatization in Macedonia, Romania
and Turkey. These operations show that the selection of capable implementing agencies is crucial. This
has been achieved in Poland through close cooperation between the mining companies' Human Resource
Departments, the Mine Labor Agency (GAP), and the MoSLP local labor offices of the Katowice
Region.

The employment and capacity restructuring aspects of the project have been considered in the light of
experience with the Russia and Ukraine Coal SECAL operations as well the Romanian Government's
experience with mining industry restructuring and severance payments. The Bank's experience with coal
SECALs in the ECA Region has been that implementing coal sector reform is highly dependent on
overall macroeconomic conditions and that a high level of commitment is required over several years to
achieve sustained change in an industry such as coal.



9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
      Issues :

A Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) was prepared under the first project (SECAL 1) which
included mine specific environmental action plans for each participating mine. The second project
(SECAL 2) included additional environmental studies to support the SEA (see discussion below).
SECALs 1 and 2 supported implementation of the 1998 ­2002 reform program which involved
expenditures by government for closing mines and reducing production, mitigating past environmental
impacts and improving present environmental performance.

While the program only involved mine closures, improving environmental performance was a key objective
under the Bank projects which included conditionality requiring that a Sector Environmental Assessment
(SEA) was undertaken and actions were taken to improve environmental performance. The main findings of
the SEA were that the main environmental impacts from the coal mines are saline water discharge, surface
disposal of waste from the mines and washeries; ground subsidence in certain areas from underground
mining and methane release from some mines. Based on the findings of the SEA, Environmental Action
Plans were prepared and included in the company operating plans. During the period of the two SECALs
the salt content of waste water from the mines was reduced by about 30% and surface disposal of solid
wastes was reduced by 25%.

PSAL1 supports implementation of the first two years of the 2003-2006 reform program which involves
further expenditures by government for closing seven additional mines and reducing production, mitigating
past environmental impacts and further actions by the mining companies to improve present environmental
performance. During this period it is also expected that the privatization of one mine (Bogdanka) will be
completed. The physical mine liquidation and reclamation under PSAL1 is a continuation of the work
successfully undertaken under SECALs 1 and 2 and the Bank and the Government are both well familiar
with the risks involved and how to manage and mitigate them. Environmental management plans will be

                                                    7
                                                                                                    PID



prepared for the liquidation and reclamation of each of the seven mines to be closed and a public
consultation on the mine closures and the overall Program is planned for Katowice in May/June 2003.
PSAL1 will also include continued implementation of environmental improvements at operating mines in
the sector including those to be privatized.

For further information on the public consultation in May/June 2003 please contact Jacek Wojciechowicz on
+48 22 520 8000 or jwojciechowicz@worldbank.org.


10. List of factual technical documents:



11. Contact Point:

     Task Manager
     John E. Strongman
     The World Bank
     1818 H Street, NW
     Washington D.C. 20433
     Telephone: +1 202 473 5530
      Fax: +1 202 522 0396

Pawel Kaminski
Senior Operations Officer
The World Bank
53, Emilii Plater Street, 9th Floor
00-113 Warsaw
POLAND
Telephone No.: +48 22 520 8029
Fax No.:    +48 22 520 8001



Ministry of Economy, Labor and Social Policy
Pl. Trzech Krzyzy 3/5
00-950 Warsaw
Deputy Minister Marek Kossowski
Telephone No: (48 22) 628 18 87
Fax No: (48 22) 693 40 06
Email: sekretariat mk@mg.gov.pl

12. For information on other project related documents contact:
        The InfoShop
        The World Bank
        1818 H Street, NW
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        Telephone: (202) 458-5454
        Fax:     (202) 522-1500
        Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop


Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily
included in the final project.

8
     PID

