Doument of
The World Bank
FOM OFFCIaL USE ONlY
Iqpot No. 11490
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 2307-YU)
DECEMBER 24, 1992
M1ICROFICHE COPY
Report No.:11490 YU         Type: (PCR)
Title:  SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PRI
Author: JAMES, ENERGY
Ext. :31756 Room:T 9057 Dept. :OEDD1
Agriculture and Water Supply Operations Division
Country Department II
gurope and Central Asia Regional Office
Tbis document has a restricted dstribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
tbeir official duties. Its contet may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(Average for the calendar year.)
Currency Unit - Dinar (Din)
Appraisal Year (1982):    US$ 1 - Din 46
Intervening Years:
1983  US$l  -    Din         93
1984  US$1  -    Din        153
3985  US$1  -    Din        270
1986  US$1  -    Din        379
1987  US$l      Din        737
1988  US$1  -    Din      2,523
1989 US$1  -    Din      28,764
1990  US$1  -    New Din     11.321
Completion Year (1991):  US$ 1 - New Din 19.63
ABBREVIATIONS
CA          Consortium Agreement
CP         World Bank Cooperative Program
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization
HA          Hectare
GSP         Gross Social Product
ICOR        Increurental Capital Output Ratio
IRC         Intercommunal Regional Communities
SAL         Structural Adjustment Loan
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SDK         Social Accounting Service
SFUR        Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions
UBB         Udruzena Beogradska Banka
UOC         Union of Cooperatives
EISCAL =EA
January 1 to December 31
3    so N  g Od 190. a New oamen (Now ss at  bsd S1 te antm of Now 0lna 1 - OMas 10.000.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offlo of DireotorvGomal
Opeadens Evaluation
December 24, 1992
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIQENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Yugoslavia
Serbia Regional Develonment Project (Loan 2307-Y:I=)
Attached is a copy of the report entitled "Project Completion Report on Yugoslavia
Serbia Regional Development Project (Loan 2307-YU)* prepared by the Europe & Central Asia
Regional Office. The Borrower did not contribute Part II.
The project succeeded in Its first major objective: development of the private farm
sector through improved drainage and on-farm investments. The project was managed by
Agrobanka, a new financial interrnediary, which was institutionally strengthened by project
completion. The second major objective, modernization and reconstruction of the social
sector agroindustry component did not succeed. These Industries require financial
strengthening, improved management and appropriate legislation. The project was extended
2.5 years and 31 percent of the loan funds were cancelled.
Overall, the project is judged as marginally satisfactory because the farm
component had a significant impact in regional development and job creation.. However, its
sustainability is rated as uncertain.
The Project Completion Report provides an adequate account of project
achievements. No audit is planned.
1.
Attachment
Th documen has a rsstrted dbton sad may be used by redplt oy I the performce of
tIr off-i duts. he ontent may not ohwise be disce  wthout Word Ban  _utoa.



FOR OMCIAL Use ONLY
PRWJECT Cao=          RZR
;                                  WS~~~~~~~~~~UOSLLI
SERBIA RtEGIONAL DEVELPMEN PROJECT
(L 2307-YU)
TABLE    COTNS
Preface     ...........................4
Evaluation Suary  .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .               ill
PART Is PROJECT REVIEW PREO  BANK'S PERSPECTIVE . . . . . . .             1
A. PROJECT IDENIFY  . . . . . . . ..  . . ..  .. . . . .    .           1
B. BACKGROUND  . . . . . . o. o....   . . a. . .   *. . .   .           1
The Main Features of Agriculture in Yugoslavia  . . . .             1
PolicyContext  .*. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              1
Linkage. Between Project, Sector and Macro Policy . . .             2
Objectives
C. PROJECT OBJEJ71VES AND DESCRIPTON  . . . . . . . . . .               2
Project Background  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   * . .           2
ProjectObjectives  ..................                               3
Project Components   ....o............                              3
D.  PROJECT DESIGN AND  ORC&NII O ...... ....                           4
Conceptual Foundation of Project Design . . . . . . . .             4
Innovations Under the Project Concept . . . . . . . . .             5
Appropriateness of Project Scope and Scale  . . . . . .             5
Quality of Project Preparation  . . . . . . . . . . . .             5
Appropriateness of Project Timing . . . . . . . .*. . .             6
Responsibilities of Participating Institutions' . . . .             6
E. PROJECT I L h NT TIO    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              7
Variances Between Planned and Actual Project  . . . . .             7
Implementation
Identification of ProjectRisks. .* .9...          . . .             8
Fo PROJECT RESMLTS . . . . . . . . . . . .                              8
Geveral A sseammet  * . o. .   o. . . . .      . . .   o            8
Project Impact  . . . . . . . .   * * .  . . . .  * . .             9
G. BPOJECTSUIL              ..................ST....T............. 10
HO* BANK PERFORMANCE  .........                                        10
Bank Performance During Preparation and Appraisal Phase            10
Bank Performance During Implementation Phase  . . . . .            11
Lessons Learned . . . . . . . . . . # . . . . . . . o .            12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABL1E 0 -CgE=S (Cant'd)
ILBORROWERPRPO BANCE                        .................          12
Bowror Performance During Preparation aud Appraisal Phase          12
Borrmor Performae Duriug Implementation  .. .*  . . .              13
Jo PROJECT RELATIONSHIP  .... .. . . . .. . . . . .. .                 14
L   PR.JECT DOCMUHT&TONDAND DATA  . . .. . . . . . . . .o              14
PART Is  PROJECT REVIE  POR BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . .              15
PART IIt  STATISTICAL IWORMATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . .             17
TablelsRelatedBank Loans  ......... .                        17
Table2:  ProjeatTietable.  ..... ..... .                     18
Table3s  LoanDisburesemet.  . . . . . . ... .                 19
Table 4   Project Costs  . . **.          * .                20
Table5:  ProjectFinancing. .........  .                      20
Table6:  Project eults . . .   ..**.  . .                    21
Table 7: Status of Legal Coveants .  ......                  23
Table8: StaffveekSuwy            .............. .            25
Table9S MissionData  .............                           26
NAPSs IBRD 16607
IB   16608



PRCT COMLTON   P
YTIGSLAVI&
SnIAI REGCO     DEVLOP       PROJECT
a1  2307=n11
PRilACZ
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Serbia
Regional Development project In Yugoslavia, for which Loan 2307-YU
in the mount of US$136.0 mllion equivalent was approved on June 9,
1983. The loan was closed on Aursot 31, 1991, about two aud a half
years behind schedule. An amount of US$42.0 million equivalent was
canceled from the loan account in April 1986. Total disbursements
amounted to US$94.0 million or 69Z of the original loan amount. The
last disbursement was made on September 19, 1991.
The PCR was prepared for the Agriculture and Water Supply
Operations Division (EC2AW) of the Burope and Central Asia Region by
the Agriculture Operations Division (ENTAG) in the Technical
Department of the Europe and Central Asia, and the Middle East and
North Africa Regions (Prefaces, Ealuation Suraty, Parts I and IUI).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comments, but none were
received.
The report is based an the Staff Appraisal Report; the
Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreementst Supervision Reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank
memoranda.



WOCOSL&VI
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMEWT PROJECT
(LOAN 2307-YU)
Obiectives
1..         The Serbia Regional Development Project was appraised by the Bank
in 1982 as one of several similar projects intended to support the less
developed regious, promote agriculture, carry out institutional reforms, and
reduce the external resource gap. Agriculture has been a priority sector from
the point of view of both the government and the Bank, and its development has
contributed to the realization of other objectives related to reducing
regional income disparities and generating employment. The specific objectives
of this project, as described in the Staff Appraisal Report, were to focus on
the development of the individual farm sector of the Kolubara and Danube
regions by generating economic growth that would specifically aim at (i)
increasing agricultural production; (ii) improving rural incomes and
employment opportunities; (iii) reducing income disparities between developed
and less developed communes; (iv) increasing availability of processed food
products for the domestic and export markets; and (v) strengthening the
technical support and credit d4livery systems in the project area. The
project comprised of six major components: (a) on-farm production investments,
aimed at achieving an increase in the labor-intensive production of livestock
and crops through provision of credit to about 10,900 individual farmers 2;
(b) support services, that included farm mechanization equipment, seed
processing plants, repair workshops, fuel storage depots, poultry hatchery and
breeding farms, sheep and pig breeding farms, milk collecting centers, and a
tobacco drying plant; (c) extension services; (d) agro-industries, including
investments in modernization and reconstruction of 14 agro-industry
facilities; (e) improved drainage over an area of about 27,000 ha; and (f)
technical assistance to Agrobanka, the executing financial intermediary for
the project (paras. 5 to 8).
Implementation Experience
2.          Although project implementation encountered many difficulties,
efforts to address them led to progressive improvement, especially in the
organization and management aspects of the implementation process.
Implementation experience in respect of the different project components was
mixed; while some were, on the whole, implemented successfully, e.g. the
drainage and primary production components, others were less successfully
V   ftwdda Wm= who wwo igib to r.csi r    no proj er ha to te memder d coopwads or be aoct.d wth ft
swWsia - by du Cf bcomm *il thmelo r produce or cpaUh9 t0h soda  r.



- iv -
executed. Four areas, in particular, reflect significant variance between the
planned (at appraisal) and the actual implementation: (a) the Bank funds
actually borrowed under the project (about US$92 million) were significantly
less than expected (US$186 million that included, in addition to US$136
million under the Bank Loan, also a B loan of US$50 million which was not
signed), and the remaining US$44 million of the Bank loan had to be canceled
in 1986; (b) funds actually borrowed for the primary production component
constituted only about one quarter of the originally estimated amounts; (c)
implementation of the major part of the drainage component started after a
significant delay, and to allow completion of this component, the project had
to be extended by two and a half years; and (d) the extension services
component was implemented only to a very limited extent (paras. 20 to 25).
3.          The estimated project cost, as appraised, was about US$486.0
million but the actual cost is estimated at about US$230.0 million. The much
'' wer than expected cost of the project can be attributed to several reasons:
ka) significant overestimation at appraisal of the funds needed for interest
during construction; (b) lower borrowing for primary production than was
expected at appraisal; and (c) savings arising from exchange rate changes that
resulted in a faster rate of devaluation of the Dinar against the US dollar as
compared to the rate of domestic inflation. While some of the variances
between the expected and the actudl cost of the project could not have been
avoided, in re;:ospect, a more rigorous review process could, perhaps, have
prevented some of the unfavorable discrepancies (paras. 20 to 25).
Results
4.          Overall, the project has had a significant impact on the
development of the two regions targeted under the project, and the economy of
Serbia in general (para. 28). The project has also made a major contribution
in respect to human resources development, creating about 2,000 new jobs
(para. 29). In respect to therperformance under the different project
components, results were mixed; objectives were substantially met in respect
of some components whereas success was limited in the case of others. The
drainage component can be considered a success because the expectations of the
beneficiaries were met in regard to improvement in production yields and
income. Economic rates of return of the subareas under the drainage component
are likely to meet the expectations at appraisal. The. financial and economic
results of farms which received credit under the project for investments under
the primary production component are likely to be satisfactory as well (para.
27). In respect of institutional strengthening, there has been a noteworthy
improvement in the operations of Agrobanka (paras. 38 to 39). However, the
achievements in respect of the agro-industries and supporting services, and
the extension services, components were much more limited. While twenty-two
of the twenty-nine originally planned agro-industries and supporting services
were established, only six of the investments showed positive financial
results, the rest facing significant financial difficulties that stemmed, to
various degrees, from ineffective management, marketing problems, insufficient
capacity utilization, insufficient raw material supply, poor domestic demand
for the manufactured products, barriers in foreign markets, an overvalued
exchange rate, and other causes (para. 27). Improving the situation in the
agro-industries would require, among other things, the development of a
program of privatization and restructuring. Although this has been generally
the intention of both the Federal and the Republican governments, the
appropriate enabling legislation has not yet been enacted, and prospects in



-v -
this regard remain uncertain in the face of the current unclear political
situation in the country (para. 27).
Sustainabilitv
5.          Project benefits are more likely to be sustainable in certain
areas than in others. Most investments under the primary production and
drainage components are expected to be sustainable, and to be able to maintain
*       an acceptable level of net benefits throughout their economic life.  In regard
to the agro-industries and supporting services components, sustainability is
not assured for all the investments under the components. Kost of these
investments, including even those that are presently profitable, are likely to
need substantial restructuring in rogard to management, accounting, marketing,
production, labor force utilization, and ownership. However, such
restructuring goes beyond the scope of this project, because the difficulties
experienced by the investments under the project reflect issues resulting from
the socio-economic system of the country. Project sustainability will also
be subject to stabilization of the macroeconomic situation--int ility of the
government to stabilize the economy and control inflation would drive many
producers out of business, including those in the project areas. Finally, the
operation and maintenance of the drainage system as established under the
project is critical to its viability, and in that regard, appropriate user
fees, and their efficient collection and management, are imperative (para.
30).
Findings and Lessons Learned
6.          The main lessons from the experience under this project are: (a)
The implications of a distorted and deteriorating macroeconomic environment on
sectoral operations, like the project, should be more explicitly assessed
during project preparation. In hindsight, it would appear that the project
concept was formulated without sufficient regard to difficulties steaming from
problems in the macroeconomic environment; because of this the borrowing for
primary production, and the results of the investments in agro-industries and
supporting services, have been substantially less than expected. (b)
Attention must be paid to the link between formulating a comprehensive project
concept that would relate primary production to end-users (agro-industries),
*        supporting services, marketing, and both the individual and the social sectors
involved in the production activities. (c) Directed credit in a Bank lending
operation may have some justification if the market mechanism has not
developed sufficiently; however, the project may have been over-designed in
this respect in that it deprived sub-borrowers of the flexibility required to
adjust to changing market and economic conditions. (d) The difficulties in
project implementation arising from the complexity of a project that included
so many components demonstrates the need to simplify the project concept from
the outset. It was necessary to have several supervision teams to cover
different aspects like drainage, agroindustries, primary production, credit
operations, and the institution building activities concerning Agrobanka.
Without adequate supervision resources, it would be difficult to focus on
effective implementation of such a complex project, and to provide timely and
appropriate assistance to the Borrower and the beneficiaries. (e) Timely
evaluation of the financial management system of the project beneficiaries and
intermediary banks is essential in diagnosing elements that are critical to
the project's successful implemi;ntation. (f) The technical assistance needs
under the project were identified correctly but, in retrospect, without



- vi -
sufficient repard to relevant maWemefit and organization aspects, and their
fulfillment proved difficult under the politically uncertain environment.
These considerations apply as well to the extension services under the
project, and to the improvement of the operations in Agrobanka. Under the
socio-economic system prevailing at that time the government had no role in
providing extension services. Despite the substantial improvement in the
operations of Agrobanka, many more improvements are needed which could only be
undertaken under a comprehensive reform of the banking system. The Bank had
been engaged in supporting the government in its eC:arts to carry out a
fundamental reform of the financial sector which, .40ever, was brought to a
halt by the outbreak of the hostilities in Yugoslavia (para. 36).



YUL'JIAV
SERI REIMOAL DSVELOPNT PROECT
(LOAN 2107-YU)
PART I: PROJECT REIRV PR I BANR'S PSRSEC4=VE
A.Eg=   IETT
Name: Serbia Regional Development Project
Loan Number:  2307-YU
RVP Unit:  Europe and Central Asia
Country:  Yugoslavia
Sector:  Agriculture
Subsector:  Agricultural Credit
B.
The Main Features of Ajriculture in YuLoslaXia
1.         Agriculture is an important sector in the Yugoslav economy. In
1988 it contributed around 14 percent of Gross Social Product (GSP) and,
together with agro-industries, about 9.5X of exports. The sector employs
approximately 17 percent of the labor force (19 percent with agro-industries).
The importance of agriculture is, however, higher than these figures suggest
since over half of the total po    tion is rural and remains closely linked .to_
agriculture, even if not actively engaged in production.
2.         A special feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the dual existence of
a large scale, "modern' social sector, and a small scale family sector where
yields and labor productivity are comparatively low. Although about 80
percent of cropped land is in the hands of private farms, only 48 percent of
the coamercialized production originated from the private sector in 1988, down
from 55 percent in 1982. This was maiuly because of the virtual complete
control that the social sector had over credlt, marketing, and inputs.
Consequently, during the difficult economic period of the 1980s, priority for
provision of subsidized capital, inputs, and other services was given, under
the then prevailing Yugoslav system, to the needs of the social sector.
F°licv Context
3.         Prior to the political changes and outbreak of hostilities in
Yugoslavia in 1991, the Government was implemuenting a major reform program
that included a stabilization and structural adjustment program which was
expected to lead to a market-oriented and more competitive economy. The
agricultural sector was prominent in the structural adjustment program because
the sector, along with other productive sectors, had been subject to
inefficient systems of production, input distribution, and marketing patterns,
which stymied economic incentives and constrained growth performance. The



2
significance of agriculture also arises from its impact on the standard of
living, employment, and regional development. The sector provides essential
goods required by the population, with food products constituting about half
of household consumption expenditures. While the need for policy reform of
the sector received little attention in the past, the Government at the same
time provided incentives in the form of subsidies for inputs, such as
fertilizer, and for interest rates with the objective of stimulating
production. Low interest rates encouraged the use of debt, led to a
relatively rapid pace of capital investment, especially in the social sector,
and eventually contributed to problems of liquidity. However, only a
relatively small number of individual farmers had access to credit for
agricultural investments other than in the form of farm inputs for crops grown
under contract. Liquidity shortages in social secto- enterprises was the main
cause for the severely restricted access of individual farmers to credit.
Prior to the onset of the uncertainties stemming from the currently difficult
political situation, the Government was taking measures to gradually reduce
agricultural subsidies, including subsidized credit, and to encourage
producers, including those in the agriculture sector, to apply economic and
financial criteria to the making of investment decisions.
Linkages Between Proiect. Sector. and Macro Policy Objectives
4.          The Bank's objectives in respect of its assistance to Yugoslavia
have been to support: the development of the less developed regions,
promotion of agriculture, design and implementation of institutional reforms,
and reduction of the external resource gap. Agriculture has been a priority
sector from the point of view of both the government and the Bank, and its
development has contributed to the realization of other objectives related to
reducing regional income disparities and generating employment. Although
agriculture has been the only major sector, other than personal services, in
which social ownership is not predominant, the social sector, until recently,
was predominant in terms of ids access to financial resources and inputs, as
well as its control of agricultural marketing and processing. The official
policy toward the role of the individual farmer changed during the late 1980s,
and it is now realized that the individual sector contains many unexploited
opportunities that should be realized by provision of inputs and greater
market orientation. The Government's policy to borrow for the promotion of
agriculture in the less developed regions of the count)ry coincided, at the
time the project was prepared, with the Bank's concern for lending to benefit
the poor. To that extent, the project, which was formulated and prepared in
the early 1980s and is located in the less developed areas of the Socialist
Republic (SR) of Serbia, supported the objective of reducing income
disparities between regions, and fits well the criteria mentioned above.
C. PROJECT OBJECT-VES AND DESCRIPTION
Project Background
5.          The Serbia Regional Development Project was first identified by
the Serbian government in 1980, and the early preparatory work was carried out
by the Institute for Agricultural Economics and the Institute for Industrial
Economics in Belgrade. The project was subsequently further prepared, and
pre-appraised, by the Bank in 1981 and 1982 respectively. Preparation of the



3
drainage component of the project was assisted by the FAO/CP. The project was
appraised in July 1982.
6.         The project area is located in the Kolubara and Danube regions,
which are in the northern parts of Serbia. The area has a total population of
about one million persons, of which about 60 percent reside in rural areas,
representing about 27 percent of the agricultural population of the republic.
Individual farmers own over 90 percent of the agricultural land. The per
capita income within the project area is the lowest in Serbia with the
exception of the Morava region. Pockets of rural poverty and considerable
income disparities are present. Of a total of 25 communes in the project
area, 16 have been declared less developed (per capita income between US$1200
and US$1500) by the Government and were qualified for assistance from the
Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions (SFUR). At the time of project
preparation, it was perceived that the development of agriculture in the
project area was constrained due to a high level of migration from the rural
areas to the urban centers, lack of- credit and extension services to the
individual sector, inadequate market arrangements, and lack of capital to
improve land drainage and to replace outdated equipment and machinery. The
project was designed to address these development constraints.
Proiect Obiectives
7.         The main objectives of the project, as described in the Staff
Appraisal Report, were to focus on the development of the individual farm
sector of the Kolubara and Danube regions by generating economic growth that
would specifically aim at (i) increasing agricultural production; (ii)
improving rural incomes and employment opportunities; (iii) reducing income
disparities between developed and less developed communes; (iv) increasing
availability of processed food products for the domestic and export markets,
and; (v) strengthening the technical support and credit delivery systems in
the project area.
Proiect Components
8.         The project components included the following:
(a) On-farming oroduction investments. EThis component was aimed
at achieving an increase in the labor-intensive production
of livestock and crops through provision of credit to about
10,900 individual farmers 3 with a specified pre-appraised
number of livestock production, hectares of deciduous
orchards, tobacco, sugarbeet, fruit nurseries, wheat, maize,
sunflower, and vegetables.
(b) Sunporting services. This included farm mechanization
equipment; two seed processing plants; repair workshops and
fuel storage depots; a poultry hatchery and two poultry
breeding farms; a sheep breeding farm; milk collecting centers; a tobacco
drying plant; and a pig breeding farm.
2/tXNVI bm. howeer, Wh0o W_ eligib, to flw mod! unhe C l ei~he hd toemenhem_ fd coopetae or anowith
UW soc" cOr hy dI   bi conmed to nmau  ther produc or Cro thUgh the aW l $ oc.



4
(c)   Extension services.  This component was intended to
strengthen the existing extension services at the level of
those basic organizations and cooperatives that were
directly involved in the implementation of the on-farm
investments. Financing under the project was intended to be
provided for vehicles, apartments for extensionists, and
preparation of a master plan for extension and research for
Serbia.
(4)   Agroindustries,  Sub-loans were to be provided for
modernization and reconstruction of 14 agro-industry
facilities, including four fruit and vegetable processing
plants; three cold storage facilities for fruits,
vegetables, and meat products; two livestock feed milling
plants; a potato processing plant; two poultry
slaughterhouses; a grain elevator facility, including dryer
and silo; and a vegetable oil mill.
(e)  Drainagle  This was aimed at improving drainage over an area
of about 27,000 ha, in seven sub-areas.
(f)   Technical assistance to Agrobanka, the executing financial
intermediary of the project to improve its operations in
selected areas.
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
Conceptual Foundation of Project Design
9.          The project actually consisted of five (rather than six) distinct
and diverse components because two of the components, namely those for
supporting services and agro-fndustries included somewhat similar items, e.g.
the supporting services included items such as investments in a tobacco curing
and drying plant, two seed processing plants, a hatchery and two poultry
farms, similar to investments included in the agro-industries component. Each
component under the project was designed in great detail, e.g. in regard to
the number of beneficiaries, number of livestock, machinery and equipment, and
type of products to be developed. Despite the overalL detailed design of the
project, the individual project components were in fact largely independent of
each other. Th. primary production component, for example, which was very
detailed at appraisal, was only marginally related to the increase in
production capacity of the agro-industries and support services financed under
the project. In retrospect, it would appear that the project design was
actually more a collection of individual investments rather than a systematic
plan that coherently established a link between developing additional
production of raw materials, and availability of labor, marketing, and
capital.
10.         Despite the detailed design of the primary production component,
when project implementation started, it turned out that most of the farmers
who were polled during preparation regarding their interest in investing under
the project, actually did not apply for sub-loans. In retrospect, it would
appear that the local institutes that prepared the project, and later the Bank
as well, did not sufficiently take into account the likely adverse effects on



S
credit demand of the distorted and deteriorating macro-economic conditions,
which included price controls, negative but rising interest rates, rapid
inflation, and lagging dinar devaluations. These factors also caused
significant differences between the original targets and actual implementation
of investments in other components.
Innovations under the Project Concent
11.         While the project concept, as a whole, was not innovative, certain
components had innovative features, e.g. the technical aspects of the drainage
component were innovative in that they approached comprehensive development of
well-defined areas in a way that major physical and institutional constraints
were to be addressed, and measures were to be taken to optimize production,
albeit under the constraints of distorted prices and interest rates.
Anprogriateness of Project Scope and Scale
12.         In retrospect, the project scope would appear to have been
designed somewhat over-optimistically. Also, both the project cost and the
ensuing financing needs seem to have been substantially overestimated. For
example, the funds required for interest during construction were estimated to
be about 35 percent of the base cost, of which the foreign exchange component
was about 27 percent. In hindsight, these figures appear to be rather high in
relation to the anticipated implementation schedules of the agro-industry,
supporting services, or the drainage components, none of which were expected
to exceed two years. The primary production component was expected to be
implemented in an even shorter period. Subsequent realization of the possible
overestimation in this regard appears to have obviated the need for the
supplementary financing from the negotiated B loan (US$50 million) which,
consequently, was not signed by the Yugoslav team.
13.         At the time the Ba&k loan was approved by the Board, it was the
largest Bank-financed project in Yugoslavia. For Agrobanka, at the time a
recently created bank, it was the first experience in handling a Bank-
financed project. Again, in retrospect, the relative inexperience of the
executing bank would appear not to have been taken sufficiently into
consideration in regard to its ability to handle a project of such magnitude
and complexity. Experience in other similar Bank projects, all much smaller
in size, has shown that such projects can be implemented only at a much slower
pace, even under the management of more experienced financial intermediaries
than was the case, at the time, in this project.
Qualitv of Proiect Preparation
14.         The feasibility studies carried out by the institutes that first
prepared the project served as a basis for the Bank's technical and economic
evaluation of the agro-industry and the supporting services components of the
project. The engineering and technical aspects of project preparation were
covered well. However, it appears that the business and accounting systems of
the enterprises involved were inadequately evaluated throughout the process of
project preparation and appraisal, and marketing aspects were insufficiently
reviewed as well. The Bank would seem to have accepted the local institutes'
judgement as to whether sufficient market demand existed without looking
critically enough at the institutional aspects affecting the capability of the



6
project beneficiaries to compete domestically or internationally, or reviewing
whether the concerned enterprises had viable marketing strategies. At the
time of project processing, the domestic market was quite protected, but this
was not the case concerning exports, which called for independent reviews of
the export marketing practices of the-beneficiaries. These were apparently
not undertaken.
15.         The feasibility studies for the drainage component of the project
were well prepared. But in several instances the final design was not
prepared before Board approval, but rather during project implementation.
Significant effort was made to preserve the environmental aspects of the
drainage subareas. Environmental impact studies were carried out for all the
drainage sub-projects, and reviewed by international agencies and consultants.
The results were supported by the relevant institutions concerned. Bidding
documents were prepared by various consulting groups. Most were adequately
prepared, but a few required substantial modifications and resulted in
delaying implementation.
ADpropriateness of Project Timing
16.         The project was prepared in the early 1980s when inflation in the
country was relatively low, but was showing a persistent trend towards
increasing. By the time the project was approved in 1983, a Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL) loan to Yugoslavia had also been approved.
Nevertheless, expectations that the overall macroeconomic situation would
improve in a sustained manner did not materialize, and the project
implementation period was marked by a deteriorating macroeconomic environment.
Resionsibilities of Participating Institutions
17.         Udruzena Beogradsl& Banka (UBB) was the Borrower of the Bank loan.
It had only nominal responsibility for project implementation, since all the
proceeds of the Bank loan were to be passed on to the executing bank,
Agrobanka, of which UBB was the holding bank. Agrobanka, together with the
two Intercommunal Regional Communities (IRCs) of the Kolubara and the Danube
regions, signed a Project Agreement with the Bank for the implementation of
the project.  A Consortium Agreement (CA) was executed between UBB, Agrobanka
and some other major banks to ensure the availability of local funds for the
project. In addition, Agrobanka signed an agreement with SFUR to provide
republican funds at concessionary interest rates for local financing.
18.         Project coordination was carried out at three levels.  The overall
responsibility was assumed by a committee headed by Agrobanka that included
representatives from the Serbia Executive Council, the Republican Committee
for Agriculture, SFUR, UBB, the two IRCs, and the Union of Cooperatives (UOC).
At the regional level, there was a coordinating board presided over by the
president of the IRC, and comprised of representatives from the local chamber
of commerce, the association of cooperatives, communes, and basic banks' work
organizations. A third level of coordination was established at the kombinat
level to coordinate on-farm investments for associated farmers, and to
implement investments related to kombinats.
19.         The organizational set-up was, in effect, a command system and was
to an extent effective in reaching consensus at the board level in regard to



7
targeting and implementation of credit lending. It did not prove to be as
efficient in dealing with the effects of changing circumstances, such as when
relative prices changed, and farmers or enterprises declined to borrow funds
according to their original plans. Even with the liberalization of the system
in 1990, when all farmers, including non-associated farmers, became eligible
to receive credit, the above situation has not changed significantly in that
individual non-associated farmers are still not adequately represented
regarding their specific interests.
E.    IKJLECT    5ymE   oN
Variances Between Planned and Actual Progegt Imnlementation
20.         Four areas, in particular, reflect significant variance between
planned (at appraisal) and actual implementation: (a) The Bank funds borrowed
under the project (about US$92 million) were significantly less than the
estimates at appraisal (US$186 million). The B loan of US$50 million, as
mentioned before, was not signed (para. 12), and US$44 million of the Bank
loan were canceled in 1986. (b) Funds borrowed for the primary production
component constituted only about one quarter of the amounts provided for the
purpose. (c) Implementation of the major part of the drainage component
started after a significant delay, and to allow completion of this component,
the project had to be extended by two and a half years. (d) The extension
services component was implemented only to a very limited extent.
21.         Interest During Construction.  In hindsight, the variance
attributed to the substantial overestimation of interest during construction
(para. 12) could have been avoided if, during the project review process, more
attention had been paid to the underlying assumptions in regard to the project
costs as is currently done through reviews by departmental/regional advisers.
22.         Primary Productio* Conmonent.  The problem of the lower than
expected borrowing for the primary production component could have been
mitigated if, at the time of project preparation and appraisal, more attention
had been paid to the experience gained from similar ongoing projects in
Yugoslavia and in other countries facing difficult and deteriorating macro-
economic situations. In retrospect, the allocation for the primary production
component (originally about US$47 million) was significantly overestimated
when compared to other similar loans in Yugoslavia. For example, in a
countrywide multipurpose credit project (Loan 1801-YU), whose implementation
period overlapped for about three years with that for the project, it took
approximately seven years to disburse about US$55 million of the primary
production component.
23.         Savings Attributed to Exchange Rate Differences.  Savings
resulting from exchange rate changes as a result of the faster rate of
devaluation of the Dinar against the US dollar as compared to the rate of
domestic inflation could not have been foreseen at appraisal.
24.         Delay in Implementation.  The drainage component consisted of
seven subareas. Some communities that initially expressed interest in
borrowing funds under the project for this purpose later decided to drop out.
Others delayed their decision until they could observe the results of the
drainage implementation investments in the first few areas, and also because



8
of the uncertain macroeconomic environment.  Some new coumunities were allowed
to come in as substitutes for those that dropped out, but the inclusion of
these now drainage areas required significant lead time for preparation.
Bidding documents were of differing quality standards, and were generally
prepared well after the concerned projects had been approved by the Bank.
Some of the delay could have been avoided, but at a cost of not implementing a
major part of the drainage component. Since the experience in implementing
the drainage schemes in the first two areas was positive, extension of the
loan closing date to accommodate completion of this component was justified.
25.         Extension Services Component.  A master plan for extension and
research for SR of Serbia was prepared by the Agricultural University of
Zemun. However, the master plan was not implemented because the Serbian
Government did not have the budgetary appropriations for it, and because,
under the socio-economic system at the time, each agro-kombinat was
responsible for providing its own extension services. In retrospect, it
appears that these factors may not have been sufficiently appreciated at
appraisi.-. The sub-borrowers for the extension services were social sector
enterprises (for all the elements other than the master plan for extension,
para. 8 (c)), but the beneficiaries were to be the individual farmers
associated with the social sector. Since the social sector enterprises were
reluctant to bear the foreign exchange risk for loans that would benefit
individual farmers, this component was implemented very slowly and most parts
did not materialize. Again, in hindsight, these implications may not have
been adequately appreciated at appraisal. However, the Yugoslav counterparts
did not object to including the extension services component under the
project. It is, therefore, difficult to see how this variance could have been
avoided.
Identification of Proiect Risks
26.         Most of the projeet risks that actually transpired were identified
in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). However, the risk of macroeconomic
instability, which the project encountered throughout its implementation,
impacted on project performance much more significantly than was foreseen at
appraisal. The SAR identified the possibility that farmers might be reluctant
to invest if there were to be significant changes in input/output price
ratios. It suggested that these would have to be dealt with on a case by case
basis as new price ratios developed. Since the Bank loan was, by and large,
directed credit, there was little flexibility given to the executing bank to
deal with any adverse impact on a case by case basis, short of canceling part
of the loan. Agrobanka, to its credit, developed a system of lending in kind
for primary production, which was quite successful in offsetting the
detrimental impact of inflation on demand for credit (para. 38).
F. PROJECT RESULTS
General Assessment
27.         Overall, the project results were mixed; objectives were
substantially met in respect of some components whereas success was limited in
the case of others. The drainage component can be considered a success
because the expectations of the beneficiaries were met in regard to
improvement in production yields and income. Economic rates of return of the



9
subareas under the drainage component are likely to meet the expectations at
appraisal. The financial and economic results of farms which received credit
under the project for investments under the primary production component are
likely to be satisfactory as well. In respect of institutional strengthening,
there has been a noteworthy improvement in the operations of Agrobanka.
However, the achievements in respect of the agro-industries, supporting
services, and extension services components were much more limited. While
twenty-two of the twenty-nine originally planned agro-industries and
supporting services were established, only six of the investments showed
positive financial results, the rest facing significant financial difficulties
that stemmed, to various degrees, from ineffective management, marketing
problems, insufficient capacity utilization, insufficient raw material supply,
poor domestic demand for the manufactured products, barriers in foreign
markets, an overvalued exchange rate, and other causes. Improving the
situation in the agro-industries would require, among other things, the
development of a program of privatization and restructuring. Although this
has been generally the intention of both the Federal and the Republican
governments, the appropriate enabling legislation has not yet been enacted,
and prospects in this regard remain uncertain in the face of the current
unclear political situation in the country.
Project ImDact 4
28.         The project has had a significant impact on the development of the
two regions that were targeted under the project, and the economy of Serbia in
general. The project has not yet reached its full development potential, but
based on an estimated Incremental Capital Output Ratio (ICOR) of 3 for
agriculture in Yugoslavia, the project cost, estimated at about US$230 million
in 1991 prices (Part III, Table 3), would generate at the project's full
development, an estimated total production valued at about US$75 million of
which about 60 percent to 70 percent would be value added. At appraisal, the
estimated FAR varied from 13 prercent to 60 percent for the primary production
investments, 12 percent to 17 percent for the drainage component, and 13
percent to 28 percent for the agro-industries and supporting services
components. Most investments under the drainage and primary production
components are likely to be within the range estimated at appraisal. The
investments in the agro-industries and supporting services have not yielded
the results expected at appraisal. However, many of thiem, with improved
management and restructuring, could possibly turn around and produce better
results.
29.         From the point of view of human resource development, the project
has had a major contribution. Approximately 2,000 new jobs were created, of
which about one-third are estimated to have been for skilled labor. These
included technical staff or engineers in food processing enterprises,
agronomists in chicken breeding farms, nurseries, orchards, and horticulture
crops. The physical environment was also improved, as a result of elimination
of water logging, while preserving areas of marshes, forests and green belts.
The environmental authorities in Yugoslavia have not recorded any significant
detrimental impact arising from the project on wildlife or fauna in the
J/ Bem c li. ongingamdlUl  Yugohta maiotduDa tmet plci resuieonde _s - ctnceled.
TeWe Is tc OUg da to iesMst VW  M  edtuMM cd lit. lWesdtmWs K nd  s bb ma eNdor MUMasu cb su MO
inkde on.



10
project areas. In regard to the social environment, the project areas,
considered to be poor and underdeveloped by Yugoslav standards, have
experienced robust development. The project also resulted in increasing
demand for improvement of the social infrastructure, but the funds available
were insufficient to meet this demand. The Yugoslav authorities requested
that a new project financed by the Bank should address this issue.   Lastly,
during the course of project implementation, there has been a noteworthy
improvement in the institutional functioning of Agrobanka: a well-organized
management information system was put into operation; a monitoring and
evaluation unit was established and consistently provided Agrobanka's
management and the Bank with well-informed reports; remarkable improvement has
taken p'ace in Agrobanka's accounting system; and the project unit in
Agrobanka has become a well-administered and managed organization.
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.         Project benefits are more likely to be sustainable in certain
areas than in others. Most investments under the primary production and
drainage components are expected to be sustainable, and to be able to maintain
an acceptable level of net benefits throughout their economic life. In regard
to the agro-industries and supporting services components, sustainability is
not assured for all the investments under the components. Most of these
investments, including even those that are presently profitable, are likely to
need substantial restructuring in regard to management, accounting, marketing,
production, labor force utilization, and ownership. However, such
restructuring goes beyond the scope of this project, because the difficulties
experienced by the investments under the project reflect issues resulting from
the socio-economic system of the country. Project sustainability will also
be subject to stabilization of the macroeconomic situation--inability of the
Government to stabilize the economy and control inflation would drive many
producers out of business, including those in the project areas.  Finally, the
operation and maintenance of the drainage system as established under the
project is critical to its viability, and in that regard, appropriate user
fees, and their efficient collection and management, are imperative.
H. BANK PERFORMANCE
Bank Performance Durin2 Pre2aration and ApDraisal Phase
31.         The Bank provided skilled and competent staff for t...eparation and
appraisal. As a result, the Bank gained the confidence of the Borrower, the
executing bank, the Government of the SR of Serbia, and other institutions
involved in the project organization and implementation. However, the main
focus of the Bank's review was the engineering and economic justification
aspects of the project. The inadequacies in the financial management system
of Yugoslav enterprises, however, was an issue that was not appropriately
reviewed at the preparation and appraisal stage.   The Bank does not appear to
have seriously questioned the way that the financial system was functioning,
even though it was the main cause for the financial and economic failure of
investments and enterprises as going concerns.



11
32.         The staffing of the Bank missions at the preparation and appraisal
stages did not include financial analysts. Consequently, there was no
critical review of the financial position of the investing enterprises, and
significant deficiencies in important areas such as adequate management
information systems, cost accounting practices, cash flow projections, and
other elements of appropriate financial discipline were insufficiently
addressed.
33.         Bank missions would seem to have made only a cursory review of the
marketing aspects of investments, particularly when it involved sizable
*        exports into markets that were not tested, and tended to accept investors'
claims regarding the viability of the exports or that such exports were not
significant in comparison to total market demand.
34.         The Bank's review of Agrobanka was documented in a meticulous
diagnostic report that covered almost every aspect of the bank's organization
and its operations. Despite substantial shortcomings that the report listed,
including inadequate organization, insufficient staffing, lack of internal
auditing, inadequate accounting, and deficient training, Agrobanka was
recommended to be the executing bank for the project in the expectation that
improvements in its operations could be secured relatively quickly. In
practice, this could only be gradually achieved over a number of years (para.
29), which affected project implementation unfavorably during the early years.
Bia Performance Durins Im2lementation Phase
35.         At the beginning of the implementation stage, Bank supervision
missions encountered typical issues concerning procurement and interpretation
of the legal documents. However, it immediately became clear that the project
faced difficult problems that resulted from Agrobanka's relative lack of
experience to undertake its tesponsibilities for this complex project. The
project unit in Agrobanka at first lacked adequate leadership, and its staff
lacked experience in banking operations in general, and in project
implementation in particular. The accounting system in Agrobanka was mostly
manual, and the project accounts, the foreign exchange accounts, and the
general accounting of the bank were incompatible with each other. In
addition, there was no consolidated client account system, and the client
accounts and the bank accounts were incompatible. Agrobanka also did not have
a monitoring and evaluation system. All these shortcomings were pointed out
to Agrobanka's management during Bank supervision missions, and were gradually
remedied over time (para. 29). The Bank demonstrated its support during
implementation by providing skilled and competent staff for supervision. As a
result, the Bank gained the confidence of Agrobanka's staff and management,
and investors, who accepted the Bank's advice on issues concerning project
implementation and management. Cooperation between the Bank, Agrobanka, and
investors was based on mutual respect, and generally facilitated improvements
in impleme :ation of the project. The main weaknesses, on the other hand,
related tu: (a) the overall complexity of the project which called for
deployment of much higher supervision resources than proved possible in the
last three years of implementation because of budgeting constraints; and (b)
occasional delays in processing bidding documents. This was later remedied
when specialized staff were assigned to deal with procurement issues.



12
Lessons Learned
36.         The main lessons from the experience under this project are: (a)
The implications of a distorted and deteriorating macroeconomic environment on
sectoral operations, like the project, should be more explicitly assessed
during project preparation. In hindsight, it would appear that the project
concept was formulated without sufficient regard to difficulties stemming from
problems in the macroeconomic environment; because of this the borrowing for
primary production, and the results of the investments in agro-industries and
supporting services, have been substantially less than expected. (b)
Attention must be paid to the link between formulating a comprehensive project
concept that would relate primary production to end-users (agro-industries),
supporting services, marketing, and both the individual and the social sectors
involved in the production activities. (c) Directed credit in a Bank lending
operation may have some justification if the market mechanism has not
developed sufficiently; however, the project may have been over-designed in
this respect in that it deprived sub-borrowers of the flexibility required to
adjust to changing market and economic conditions. (d) The difficulties in
project implementation arising from the complexity of a project that included
so many components demonstrates the need to simplify the project concept from
the outset. It was necessary to have several supervision teams to cover
different aspects like drainage, agroindustries, primary production, credit
operations, and the institution building activities concerning Agrobanka.
Without adequate supervision resources, it would be difficult to focus on
effective implementation of such a complex project, and to provide timely and
appropriate assistance to the Borrower and the beneficiaries. (e) Timely
evaluation of the financial management system of the project beneficiaries and
intermediary banks is essential in diagnosing elements that are critical to
the project's successful implementation. (f) The technical assistance needs
under the project were identified correctly but, in retrospect, without
sufficient regard to relevant management and organization aspects, and their
fulfillment proved difficult utider the politically uncertain envirorment.
These considerations apply as well to the extension services under the
project, and to the improvement of the operations in Agrobanka. Under the
socio-economic system prevailing at that time the Government had no role in
providing extension services. Despite the substantial improvement in the
operations of Agrobanka, many more improvements are needed which can only be
undertaken under a comprehensive reform of the banking system. The Bank had
been engaged in supporting the Government in its efforts to carry out a
fundamental reform of the financial sector which, however, was brought to a
halt by the outbreak of the hostilities in Yugoslavia.
I. BORROU    PEPRNANCE
Borrower Performance During Prenaration and Appraisal Phase
37.         UBB was the nominal borrower and did not play a significant role
at any stage of project preparation or implementation (para. 17), except for
participation in the negotiations for the project and for the cofinancing.
Agrobanka acted on behalf of the Borrower as the executing agent and handled
all the business that related to the project. Agrobanka was cooperative
during the preparation period and served well in its capacity of coordinating
the various organizations involved in project preparation (para. 18).



13
Borrower Performance During Proiect Implementation
38.         The initial period of implementation was particularly difficult.
There was a large turnover of staff and managers in Agrobanka during the first
three years with adverse effects on project implementation. The situation,
however, gradually stabilized and the staff became increasingly effective in
performing work related to project processing and management. To counter the
decreased demand for credit by the individual sector as a result of the high
inflation rate in Yugoslavia, Agrobarnka introduced a unique system of credit
denominated in kind for financing primary production. Under this system the
terms of a farmer's loan were fixed in terms of the commodity to be produced,
and the interest was set at 12 percent for the life of the loan. For
Agrobanka the value of the principal varied according to the price of the
commodity, and the real interest rate was the same as the nominal rate if the
price of the commodity rose with the general price level. Agrobanka, of
course, took the risk in case the commodity prices rose to a lesser extent
than the general price level. Nevertheless, the system encouraged an increase
in demand for borrowing, and to that extent was very successful.
39.         During the second half of project implementation, Agrobanka
perhaps performed better than most other financial intermediaries that managed
Bank- financed projects in Yugoslavia. Aspects that showed particular
improvement were the timely submission of progress reports, consistent
collection of information regarding monitoring and evaluation of project
performance, timely preparation of annual reports, improved managing of
disbursements and collections, and timely repayments of amortized loans.
Performance in certain procurement matters was less than adequate at times,
but progressively improved. Agrobanka was generally cooperative and
accommodated itself well to the requirements under International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures.
40.         Compliance with ptovisions of the legal documents was mixed.  The
first main area concerns the onlending interest rate. Under a provision in
Supplemental Letter No. 7 that refers to the Letter of Development Policy of
1983, Agrobanka was supposed to adjust upwardly its onlending interest rate at
the start of project implementation. This provision was not complied with
until at least the middle of 1985. However, Agrobanka was not exceptional in
regard to non-performance in respect to the interest rate provision.  Most
other banks in Yugoslavia would seem to have not complied with the interest
rate guideline of the 1983 Letter of Development Policy. The second area
relates to a provision in Schedule 2.C of the Project Agreement that
stipulated that 'repayment of the principal of the portion of Sub-loans
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be determined from the
projected cash flow of the Investment Project financed." Non-performance in
this case arose from the view taken by Agrobanka (and other Yogoslav banks)
that, under a provision in then prevailing Yugoslav Banking Law, a bank was a
fiscal agent of its borrowers. This meant, according to the Yugoslav
interpretation, that the terms and conditions of Bank lending to Agrobanka
applied to the sub-borrowers as well. This dispute was not resolved until
1990 when the banks in Yugoslavia became joint stock enterprises under the
ongoing reform program. By then, all the sub-loans under the project were
already signed. The third area concerned foreign exchange risk. In
accordance with Supplemental Letter No. 6, social sector sub-borrowers were
supposed to bear the full foreign exchange risk. This was only complied with
in regard to the direct foreign exchange portion of sub-loans. However, when



14
it concerned the indirect portion of the foreign exchange in sub-loan, the
National Bank of Yugoslavia undertook to bear the full foreign exchange risk.
This issue was not resolved until 1987.
J. PQaICT RELATXIUNSgIP
41.         The relationship between the Bank and project management remained
excellent at all times. Although, Bank supervision missions from time to time
pointed out to Agrobanka various shortcomings, this was accepted as being
constructive, and sincere efforts were made to correct deficiencies. This
resulted in a significant improvement in Agrobanka's performance of its
responsibilities during project implementation. In particular, the exchange
of technical views in regard to the drainage component of the project was
productive, and helped in upgrading the design of the concerned sub-projects
and their implementation. A very good relationship was also established
between the Bank and the Social Accounting Service (SDK); this was useful in
discussions concerning the annual financial statements of Agrobanka, and
resulted in streamlining certain accounting procedures in Agrobanka. The SDK
representative occasionally joined the Bank field supervision team and
provided significant assistance in clarifying various aspects of the sub-
borrowers' financial statements.
K. PROJECT DOC!NENTATION AND DATA
42.         The SAR and loan documents followed the standards of other
Yugoslav agricultural projects. Because of the many changes in political and
economic conditions in the country during project implementation, the value of
the SAR for project implementation was, thereby, limited.
43.         Agrobanka prepared good semi-annual progress reports, and
excellent annual reports based on adequate monitoring and evaluation.



1S
PROJC  CG TION ItPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
SERBIA REGIONUL DEIZOPiT PROJECT
LOQANI 230-_
PART IIl  PROJECT RMVIEW IRO=  BORROWER'S PERSPEC
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower for comets, but
none were received.



d  dod            d                         d  dl       d, dl R       d  n  lE   
E~~~                            U       __         3 _d _d dgf         
-  _  _--- -  -  -  I  -  I  I  -  -
Fi E   o
0iE|!XXX§MEE           
'-4                             E¢ESa33ii                                       f  
AR r                     
'-     46tgipi           l8X4||i2f
0SFS2 



~- =====    
ii  IiI}t  l' II
'-4l 0g       1-1



i_~~ ~~ ;1  4         10*g! Xiibi gi
co~ ~ ~~~c 
0'     a  a1114111 - a a1 -   i i -- - -        a 
r1~~~~~c
11881#  #+PPPiCttitSm
,0 j
~~~~~  ~~P            1I IIII          
C0



20
Table 4: Proiect -Cost (US$ Million)
Compofloot               _                       _                                                        _ _" IM
Local      PoFOlgP          Toma            Laws____       Fonig          TOMa
On Fean 6m SUus              1.4            S24             113.8            122             184           30.6
Suppo  SMM                  31.4            3z?             64.1             36.3            19.4     #i.7
E8de ton SerIc.             1.5             1.4              2.9              0.1            02             0.3
AgOIrAtaY383                                3a.             74.9             39.             2.7 672
Oralne                       M15            187             34.0             42.3           1&2            65
AqofognrIa                                  0.3              0.3               _    _
Total Se Coa               147.9           142.1            200.0           130.4           85.9           216.3
PhyaSconlngnoth             3ie             14.9            28.5             ma0M
mm ca mnclc.                21.0            19.9            40.9                                            . n.
Total PROW cam              82.5           176.9            359.4           130.4            85.           2183
FfortEndFee                                 1.0              1.0             ntL 1.0                        1.0
mm" 9ow    Conls            91.3            34.1            125.4             7.a           7t1            14.9
Total Raoi"et |Wf          273.8     |     212.0     r      4856         f  138.2      |    94.0           2322
Table 5: Proiect Financina (US$ Million)
~~~~~~~~~~. 
sum                                                Appala E-tm                                   AdI'
-cd 8u*                                                  136.0                                    "A
A _ __ 1 0                                                1258                                    38.3
SPUR                                                      25.1                                   1 18.3
Locld SW"                                                127.0                                   4.7
lieaos COnC _to                                           71.9                                   429
TOTAL                                                    488                                     252.2
3  Ema   Cost d IAmwtl rvUeId up to  eomba 31. 190t
!J The Owe Of ls locl ftia      Wu WAl   uptO Osmmw 31.1 i9
jQ   tU   niiae  tapeslta    oiadn  ono abutUS50mIlIn  oudsuplmn  goalmsswo   oug



21
Table 6: Proiect Results
Investments Implemented Uner the Ploiect
A.  Amroindustries and Suorting Services
The suiwp d                      ATV  of nvstmnt                                                        '
I. FAt JiU   fMey ht Vae                  n       n I peduln cactY fom 14 to                          11
_________________    26 thousand tone per etr. _VW
.Z Gran Eevaar ad oiw in vaElb            Cw aply d iO0O tons a   dr wi
.______________       cy dapaclof 12 t/h.
3 ane Room"    In Vaoi                     Ma cpacty of 10.250 tons. 
4. CoNd Stoa   ant FM  Us V e             Incrm    cIan ay m    3 to8 thousand
toas and now feezngte l itW 1.5 t/h
I. Cold Stoe Pan In S8bac                 Cpi     1zOoO tos                                            11.
PaP        Cl   at In Iuboa               New MOo of pmne cad  capcty 3.O00 tofn                       39
7. Percpan hls In Oena                    C4pa       1o 50 tons per annum.                             1O.
8 Cold Store Plant ILaoo                  Capacity of 5800 ton$ a  horem In                            4J
__   be dialtber Cap4iy by 2000 tos l
9. vegetale on Rpat In Vaco Gadle         Inf      iC In Cspety f tm mNtan_t                           as
proc  n m t18 to 55 thousa  tons,
10. feed MMa b Poc                                In Capacity ffam 30 to 50 stousand                   0t
toil
1I. Col St e P"nt Ir Pac                  Capacty of 250 tons an feming tune                             7
f 2.5 t/h.
12. Seed RooMng Plant In Sabc             CapacIty 34.000 tons per annum                               11.6
3. lm an PAn In Sova                      Capacity d0 tons ot drtd plum  pw                            1.0
anntum
14. FPum Cry    od _   I Va w                     d t200 tons o a"d plum pw
1  ToDaco  ytg and cn" Par  in            CsPedY d 5.000 tn Of cured atoao  per           Q      S
la     Storage Pte WA  Shac               S OD Storage atils wAth toa 240 ubcm                         1J
WordStops                                 capacty a4 sewc  uuops                      _______________
17. Chkn Fafm and atcry In                CapaCty to a  60.000 onety old chIc                          55
vtadlr                                    and hatche r   8.4 mSL. eggs 
18 Chcken reedin Pain In Powa             Capaiy ofIt00 ancstl pbr   and a.n
1hac    d 1.5 mi eggs
t9. Seed  rocong  lt In POazravc          Capaciy d 10.000 ton per anm.                                4.1
20. Sneep Brdng Farm mI Z2ubca            Capacy d 2000  wes and 5 rat an                              0A
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~devslOPMerit  0(40  ha  mteadoWs.L_          _   _   _ _   _    _   _   _
21. Famin MechanIzato in PozmArew         Rnancing agIculftua machlney and6m
equ.pmm                                       _         _
2. Plg Bren Fum in Vezil PRana            Capc it 1,1000 so  and forow h   lm                          as
S es  on    kted bIAstment as d De er 31. 1900



22
B. Drainag2
Eight sub-projects were completed as follows:
Area Name                             Ha           Amount (USS million
Danube Region
1. Zabari                            7,074              16.9
2. Malo Gernice, Right Bank          1.311               2.2
3. Halo Cernice, Left Bank           1,750               2.4
4. Petrovac - Rosanac                3,342               8.4
5. Zabari Extension (Kusilijevo)    2,168                2.1
6. Smedervska Planka                 3,600               7.6
7. Equipment for O&M                                     3.0
Kolubara Region
8. Velika Plana                      3,400               3.5
9. Cer Canal                         7,771               9.5
10. Equipment for O&N                                    2.7
11. Gravel Roads Along Main
and Secondary Drains                                 2.2
Total                               30,416              60.5
j3/ Rswu as d Decembr 31. I80



23
Table t- Status of Legal Covenants
Section of Loan           Short Description        |        Compliance
or Project                                         I
Agreement13 1
PA Section 2.04    Require any of the Social         This provision was only
(a)(vii)           Sector Sub-borrowers: (A) to    partially and
have its accounts and             inconsistently complied
financial statements (balance   with. Most of the
sheets, statements of income     social sector
and expenses and related         enterprises, in fact,
statements) for each fiscal      have not complied with
year audited in. accordance       this provision, but also
with appropriate accounting       those enterprises that
principles consistently          attempted to comply,
applied by the Social            were unable to do so
Accounting Service; (B) to       because of the
furnish to Agrobanka as soon     difficulty faced by the
as available, but in any case    Social Accounting
not later than six months         Service due to the
after the end of each year,      shortage of auditors in
certified copies of its          Yugoslavia.
financial statements for each
year as so audited and the
report of such audit;
PA Section 2.10    Promptly after completion of    Not complied.
(e)                the project, but in any case
not later than six month after
the Closing Date, Agrobanka
shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a project completion
report.
PA Section 4.02    Agrobanka shall have its          Complied.
(a)                accounts and financial
statements of income and
expenses, and related
statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and
expenses and related
statements) for each fEscal
year audited by the Social
Accounting Service.
Table 8:
continued
_LM     " D4USSt I MtW a LA OM RPOM sOPmM* a PX



24
PA Section 4.02    Agrobanka to submit certified   Complied
(b)                financial statements and SDK
audit reports on a yearly
basis, within six months of
the end of each year.
PA Schedule 2 1.   Sub-loans to individual           Not complied.
B. (b) (v)         farmers should include
provision of extension
services and recovery of
service charge.
PA Schedule 2 C    Repayments of sub-loans           Not complied.
financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be
determined from the projected
cash flow of the Investment
Project financed.



Table 8: Staff Inuts  staffteeks
FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   ms   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91   Total
Lending Operations
Pro-appraisal     7.8   67.3    3.6    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    78.7
Appraisal         0.0   13.9   92.8    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   106.7
Negotiation       0.0    0.0   10.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0    10.5
Subtotal          7.8   81.2  106.9    0.0    OgO    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   0.0   195.9
Project Supervision      0.0    0.0    1.4   24.0   27.9   28.2   10.0   27.3   15.7   19.7   9.3   183.5
TOTAL             7.8   81.2  108.3   24.0   27.9   28.2   10.0   27.3   15.7   19.7   9.3   379.4



26
Table 9:  Lsion Dal&
Hisslo               Hsntb  It. og  Da,L s.uSeaaLat.ln           foumuo.            Tle. of
Yew    Perz,s Field   Re4"sead a/    Rating b/ TSrcd    Psfblis ct
IdeatifticatU         03/61      1       6      A
Idet±ficat$n          06/81      3       4      A.lN.!
Pr.ooat1ont           09/81      5      it      AIN Y. E  E
Presat403             12/81      1       3      A
PrepeatIam            02/82      3       9      A.F.Z
AppaieaJa             08/82    .L&       ;      A,f,A,llE.,.HM,NF,D.O
subtotal               24       57
Superviason  1        05/83     4       10      z,e,a.,                  1        2       F.M.T
Supervision  2        03/84     3        4      1.3E                     1        1       F,M
Superviuion 3*        02/84     1        8      3                        1        1       T
Supervs1ion  4        10/84     2       12      1,F                      3        3       F.M
Superviston  5        03/85     2       18      I.?                      3        1       F.M
Supemar on  6         09/85     4       21     E1Y N,V                   3        2       F.A.?
Supesvision  7*       05/86     1        3      N                        1        1       T
Supervision  g        05/88     3        7      Ely                      3        3       F.M,t
Supevision  9         05/87     3        9      F.F.R                    3        3       F.M.t
Supervision 10        06/88     3       It      Z,1, 2                           2       F."
Supervision 11^       08/89     1       13      I                        2        2       T
Su>pevsion 12         05/90     1       14      F,3                      2        Z       F.t
Supervision 13        11/90     I        5      E                        1        2       F7M
Subtotal                12      131
TOTAL                   a 
8 A - Agriculturalst. K - Eonomist, F -  Financial AnsLyst.
i - Enuginer, I - Iortioulturist, M - Marketins Speotalf t
0 - Education
b/ 1 - Mint  prblm. 2 * toderate Prablms 3 - ItWe  loblew
/ F  Financial, T -  ocbnical. M -  anagerial
upervision of the drainage component only.
34/ Thep                                                                                  at FAO/CP mimlne
wiUch low ple bi 9 ot1 .  aZe  IcerS v* PedduUlem ib nut _



AUSTRS ..NG     20   SEPTEM1lER 19M
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                                             r  f < R                              ROMANIA
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                       *                                           .4            0  ' .4
DANUBE REGION                                                                                                * ROMANIA
.R     J. RO< AA A0 N I A                                                           Zk  ,tt
*               ^   Coldstore                                                       V O         VODIN
8  Animal Feed /Mitt
*  Center 4oW Sed Processing                                                           R.rAEO
t      Milk 4foducoicn i                                   Pose<so                                                                                                                                                 ; j
M      Sbeep Sreeing                                                                                                                                                                                                            4
I J    Cattle Fattening
N Piglet Production                                                                                0#39                                                                                               40
M      Pig Fattening                                                                               m
II     Broiler Fattening                                                                            A       
@      Eggs Production
®  Beekeeping
Fruit Orchards                            T
A      Extension Services
a an  Drainage Areas
Vineyards                      PODRUCJE    iA3
IL     Oil Factory                    BEOGRADA
U  Mechanization                                                                                                                                                          KuUvoesc 
@  Poultry Farm
Vine Rootstok Nursery\Y
SOMIEPrimary Roads
Secondary RoadsrhM
Tertiary Roads                                                                                           \t                                                                                            A Xk2:l7              |
-s--Railways                                                                                                                                                                                '
S   z  Rivers                                                             a         (                     /   J                                                       / i          *-'* \       )            ZAJECARSKI
Commune Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                                      REGION
Region Boundaries
Republic and Autonomous Province Boundaries
.     International Boundaries
ELEVATIONS:
500 -1000 meters
200-500                                                                                       X     }<                                                          Voa b   
la 10- 200                                                                                    Tob $ W)
O              10              20              30 Kilometers                           SUMADIJSKO- POMORAVSKI  REGION
teed&*. .hm~*, 5.. dm v.*,. mfd  Wsd dU.*.If
.o,5  of .55 5.b .. e . id.*Tw eXU# 
##y4  4lL>@UP#4S4'7Ss4fl8wf



IBRD 16601
-SEPTEMER E19l;
YUGOSLAVIA
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KOLUBARA REGION
ELEVATIONS:                          Primary Roads                      A   Juice Production
1000-2000 meters                     Secondary Roads                    0   Finishing and Packing of Prunes
500 -1000                            Tertiary Roads                    DO  Grain Elevator with Dryer
200-500                              Railways                           U   Coldstore
S R  BOSNA                  t                                                                            S   E so                                =_ 0- 200  ---- 'iuers                Service W orkshop
10                                  - - - - ~~~~~~~Subregional Boundaries            Fuel Oil Storage
HERZEGOVINA                                                                                                                                      Region Boundaries                      Milk Collection Center
VOJ VODIIVA                       -.- Republic and Autonomsous                 0   Plum  Dryer
Province Boundaries              S   Mechonized Sugar Beet Production
m                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~International boundaries  03Mill and Flour Elevator
o   Animal feed Mill
*   Center for Seed Processing
9|  Broiler Hatchery
13Poultry SlaughterhoAse
To Balgnrde                         10~~~~~ Fruit Nursery
41 Center for Medicinal Herbs
/   <    9  g3    li V l a    d    -                        5  (TERITORIJA                      I   "Redrying" Tobacco Dryer
BEOGRADA                      ®  Prune Coke
* Communal Slaughterhouse
ADairy / Beef Farm
IlSheep Breeding
I.lCattle Fattening
(I                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Piglet Production
--  -.                III ~~~~~Pig Fattening
IlBroiler Fattening
@   Eggs Production
ID                                   70 Fitovo Uiico ; 7itovo UzBeekeeping
*Fruit Growing
A   Extension Services
ljoacDrainage Areas
Kilomneters
die cwirrEiianca of tile macrate or  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~         ~        ~         ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~         A T /      1~~~~~ ROMANiOANI
flk apha he prwwadby the                                                                                                                                                                                  EzY          Lvl
aflt convenmceh of    o                                                                                                                                                                                             U
w W*&y w any                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~~~~KRALJEVA& KIREGION
W cracaptac Of such hacnsdaias
To Titovo Ulice                            , r'v  ice*.EC



