Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4216a-YU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
YUGOSLAVIA
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 2, 1983
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT**
June 30, 1982                          October 22, 1982
US$1                    Dinars (Din) 46.0                       Dinars (Din) 63.51
Din 1                   US$0.0217                               US$0.0157
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                                                     1.09 yards
l,square meter (m2)                                             10.76 square feet
i kilometer (km)                                                0.62 miles
I square kilometer (km2)                                        0.384 square miles
'1 hectare (ha)                                                  2.47 acres
1 liter (1)                                                     0.264 US gallons
1 hecto liter (hl)                                              100 liter
I cubic meter (m3)                                              1.31 cubic yards
1 kilogram (kg)                                                 2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)= 1,000 kg          =                       0.98 long tons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
Agrobanka      =        Specialized Agricultural Bank
AIK                     Agro-industrial Kombinat
ATK            =        Agro-trading Kombinat
BCO            =        Basic Cooperative Organization
BOCF           =        Basic Organization of Cooperative Farms
BOAL           -        Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COAL                    Composite Organization of Associated Labor
FC             =        Farmers Cooperative
ICB            =        International Competitive Bidding
IRC            =        Intercommunal Regional Community
LCB            =        Local Competitive Bidding
SDK           =         Social Accounting Service
SFRY          =         Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SFUR           =        Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions of Serbia Proper
SIZ           =         Self vanaged Water Management Community of Interest for
Water Economy
SMA           =         Self Management Agreement among Participants in the
Project
SR SERBIA               Socialist Republic of Serbia
:JBB           =        Udruzena Beogradska Banka (Associated Belgrade Bank)
WO             =        Work Organization
YUGOSLAV FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
** The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973. It was devalued
by 20% against the U.S. Dollar effective October 22, 1982. The currency
equivalents effective on June 30, 1982 have been used for project analysis.
For cost estimates, unit costs are based on June 1982 Dinar estimates and have
been updated to December 1982, reflecting the effects of the October 1982
devaluation and international price escalation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.         THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ........................................  1
A.  Agriculture in Yugoslavia ..................................  I
B.  Bank Strategy in Yugoslavia's Agricultural Sector ..........  3
C.  Agricultural Development Issues in Serbia ..................  3
D.  Performance Under Previous Agricultural Projects in Serbia.  4
E.  Project Background .........................................  5
II.        THE PROJECT AREA ...........................                                    5
A.  Sectoral Context .........................                                  5
B. Topography, Climate, Land Use and Soils.                                     6
C. Present Land Use.                                                            7
D. Agricultural Input and Support Services.                                     8
E. The Banking Institutions.                                                    9
III.       THE PROJECT .................................................... 12
A. Objectives ........................                                         12
B.  Project Description ........................ 13
C.  Status of Design and Project Implementation ................ 14
D.  Cost Estimates ............................................. 15
E.  Financing .................................................. 16
F.  Retroactive Financing ...................................... 17
G.  Procurement ................................................ 17
H.  Disbursement ............................................... 18
I.  Environment and Health ..................................... 19
J.  Role of Women .............................................. 19
IV.        PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ............................ 19
A.  Institutional Arrangements ................................. 19
B.  Project Coordination ....................................... 20
C.  Project Organization and Implementation .................... 20
D.  The Borrower ............................................... 21
E.  The Implementing Agency - Agrobanka ........................ 21
F.  On-lending Procedures ........................                            23
G.  On-lending Terms and Conditions ........................                   23
H.  Other Participating Organizations ........................   24
I.  Technical Assistance and Training ........................   26
J.  Accounts and Audit ........................ 26
K.  Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation ....................... 27
L. Cost Recovery ........................                                     28
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission to Yugoslavia
during June/July 1982, consisting of Messrs. H. von Pogrell, M. Tirmazi,
R. Buller, M. Walshe, F. Wright and Ms. Ganguly (Bank) and Messrs. H. Huehne,
C. Cronberg and V. Patankar (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'u)                                                     Page No.
V.          PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETS AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ...........   29
A.  Production ...............................................   29
B.  Marketing and Market Prospects ...........................   30
C.  Prices ...................................................   31
D.  Financial Analysis ........................ .. ..                   31
VI.         PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................   32
A.  Benefit and Employment Effect ............................   32
B.  Economic Evaluation ......................................   33
C.  Risks and Uncertainties ..................................   34
VII.        RECOvMMENDATIONS ..............................................   35
ANNEXES
Annex 1    Project Cost and Phasing
Table 1 Detailed Project Cost ................................   38
Table 2 Summary Project Cost .................................   39
Annex 2    Estimated Disbursement Schedule ..............................   40
Annex 3    Financial and Economic Data
Table 1 Financial Prices for Major Inputs and Outputs ........   41
Table 2 Summary Results of Financial Analyses ................   42
Table 3 Economic Prices for Major Inputs and Outputs .........   43
Table 4 Summary Results of Economic Analyses .................   44
Table 5 Socio-Economic Data and Agricultural Indicators ......   45
Annex 4    On-farm Production Investment ................................   46
Annex 5    Description of Support Service Facilities ....................   57
Annex 6    Agriculture Extension, Technical Services and Applied Research  61
Annex 7    Description of Agroindustry Facilities ........................  65
Annex 8    Description of Drainage Component .............................  71
Annex 9    The Borrower: Udruzena Beogradska Banka.
Table 1 Consolidated Income Statement .........................  77
Table 2 Consolidated Balance Sheet ............................  78
Table 3 Project Financing Plan................................
Annex 10   Agrobanka - The Implementing Agency...........................
Table 1 Statement of Income and Expenses ...................... 80
Table 2 Balance Sheet ......................................... 81
Table 3 Project Financing Plan ................................  82
Annex 11   Description of Implementing Organizations .83
Annex 12   Main Provisions of Project Agreements among Participants
in the Project ......... 85
Annex 13   Guidelines for Appraisal of the Project by Agrobanka ...                  88
Annex 14   Selected Documents and Working Papers Available in
the Project File ...                                                    90
Charts
Chart No.: WB 24323: Project Organization
Chart No.: WB 24324: Implementation Schedule
Chart No.: WB 24325: Institutional Arrangements
Maps
IBRD Map 16607 : Danube Region and Location of Proposed Investments
IBRD Map 16608 : Kolubara Region and Location of Proposed Investments



APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. ThE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Agriculture in Yugoslavia
1.01     In Yugoslavia, the share of agriculture in social product and
employment has declined steadily in the post-war period. However, the agri-
cultural sector remains important in the overall development of the economy,
contributing about 14% of social product, and engaging about 30% of the
country's active population. The agricultural sector accounts for the income
of one-thiro of the population--a group which is largely rural, under-
employed, and in the relative poverty target group with per capita income
under US$850 per annum. In addition, the agricultural sector makes an
important contribution to reducing Yugoslavia's trade deficit. The country
has a large agricultural resource base, and its favorable climatic conditions
have fostered the growth of a well-diversified agricultural sector with a
significant potential for future development.
1.02     Yugoslavia has a unique framework of economic management and
decision-making based on a system of workers' self-management, a system
characterized by social ownership and workers' control of the means of
productLion. In agriculture this has led to the co-existence of social and
individual (private) sectors. About 83% of agricultural land is owned and
operated by nearly 2.6 million individual farmers making it the only
predominantly privately-owned sector of the economy. With an average family
holding of around 3.2 ha and possessing about 95% of the total agricultural
labor force, the individual sector accounts for about 85% of maize production,
60% of wheat, 75% of vegetables, and owns between 85% and 95/. of all
livestock. A considerable portion of production in the individual sector is,
however, retained for home consumption and contributions to marketed output
are low. The share of the individual sector in the marketed output of cereals
is about 45%, with a similar situation prevailing in vegetables and fruits.
In livestock, however, a much higher proportion of individual sector output is
marketed. In an effort to increase income ana overcome under-employment, an
increasing number of individual households are moving out of purely agri-
cultural occupations into part-time agriculture supported by non-farm sector
income. Current estimates indicate that as much as 10% of arable land is
uncultivated because of a large influx of rural population into the urban
sector.
1.03     The potential inherent in agriculture in the individual sector
received scant attention until the early 70's and all investment funds were
directed entirely to the social sector. Since then, the individual sector has
received some support through various forms of cooperation and association
with the social sector. The linkage between the two sectors is provided
through agricultural cooperatives (Zadrugas). Cooperation with individual
farmers is achieved through short- or long-term production contracts.
Cooperatives sell agricultural inputs and buy agricultural outputs from all
farmers cooperating in their area of operation and provide farm machinery



- 2 -
services, technical advice, and credit to member farmers. The repayment of
the credit is ensured through the sale of the produce. A farmer can have
several contracts for production of different conmmodities. About half of
Yugoslav farmers are involved in some form of cooperation with the social
sector.
1.04     The Yugoslav food production system relies on integration of primary
agricultural production, food processing, marketing and distribution of food
products in agroindustrial complexes called agrokombinats (the integrated
factory farms). The social sector controls about 17% of the total
agricultural land in the country and produces 26% of total agricultural
output. Social sector agricultural production grew 5.4/. annually during
1970-198U, compared to 1.2% for the individual sector. While social sector
growth has been impressive in absolute terms, production efficiency needs
improving. Overall, about 85% of total investment funds in agriculture still
flow to the social sector.
1981-1985 Social Plan
1.05     The Federal 1981-1985 Social Plan calls for improved primary
production to satisfy domestic demand; generation of surplus production to
promote agricultural exports; modernization and reconstruction of existing
agroindustry facilities; and utilization of currently unused and abandoned
lands through land reclamation and social sector purchase. The growth of
agricultural output has been targeted at 4.5% per year, with the social sector
planned to grow at 6% and the individual sector at 4% per year. Agriculture
is expected to play an important role in reducing the deficit in the balance
of payments. Agricultural exports are expected to grow at an annual rate of
10% by the end of the Plan, and agricultural imports to be reduced by 5% per
year. To achieve these objectives, the Plan provides for investments of Din
152 billion in 1982 prices, representing 9.6% of total investment in the
economy. Overall, the Plan represents a relatively optimistic view of
agricultural production possibilities. Policy and organizational changes well
beyond those currently set out in the Plan will be needed to achieve the
objectives.
1.06     The inaividual sector constitutes Yugoslavia's largest agricultural
resource but its modernization and reduction of the disparity between
individual farm incomes and those in the non-farm sector will be difficult to
achieve, until a satisfactory policy framework is devised to progressively
overcome the structural problems afflicting the agricultural sector.
Agricultural issues constraining development include:
(a)  inadequately developed institutional arrangements ana services
for the large individual sector, including restricted credit
access for individual farmers;
(b) insufficient sector investments with the individual sector and
an imbalance towards capital intensive social sector agro-
processing;
(c) the small size and fragmentation of individual sector holdings,
and
(d) weakly developed extension services for the individual sector.



- 3 -
B. Bank Strategy in Yugoslavia's Agricultural Sector
1.07     In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy in Yugoslavia has given
increasing importance to the agricultural sector. To accelerate agricultural
growth, the Bank assisted in formulating the 1973 'Green Plan', a compre-
hensive framework for agricultural development which, for the first time,
emphasized the need to support the individual farm sector. The Bank has made
14 agricultural sector loans totalling about US$806.6 million, about 24% of
total Yugoslav loans. The strategy has been to support the development of
primary production in the individual sector in recognition of the fact that
the major output increases can be expected to come from the largest resource
block.  Inivestments in agroindustries in the social sector which serve as the
marketing channels for farm production have also been financed under Bank
loans. This strategy has recognized the need to use investment to promote a
more equitable income distribution by raising the incomes of the rural poor,
and alleviating rural-urban migration.  An agricultural sector review, terms
of reference for which have been agreed with the Government, is expected to be
completed by mid-1983. The review will be jointly financed by the Bank and
the Government and would include participation of staff from the bank and
selecLed Yugoslav institutes. Future Bank lending and sector activities which
would draw on the conclusions of this report are expected to assist in the
reorientation of investment, promote institutional development and training,
and the evolution of a satisfactory policy framework. The Bank's project
investments are expected to focus on:
(a) primary production (particularly cereals and industrial crops)
in the social sector, in which it has a comparative advantage;
(b) labor intensive production (livestock, vegetables, fruits)
largely in the individual sector;
(c) agroindustry investments limited to reconstruction and
modernization;
(d) export-oriented production;
(e) research and extension services and agricultural inputs
accessible to all farmers;
(f) development-oriented banking institutions exclusively for
agriculture which would provide credit to all farmers; ana
(g) training of farmers, and staff engaged in research, extension
and cooperative work, and
(h) training of banking institution staff.
1.08     The proposed loan will be the secona Bank loan in Serbia in the
agricultural sector and the fifteenth Bank loan for Yugoslav agriculture and
agroindustries. The project objectives are consistent with Yugoslav and Bank
development strategy.
C. Agricultural Development Issues in Serbia
1.09     About one-fourth of Yugoslavia's cultivated lana lies in Serbia and
is farmed by 267. of the country's active agricultural population. Serbia
contributes 22% of the agricultural social product of Yugoslavia and is one of
the largest producers of fruit, milk, meat and eggs. One-fourth of the total
cereal production of Yugoslavia is produced in Serbia. During 1970-1980,
Serbia has maintained an average annual growth rate of 3.1A of agricultural
social product which is above the Yugoslav average of 2.8%. The inaividual
sector owns 94% of arable land in Serbia compared to 83% in Yugoslavia. This
relative dominance of the individual sector is the most important factor



- 4 -
underlying the low productivity of the agricultural sector in Serbia.
Productivity of Serbia's agricultural labor force is only 79% of the Yugoslav
average. Formal cooperation between the individeal and the social sectors
between 1970 and 1980 has been declining as indicated by the reduction in the
number of livestock cooperants and seed and fertiLizer sales to cooperants.
Rural poverty and inco. e disparities between the social and individual sectors
in Serbia are widespread.
1.10     The importance of agricultural development and the need to alleviate
the constraints facing the individual sector have been recognized and are
being addressed by the Government of Serbia in its Five-Year Plan (1981-1985).
The Plan aims at an annual 4% agricultural production growth; the social
sector is expected to grow at 10%, and the individual sector at 3.3%.
Agroindustries are expected to grow at 7% per annum. The agricultural exports
are planned to increase at an annual rate of 7-8%. The Plan strategy is
primarily to encourage social sector growth while promoting increased
cooperation between the individual and social sectors, with each sector
drawing on its respective comparative advantage. Thus meat, milk, fruits and
vegetables would be mainly produced by the individual sector, and cereals and
processed food products mainly by the social sector.  Provisions are included
in the Plan to strengthen the extension serxvice for the individual farm sector.
1.11     The pace and extent of individual farm sector modernization will
depend largely on the policy framework devised to progressively promotet
(a)  allocation of adequate financial resources for inv estment in
technically balanee-d agricultural development packages;
(b)  provision of techrical assistance, credit, markets, and an
adequate supply of modern farm inputs;
(c)  adoption of consistent pricing policies;
(d)  development of a land plan which over time wilL provide for (i)
consolidation of existing individual land holdings, (ii)
increased average farm size, and (iii) improved opportunities
for young farmers to take up farming as a career;
(e)  decrease in income disparities between, firstly, the social and
individual farm sectors and. secondly, between the farm and
non-farm sectors; and
(f)  adequate social benefits for retiring farmers.
D.  Performance Under Previous Agricultural Projects in Serbia
1.12     Serbia has received one direct Bank loan for agriculture in the
amount of US$87 million for the Morava Regional Development Project and a
share of US$36.9 million under the three nation-wide agricultural credit
projects.  The Borrower under the Morava Regional Development Project (Loan
1951-YU of August 1981) is Investbanka which is one of the constituent banks
of the Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB), the borrower of the proposed loan.
The Morava project was well prepared and the present project drew heavily on
the experience gained from that project in preparation ana design. The
Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions (SFUR) which would be financing part
of the costs of the present project is, in conjunction with Investbanka,
responsible for the implementation of the Morava project which is progressing
satisfactorily. About 11% of the loan proceeds have been disbursed and
procurement actions for all agroindustries have been completed. The
participating bank in Serbia under the three agricultural credit projects is
Beogradska Banka Belgrade, another constituent bank of UBB. The First Credit
project (Loan 1129-YU) has been successfully completed and a completion report



is presently being prepared. The Second Agricultural Credit Project (Loan
1477-YU) is delayed but Beogradska Banka has all funds committed and is
expected to complete disbursements by the revised closing date of August 31,
1983. The Third Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1801-YU) is in its third
year of implementation. As of December 1982, 83% of the funds allocated to
Serbia are committed, 25% disbursea, and no major delays are anticipated. The
overall performance of Serbia under World Bank financed projects is good
compared to other Republics, but it is not entirely satisfactory. Procurement
continues to cause delays and delays have also arisen with regard to
commitment of individual sector loans. Disbursements are proceeding, but
slowly--mainly due to restrictions imposed on import licencing and granting of
credit by commercial banks under the current stabilization program in
Yugoslavia. These issues have been taken up with the Federal and Republican
Governments and Bank-project related imports and credits have recently been
exempted from the operation of the restrictive measures. Implementation and
disbursements under the projects are, therefore, expected to show improvements.
E. Project Background
1.13     The Serbia Regional Development project was identified by the Serbian
Government in 1980 and was prepared by experienced and well-known Institutes
in Belgrade!/. The Bank was also provided with assistance from the FAO/CP
program to review the proposed drainage component. The project preparation
report was submitted to the Bank in February 1981 and, following preparation/
preappraisal missions in September 1981 and February 1982, the project was
appraised in July 1982.
1.14     The Serbia Regional Development Project would be undertaken in the
Danube and Kolubara regions, which are located in the northern part of Serbia
(IBRD Maps Nos. 16607 and 16608). The concept and design of the project would
follow an earlier project for agricultural and agroindustrial development in
Serbia, the Morava II Regional Development Project (Loan 1951-YU, 1981). It
would also be complementary to investments made under the Second (Loan
1477-YU) and Third (Loan 1801-YU) Agricultural Credit Projects, in which
Serbia has participated along with other Republics and/or autonomous Provinces.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Sectoral Context
2.01     The project area of the Kolubara and Danube Regions accounts for 29%
of arable land, 26% of livestock, and 25% of orchards in SR Serbia. The area
has a total population of about 1.03 million, of which about 58% reside in the
rural areas representing about 27% of the agricultural population of SR
Serbia. Individual farmers own over 93% of the agricultural land. The per
capita income within the project area is the lowest in Serbia with the
exception of the Morava Region. Pockets of rural poverty and considerable
income disparities are also present. Of a total of 25 communes, 16 have been
declared less developed (per capita income between US$1,200 and US$1,500) by
the Government and qualify for assistance from the Serbian Fund for
Underdeveloped Regions (SFUR). Development of agriculture in the project area
is constrained due to a high level of migration from the rural to the urban
centers, lack of credit and extension services to the individual sector,
inadequate market arrangements, and lack of capital to improve land drainage
and to replace out-dated equipment and machinery. The proposed project would
address some of these development constraints.
1/ Institute for Agricultural Economics, Belgrade
Institute for Industrial Economics, Belgrade
Institute for Economics, Belgrade



- 6 -
B. Topography, Climate, Land Use and Soils
Location and Topography
2.02     Kolubara Region:  The Kolubara Region (IBRD Map No. 16608) covers
5,744 km' in the northwestern portion of SR Serbia encompassing 14 communes,
of which 9 are classified as underdeveloped. The region is bordered on the
north by the Sava River, on the south by the peaks of the Valjevo mountains,
to the east by valleys of the Kolubara and Ljig Rivers and to the west by the
Drina River. The principal relief forms are river valleys and basins, the
Macva Plain, the hilly sub-Panonian belt, and mountains. Alluvial plains of
varying widths stretch from the river valleys. The Macva plain constitutes a
separate morphological unit sloping from southwest to northeast at 78 to 90
meters altitude. Higher land southward of the valleys pertains to the hills
of the sub-Panonian belt at about 500 meters altitude, The mountainous area
to the extreme south is characterized by a series of steplike plateaus with
elevations from 600 to 1,100 m.
2.03     Danube Region:  The Danube Region (IBRD Map No, 16607) covers 5,099
km2 in the mid-northern portion of SR Serbia, encompassing the broad
territory of the lower course and confluence of the Danube and Velika Morava
Rivers and comprising 11 communes, of which 7 are classified as under-
developed. The Danube River forms a natural border to the north, the heights
of the Somrda, Homolja and parts of the Kucaja and Beljanica mountains
establish the southeastern and eastern boundaries, and the eastern fringes of
the Sumadijan hills form the western border. Plains and rolling land,
occupying 67% of the Region, extend from the confluence of the Velika and
Danube Rivers and along the long valleys of the Mlava and Pek rivers, and the
basins formed by the Jezgave and Godomina Rivers which flow into the Danube.
Hilly-mountainous terrain to the east rarely exceeds 1,000 m except for the
peaks.
Climate
2.04     A moderate continental climate prevails in the Kolubara and Danube
Regions. The mean annual temperature is about 110C. July is usually the
hottest month, averaging between the low to mid 20s. January is the coldest
month, averaging just slightly above or below the freezing point. Mean annual
precipitation exceeded 700 mm in 7 out of the past 10 years, with an average
of 730 mm. Rainfall is reasonably well distributed, thus contributing to
favorable conditions for agriculture. Maximum precipitation usually occurs in
May and June, and February and March record the least. Snow cover can last
from 20 to 50 days.
Land Use and Soils
2.05     Kolubara Region:  Of the total area of 574,000 ha, 70/O is agricul-
tural lanc, 25% is forests and about 5% comprises watercourses, roads,
settlements and nonproductive land, In the north and northeast portions of
the region agricultural land exceeds 80% of the total and in the south it
averages around 60X. Good productive soil types occupy about two-thirds of
the region, mostly below 600m elevation. These comprise the highly productive
black and brown forest soils; the lesser productive parapodzols, many of which
require land reclamation, and alluvial deposits and black marshy soils in the



-7-
flatlands, also usually requiring drainage. Particularly, the Macva plain
near the Sava and Drina Rivers is subject to periodic flooding. Under the
project, about 7,000 ha of arable land in three different areas would be
drained in order to enhance agricultural production. Upland soil types, at
600 to 800 m elevation, are formed on calcareous, serpentine, granitic and
schistous parent material, many of which are subject to erosion.
2.06     Danube Region: The total surface area of the Danube Region is 509,000
ha and agricultural land ocupies about 70%; whereas, in the eight communes
located primarily in the plains, the percentage exceeds 80%. Forests occupy
23% of the region although in the eastern upland area their presence is
greater. The region is exceptionally endowed with fertile soils with close to
60% of the arable land belonging to the first three classes. Farmland located
in alluvial plains near the Danube and Velika Morava Rivers suffer from annual
flooding. Four separate drainage schemes (15,000 ha total) to be financed
under the project would further increase the amount of good quality arable
land.
C. Present Land Use
2.07     Individual farmers own 94% of the arable land, 93% of the orchards
and vineyards, and 90% of the pastures and meadows. Average farm size is
about 4.5 ha, of which 2.5 to 3.5 ha are arable. Most farms are fragmented
and on the average comprise about 10 separate plots, often several kilometers
from each other, a serious constraint to accelerated growth of agricultural
production. The farms rely almost entirely on family labor and a large
proportion of farm families supplement their incomes with earnings outside the
farm. The typical farm combines mixed cropping and livestock production.
Virtually all farms produce maize, wheat, alfalfa and vegetables. In
addition, about 25% of the farm area is in natural meadows and pasture and an
additional small area (about 5%) in orchards. The farming system in the
project area is remarkably uniform and the effect of farm size is basically
one of scale. Large farms market more of their crops and livestock and have
more farm machinery, as would be expected. Home consumption of produce is an
important aspect of the small farm economy. Not only is the typical household
self-sufficient in flour, vegetables, fruits, firewood and brandy, but also in
livestock and poultry products. Backyard poultry production is universal.
Most farms produce their own firewood and plum brandy and, in construction and
building work, these small farms are remarkably self-reliant. The farmers
very often work together, sharing skills and equipment. For example, a large
portion of the fire clay bricks used for constructing dwellings and farm
buildings are producea on the farm, not to mention the wide use of home-grown
timber. The general level of farming skill in both Regions is above average
compared to other developing regions of Yugoslavia.
2.08     Both the Kolubara and Danube Regions have ideal conaitions for
growing continental fruits, as evidenced by the fact that these two Regions
alone supply 141 of Yugoslavia's total. The Danube Region has a long
tradition of vineyard culture, particularly the production of "Smederevo"
wines. Tobacco growing is gaining importance in the Kolubara Region with the
introduction of broad-leaf varieties such as Virginia and Burley. About 90%
of all the livestock in the project area belongs to the individual sector. In
1981 the livestock population consisted of about 402,000 cattle (including
373,000 cows and heifers), 565,000 sheep and 1,113,000 pigs (including 228,000
sows). The poultry flock is about 3.2 million. The project area accounts for



- 8 -
about 22%, 28%, 43% and 23% of Serbia's cattle, sheep, pigs -and poultry,
respectively.  Animals are fed almost entirely on home-grown forage, pasture,
hay and feed grains (maize, barley or wheat bran). Home-grown wheat is milled
into flour in the local village ann both flour and bran are consumed on the
farm. Milled wheat yields about 70% flour and about 30% bran which the farmer
takes back for on-farm animal feeding.  The total participation of the social
sector in primary production is very low; however, tchis sector owns a number
of large commercial farms for rearing and fattening livesLoc. and poultry and
several thousand hectares for grape and fruit productiorl0
D.  Agricultural Input and Suppo>  erv cz.
2.09     A significant element in the organization Of agriculture in the
proiect area comprises eight large scale agricultural ani an'; strial
kombinats (3 in Kolubara and 5 in Danube Region), through which various types
of affiliated farmer cooperatives (B'1CF, BCO and FC's) supp y inputs anu
technical assistance to the individual farmer i'n eturn for the pulrchase of
his production.  Inputs include day old chicks, fruit tree seedlings, improved
seed, fertilizer and plant protection materials.  A limited number of seed
processing facilities, livestock and poultry reproduction centers, and fruit
tree and grape vine stock nurseries exist in the project area, but their
output is insufficient to meet the full requirements of the ind-vidual sector.
2.10     In the past 15 years there has been a rapid increase in L-he number of
tractors, combines and farm implements in the individual sector. Currently in
the project area, farmers own about 30,000 tractors and 2,980 grain combines.
Average fertilizer use in the project area is 240 kg/ha of active substance,
being slightly above the average for SR Serbia.
2.11     In SR Serbia there is no centralized republic or commuae level
extension service, as in other parts of Yugoslavia. Technical assistance to
individual farmers is provided exclusively by part-time extension ageats
employed by agricultural working organizations and cooperatives. Collec-
tively, this group of specialists is referred to as the Basic Agricultural
Service. Currently, there is only one graduate agronomist and one
veterinarian for 480 and 600 households, respectively. These ratios are
inadequate to ensure effective coverage, a situation which is furi-her
aggravatea by lack of mobility and housing (particularly in the remote areas),
and excessive time devoted by the specialists to negotiating production
contracts between the processing industry and the individual farriaers
2.12     The principal source of technical information in the project area is
being provided by four agricultural stations. These agricultural stations are
attached to the main Agrokombinats as independent, self-supporting w.;;orking
organizations. They have no land of their own and applied research is done
through short-term contracts, thus impeding long-term planning and
continuity. Information is disseminated through seminars, conferences and
special courses.  The stations, with rather meager facilities, also attempt to
perform a service function such as product quality control, soil testing, feed
analysis and livestock improvement, but are unable to meet the increasing
demand for these services. Veterinary stations are anot'her source of
agricultural services providing animal health protection, artificial
insemination, and sale of some veterinary products. The project would address
the issue of improved technical assistance for the individual farmer through a



- 9 -
dual approach: firstly by strengthening that segment of the extension service
which would be directly involved in supporting the project's incremental
production, and secondly by financing a comprehensive study for the whole
Republic, aimed at developing a more efficient and cost-effective technical
assistance program.
E. The Banking Institutions
Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB) ; The Borrower
2.13     Udruzena Beogradska Banka, Belgrade (UBB), the Borrower under the
proposed loan, is an associated bank!/ comprising 20 basic banks in SR
Serbia representing about 4,300 working organizations with over 10,000 basic
organizations of associated labor (BOAL's). All 20 member banks have mutual
unlimited subsidiary liability for UBB obligations. UBB is the largest
banking system in Yugoslavia.
2.14     UBB was constituted according to the new banking law on March 29,
1978. It is the dominant banking institution in SR Serbia and performs a wide
range of services for its member banks, mainly in the field of foreign
borrowing and exchange transactions, and has a staff of over 580 employees of
which about 30% are graduates. Although UBB is not a direct borrower under
previous Bank loans, its largest member, Investbank (IB), is the borrower
under the Morava Regional Development II Project (Loan 1951-YU; US$87M). The
second largest member, Beogradska Banka/Belgrade, is participating in the
three agricultural credit projects (Loans 1129-YU, 1477-YU and 1801-YU
totalling US$36.9M allocated for SR Serbia).  UBB was also the lead bank to
organize the co-financing for the Transyugoslav Highway project (Highways XI -
Loan 1819-YU). UBB maintains representative branch offices in about 25 other
countries.  The consolidated balance sheet and income statement of UBB are
attached as Annex 9. UBB was selected to be the borrower under the project
since Yugoslav procedures and agreements between its basic banks stipulate
that only the associated banks retain the right to borrow abroad. UBB, with
support from the Republic Government of Serbia, has decided to entrust the
responsibility for project implementation and coordination to the Specialized
Agricultural Bank - Agrobanka. This procedure is in compliance with existing
Yugoslav banking laws and regulations.
Specialized Agricultural Bank (Agrobanka);(The Implementing Agency)
Institutional Framework and Present Organizational Structure
2.15     The Specialized Agricultural Bank, Agrobanka, was created in June
1981 on the basis of a resolution of the Assembly of SR Serbia as a successor
to the former Basic Agricultural Bank (BAB) which, in turn, had succeeded in
1977 the former Yugoslav Agricultural Bank. Agrobanka is also a member of the
associating banking group of Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB) which is the
borrower under the loan. On the basis of a self-management agreement,
Agrobanka is presently owned by 277 members comprising BOAL's, COAL's,
1/ An Associated Bank is estaDlished as a legal entity through a self-
management agreement of two or more basic banks.



- 10 -
cooperatives and other organizations. The medium-term and annual plans of
Agrobanka are approved in the annual meetings of its assembly which consists
of representatives from the participating organizations and is managed by a
nine-member Executive Board elected for a two year term. The day-to-day
business of Agrobanka is conducted by a Board of Management consisting of a
President and two Vice- Presidents appointed for a renewable term of four
years. Eight departments operate directly under the Board of Management
dealing with, among other things, organization, savings and credit,
international banking and World Bank affairs. By mid-1982, Agrobanka had an
aggregate staff of 273 including 165 professionals.
2.16     Agrobanka's transformation from a basic agricultural banK into a
specialized agricultural bank neither created a totally new institution nor
changed its nature as a "basic bank", nor its relationship to UBB. It was an
evolutionary, institutional change resulting from the need felt by Serbian
authorities to set up a specialized banking institution for the agricultural
sector. Agrobanka is called upon, in particular, to serve the long-term loan
capital requirements for the investments in the agricultural sector and agro-
industry. In 1981 its credit and loan portfolio was divided about equally
into Din 1 billion each for long-term loans and short-term credits. By 1985,
this ratio is projected to shift to Din 20 billion for long-term loans and Din
6 billion for short-term credits.
Lending Operations
2.17     Agrobanka's long-term investment credit approvals (including that of
its predecessor) amounted to Din 757 million in 1980 and declined to Din 666
million in 1981. The projections for 1982 to 1985 show a substantial increase
in its long-term lending operations as shown below.
Long-term Lending                                      Years
Operations                         1982         1983         1984         1985
----------------Din Million-------------
Non-World Bank Projects
Social Sector                4,029         2,083       2,527        2,207
Individual Sector               608          945          988       1,188
Sub-total                 4,637        3,028        3,515        3,395
World Bank Projects
Social Sector                   -          2,077          962         311
Individual Sector               -            371          509         498
Sub-total                   -          2,448        1,471          809
Total Lending Operations          4,637        5,467        4,986        4,204



- 11 -
The number of lending operations is expected to increase from 334 in 1982 to a
range of 450 to 500 annually during 1983, 1984 and 1985. Short-term credits.
Agrobanka's short-term credits outstanding amounted to Din 2,115 million at
the end of 1981 and are projected to increase to Din 3,300 million by the end
of 1985. The share of short-term credits in Agrobanka's total assets will,
however, be reduced from 44% to 12% over the same period. In view of the
increase in lending operations, Agrobanka has already increased its staff
capability from one medium-size appraisal group with about 30 staff members to
two full project divisions with a total of 60 staff members, including 48
professionals with university education. With this increase in staff, it is
expected that Agrobanka will cope with the increase in its operations.
Resource Mobilization
2.18     The main sources for Agrobanka's lending are expected to be drawn
from (a) compulsory contributions of "net income" of enterprises (0.38%), (b)
contributions from the "net credit potential" of the basic banks of SR Serbia
(0.3%), (c) compulsory contributions from the "net credit potential" of the
basic banks under the Green Plan (0.63%), and (d) loans from the Post Office
Savings Bank (Decree 359 of July 3, 1982).  World Bank funds are expected to
contribute to the long-term operations. Agrobanka's total resources are
projected to increase by Din 22,070 million over the period 1981-1985.  The
largest portion of that increase is expected to take place in long-term
resources which will increase by Din 18,060 million, while short-term
resources will contribute a total of Din 3,010 million. Agrobanka's long-term
foreign exchange resources are projected to increase by the equivalent of Din
3,100 million by 1985, almost all of which would be provided by World Bank
funds which should contribute about 14% of the total increase in Agrobanka's
resources over the period 1981-1985.
Financial Performance
2.19     Statements of income and expenses and balance sheets for Agrobanka
for 1980 and 1981 are contained in Annex 9. With total assets of Din 5
billion at the end of 1981, Agrobanka is one of the smaller of UBB's 20 member
banks whose total assets amounted to Din 552 billion at that time. Agrobanka,
as Yugoslav banks in general, is not expected to earn a high net income; its
income needs only to be sufficient to cover its costs, statutory obligations
and adequate provisions to its Joint Liability Fund and Reserves. Agrobanka's
average earning margin amounted to 2.3% in 1981 which compares satisfactorily
to other Yugoslav banks, while its administrative expenses amounted to 2.1% of
its total average assets for that year. However, this is comparatively high,
although it is explained by the fact that Agrobanka was in a transitional
phase in that year. For 1985, Agrobanka's financial projections envisage an
average earning margin of 1.6% which compares adequately with Yugoslav
averages. Its corresponding administrative costs as a percentage of average
total assets are projected to be reduced to 1.2% which is still comparatively
high. These projections would result in a residual margin available for
covering its statutory obligations and for the necessary strengthening of its
Joint Liability Fund and Reserve Fund of only 0.4% of its average total assets
in 1985, which is small. The financial projections also provide for only a
small increase in these two reserve funds which are forecast to amount to only
Din 88 million for the former and Din 69 milllion for the latter at the end of
1985. This would provide a coverage of only 0.7% of its risk bearing
portfolio of an estimated Din 21,300 million at the end of 1984 which would
not be adequate. Likewise, Agrobanka's total statutory funds (equity) would
amount to Din 333 million against a long-term debt of Din 20,292 million at



- 12 -
the end of 1985 which would reduce its debt/equity ratio from 2.5:1 in 1981 to
60;1 in 1985. In Yugoslavia, however, the debt/equity ratio cannot be used as
a conventional approach for assessing creditworthiness. Agrobanka's equity
base is small but, as a result of the self-management system, the bank's
operational risks are backed by the subsidiary unlimited liability of its
founding members, as well as by the member banks in the Associated System of
the Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB). In addition, Agrobanka's financial
structure is sound with a satisfactory liquidity; its portfolio has only an
insignificant portion of arrears and does not appear prone to any
extraordinary risks. The business of Agrobanka is being run in observance of
sound banking principles. A detailed description and discussion of
Agrobanka's organization, policies and procedures, operations and financial
situation and projection is contained in Working Paper C-9.
Appraisal Techniques and Capability of Agrobanka
2.20     One of the departments of Agrobanka is organized exclusively for
World Bank Projects with one appraisal and one follow-up division. Some
appraisal work of agricultual suprojects is also handled by the Sources and
Placements Department, resulting in some duplication of functions. Appraisal
techniques and procedures applied by Agrobanka appraisal teams are
unsophisticated and do not take into account the concepts of "present worth",
financial and economic rates of return and cash flow projections. Market
aspects and investors' implementation capabilities are not adequately dealt
with. Other than ad-hoc field visits, no regular program of project
monitoring and supervision is pursued. The proposed project is designed to
improve Agrobanka's appraisal and supervision capabilities.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01     The project would focus on development of the individual farm sector
in the Kolubara and Danube Regions. The project is conceived to generate
economic growth and would specifically aim at (i) increasing agricultural
production; (ii) improving rural incomes and employment opportunities; (iii)
reducing income disparities between developed and less developed communes;
(iv) increasing processed food products for the domestic and export markets
and (v) strengthening the technical support and credit delivery systems in the
project area. The project strategy to achieve these objectives is based on
fostering increased cooperation between the social and individual sectors with
each sector drawing on its respective comparative advantages. Individual
farmers offer the greatest potential for increasing primary agricultural
production as they own 94% of the agricultural land in the project area and
over 90% of the livestock. The social sector possesses the technical skills,
means and institutional framework to undertake the agroindustry and support
service investments. Subloans to the individual sector would finance
investments for increased primary production; subloans to the social sector
would finance investments in agroindustrial processing and support services,
thus stimulating production on individual farm holdings. Agricultural crop
production would also be increased and stabilized through land drainage and
land improvement works. The strategy would include the strengthening of the
role of Agrobanka as an agent of agricultural development in Serbia including
its capability to prepare appraisals and maonitor the implementation of
agricultural projects. These objectives of the project are in line with those
of the Agricultural Development Plan 1981-1985 for Serbia.



- 13 -
B. Project Description
3.02     The project would consist of six components: (a) on-farm investment;
(b) support services, (c) extension services, (d) agroindustry; (e) drainage
and (f) technical assistance to Agrobanka. A summary description of the main
project components is given below. For a detailed description, refer to
Annexes 4 to 8.
3.03     On-farm Production Investment:  This component would aim to achieve
an increase in the labor intensive production of livestock and fruit crops
through provision of credit to about 10,900 individual farmers. About 6,400
farmers have already been identified who would be interested in taking up
credit for deciduous orchards (65%), tobacco production (28%) and vineyards
(7%). Another 4,500 farmers were identified to take up credit for livestock
development whereby the majority would invest in pig fattening and piglet
production (39%) and in mixed dairy/beef production (30%). The remaining
numbers of farmers would invest in cattle 'fattening (16%), broiler and egg
procuctioA (7%), sheep production (4%) and bee keeping (4%).  Investment would
include construction of farm buildings, purchase of machinery, provision for
initial livestock and planting material for establishment of orchards and
vineyards. The actual investments for various farm types would remain
flexible according to market conditions and individual demands. Successful
and proven technology already practiced in the social sector would be applied
in the livestock and fruit production by the individual sector. Further
details and key assumptions used for preparation of farm models are given in
Annex 4.
3.04     Support Services:  In Yugoslav agriculture, the social sector
provides a series of services to the individual sector. The project would
provide improved availability of inputs, access to markets and technical
services. Financing of inputs would include farm mechanization particularly
for sugarbeet, sunflower and vegetables; 2 nurseries for fruit and vine
plantations; 2 seed processing centers; 8 repair workshops and 12 fuel storage
depots; one poultry hatchery, and 2 social sector breeding farms for poultry
and sheep. A forward linkage to the market and to agroindustry would be
investment in collecting centers for milk, herbs, mushrooms and medicinal
plants and drying facilities for plums and tobacco. A novel feature of this
component would be the execution of a genetic pig improvement program based on
performance and progeny testing. Good quality boars would be sold to the
individual sector. A detailed description of the support service component is
given in Annex 5.
3.05     Extension Services;  The project would strengthen the existing
agricultural extension services on the level of those basic working
organizations and cooperatives which are directly involved in the
implementation of the on-farm investments. The project would finance about 60
vehicles, 50 small apartments and 60 man/months of training abroad. The
activities of the specialists would be extended to individual farmers
particularly in less developed communes in the general spirit of Serbia's Five
Year Development Plan. The project would also finance the preparation of a
master plan in agricultural extension, technical assistance and applied
research for SR Serbia. The objective would be to improve and adapt the
existing services for providing more efficient and cost effective technical



- 14 -
assistance to individual farmers. The study would include an analysis of the
current situation and would make recommendations for the future, particularly
for the extension service, applied research, artificial insemination, milk
testing, animal improvement and soil and plant analysis. A more detailed
summary of the extension service component is included in Annex 6.
3.06     Agroinaustries;  Subloans would be provided for modernization and
reconstruction of 14 agroindustry facilities (a detailed description of these
agroindustries is in Annex 7) including 4 fruit and vegetable processing
plants to produce fruit juice, dried plums, prune cakes and frozen vegetable
products; 3 coldstores for storage of fruit and meat products; 2 livestock
feed mills to produce concentrate feed to support livestock development, and
five specialized facilities consisting of one oil mill, one potato processing
plant for french fries, one small communal and one specialized poultry
slaughterhouse, and the rehabilitation of one grain dryer with silo. The
items to be provided would include reconstruction and rehabilitation of
existing buildings, food processing equipment and transport equipment.
3.07     Drainage:  The main objectives of this component are to increase and
stabilize crop production and raise labor productivity. These would be
achieved by providing drainage facilities in an area of about 27,000 ha gross
(24,000 ha net). This area of 27,000 ha is divided into 7 sub-areas (3 in
Kolubara Region and 4 in Danube Region). These drainage projects for the
sub-areas would include flood control works; surface and tile drains; pumping
stations; on-farm development including roads and equipment for operation and
maintenance. Detailed features and a description of the seven drainage
projects are given in Annex 8.
3.08     Technical Assistance to Agrobanka:  The project would strengthen the
role of Agrobanka as a development banking institution and would provide for
financing the specialized services of a senior banking advisor for a period of
6 months, and the assistance of an experienced agricultural credit officer for
a period of 20 months. In addition, the project would finance incremental
computer equipment to upgrade existing computer facilities.
C. Status of Design and Project Implementation
3.09     Project implementation has already started in Fall 1982 and
disbursement is expected to begin shortly after effectiveness. For all 14
agroindustrial facilities to be financed under the project, bids have already
been invited in accordance with Bank Guidelines for ICB and contracts are
expected to be finalized prior to effectiveness of the Bank loan. Most of the
individual farmers and Basic Organizations participating under the on-farm
investment component for livestock and fruit production have been identified.
It is expected that Agrobanka would have appraised and approved about
one-third of first year investments in the individual sector by the time the
loan becomes effective. Detailed designs for drainage areas are being
prepared and bids are expected to be invited during 1983 and 1984 to allow the
signing of contracts and commencement of work during the 1984 construction
season, with the exception of one sub-project (Lajkovac) for which
construction woula begin in 1983.



- 15 -
D. Cost Estimates
3.10      Total project cost, including permanent working capital, physical and
price contingencies, but excluding interest during construction, is US$359.4
million (Din 22,826.0 million). The front-end fee on the Bank's loan amounts
to $1,012.407. Taxes and duties estimated at US$9.5 million are included in
the project cost. The foreign exchange component, which includes both direct
and indirect foreign exchange costs, is estimated at US$176.9 million or about
50% of the total cost. Unit costs are based on June 1982 Dinar estimates and
have been updated to December 1982 to reflect the effects of international
price escalation of 3.9% and the effects of the October 1982 devaluation of
the Dinar. Physical contingencies were estimated at 15% for drainage, 13% for
agroindustry and 7% for the support service and on-farm development
components, resulting in an average contingency provision of about 10% for the
whole project. A weighted average price contingency of about 13% on base cost
plus physical contingencies was included in the cost estimates. These
contingencies reflect the expected movement of international prices. Cost
estimates have been prepared in US dollars as the Government has decided to
adjust the value of the Dinar to compensate for differences in domestic and
international price movements. Cost estimates are summarized below in the
following table; further details, including physical and price contingencies
on each component, are in Annex 1, Table 1.
Project Cost Estimates
% of For. X of Total
Component                 Local  Foreign    Total  Local  Foreign    Total  Exchange  Base Cost
(Din Mill-------  _-------us$ Mill-----
On Farm Investments     3,897.8  3,326.9   7,224.7  61.4    52.4    i13.8        46.0      39.2
Support Service         1,994.9   2,087.7  4,073.6  31.4    32.7       b4.1      51.0      22.1
Extension Service          96.4      89.4    185.8   1.5       1.4       2.9     48.1       1.0
Agroindustry            2,434.2   2,320.3  4,754.5  38.3    36.6        74.9     48.8      25.8
Drai.nage                 970.5   1,190.3  2,160.8  15.3    18.7        34.0     55.1      11.7
Agrobank                     -       19.7     19.7    -        0.3      0.3    100.0        0.1
Total Base Cost         9,393.8   9,025.3  1B,4i9.1 147.9   142.1    290.0       49.U     100.0
Physical Contingencies    863.9    945.5   1,809.4  13.6    14.9        28.5     52.3       9.8
Price Contingencies/l    1,333.7   1,263.8   2,597.5  21.0    19.9     40.9      48.6      14.1
Total Project Costs/2   11,591.4  11,234.6  22,826.0  182.5   176.9    359.4     49.2        -
Front-end fee
on Bank loan              -      63.5      63.5    -        1.0      1.0    100.0         -
Interest during Constr.  5,798.5   2,165.7  7,964.2  91.3    34.1    125.4       27.2        -
Total Project Financial
Requirements         17,389.9  13,463.8  30,853.7  273.8   212.0    485.8      43.6        -
/I International Price Contingencies were used as follows:  1983 - 8%, 1984 - 7.5%, 1985 - 7%,
1986 and 1987 - 6%.
/2 Taxes and Duties are included, amounting to Din 480.6 million (US$7.5 million) for agro-industry
and support service, and Din 126.8 million (US$2.0 million) for the drainage component.



- 16 -
E. Project Financing
3.11     The preliminary financing plan is shown below
Project Financing Plan /1
Total
Total     Interest       Front-end   Project           % Share
Project   During         Fee on       Financial        in Funds
Cost      Construction  Bank Loan   Requirements   Required
------------------------US$ Millions-----------------------
Funds Required      359.4        125.4           1.0           485.3         100.0
Funding Sources
a) World Bank       127.5          7.5 /2        1.0           136.0          28.0
b) Agrobanka         53.9         71.9            -            125.8          25.9
c) SFUR              25.1           -             -             25.1           5.2
d) Local Banks       81.0         45.0            -            127.0          26.1
e) Investors'
Contributions   71.9            -             -             71.9          14.8
1/  A financing plan using project cost estimates on local (Dinar) price
contingency factors has been agreed during the negotiations and is included
in this report as Annex 10, Table 3
2/ Bank is financing only a part of interest during construction on the Bank
loan.
The proposed Bank loan of US$136 million would finance 28% of the total
financial requirements and 64%o of foreign exchange costs. It would include
part of the interest during construction and the capitalized front-end fee of
$1.012 million. Bank financing of interest during construction of US$7.5
million is justified by the financial requirements of investors in orchards,
vineyards and drainage with long gestation periods and slow build-up of cash
flows. Without the inclusion of this provision, the cash flow position of
sub-borrowers during the construction period would be unduly stretched. The
Government has requested that the front-end fee be financed out of the Bank
loan. Commencing 1984, the Borrower would prepare and submit to the Bank by
January 31 of each year, an updated financing plan including a revised
schedule of estimated expenditures, taking into account the effects of
inflation on costs. An assurance to this effect was obtained during
negotiations. The proposed Bank loan would be for 15 years, including three
years of grace. A portion of the loan would be repaid within this period on
the basis of an adjustable repayment schedule, reflecting repayments of
subloans by the sub-borrowers. The balance of the loan which would not be
on-lent to the sub-borrowers (technical assistance, studies, computer
equipment for Agrobanka and drainage facilities) would be repaid on the basis
of a fixed amortization schedule.
3.12     In view of the foreign exchange component of the project being
US$176.9 million and the Bank loan being US$136 million, co-financing would be
required to fill the external financing gap. The borrower is making efforts
to secure financial credit from commercial banks and other bilateral sources.
In this respect, the borrower has made contacts with commercial banks abroad



- 17 -
and discussions are progressing. The Bank has been assured that a definite
indication about the availability of co-financing would be provided by
December 31, 1983. The borrower has agreed to fill any financing gap (direct
and indirect foreign exchange) by increased commitment of domestic resources.
Should co-financing be available, the contribution of Agrobanka and the local
banks would be proportionately reduced. The Bank has agreed to consider
partially guaranteeing or funding the later maturities of such commercial
co-financing transactions up to an amount of US$10 million. In this event,
the proposed loan amount would be reduced by the amount of the Bank's
participation. If both local financing and co-financing abroad cannot be
secured by December 31, 1983, the Bank and the Borrower have agreed to
consider a reduction in the project scope.
F. ketroactive Financing
3.13     All final designs and tender documents for the first year
investments, except for the drainage component, are expected to be finalized
by about April 1983 and bids evaluated prior to loan effectiveness. Drainage
designs are proceeding and are expected to be completed by December 1983.
Expenditures incurred for the preparation of final designs, cost estimates and
bidding documents for the drainage component up to an amount ot US$0.8 million
would be financed retroactively from the proposed loan. In addition,
expenditures incurred for investment in the on-farm development component, up
to an amount of US$2.0 million, would be eligible for retroactive financing.
G. Procurement
3.14     Procurement for (i) agroindustries equipment estimated to cost about
US$20 million, (ii) turnkey construction for four agroindustry facilities
costing about US$27 million, (iii) major equipment and agricultural machinery
for support services, including vehicles for the extension service amounting
to about US$36.5 million and (iv) all drainage works including civil works and
0 & M equipment costing about US$45 million would be carried out following
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Yugoslav manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% or the applicable
customs duty, whichever is lower. Computer equipment for Agrobanka valued at
US$50,000 would be procured through Limited International Tendering (LIT).
Contracts for agroindustry equipment would include provisions to train local
staff in operation and maintenance.
3.15     Civil works for agroindustry and support services, establishment of
nurseries, fuel storages, workshops, poultry and sheep farms and extension
services amounting to about US$63.8 million and procurement of miscellaneous
goods estimated at US$1.9 million would be carried out under Local Competitive
Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank. Works and equipment involved
are not suitable for ICB as they are unlikely to attract foreign bidders due
to the dispersion of investors, wide differences in the types of construction
and equipment required and the relatively small size of each contract.
Sufficient commercial channels and civil work contractors are available in
Yugoslavia to provide adequate competition for the supply of goods and civil
works needed under these components.
3.16     Procurement under this project is estimated to value about US$194
million and is expected to result in about 120 to 160 contracts. Of these,
about 50 ICl contracts amounting to about US$130 million would be reviewed by
the Bank representing roughly 70% of the total value of procurement.



- 18 -
H. Disbursements
3.17     The proceeds of the proposed Bank loan of US$136.0 million would be
disbursed over a 5 year period and would be made as follows:
% of
Amount of Loan       Expenditures to
Loan Category                                   Allocated             be Financed
---us$ mill---
1.  Subloans to Individual Sector              47,350,000          46% of amounts
disbursed by
Agrobanka
2.  Subloans to Social Sector                                       100% of foreign
Support Services                        27,600,000           expenditures and
Extension Services                        1,077,593          50% of local
Agroindustries                           32,360,000          expenditure dis-
bursed by Agro-
banka
3.. Drainage Sub-Projects
(a)  Civil Works                            11,100,000          55%
(b)  Equipment                               2,000,000          100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost)
(c)  Engineering                           4,400,000           100%
(d)  Training                               1,000,000          100%
4.  Equipment for Agrobanka                        50,000           100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expendiures (ex-
factory cost)
5. Consultants services for Agrobanka and
Master Plan for Extension Service            550,000          100%
6.  Interest During Construction                7,500,000          Amount due
7.  Front-end Fee                               1,012,407          Amount due
TOTAL LOAN AMOUNT                     136,000,000
3.18     Disbursement would be supported by full documentation in the case of
foreign expenditures for agroindustries, support services and extension
services; for the drainage component, and local expenditures for contracts
above US$500,000. For sub-loans for the individual sector and local contracts
below US$500,000, the Bank would disburse against statements of expenditure
(SOE), since they would involve on-lending for small borrowers, and would
finance small and numerous local expenditures. Agrobanka is considered



- 19 -
capable of using SOE procedures which would be audited by SDK (see para.
4.21). The documentation in support of SOE's would be retained by Agrobanka
and would be available for inspection by the Bank during the course of project
implementation.  Annex 2 gives an estimated disbursement schedule summarized
as follows:
Bank          FY    64       85      86       87       88
 --------us$ mill           --------
Annual              16.2    32.2    38.6    24.9    24.1
Cumulative          16.2    48.4    87.0   111.9   136.0
In preparing the disbursement schedule, account has been taken of the proposed
project phasing (Chart WB 24324), and past Yugoslav agriculture sector
disbursement profiles (Annex 2). Better disbursement than past averages is
anticipated during the initial period, since project preparation is well
advanced.
I. Environment and Health
3.19     The project would not have any adverse environmental impact on the
area.  It is likely to have beneficial effects by providing drainage to the
water logged land in over 20,000 ha in several locations. The sub-borrowers
for agroindustry investments would be required to have adequate effluent
treatment facilities.  No detrimental effects on the physical, chemical or
biological regime of the rivers in the project area are expected.
J. Role of Women
3.20     In Yugoslavia, equality of women is neither a political problem nor a
problem of legal status in society. Yugoslavia has made considerable progress
with respect to ensuring equal opportunities for women. In the project area,
the number of women as a percentage of the agricultural population is about
the same as in SFR Yugoslavia and SR Serbia (53%). But women as a percentage
of the active agricultural population in the Kolubara-Danube region is 46%,
slightly more than for the country as a whole (42%). Women are expected to
gain more than half of the employment opportunities created under the
agroindustries and support services components of the project, and would
participate significantly in livestock, crop and fruit production on
individual farms. There are many women among the professional staff in the
institutions with which the Bank would be involved in the proposed project.
IV. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Institutional Arrangements
4.01     Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB) Associated Belgrade Bank as Borrower
of the proposed loan would sign a loan agreement with the World Bank under the
guarantee of SFR Yugoslavia (para 2.14). UBB would pass on the proceeds of
the proposed loan to its Specialized Agricultural Bank - Agrobanka. The Bank
would sign a project agreement with Agrobanka, the agency responsible for
project implementation, and with the two Intercommunal Regional Communities of
the Kolubara and Danube Regions. A Consortium Agreement (CA) has been
executed between UBB, Agrobanka, Investbanka, Yugobanka, Beogradska Banka and
the basic banks in the Kolubara and Danube Regions to ensure the availability
of local funds for the project.  In addition, Agrobanka would sign a Project



- 20 -
Implementation Agreement with the Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions
(SFUR Agreement) to provide for SFUR's contribution to the financing of the
project. Agrobanka would enter into separate implementation and financing
agreements with four investors responsible for the seven drainage projects,
three of whom are in charge of two subprojects each. Physical implementation
of works for the agroindustries, support service and drainage components would
be carried out by about 48 different Working Organizations (WO), Basic
Organizations of Associated Labor (BOAL's), and Agrokombinats. The lending to
about 10,900 individual farmers and the extension services would be done
through about 50 Basic Organizations of Cooperative Farms (BOCF's) and Farmers
Cooperatives (FC's). These institutional arrangements are shown in Chart WB
24325.
B. Project Coordination
4.02     The Borrower, Agrobanka, SFUR, Intercommunal Regional Communities,
local banks, organizations of associated labor and Self Management Communities
of Interest for management of water resources and for land reclamation
involved in project implementation would sign a Self-Management Agreement
(SMA) among themselves regulating their mutual rights, responsibilities and
obligations (Annex 12). There would be a separate SMA for each region. In
addition, for guaranteeing certain financial obligations with respect to the
carrying out of the project, Agrobanka and investors would enter into an
agreement on financial participation (Kolubara and Danube Participation
Agreements).  The approval and sigiing of these documents would be a condition
of effectiveness of the loan.
4.03     Project implementation would be coordinated at three levels: (i) one
Interregional Coordination Board under the chairmanship of the Agrobanka would
meet at the Republic level in Belgrade and include representatives from the SR
Serbia Executive Council, the Republic Committee for Agriculture, Agrobanka,
SFUR, UBB, the two Intercommunal Regional Communities (IRC's), and the Union
of Cooperatives. The Institutes for Economics, Agricultural Economics and
Industrial Economics woula serve as ex-officio members of this Board. (ii)
At the regional level, each region would have its own coordination board under
the chairmanship of the President of the IRC, which would comprise
representatives from the local Chamber of Commerce, the Association of
Cooperatives, Communes, Basic Banks and Composite Work Organizations. (iii) A
third level of coordination would be established at Kombinat level to
coordinate the on-farm investments in the Individual sector. These
organizational arrangements are shown in Chart WB 24323. Coordination Boards
have already been established at republic and regional levels. The regional
SMA's (para 4.02) to be signed prior to the effectiveness of the loan would
ensure that coordination under this project would be maintained during the
implementation period.
C. Project Organization and Implementation
4.04     Project implementation commenced in the fall of 1982 and would
continue over a period of 5 years. Provisions would be made for a joint
mid-term review of project implementation by Agrobanka and the Bank not later
than September 1985. The purpose of this mid-term review would be to evaluate
progress made, objectives achieved and to consider modifications as may be
required. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations. The
major organizations involved in project implementation and their
responsibilities are described below.



- 21 -
D. The Borrower: Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB)
4.05     All loan proceeds from the Bank would be channeled through UBB to
Agrobanka under the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan. For that
purpose UBB would enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with Agrobanka
(UBB-Agrobanka Agreement) under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank. The signing of the UBB-Agrobanka agreement would be a condition of
effectiveness. While the role of UBB in implementing the project would be
limited, UBB would be expected to assist Agrobanka in mobilizing local funds
and obtaining foreign funds through co-financing arrangements.
E. The Implementing Agency: Agrobanka (SAB)
4.06     Agrobanka would implement the project with the assistance of the two
Intercommunal Regional Communities of Kolubara and Danube Regions. To ensure
availability of local funds, Agrobanka has organized and signed a Consortium
Agreement (CA) with several basic member banks of UBB, in particular between
Agrobanka, Investbanka, Beogradska Bank, Yugobank and basic banks in the
Kolubara and Danube Regions. In addition, assurances were obtained during
negotiations that, prior to effectiveness, Agrobanka would sign separate
sub-project implementation and financing agreements with the investors of the
6 drainage projects in regard to special financing, procuremnent and
implementation arrangements and the investors would sign a Self Management
Agreement with appropriate organizations of associated labor. Signing of
similar agreements for the Zabari drainage project would be a condition of
loan disbursement.
4.07     Agrobanka is a young institution and has been called upon to serve
the long term capital requirements for the agricultural sector in SR Serbia.
Agrobanka is in the process of evolving a strong development orientation in
its policies and procedures, and formulating a strategy to promote
agricultural development through its credit operations. A major objective of
the project is to assist Agrobanka in its efforts to become a development
banking institution. The current staff and organization, structure, lending
policies and procedures, which have been described in Chapter II (paras 2.15
to 2.20) are considered generally acceptable for their present workload. The
project would add to the responsibilities of Agrobanka. The following
measures would be undertaken for efficient discharge of its responsibilities:
(i)    Internal Auditor:  The position of internal auditor exists in
the Business Secretariat of Agrobanka but has not been
filled. Agrobanka would employ not later than December 31,
1983 a full-time qualified internal audit specialist.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
(ii)   Training of Agrobanka Staff:  The majority of Agrobanka staff
have received higher education and 30% have university
qualifications. The lack of regular in-house training is a
serious constraint. Agrobanka would therefore employ, not
later than December 31, 1983, a qualified, full-time training
officer whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to
the Bank and who would prepare a comprehensive staff training
program acceptable to the Bank. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.



- 22 -
(iii) Specialized Consultant and Credit Officer: Agrobanka agreed
to speed up future project identification and loan application
processing, and promote a more development oriented approach
towards the individual farm sector. For this purpose
Agrobanka would employ a specialized development consultant
for a period of b months. The consultant would be assigned to
the President's office as senior advisor and be available for
assistance to Agrobanka's senior staff and the project
implementation unit (see (v) below). He would assist the
management in the implementation of the various
recommendations. In addition, Agrobanka would engage an
experienced agricultural credit officer to be assigned to the
project unit for a period of 20 months to train and assist
Agrobanka project staff in project appraisal, procurement,
project monitoring and end-use supervision. Cost of the
consultants estimated at US$10,000 per man/month has been
included in the project cost. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that Agrobanka would employ the senior advisor
and the agricultural credit specialist under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank not later than December 31,
1983 and select them according to Bank guidelines.
(iv)   Computer Support for Agrobanka:  Agrobanka is upgrading its
existing computer facility. The project would finance
incremental computer equipment for use in subproject
appraisal, monitoring and end-use supervision, including four
interactive terminals, connections, financial modelling
package, data base management system and FORTRAN (required to
use IBRD COMPASS project analysis).
(v)    Organization and Management:  Agrobanka would review its
present organization and management system and implement a
number of recommendations made to strengthen its performance
as follows: (a) Monitoring of Operational Activities:
Agrobanka has no department which systematically monitors its
operational activities (appraisal work, end-use supervision)
and there are no systematic target schedules or target
supervision. A monitoring operations unit at the Business
Secretariat to report to the Vice-President, Operations would
be required. (b) Project Department: Two project departments
presently exist under different vice-presidents. There is
duplication of functions and staff, lack of coordination and
different standards of project appraisal due to departmental
separation of IBRD projects. Recommendation is made to
reorganize these two departments, preferably into one general
but exclusive project department. (c) Project Operation
Evaluation: Agrobanka has no facilities and services in the
field of post-evaluation. A recommendation is made to prepare
suitable policies and procedures and to establish an
appropriate service within Agrobanka. (d) Internal Audit
Office: Considering the importance of this position, an
independent office reporting directly to management would be
required rather than the existing arrangement operating
through the Business Secretariat. (e) Support Staff:
Agrobanka does not have a sufficient number of support staff.
By 1985 Agrobanka's professional staff would have increased
from 162 to 238 whereas support staff is not expected to



- 23 -
increase adequately. Agrobanka would be required to assess the
future requirements for non-operational and support staff. These
measures have been discussed and agreed in principle with Agrobanka.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Agrobanka, with the
assistance of the senior specialized consultant and in close
collaboration with the Bank, would prepare a plan of action no later
than June 30, 1984 and would subsequently implement the agreed plan
not later than September 30, 1985.
F. On-lending Procedures
4.08     The investors under the project would submit loan applications
simultaneously to Agrobanka, SFUR and local banks for approval. Separate loan
applications are necessary since, under local regulations, the credit board of
each financier must approve loans. However, to avoid duplication of work and
speed up subloan approval, Agrobanka alone would appraise each subproject and
would make the appraisal report available to SFUR and local banks concerned.
Detailed appraisal guidelines and methodology have been developed and agreed
betwen the Bank and Agrobanka (Annex 13). For individual sector loans,
farmers first apply to their cooperatives which assist with investment plan
preparation and appraises the applicant's creditworthiness. Then, the
applications are grouped together (minimum 20) before being forwarded to the
basic bank. For all legal purposes, the BOCF's are the borrowers and on-lend
to farmers who make debt service payments to the BOCF. Loan processing
usually takes about 6 months, although in exceptional cases applications can
be completed within 30 days. Agrobanka would analyze the procedures for the
individual sector loans and try to simplify and shorten the appraisal method.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Agrobanka would follow the
Bank's criteria for appraising agricultural subprojects as outlined in Annex
13.
4.09     Appraisal Methodology:  All social sector investments in the
agroindustry, support service and drainage components were fully appraised by
the Bank and found financially viable and technically feasible. A further
review by the Bank will not be necessary unless there is a major change in the
design of subprojects and/or investment costs increase by more than 20% of the
appraisal estimate, including contingencies. In case of major changes in
social sector sub-projects, Agrobanka would be required to prepare, and send
to the Bank for its approval, a full technical and economic appraisal report.
Sub-loans to the individual sector would be made by Agrobanka in accordance
with the methodology already agreed to by the Bank (para 4.08) and prior
review by the Bank is not considered necessary. All subproject appraisal
reports would be available for inspection by the Bank on request and/or during
project supervision to ensure that agreed methodologies are followed. All
sub-loan approvals would be reported to the Bank at semi-annual intervals
(para 4.25). Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Agrobanka
would follow the above procedures.
G. Un-lending Terms and Conditions
4.10     Project subloans would be based on cash flow projections for each
investment. The repayment period of individual sector subloans for orchards
and vineyards would range up to 15 years, with a grace period of 5 years;
while tobacco production and livestock subprojects would normally not exceed



- 24 -
10 and 13 years respectively, including a grace period of 3 years. For
agroindustry subprojects repayment periods would normally not exceed 13 years
including grace periods of up to 3 years and for the drainage subprojects,
repayment would be in 15 years with a three year grace period. Subborrowers
would normally be required to contribute 20% of total investment costs in
either cash, kind or labor.
4.11     The interest rates for on-lending under the project would be as
follows: (a) The proceeds of the bank loan would be passed on by the Borrower
to Agrobanka on the same terms and conditions as the IBRD loan. (b) Agrobanka
would on-lend to the social sector sub-borrowers at the same rate as the Bank
loan plus a spreaa of 1.25% to cover administrative costs, except in the case
of the drainage investors where a fee of 0.5% will be charged. In the case of
the individuai sector sub-borrowers, a minimum rate of 18% will be charged.
The foreign exchange and variable interest rate risk of the IBRD loan will be
borne by the social sector sub-borrowers and, in the case of the individual
sector, the foreign exchange and variable interest rate risks will be borne by
the Government of the Socialist Republic of Serbia. (c) For the portion of
domestic funds provided from resources of Agrobanka and other local banks, the
interest rate would be a minimum of 18/. for the social and individual
sectors. (d) For the portion of domestic funds to be provided from SFUR
resources, their prevailing interest rate would apply (currently 5% to 5.5%).
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that Agrobanka would adhere to
the above on-lending terms and conditions.
4.12     Despite a prevalent view in Yugoslavia that the role of interest
rates in investment allocation is subordinate to that played by social
planning and group consensus, a more active use of interest rate policy has
increasingly become the object of Government policy. Indeed, the new Federal
Social Plan and the National Assembly has resolved that interest rates should
play a more important role in resource mobilization and allocation. The
medium term objective is to introduce over time a structure of positive real
interest rates by gradually adjusting nominal rates upwards and concurrently
reducing inflation. In this respect, Government anti-inflationary measures,
applied in accordance with agreements reached with the IMF, have succeeded in
bringing inflation down from an annual rate of over 50% in the first half of
1981 to about 30% in 1982. A minimum interest rate of 18% to be charged for
local commercial bank funds would be positive in real terms, taking into
account the Government policy to bring about a reduction in the inflation rate
by 1985 to the level of around 13-15%. In any event, the Government is in the
process of making commitment to annually adjust interest rates to positive
real levels within the next three years. In this context, it is also expected
that interest rates on subloans under this project, as well as subloans using
uncommitted proceeds from ongoing Bank loans which would be approved
subsequent to Government decision on applicability, would be annually adjusted.
H. Other Participating Organizations
Serbian Fund for Under-developed Regions (SFUR)
4.13     SFUR was created as a legal entity in 1961 to stimulate and support
the accelerated development of economic activities in the under-developed
regions of SR Serbia. SFUR receives more than 80% of its total resources
through contributions from social sector organizations in Serbia which are
legally obliged to contribute 0.5% of their annual gross social product for



- 25 -
the development of less developed areas of Serbia. SFUR supports enterprises
directly through loans or joint venture participation, or indirectly through
interest rate subsidies and grants. SFUR is managed through a 51 delegate
Assembly elected by municipal and regional assemblies and the Assembly of
Serbia. SFUR's Assembly elects an Executive Committee which is responsible
for all policies and operations of SFUR and appoints its Director.
4.14     SFUR would enter into a Project Implementation Agreement with
Agrobanka (Annex 12) in respect of its share of financing of investments in
the lesser developed communes of the project area. SFUR would also be part of
the regional SMA's (paras 4.01 and 4.02). Signing of the agreement would be a
condition of loan effectiveness.
Intercommunal Regional Communities (IRC)
4.15     Within Serbia, the regional association of communes into so-called
"Intercommunal Regional Community" (IRC) goes back to 1975 and is based on
social compacts signed by the participating communes. The main objectives of
a regional association of communes are to promote and ensure inter-communal
cooperation; initiate and support regional development; pooling of resources,
and provide common services for its members. Each IRC is a legal entity with
its own statutes, an assembly of delegates elected by the commune assemblies
and a president-elect. The Kolubara and Danube Regions together comprise 25
communes out of which 14 are located in Kolubara and 11 in Danube region.
IRC's of both regions have actively pursued and financially participated in
the preparation of this project. The performance of each IRC in managing
thorough project preparation and in mobilizing Government and participant
commitment so far has been excellent. Both are fully committed to the success
of this project and are expected to play an important role in its
implementation. For this purpose, IRC's in both regions have established
Regional Implementation Units under managing directors.  The head offices of
the regional units are located in Valjevo for the Kolubara Region and in
Pozarevac for the Danube Region.
4.16     The IRC's of the Kolubara and Danube Regions would be responsible
under the project for (a) mobilizing and strengthening participant commitment
for project implementation, (b) maintaining Regional Project Implementation
Units; (c) reviewing progress in project implementation on the basis of
monitoring and evaluation arrangements (para 4.23) and taking appropriate
remedial actions, (d) adjusting the targets and quotas between the
organizations participating in the project if needed, (e) consulting Agrobanka
on a regular basis, particularly concerning any major reorganization of
participating organizations under the project which may affect project
implementation and, (f) assisting the participating investors and work
organizations in project implementation. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that IRC's in both regions would maintain the regional
implementation units adequately staffed.
Implementing Organizations
4.17     Physical implementation of project works for 'agroindustry, support
services and drainage would be carried out by about 48 different working
organizations. Three Composite Organizations of Associated Labor (COAL),
namely Valjevo, Sabac and Loznica, are engaged in the Kolubara Region in a



- 26 -
wide variety of activities ranging from cooperation with individual farmers to
agricultural production; fruit, milk and meat processing, and retailing food
and other products and service facilities in the project area. In the Danube
Region, there is one Composite Organization (COAL-AIK Pozarevac) and a number
of smaller organizations such as AIK Srbija - 10 October, AIK Godomin, ATK
Mlava and some other working organizations not yet associated. The major
implementing organizations are described in detail in Annex 11.
I. Technical Assistance and Training
4.18     Pig Breeding Program:  The social sector pig breeding enterprises,
AIK Letnjikovac and Velika Plana, would undertake a pig breeding improvement
program by (a) expanding their existing pig improvement activities, (b)
establishing a performance and progeny testing program, (c) selecting superior
breeding boars on the basis of growth rate and feed conversion efficiency, and
(d) organizing sales of high quality boars to the individual sector. The
assistance of an specialized expert in pig breeding would be required and
superior boars and sows would be imported to broaden the gene pool.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the investment proposal and
plan would be submitted to the Bank for approval not later than December 31,
1984.
4.19     Master Plan for Agricultural Extension, Technical Services and
Applied Research: Agrobanka, in cooperation with the Serbian Republic
Committee for Agriculture, would engage an experienced consulting organization
or consultants acceptable to the Bank to elaborate a master plan for
agricultural extension, technical services and applied research for SR
Serbia. The objective of the study would be to review the existing services
available, determine the need for such services to maximize the potential
development, and prepare a detailed plan and program to improve the existing
agricultural services. The study is expected to take one year to complete and
is estimated to cost US$300,000. Terms of reference were prepared by the
Committee for Agriculture and were reviewed during negotiations. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that Agrobanka, in cooperation with the
Republic Committee for Agriculture, would employ consultants under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank to prepare the master plan for agricultural
extension, technical services and applied research and to submit the plan to
the Bank not later than December 31, 1984.
4.20     Training of Extension Staff:  Training requirements for staff of
different participating organizations under the extension service component
are estimated at 60 man/months abroad. Training emphasis would be on pasture
and sheep production, artificial insemination technology, forage quality,
agricultural mechanization and agronomy of industrial crops, principally
sugarbeet. The IRC's of each region would be responsible for coordinating the
preparation of the training program through the various working organizations
concerned. Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
J. Accounts and Audit
4.21     The accounting arrangements and capability of UBB and Agrobanka have
been examined and found satisfactory in their scope and accuracy. Agrobanka
would maintain separate accounts for subloan disbursements and other project
expenditures under the project. The Borrower (UBB) and Agrobanka would have
their accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income



- 27 -
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by the
Yugoslav Social Accounting Service (SDK), an independent auditing organization
acceptable to the Bank.  UBB and Agrobanka would furnish to the Bank, as soon
as available but in any case not later than 6 months after the end of each
fiscal year, certified copies of their financial statements for the year,
audited as above, and the report of SDK. The auditors would also give a
separate opinion as to whether satisfactory procedures are in operation to
ensure that Statements of Expenditures (SOE) supported withdrawals have been
used for project purposes. Assurances were obtained from UBB and Agrobanka
during negotiations that these accounting and auditing requirements would be
followed.
K. Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.22     Monitoring and evaluation of the project would be done at two
levels. The first would be at the Regional level; the second at Agrobanka
level. To this effect, the regions and Agrobanka would be assisted by a
suitable experienced Yugoslav institute (or institutes) whose qualifications
and experience are acceptable to the Bank.  The institute would be employed by
Agrobanka no later than December 31, 1983 under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances to this effect were obtained during
negotiations.
4.23     Monitoring at Regional Level.  The Regional Project Implementation
Units familiar with the local situation would be responsible for supervising
the physical project implementation at the investor level. These units,
assisted by Agrobanka, would be responsible for gathering key indicators of
progress of works (number of livestock farmers coming into production, number
of hectares planted, yields obtained). The units would identify bottlenecks
affecting project implementation and report them to their regional
coordination board and to Agrobanka who would take appropriate action if
necessary.
4.24     Monitoring at Agrobanka level.  Agrobanka would monitor the project
during implementation through field supervision of subprojects and review of
key indicators provided by the Regional project implementation units. It
would monitor the number of subprojects under preparation and implementation,
subloan approvals and the number of farmers financed, overall status of
commitments, disbursements, loan recoveries and the impact of price policies
on the project.
4.25     Reporting.  Agrobanka would prepare semi-annual progress reports to
the Bank in an agreed format and in line with similar reporting requirements
in other Bank financed Yugoslav projects. The format would reflect the
information provided through the above monitoring system (paras 4.23 and
4.24). Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
4.26     Evaluation.  To evaluate the impact of the project, Agrobanka
assisted by the two IRC's and respective institute(s) referred to in para 4.22
above, would carry out an on-going evaluation of investments. Data on costs,
benefits and financial viability of main investments on the basis of suitable
sampling methods would be collected and analyzed. Agrobanka would prepare an
annual evaluation report and submit it to the Bank no later than 3 months
after the end of each fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.



- 28 -
4.27     Project Completion Report.  Promptly after completion of the project,
but not later than six months after the closing date, Agrobanka would prepare
and furnish to the Bank a report on the execution of the project, its costs
and the benefits derived and to be derived from it. The report would discuss
the performance by the Bank, UBB, Agrobanka, SFUR and IRC's, and their
respective obligations under the proposed loan and project agreements. During
negotiations assurances were obtained for the timely submission of the report
in a format acceptable to the Bank.
L. Cost Recovery
4.28     The drainage investment costs would be financed by a 20% equity
contribution, and 80% borrowed funds. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that debt service (principal and interest) would be recovered
from the subproject beneficiaries in the form of an annual per hectare
subproject levy which would be charged commencing 2 years after completion of
construction. The subproject levy is being collected from the local commune
and is expected to be about Din 9,950 per hectare at full development. In
addition, the individual farmers pay a land tax calculated on the basis of the
cadastral value of the land determined every few years by local authorities
according to the land's estimated productivity and any incremental land tax
revenue accruing as a result of the drainage subproject can be considered to
be an indirect recovery of capital outlays made on behalf of the individual
sector from community budgets.  It is estimated that this tax would increase              f
as a result of land improvement from the current level of Din 3,800 per
hectare to Din 4,180. The agricultural social sector enterprises in Serbia
pay a tax equal to about 30% of gross income. As in the case of land taxes,
any incremental income tax revenue accruing to the commune as a result of the
subproject would be considered an indirect recovery of subproject costs. The
direct and indirect charges are expected to secure full cost recovery.
4.29     Operation and maintenance costs associated with the drainage system
would be recovered commencing in 1985 through an appropriate annual per
hectare charge collected by the local fiscal agency of the commune. This
charge is estimated to be about Din 1,480 per hectare at full development.
The drainage charges would be gradually increased to the full development
level in order to alleviate the financial burden of farmers during the early
years of operations. Any deficits during the construction would be covered by
provisions of additional funds by Agrobanka. Assurances to this eftect were
obtained during negotiations.
4.30     In order to evaluate the adequacy of the proposed drainage charges,
two indices have been used which are defined as follows for this subproject;
(a) Cost recovery index. The ratio of the present value of subproject charges
to be paid by the beneficiaries to the present value of project investment,
operation and maintenance costs. This ratio, discounted at 12% and
denominated in constant pricesl/, indicates a cost recovery of 47% of the
costs. (b) Subproject charges/incremental benefits ratio. The ratio of the
present value of subproject charges to be paid by beneficiaries to the present
value of incremental benefits accruing to the beneficiaries. This ratio,
discounted at 12% in constant terms, is 33%. The above 'cost recovery index
and the subproject charges/incremental benefits ratio are in parity with the
1/ Debt service payments and the related project levy are deflated by the
estimated long-run inflation rate (15%) to express them in constant
values.



- 29 -
ones estimated in recent drainage projects in Yugoslavia. The ratios indicate
that farmers will retain a sufficient portion of their incremental income to
provide incentives for them to participate in the project. The two ratios
also indicate that a reasonable portion of the drainage subproject costs can
be recovered, and the level of charges seems to be in line with the
beneficiaries' ability to pay. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the level of subproject charges would be acceptable to the Bank and the
level of O&M charges would be reviewed annually.
4.31     Costs of all other project components would be recovered through loan
debt servicing.
V.  PRODUCTION, PRICES, MARKETS, AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
5.01     As a result of investments in livestock and horticultural production,
drainage and support services under the project, farmers would be able to
intensify production, raise yields and shift to higher value activities. The
farmers would benefit from increased efficiency through greater use of
mnechanization and other essential inputs ranging from day-old chicks to fruit
tree seedlings, plant protection, chemicals and technical assistance. Total
arable land would increase by 29% as a result of reclaiming marshes and
converting degraded natural grassland and periodically flooded arable areas
into cultivable land. The project would thus induce annually the following
quantities of incremental output of primary agricultural products, valued at
Din 9,381 million (US$204 million);
Incremaental Output and Value of Primary Agricultural Products
Incremental Value
Incremental Production        at Full Development
Product               Unit         at Full Development            (Million Dinars)
Fruit                 Tons                26,831                         332.4
Tobacco                "                   1,983                         171.5
Cereals                "                  74,045                         792.1
Industrial Crops       "                530,085                        1,592.4
Vegetables             "                  39,599                         429.6
Milk (cows)            '000 litres        13,952                         209.3
Milk (sheep)           "                     492                           9.8
Cattle                Tons l.w.           29,182                       2,905.5
Sheep                  "    "                250                          41.6
Pigs                   "                  19,895                       1,578.7
Poultry                      I f           9,052                         503.9
Eggs                  Mill. Pcs.             150                         808.9
Wool                  Tons                    32                           5.7



- 30 -
5.02     As a result of investment in 14 agroindustries, a substantial
increase in the production of processed products would be obtained; the
estimated output at full development is presented in Annex 7, Table 2. The
total value of annual incremental output from agroindustries is estimated to
be about Din 4,426 million (US$96 million) at June 1982 prices. The above
estimates are based on an assortment of products and are consistent with
market opportunities, but are subject to variations with changing market
conditions.
B. Marketing and Market Prospects
5.03     Market prospects for primary products have been analyzed in relation
to raw material intake requirements of existing and proposed processing
capacities of agroindustries in the project area, as well as demand from other
areas. Market prospects of finished products from agroindustries were the
subject of detailed market feasibility studies carried out by the consultants
employed by proposed investors. The market analysis shows that good market
opportunities exist for projected output in view of both future incremental
domestic demand and export prospects. There is a shortfall of production
relating to demand, which is likely to increase due to population growth and
real per capita income growth during the life of the project.
5.04     A majority of the agroindustries subprojects involve reconstruction
and modernization of their existing facilities which are very old with
technologically obsolete equipment. A slight increase in capacity was
simultaneously proposed in the case of many subprojects since their present
capacities are based on past requirements. In most cases, the investors have
experience with the products which will be marketed and have established
marketing systems which would be suitably expanded in the future.
5.05     There is a surplus production of cereals in both Regions which is not
fully utilized due to lack of capacities. The increased requirements,
therefore, of wheat and corn for seed processing centers, grain elevators,
flour mills and animal feed factories can be easily met. This is, however,
not true of fruits, vegetables, oilseeds and livestock. Currently, there is
not enough surplus available within the region to meet the anticipated raw
material requirements of some of the subprojects. In order to meet the needs
of these processing industries, production of fruits, vegetables, sugarbeets
and oilseeds is being promoted under the project.
5.06     The incremental processing capacities have been analyzed in relation
to projected demand for the concerned output and the available processing
capacities in the region as well as nationally. Only those capacities which
meet these criteria were included in the project. Capacity increases are
fully justified for cereal-based agroindustries and meat slaughterhouses. In
regard to fruit processing and cold storage, only those subprojects which
would be consistent with raw material availability were included during
appraisal.
5.07     The regions can absorb the entire output which passes through the
seed processing centers, grain elevators, animal feed factories and meat
slaughterhouses included in the project. The remaining processed outputs
(such as frozen fruits, vegetables and french fries, prune cakes, fruit juice,
edible oil and poultry meat) would be surplus, but the balance after meeting
regional requirements can be easily marketed in the deficit areas of Serbia
and Yugoslavia. The processed products of the subprojects in the two regions
will not directly compete with each other on the domestic market as there is
no overlap of production.



- 31 -
5.08     Substantial quantities of frozen fruits and vegetables, processed
seeds, processed prunes, fruit juice and prune cake would be exported. The
target for exports of frozen fruits is high; nevertheless, all these exports
are of a national priority and are feasible. These products enjoy a strong
demand in the Western European market and the market prospects for all the
processed output of various agroindustries appear good.
C. Prices
5.09     Prices are established under the law through negotiated, multilateral
agreements (social compacts, etc.) between production units and executive
councils of socio-political communities. Floor prices are established for
farmgate purchases while ceilings are set for products at the consumer level.
All prices are calculated on a cost-plus basis. Production of basic
commodities is contracted on the basis of a negotiated contract price known as
the agreed price. Production in excess of the contract may be sold on the
open market. Financial prices used in this report are based on farmgate
prices for primary products and ex-factory wholesale prices of processed
products prevailing in June 1982 (Annex 3, Table 1). A price freeze became
effective on July 28, 1982 and it is expected to apply till the end of the
year. The Dinar devaluation which took place on October 20, 1982 is,
therefore, not expected to affect the prices significantly.
D. Financial Analysis
5.10     Primary Production:  The financial analysis has been carried out
through representative models for each major investment type to be financed.
Actual investments may differ from the models since they may be of different
sizes and local conditions and sub-borrower demand may vary. The underlying
assumptions for changes in cropping patterns, yields and input requirements
are presented in Annex 4, and are based on interviews with farmers and
operational experience obtained under similar Bank-financed agriculture
projects in Yugoslavia. The Financial Rates of Return (FRR) (Annex 3, Table
2) for the major investment types vary between 13% and 60%. Effects of delays
in implementation are tested by lagging the benefits and operating costs. The
switching values for the cost and revenue streams are acceptable though
somewhat low for investments in pig fattening, broiler, ana grapes. The
financial viability of each investment will be re-examined by Agrobanka prior
to approving subloans. Details of farm models are given in Working Paper No.
C-4.
5.11     Drainage:  Financial analysis of the representative Zabari drainage
subproject indicates that the component is financially viable. The base
financial rates of return for the individual sector 19%, the social sector
16%, and the subproject as a whole, 17%, exceed the opportunity cost of
capital of 12% by a reasonable margin. The financial performance is also
scrutinized by sensitivity analysis assuming plausible changes in cost and
benefit estimates and by examining the switching values (Annex 3, Table 2).
Key assumptions relating to technical features and cropping patterns are given
in Annex 8 and details are in Working Paper No. C-8.
5.12     Agroindustries:  Detailed feasibility studies for agroindustry
investments included in the project have been carried out and provide the
basis for financial analysis. Details on projections of investment and
operating costs, revenues and cash-flows are presented in Working Paper No.
C-7. Table 2 (Annex 3) presents the FRR for the major agroindustry



- 32 -
investments and the key operating assumptions; FRR's range from 13 to 28%.
The investments are sensitive to changes in operating costs and revenues, and
the switching values for these are quite low. Some of the investments are
also sensitive to slow build up of capacity utilization. While this is
extremely important in Yugoslavia, where capacity utilization for some food
processing industries is low, subproject screening and evaluation during
preparation and appraisal ensures that, as a risk, it is not significant for
the project.
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits
6.01     Project benefits would derive from; (a) improved productivity and
incomes of individual farmers through investments in livestock, horticultural
and crop production in which the individual farmers have a comparative
advantage due to the labor intensity of the operations; (b) improved cropping
patterns and stable yields on an area of some 22,700 ha, and increase in
arable land by 29% with completion of drainage works; (c) strengthening of an
infrastructure formed around social sector enterprises which is the source of
a multitude of essential inputs to the farmer, ranging from day-old chicks to
fruit tree seedlings, improved seeds, and greater availability of
mechanization; (d) increased employment opportunities created through
expansion of support services and agroindustries, and through reduction of un-
and under-employment at individual farms; (e) incremental output (para. 5.01)
together with the value added through processing and storage of grains,                    (
poultry, fruit and vegetables; (f) increased export of processed food products
from the area; while increased self-sufficiency in wheat and industrial crops
would help to save foreign exchange; and (g) strengthening of the development
institutions in the project area, including the specialized Agricultural Bank
of Serbia.
6.02     Beneficiaries.  About 15,000 individual farm families would benefit
directly from subloans for livestock, horticulture and drainage. An
additional 16,000 farm families would benefit from increased efficiency
through greater use of mechanization. The incomes of the direct beneficiaries
are expected to increase by about 120% as compared to the pre-project incomes
which are at an average of US$2,500 per capita in Serbia and about US$1,200 to
US$1,500 in the less developed communes. The investments under the
agroindustries and the support service components of the project would result
in indirect benefits to an estimated additional 33,000 families by providing
steady market outlets for their production as well as inputs and services.
6.03     Employment.  The project's contribution to employment would be
substantial. Based on technical parameters of the models, it is estimated
that at full development the project investments would result in 1,630
permanent full-time jobs, 765 man-years!1 of increased employment of hired
seasonal labor and 3,065 man-years of increased family labor requirements on
participating farms, which would reduce under-employment and pressure to
migrate from the project area.
6.04     Production and Foreign Exchange Effects:  Most of the incremental
production due to the project would be used to satisfy domestic consumption
needs. However, part of the incremental processed output valued at about
1/ A man-year is treated as equal to 200 working days.



- 33 -
US$8.0 million annually or US$160 million over the 20-year life of the project
would be exported, resulting in foreign exchange earnings. In addition, the
increased self-sufficiency in wheat and industrial crops would enable the
country to reduce imports. These savings in scarce foreign exchange are
important in view of Yugoslavia's 1980 trade deficit of US$6.1 billion.!/
6.05     Institution Building Effects:  The project's non-quantifiable
benefits would include; (a) the institutional development of Agrobanka
through provision of training and through experience gained in preparing,
implementing and evaluating a regional development project of this size and
scope; (b) fostering of increased cooperation between the individual and
social sectors; and (c) improved extension service to the individual sector
through existing institutions.
B. Economic Evaluation
6.06     Benefit and Cost Streams;  Economic evaluation of the project has
been done using internal Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value
(NPV) estimations.  Quantifiable benefits include (i) total project
incremental production; (ii) reduction of grain losses and costs saved from
mechanization; and (iii) value added by storage and processing facilities.
Benefits from the extension service component of the project were not
quantified directly, but accrue to all other components of the project.
Hence, the cost of the extension services has been included in the total
economic cost for the project. Costs quantified include all capital and
operating costs, excluding price contingencies and transfer payments such as
taxes and subsidies, but including physical contingencies.
6.07     Economic Prices:  With the exception of some construction costs and
all labor and internal transportation costs, all inputs and outputs are priced
as tradeables based on their border equivalent values with adjustment for
quality differentials and transportation, as appropriate. Economic prices for
tradeable project outputs of cereals, meat, industrial crops and related
processed outputs, and of inputs of fertilizer and concentrate feed are based
on World Bank Commodities and Export Projections Division forecasts. Prices
for other tradeable commodities are based on the recent average unit value of
Yugoslav foreign trade. Appropriate conversion factors have been applied to
the local cost component of non-tradeables. Key economic prices and
conversion factors used in the economic analysis are presented in Annex 3,
Table 4. Details of individual economic price derivations are shown in
Working Paper C-2.
6.08     Sensitivity Analysis;  Sensitivity analysis has been done on
individual project components (Annex 3, Table 4) and on the total project.
With the exception ot the individual sector broiler model (ERR 11%), all other
representative models show an ERR above the estimated opportunity cost of
capital of 12%. Despite a marginal ERR, the broiler model was not excluded
because of the complementary nature of poultry investment in general, and the
satisfactory Financial Rate of Return of 19%. The aggregate result (ERR 25%)
indicates that the project is economically viable. ERR and NPV for all
project components except the extension services component (para. 6.06), and
the switching values on capital investment costs, operating costs and benefits
are presented below:
1/ Yugoslavia: Adjustment Policies and Development Perspectives,
Volume III, Table A.3.1.



- 34 -
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
% of    Base             Invest-         Incremental
Total    ERR    NPV /a    ment       Operating      Benefits
Component             Costs    (%)   (Din M)    SV /b    Costs SV            SV
Livestock              33.8      26     2,161      125         10          - 8
Horticulture            5.4      32     1,046      191        41           -22
Drainage               10.9      28     1,694      162         58          -24
Support Services       21.7      23     1,102       62          7          - 6
Agroindustries         27.0      24     1,748       90          6          - 5
Total             100.0/c   25      7,624 /d  107         10           - 9
a/  Based on an Opportunity Cost of Capital (OCC) of 12%.
b/ Switching Value - percentage change which reduces the NPV to zero.
c/ Extension Service component is 1.2% of Total Costs
d/ P.V. of investment costs of extension service component (Din - 127 mill.)
as been included.
6.09     The agroindustries component is sensitive to changes in revenues and
operating costs. So is the support services component, because of the
inclusion of some processing facilities. This is common in the basic food
processing industry where gross margins are characteristically low. The
overall and individual economic rates of return are higher than the financial
rates of return for almost all of the agroindustry subprojects. This results
from the domestic pricing system, in which factory gate prices (consumer
prices) are rigidly controlled while raw material prices are permitted much
more flexibility. The whole issue of maintaining correct input/output parity
is being addressed by both the Agricultural Setor Review and SAL.
6.10     The livestock component appears to be sensitive to variations of
revenues and costs. The dairy/beef and pig fattening investments were found
to be extremely sensitive to changes in revenues and operating costs. So a
further sensitivity analysis was undertaken. Switching values were calculated
for key parameters and show that a decrease in milk price by 13Z, or a
decrease in beef meat price by 18%, or an increase in concentrate feed costs
by 13% will be necessary to reduce the ERR of the dairy/beef investment to 12%
i.e. equal to the opportunity cost of capital. However, a decrease in pig
meat price by 5% will be required to reduce the ERR of the pig fattening
investment to 12%. To ensure that proposed investments for livestock
production to be financed under the project have a minimum economic rate of
return of 12%, Agrobanka would annually update the typical farm models on the
basis of the prices and economics of livestock production which are to be
monitored as part of evaluation arrangements for the project to be used for
approval of new investments.
C. Risks and Uncertainties
6.11     The institutional arrangements for implementing the project are
satisfactory, and the project is in an advanced stage of preparation. A
strong commitment to ensure successful project implemenation exists with the
Serbian Government, the two regions, and the local communes. All subprojects
including drainage, support services and agroindustries, have been
identified. Project procurement is at an advanced stage. Although most of



- 35 -
the individual farmers have been identified, an important risk is the
possibility of restrained farmer response for some investments, due to
possible changes in input/output ratios. These will have to be dealt with on
a case-by-case basis as new price ratios develop. The detailed identification
of sub-borrowers done so far should reduce these uncertainties.
6.12     Marketing presents some uncertainties.  While the internal market
analysis shows that market prospects are good, the export market analysis
indicates that export targets, particuarly for frozen fruits, are somewhat
high. Therefore, these export targets may require some changes in product
mix, after taking into account the operating margins, protits, long-term
agreements and market preferences.
6.13     Availability of adequate local counterpart investment funds also
poses some risk. Current economic problems as well as the stabilization
measures being implemented to correct them by Yugoslav and Serbian authorities
can adversely affect the timely availability of local funds. The mechanism
under this project by which annual financing plans are to be prepared by the
Serbian authorities, and to be reviewed by the World Bank, should help to
reduce this risk. Also, import restrictions have hampered implementation of
Bank-financed projects in Yugoslavia. However, the Federal Government has
recently decided to exempt Bank project-related imports from restrictions.
6.14     These uncertainties are minimized through the proposed project design
which has taken into account the complementarity of investments, the
commitments made by the borrower, and the continuing dialogue with the Serbian
authorities on project-related issues. Considering the potential benefits,
both direct and indirect, to the economy and individuals, these are prudent
and acceptable risks.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
Assurances
7.01     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from Agrobanka that it
would:
(i)     Submit to the Bank by January 31 of each year an updated cost
and financing plan for those investments to be financed in
the following year (para 3.11).
(ii)    Carry out, in cooperation with the Bank, a mid-term review of
project implementation not later than December 31, 1985 (para
4.04).
(iii)   Employ a suitable and qualified full-time internal auditor
and training officer not later than December 31, 1983 (paras
4.07(i) and 4.07(ii).
(iv)    Employ suitably qualified institute (or institutes) not later
than December 31 1983 to carry out the evaluation of the
project (para 4.22).
(v)     Engage one senior development banking consultant for a period
of six months and an agricultural credit consultant for a
period of 20 months under terms and conditions acceptable to
the Bank, not later than December 31, 1983 (para 4.07(iii)).



- 36 -
(vi)    Prepare and submit to the Bank a plan of action to strengthen
its performance not later than June 30, 1984, and
subsequently implement the agreed plan not later than
September 30, 1985 (para 4.07(v)).
(vii)   Follow the terms and conditions for on-lending procedures
described in paras 4.08 to 4.11.
(viii)  Submit investment proposals and plans for the pig breeding
improvement program of the Work Organizations Letnjikovac and
Velika Plana to the Bank no later than December 31, 1984
(para 4.18).
(ix)    Employ, in cooperation with the Republic Committee for
Agriculture and under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Bank, consultants to prepare the master plan for agricultural
extension, technical services and applied research and submit
the plan to the Bank not later than December 31, 1984 (para
4.19).
(x)     Follow the accounting and auditing procedures outlined in
para 4.21 and furnish to the Bank not later than 6 months
after the end of each fiscal year certified copies of its
financial statements and audit reports by SDK (para 4.21).
(xi)    Submit semi-annual progress reports within 45 days after the
due date and annual evaluation reports not later than 90 days
after the end of the year (paras 4.25 and 4.26).
(xii)   Submit a project completion report not later than 6 months
after the closing date of the project (para 4.27).
7.02     During negotiations, assurances from the two IRC's were obtained that
they would:
(i)     Carry out their responsibilities under the project as
described and maintain adequately staffed project
implementation units (para 4.16).
(ii)    Implement the training program for extension staff through
various working organizations (para 4.20).
(iii)   Cause appropriate per hectare charges to be levied, said
charges to cover debt service and operation and maintenance
costs (paras 4.28 and 4.29).
(iv)    Ensure the annual review of operation and maintenance charges
(para 4.30).
7.03     During negotiations, assurances were obtained from UBB that it would:
(i)     Follow the accounting and auditing procedures outlined in
para 4.21 and furnish to the Bank not later than 6 months
after the end of each fiscal year certified copies of its
financial statements and audit reports by SDK (para 4.21).



- 37 -
7.04     Conditions for Loan Effectiveness
(i)     Signing of an Agreement between UBB and Agrobanka (para 4.05).
(ii)    Signing of two Self-Management Agreements (SMA) among all
participants in the Kolubara and Danube region(para 4.02).
(iii)   Signing of the Kolubara and Danube Participation Agreement
(para 4.02).
(iv)    Signing of the Project Implementation Agreement between
Agrobanka and SFUR for participating under the project (SFUR
Agreement)(para 4.14).
(v)     Signing of agreements and related SMA's between Agrobanka and
the investors for 6 drainage projects (para 4.06).
7.05     Condition for Disbursement
(i)     Signing of an agreement and related SMA between Agrobanka and
the investor for the Zabari drainage subproject (para 4.06).
7.06     Subject to these agreements, the project is suitable for a Bank loan
of US$136 million equivalent with a term of 15 years, including a 3-year grace
period.






A2POAMSAT. OP
SERBlA REOIU:.,AL OEVCL0OSPMET PROJECT
YU(GOSLAV%IA
P095T95CUSPS
9490 S44ICE                                                         5  99,3  1,091.8    949.3        -    2,393,3  S6I6    0,438.3
LA29VAC                                                             7 99,1    999.6         -              1,497.7  56,5        646.3
69L503C4                                                           2,25,1  .29,553   2,290,9               r,O1034  943    3.316.2
94M399EVSK-                                                       19839.1  1.s19,1  1,293.s6               4,749.0  53.7    0,5923.
3RLA19-A                                                          1,399,2  1.215.7  1,314,0                3,359,3  94.3    1,329,0
JA9ARI                                                            0595202  3,944,9  4. USO 9              13,599,9  05,3    7,544.5
VELIRA                                          -7 P2,1    702,2    602.5                                  2,196,9  95.9    1.215,5
Pusb-leTS  DRAINAGE                                                 11.983,5  P,9e62.2 33.279.5              34,232,0  55,1   330742,6
PSa-es1  1etoe7ces-2 .54,   1,794,3  1r526  7                                                              5,10330   19,1    2,911.4
P,,se lortir9ec,cees                        -    1.s46,9  2,713.8  3,271,49               7,69215  54,4    4,199.4
1SU-eTei INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                    15.312,7 '11.933,3 34,900,?              469619,9  52,3   25,042,9
Sixe                                                                68?e9,0    743.9    174.30             2,336.9   3,3          3,3
Fe, eys E:shacs                                 -                 8,39,05   3.934.9   932            - 28,0021 ',42.4   3.3       3,3
9, 9393I4539T98P3
JUICE 9433910034                                      6 ,299.1    3,389,0-7                                 9,6994k   63,2    9,126.9
FR9NE PACKAGING                                       4,006,3     2,301.07                                 7 ,340,0  4?,2    3,639,0
CUL39039A9E ,  A991                                   5,993,3     0,00s,0          -        -        -     9,217,1  49.9    4,59920
C3L390T9A99  , ALJEVO                                 2,990,4    1,554,0-7                                  4.447.1  39.3    3,733.3
C0L90TOR90E ,PEPSR.                                   3,963,3     2,391.2         -         -              5 ,946.2  90,3    3,107.9
VEGETABLE PROCE49SI3                                  2,985.6    1,930.6                    -              4,543,2  52,9    2,423,9
P340  E401313  ,929,5                                            1,9.            -                        5  ,429-4  91,9    2,909,9
C3MKU4A9 SLAUGHTERHOUSE                               1,257,9       6'7.3         -         -        -     1,935,0  43.9        9469,
POULTRY 5(.9039TE993339                         -     4,052,0    2,343,4          -         -        -    6,s09,0  49,3    3,29-99
PRUE CAKE                                       -      ,69912     1,4.                      -        -    4,3430.   595    2,422.
FODDER FACTORY   P3,                                  1,1,          ?49.7                                    71 - 001. 642 9   "I,393.3
994ELEAO                                         1,423,:2       764,? 72- ,144.9  43,1                                     943.6
DIL FACTORY , VELIK3                                  5 ,92I1093,21. ---                                    ,949.3  30.5    2,935.3
lS-IsOtl 93RD1N933TRIE3                                 43.96633   2s,~21~:1,0        -                      7 4,490,3  49      36:934,
Oh--sol Cs, Licace6  9610.3                                       0513            -         -        - 3,3, 33.6              5,43
0,0   ot,casoe                                         22         3 ,5993             --,9                 581,2  49.4    2,964,4
3s9-o.teI  CLU01NG CD4T393E4ClE3                        57,5213,3   33,301.95                                9399496  49.4   44P89.3
Pec-e  EsRn4                                    -   299402,3   19.4?70,2                             - 44,979,3   3.3             3,
U. 3iAPR9 PEY99.399997
34R4993DS                                            4,970,9      4D,0.3  3.701.0  2,274,1   499.1   19,943.4  21.3          097,0
C11E30015                         -   36,~~~~105,2    2',303.2 29.7395,  22,02,,6 U,352.5   99.3192  1. 43 49.1,
PrcF   snierce                                          912,9    31,93.1  702.200  0,31,  1.0343   2393. I440                 9,029.3~
6s6-TRtalI J4EL9E1N9 CONTINGENCIES                      23,930.3   30,603,092,347.3 33,"4)4,3  ,2694  1,42,533.9  46.1   65,765.3
feres,,P,ch,ce                         1,90,2    1,9,  3,9,  3,1,  3,031.07                  5,06.0    0.0           0.3
D. 569P33T R94ICE3
IECH99IZOTIO9    CEREALS                              3,733,:1    22713.0  0,273,3  7,927,3              00,~1455,9 93        9,739.94
1E C494330ATIUK   52GAR8E1T1                    -      ,69,   33,i19.3  3,339.7             -        -     954.       9.       ,47.9
39413  446639                 1R.95OP3                                  -         -         -        -      355.4  69,7         9DA.
PJEL TRIL                                       -       7R,9 -AND-                                           09.4T5.5E49Y
90(9   94   9   90AP                                   ,2000     -1                         -               ,207.6,  93.04      439.4:
59E9P PARM                                      -       77,2       213.0                    -                55,3  e4           I9.
S99E  PR0CES33NG, P33.                                6 93393-0-                                            3.3     44,31  1 209.
SED P91C913.399 -A    433TI.6    2,363.4D--                                                         -      ,441       43.     ,9.
405ICI4AL AED                                         47'1'4,3          -                    -              ,734.3   813.    2,419.4
139403  D4999                                   -    3,5392    0.790,9    594.2                      -      ,93.    49.9    2,93.
PLU440 -R    49.4                                                                 --                       4,99.  441         23,339.4
VIP4L                                                                           4211RIT 4649940  1107.7  309.0  73.3 -  -  317.1   94.3  173,9
009  409390                                            129,         8.         1.                            7.93   40.2       3132
P35LTRY 6994 , 3999-                                  3292        1,934,9                            -     33163.71  49.9     3,453,9~
P93L049 9999, 3633341911-- 2 -,0                  -----6     --7 --   - ----- ---- ---139--7   31.5-                735.9--
4s9-7olel 90PP392 39903193                              39,8243.6   12,932.1  4,079,1  097,977          -   64,141,52 S 5.3   30,779.
PhssiccI Cntinc-e-                                    3.79,         627:,9     19.1B        -        -     4,949,9   49.9    2,32.92
9,cCeri   nce                                       ,739.4     359.        9692    .190                  ,413.9  93.5      3,429.4
3s9-Toial INCLUDING C39T1N9ENC3E3                       44,89,       4.1,   5,23,0  9,6909,3                 75,135.0   91.1   34,3401.2
E.999T 33E                                               71,57.       774.2    77.2           -Y- 0435,    44.1    1,439.
PTsc  Csrtinser.... a                                    63.4       337.3    339.95                          350,2   44.3       155.3
Sub-Petal 341L134  130N14GENCIE0                         3,947.73      997,   1.3069:           -             3,714,7   47.4    3,774.
F.rii  Echee                                    -       40,7        4194    449.            -        -     1,774,7    9.9         3.
P. A9R394N4 DEYEL3P4ENT
TECHNICAL AS0ISTACE                             -        3,7        133.  96.7 -6                     -      319.9  904.0       313.3
9s9-0i9.al 9393949 393EL3P494                  36.        379.0-     96.7-  -----  --- ---- 313- 099.0-               313.0---
Price C~~99n9eroles              -         3.9~-  ---- .5-      07.5-   ----  --- -    --- 37.4- 9---.0            37.4---
Sub-Totel INCLUDING 1341349941395                           991        323.1     304.0                   -       474 4199.0         340.4
Piceic  Eoce e-                                          931        39.       334.          -                347.4    3.5         3.
0ote3 3479514947 13803                                    310,494,5   9211        02,99959i47 7003,33 7,49c,5  293,914,6   44.0  142.154.4
P9ric9  Coterereis-                                   132939       3.492      ,94.43,173.          49.    09,493.3   52.3   14,E97.4
Prc   er-iiet ee                                       4931,4   03,994.9 13,969.9 13,703.2 1,394.3   43,913.5   44.9   34,903.
Tetsi 3N1LU0IN3 CONTINGENCIES                             327.999,5  333,377,7 95,972,9 99,1469,  5,399.4  399,4233,5   49.2  176.900.2
Taxs  -i-lsge  Os1y)                            -6 94.                        74,9      64.9         -    2,3391.4    39O         3.                                         q
eeecEse.ee.                                    - 63,223.1   53,134.120,234.42  60,95,2 1,031.0  179,9002,    5.9                   .
Potel BASELIN 13909IT                                      113,444,9   92.919,9 93),9398.7 42,273.13,9339.5  24O0319,6  44,0  142,8134.9.: 
p9s-cel letcece                                           2.950,0      ,0.   4,094,4  3,:173.3     44.9   29,490.3   13.    94947.9
Price  Ctl-rseece                                    -    4.931,4   30.974,9  13.?9436 1233. 3,2394.3 45',41.    4.9               9 3.406
TeE,7 2432911 23911                                        327.999,5  300,22.77~ 63.,972.s 5,1~46.- 3,099.4  19,2S3,0 a 1?36-913.2
-- ----   ------    -  c,        l.2         -     22 U
-- - - --  --- -- - -  --- --- --     --- --  --- -- --         - - ---- -- ---- -- 2, --- -- .                        -- --3-- ------ --- --






- 39  -                                             ANNEX  1
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Summary Project Cost
(US$'000)
Base Costs                     I
-----------------------------------------------_----------
PY1        PY2       PY3       PY4      PY5      Total
A. ON - FARM DEVELOPMENT        21,076.6   31i318.5 33,007.5 24P517.5 3,836.5 113,756.6
B. SUPPORT SERVICES             39,283.6   12,502.1  4,778,1  7,577.8          -  64,141.5
CO BfINGE                               -   11,83.5 11i962.2 10i178.1          -  34,023.7
D. AMIN TSRIES                  48,660.3   26t201.7          -        -        -  74P862,1
E. EXTENSION                     1,377.3       774.2    774.2         -        -   2,925.7
F. A4ROBANK                         86.7       136.7     86.7         -        -     310.0
Total BASELINE COSTS             110,484.5   82,816.6 509608.7 42,273,3 34836.5 290,019.6
Physical Contingencies-'       12Y550.5    8f426.5  4P294.4  3,170#3    48.6  28,490.3
Price Contingencies             4,921.4   10,934.5 10t969.6 12,703.2 1,384.3  40,913.0
Total PROJECT COSTS              127,956#5  102,177,7 65,872.6 58,146.9 5Y269.4 359,423.0
Taxes                                 -       689.1    743.9    674.0        -   2,106.9
Foreign Exchange               63,220.1   51i104.1 32i239.9 28,605.2 1,731,0 176,900.2
1/ International Price Contingencies used



ANNEX 2
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
Cumulative                    Disbursement
IBRD                                      Disbursement  Cumulative    Profilel/
Fiscal        Period    Disbursement    at end of        Disbursement  Agriculture
Year          Ending    During Period   Period                (x)            x
1983        06/30/83           -               -               -             0.6
1984        12/31/83          7.32/           7.3             5.3            5.8
06/30/84         8.9            16.2            11.9           12.7
1985        12/31/84         13.1            29.3            21.5           22.3
06/30/85        19.1            48.4            35.6           35.0
1986         12/31/85        21.1            69.5            51.1           49.5
06/30/86        17.5            87.0            63.9           64.0
1987        12/31/86         13.2           100.2            73.6           76.8
06/30/87        11.7           111.9            82.3           86.8
1988        12/31/87         12.0           123.9            91.0           93.5
06/30/88        12.1           136.0           100.0           97.6
1989        12/31/88                                                       100.0
1/ Yugoslav Agriculture Sector Profile constructed using historical data from
operations covering the period FY71-80, accelerated to eliminate the "long
tails" and, in effect, to create a 5% targeting element.
2/ Including US$2.8 million allocated for retroactive financing.



- 41 -
APPRAISAL OF                          ANNEX 3
Table 1
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Financial Prices 1/ for Major Inputs and Outputs
(Constant 1982 Dinar Value/Kg)
Financial                                Financial
Inputs                 Prices           Outputs                  Prices
Home-grown maize             9.20          Bulls (0-1 yr)
Silage                       0.90         Bulls (1-2 yrs)
Concentrate Feed      12.3-18.1 2/         Cull Cow                    75
Breeding Heifer            156
Seeds                                     Heifer (0-1 yr)             120
Wheat                     22            Cattle                      100
Maize                    100            Rams                        95
Barley                   19             Ewes                        80
Sugarbeet             1,900             Hoggets                    110
Sunflower               150             Lambs                      140
Alfalfa                 440             Piglets                     120
Soyabean                 56             Cull Sows                   65
Potato                   22             Cull Boars                  65
Tomato                2,000             Pigs                        85
Other Vegs.              20.2           Broilers                    60
Day-old chick (pce)         15
Seedling                                  Eggs (pce)                    5.39
Plum                     50             Cull Hens (pce)             50
Blackberry               15             Cow's Milk (liter)          15
Sheep's Milk (liter)       20
Grapes (pce)                20             Sheep's Wool           85-120 3/
Plum (fresh)                 7
Tobacco (seedling)                         Prunes                      35
Virginia                  0.15          Blackberry                  25
Burley                    0.25          Grapes                      11
BB Jaka                   0.25          Wheat                       10
Barley                      10.5
Nitrogen                    25.9           Maize                       11
Phosphate (P205)            30.6           Sugarbeet                    2.7
Potash (K2o)                23.2           Sunfltwer                   25.6
Foliar Nutrients            75.0 (avg.)   Soyabean                     26.8
Manure (ton)              600.0           Rapeseed                     26.8
Pesticides                 175.0 (avg.)   Alfalfa hay                   8.75
Meadow hay                   6.25
Fuel                                      Alfalfa (green)               2.0
Gasoline (liter)         26.50          Forage rape (green)           2.0
Diesel (liter)           28.50          Potatoes                      8.5
Motor Oil (liter)        68.50          Tomatoes                      6.25
Other Vegetables            10.85 (avg.)
Tobacco
Virginia                108
Burley                   74
BB Jaka                   94
1/ Liveweight - farmgate or at village collection center.
2/ Depending on livestock species.
31 Depending on quality.



APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Summary Results of Financial Analysis
Financial Rates of Return                                  Switching Values /1
Oper.    Invest.    Benefits and            Capacity
Base   Benefits   Costs       Costs    Operating Costs         Utilization   Bene-  Invest.  Oper.   NPV at 12%
Case    (-10%)    (+10%)   (+20%)   Lag 1 yr. Lag 2 yrs.    (-10%)             fits    Costs   Costs   ('000 Din)
Livestock
Dairy/Beef               16         9         11        13         13         10            NA /2       -6        28        9           169
Cattle Fattening         29        17         21       23         22          19           NA          -15        99       21         1,886
Pig Fattening            51        39         44       43         38         30             NA         -31       279       52         3,542
Broiler Production       19         4          7        15        16         13            NA           -5        42        6           831
Horticulture
Plums                    12        10         11        11        11          9             NA          -2         5        4             9
Blackberries             37        33         36       33          31        26            NA          -53       298      194           786
Grapes                   13        11         12        11         11        10             NA          -3         5        8            21
Tobacco                  60        45         52       49         40         30             NA         -29       267       50           761
Support Services                                                                                                                                           I
Mechanization
-Cereal                  27        18         23        19         18        12             NA         -17        45       38       128,771
-Sugar                   24        15         19        16        16         10            NA          -13        36       25       136,352
Seed Processing
-Sabac                   14         *          *        11        12         11             NA         - 1        16        1        49,262
Drainage
Zabari                   18        13         16        16        15         12            NA          -12        76       26      436,718
Agroindustries
Vegetable Oil,
V. Gradiste           18         *          *       15          7          2             *          -1        40         1       70,584
Feed Plant
Pozarevac               20         *          *       16         14         10             *          -1         52        1        71,540
Cold Store
Sabac                   15         6         8        12         12         11            11          -4         19       4        74,533
Fruit Juice
Valjevo                 25        13        16        21         21         18             19        -11         95       14      399,282
Prune Packing
Valjevo                 16       -1           2       13         14         12              9         -3         29        3       93,056
Vegetable Processing,
Lajkovac              28       21         24        24         24         20            24         -20       141       31       249,703
Poultry Slaughterhouse,             *
Vladimirci            17                  -9        14         14         12             8          -3        35        3       109,201         H >
Potato Processing,
Krupanj               13        8          9        11         11         10            10          -3         10       4        23,170
/l At 12%.
77 NA = Not applicable.
*  No internal rate of return



ANNEX 3
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Economic Prices 1/ for Major Inputs and Outputs
(Constant 1982 Dinar Value/Kg)
Cereals and                      Economic       Livestock              Economic
Industrial Crops                  Prices       (Liveweight)              Prices
Wheat                              11.7         Beef                      84.3
Flour                              17.6         Cull Cow                  63.2
Maize                               6.3         Heifer                   101.2
Barley                              8.4         Breeding Heifer          131.5
Sugarbeet                           1.3         Pig                       71.3
Soyabean Seed                      17.9         Weaner                    85.6
Soyabean Meal                      15.2         Lamb                      91.6
Soyabean Oil                       33.1         Hoggets                   72.4
Sunflower Seed                     20.2         Culls                     62.3
Sunflower Meal                     12.3         Broiler                   50.3
Sunflower Oil                      37.8         Sheep's Milk (liter)    13.5
Rape Seed                          16.5         Cow's Milk (")             9.8
Rapeseed Meal                      11.7
Rapeseed Oil                       30.9         Concentrate Feed
Tobacco (Burley)                  102.2           Pig grower              10.7
Tobacco (Virginia)                 91.8           Pig fattener             9.4
Calf starter           13.4
Fertilizers (active substance)                    Dairy Cow               10.7
Nitrogen                         27.1           Sheep                    9.4
Phosphorus                       22.7           Broiler finisher        14.0
Potash                           11.4           Broiler starter         14.7
Home-grown maize        5.9
Fruits and Vegetables                             Home-grown barley        6.0
Fresh:  Grapes                   17.9
Plums                   11.7
Blackberries            18.8         Conversion Factors
Potatoes                 3.2           Standard                 0.75
Tomatoes                23.7           Transport                0.66
Intermediaries          0.75
Frozen:   Stringbeans              17.6           Equipment                0.74
Brocolli                44.1           Consumption              0.75
Paprika                 17.6           Construction             0.65
Cauliflower             36.0           Investment               0.70
Strawberries            43.3           Labor (Unskilled)        0.70 2/
Raspberries             84.3
Blackberries            49.8
1/ Ex-farm/ex-factory prices.
2/ Shadow wage rate is assumed to be 70% of average social sector net personal
income. It increases by 2% per annum in real terms over the project life.



APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Summary Results of Economic Analysis
Economic Rates of Return                                 Switching Values /1
Oper.    Invest.    Benefits and           Capacity
Base   Benefits   Costs       Costs    Operating Costs        Utilization   Bene-  Invest.  Oper.   NPV at 12%
Component         Case    (-10%)    (+10%)   (+20%)   Lag 1 yr. Lag 2 yrs.    (-10%)            fits    Costs   Costs   (Din Mill)
Livestock          26         9         12       23         22         19            NA /2      - 8       125       10        2,161
Horticulture       32        24         27       28         25         20            NA         -22       191       41        1,046
Drainage           28        19         25        24        22         17            NA         -24       162       58        1,694
JS
Agroindustries    24         -4         -1        20        20         18            13          -5        90        6        1,748
Support Services  23          4          7       18         18         15            NA          -6        62        7        1,102
Total Project      25         9         13       21         21         17            NA         - 9       107       10        7,624 /3
/1   At 12%.
7X NA = Not Applicable.
73 P.V. of investment costs of extension component (-127 Mill. Din) has been included.
o. z
4 Li



APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DATA AND AGRICULTURAL INDICATORS
YUGOSLAVIA    SERBIA PROPER              KOLUBARA                 DANUBE              COMBINED KOLUBARA/DANUBE
Unit      (National)   Actual    % Nat'l   Actual   x Serbia    Actual   % Serbia              Actual             % Serbia
Demographic
Total Population
(1981 Census)                 '000         22,354       5,694        25        543          10         485           9         1,028                18
Agriculture Population             "            7,844      1,514         19        227         15          183         12            410               27
Active Agric. Population            "           4,208      1,076         26        143         13          130         12            273               25
No. of Communes                  Unit             527        114         22         14         12           11         10             25               22
No. of Less Dev. Communes           "               -          51         -          9         18            7         14             16               31
No. of Households                 '000          6,209      1,655         27        153          9          130          8            283               17
Agriculture
Total Land Area                   '000 ha      25,580      5,597         22        574         10          509          9          1,083               19
Total Agric. Area                   "          14,371      3,405         24        401         12          357         10            758               22
Arable Land
(Annual Crops)                              7,153       1,872        26        289          15         251          13           540               29
Orchards                                          484        236        49          36         15           22          9             58               25
Meadows                                         2,055         532        26         37           7          43          8             80               15
Pastures                                        4,346        682         16         37          5           31          5             68               10
Forests                                        10,300      1,838         18        141          8          117          6            258               14
Agric. Land owned by
Social Sector                   %               17          6         -           7          -            6          -              -                -
Agric. Land owned by                                                                                                                                            5
Indiv. Sector                   %               83         94         -         93           -          94           -              -
Average Farm Size (1971)         ha                  3.9        3.6       -          4.5         -           4.4        -              4.5
Major Agricultural Outputs
Wheat                             '000 tons    5,019        1,283        26        231         18          159         12            390               30
Maize                                           9,317      2,363         25        451         19          520         22            971               41
Sugarbeet                                       5,213        349          7         30          9           95         27            125               36
Sunflower                                         302         25          8          5         20            6         24             11               44
Potato                                          2,440        569         23         60         11           54          9            114               20
Beef                                              351         112        32         14         13           14         13             28               25
Pork                                              738         191        26         23         12           20         10             43               23
Lamb                                               58          19        33          3         16            1          5              4               21
Milk                             Mill. Lit.   4,211         1,187        28        134          11          98          8            232               20
Eggs                             Mill. Pcs.   4,393           964        22        124          13          76           8           200               21
Plums                             '000 tons       666        466         70        109         23           45         10            154               33
Plum Trees(fruit bearing)        000 trees   73,636    47,275            64      8,348          18      4,697          10         13,045               28
Livestock 1/
Cattle                            '000 head    5,474       1,682         31        213         15          159          9            372               22
Pigs                                            7,867      2,561         33        632         25          481         19          1,113               43
Sheep                                           7,384      2,013         27        351          17         214         11            565               28
Poultry                             "          65,690     14,349         22      1,831          13       1,399         10          3,230               23   V
1/  1981 data.  The rest of the data is for 1980 unless stated otherwise.
Source:  Statistical Yearbook 1981; Statistical Bulletin 1981.



- 46 -                               ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
On-farm Production Investment
1.       An estimated 10,900 farmers would participate under the on-farm
investment program through receipt of credit from Agrobank.  Most of these
farmers have already been contacted during the project preparation stage. The
various types of investments would be prepared and implemented by about 50
farmer cooperative organizations (BOCF, BCO and FC's) existing in the project
area. In the Kolubara Region, about 5,100 farmers have been identified as
investors for deciduous orchards and tobacco, and 1,550 farmers for
livestock.  In the Danube Region about 1,300 farmers were identified for
deciduous orchards and vineyards and about 2,950 for livestock.  A list of
on-farm investments and their locations in both regions are summarized in
Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex. Further details of the individual farm models,
are contained in the Working Paper No. 4 of the Project Implementation File.
Deciduous Fruit Production
2.       A total of 4,200 individual farms in both regions would establish
1,845 has of rainfed fruit trees and berries.  The species include apple,
pear, quince, apricot, plum, sour cherry, black cherry, raspberry, blackberry,
black currant, strawberry and walnut.  Plum would be the most abundant among
the new tree plantings, representing 71% of the total; for the berry fruit it
would be blackberry with 45%. The average size orchard and berry planting per
farm would be 0.5 and 0.3 ha respectively. The investments for all fruit
species in the Kolubara Region (1,446.5 ha) are phased over four years at the
annual rate of 30, 30, 20 and 20%. In the Danube Region (398.5 ha),
plantations are phased over three years at the annual rate of 40, 30 and 30%
(Table 3). Sub-loans would be for investments in plantation establishment
using modern technology and for small scale mechanization.
Grape production
3.       Sub-loans would finance 474 individual farmers to plant 237 ha of
rainfed vineyards in the hilly western portion of the Danube Region. Average
vineyard size per farm would be 0.5 ha. Many of the new vineyards would
replace existing degenerated ones between 25 and 40 years old.  Investments,
which include vineyard establishment and small scale mechanization, would be
phased over three years at the annual rate of 40, 30 and 30% (Table 3). The
design of the vineyards would allow for efficient mechanization and labor use,
and modern fertilizer and pest control practices.  Ninety percent of the
production would be the Yugoslav variety, Smederevo, which is widely accepted
in the region.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Tobacco Production
4.       The project would expand the area cultivated to tobacco by 1,048 ha,
involving 1,782 producers in 10 communes in the Kolubara Region.  Emphasis
would be on tie broad-leaf varieties, Burley and Virginia. Sub-loans would
provide investments over four years (Table 3) for small scale farm machinery
and irrigation equipment and tobacco dryers.
Livestock Production
5.       About 4,480 individual farmers are expected to take up credit for the
various livestock investments.  The majority would invest in pig fattening and
piglet production (39%) and in mixed dairy/beef production (30%). The
remaining number of farmers would divide their investments between cattle
fattening (16%), broiler and egg production (7%), sheep production (4%) and
beekeeping (4%). A detailed list of identified on-farm livestock investments
indicating village names and numbers of farm units is provided in Tables 1 and
2 to this Annex.  The phasing of investments is listed in Table 4.  Further
details of the individual livestock farm models are contained in Working Paper
No. 4 (b) of the Project Implementation File.
Milk Production
6.       Simmental-type cattle, which is an excellent dual purpose animal, is
the dominant breed in the project area.  Dairy cows are housed in tie-up barns
and usually milked by hand if the number does not exceed four or five. The
standard of stockmanship and husbandry is high.  Typically, the bull calves
are also fattened and, under the project, this dairy beef model would reflect
the system presently in operation.  It is estimated that the model be used in
a flexible manner and the number of incremental cows financed is expected to
range from 1 to 10. A total of about 1,340 farmers have been identified to
participate as potential investors.  Investment would include new or
reconstructed cattle stables, silage and manure pits, automatic drinkers,
milking machines and provisions are made for some agricultural machinery for
fodder production, if required.
Beef Production
7.       Under the project about 735 farmers (70% in the Danube Region) would
undertake contract beef production. The participating farms, fattening
batcnes of 40 head, are expected to have a good potential for expanding forage
production whereby investments are aimed at providing maize silage and good
quality hay, and reducing concentrate feeding. Average growth rates of
intensively fattened bulls are extremely high and exceed 1 kg liveweight
gain/day on many farms over the weight range of 130 to 450 kg. At constant
1982 prices, beef production is profitable and the financial rate of return is
aoout 29%. Investments would include new or reconstructed cattle housing,
water systems, silage and manure pits and some agricultural equipment, if
required.



- 48 _                              ANNEX 4
Page 3
Sheep Production
d.       About 195 farmers would increase their sheep production through
investing in new or improved shelter, pasture, breeding stock and agricultural
machinery such as mowers and fodder rakers, which would be shared between five
farmers. The number of ewes would be increased from 15 to 50.
Pig Fattening and Piglet Production
9.       Serbia has a strong tradition of pig production on small farms.  The
standard of management is high and productive. Coefficients are
satisfactory. Pig farms under the project would be developed mainly on farms
which have good potential for expansion of feed grains, and they would either
expand their production of young pigs for sale at about 25 kg liveweight
(piglet production model based on 10 sows), or purchase weanling pigs and
fatten them (the pig fattening model is based on batches of 80 pigs).
Investments for both types of production would consist of new or reconstructed
buildings, provision of water and electricity, manure pits, feed equipment,
ventilation and, in the case of piglet production, include the provision of
improved gilts and boars. In the Kolubara Region, about 89 farm units would
invest in piglet production and 255 in pig fattening; while in the Danube
Region the numbers would be 757 and 647 respectively.
Poultry Production
10.      Poultry is kept on nearly every farm.  Under the project poultry                 (
contracts, either for broiler or egg production, would be developed mainly on
farms which have a good potential for expansion of feed grains. In Kolubara
Region, about 123 farmers have been identified for production of broilers and
13 for eggs, whereas in the Danube Region the respective numbers are 64 and
105. In the broiler production model, the farmer would purchase one-day-old
chicks and fatten 5,000 broilers (5 batches per year). The egg production
model is based on 5,000 layers. Investments for both types of production
would include housing facilities, provision of water and electricity,
ventilation and other miscellaneous operational equipment. The social sector
support services would provide individual farmers either with one-day-old
chicks or with the laying hens.
Bee Keeping
11.      Both regions within the project area offer rich flora and an
excellent resource bases for honey production. About 162 farmers (98 in
Kolubara and 64 in Danube) are expected to benefit from this subproject. One
individual apiary would consist of 50 beehives. The time for formation of one
beehive would be 1 year. Technical support is being provided by the social
sector, in particular the agricultural kombinat in Belgrade which produces the
queen bees. The Kranj type bee has proven to be well adapted in the project
area. Investments costs include the beehives, the basic swarms with a queen
bee, frames of honey comb and various accessories and tools.



Appraisal of
Serbia Regional Development Project
Yugoslavia
List of Identified On-Farm Investments - Kolubara Region
6-cow        Sheep        Cattle        Piglet          Pig         Broiler         Egg           Bee         Orchard       Thbacco
Investor             Place      milk/beef   Production    Fattening   Production    Fattening   Production   Production            Keeping                 ha
COAL-AIK Valjevo
WO Poijocoop            Valjevo            44            2             6             1              2                                                     92.00
WO VOCAR                Valjevo             4            -             2             2              -                                                     26.00
W  Sloga                Ljig               18            2            35             -              2                                                     35.00
WO Podgorka             Osecina            59            5            18             -              -                                                     93.00
WO Mionica              Mionica           125            6            27             5              3                         13                         229.00
WO Pik UB               UB                100            2            12                           15                                                     17.00
FC Lajkovac             Lajkovac           73                          6            14                                                                    75.00
COAL-AIK Sabac
WO Macvanin             Bogatic            23                         10            26             48                                        8
WO RATARCOOP            Sabac              22            1            23             9             74            7                          45            97.80
WO 4 October            Vladimirci          8            2            19             6             32           16                           3            52.30
BOAL Veterinarski       Vladimirci          -            -             -             -              -           83
WO 7 July               Debrc               4            -             1             1              8            -                                         2.00
WO 23 September         Koceljeva          31            -            15            22             25            9                                       354.10
COAL-AIK Loznica
WO Loznica              Loznica            95            6            18             2             44            8                          18            19.15
WO Jedinvsto            Krupanj            78           14            15             1              1                                       19            72.80
WO NAPREDAK             Mali Zvornik        2            3             1                            1                                        5              3.30
FC CER                  Jadarska            -            -             -                            -                                                      2.80
FC Ljubovija            Ljubovija           -           16            18                            -                                                    265.55
WC Zitoratar            Loznica             -            -             -                            -                                                      9.70
WO DUVANSKA             Various             -            -             -                            -                                                                    878   
WO INST. ZA Duvan       Sabac               -            -                                          -                                                                    112        a
WO INST. ZA Duvan       Bogatic                                                                               _                                         _                 58   
Tbtal Unit                          686            59           226            89            255          123            13            98             -             -
Total ha                                                                                                                                          1.446. 50       1048



Appraisal of
Serbia Regional Development Project
Yugoslavia
List of Identified On-Farm Investments - Danube Region
Investor             Place                                                                Type of Investment
6 Cow        Sheep       Cattle        Piglet         Pig         Broiler         Egg          Bee        Orchards     Vinyards
Beef/Milk   Production    Fattening   Production    Fattening   Production   Production        Keeping                ha
COAL-AIK Pozarevac     Pozarevac           296            85          266           221          229            30           24            34
BOAL letnjikovac       Maruljevac                                                   120
COAI-AIK Srbija
10 October             Velika Plana         29                         16            35          175             6           42             3
AK Sumadija            Sm. Palanka          38             7           29           213           35            14            6             4
BOCF Poljoprivreda     Ratari                                                                                                                           2.50
BOCF Poljoprivreda     Banicina                                                                                                                        13.50
BOCF Poljoprivreda     Golobok                                                                                                                          2.00
BOCF Poljoprivreda     Kusadak                                                                                                                         15.00          0.5
FC Selevac             Selevac              12                         11             9           30                          2             2           2.50          0.5       
FC Azanja              Azanja                6                          8             7            9             2            3             2           5.00
ATK Mlava              Mlavi               184            14          129            94           83            12           25             5          62.50
FC Zajednica           Rasanac                                                                                                                         24.50
FC 7 Juli              V. Laole                                                                                                                        40.50
FC Bolji Zivot         Ranovac                                                                                                                         59.00
FC Dragasevo           Oreskovac                                                                                                                       24.50
BOAL Sloga             Busovac                                                                                                                         14.00
AK Godomin             Smederevo                                       20                         46                                        8          15.00
BOCF Kolari            Kolari                                                                                                                          26.50         79.0
BOCF Snederevo         Srederevo                                                                                                                                     26.0
BOCF Drugovac          Drugovac                                                                                                                        42.00        105.0      a
BOCF Mihajl.ovac       Mihajlovac                                                                                                                      42.50         26.0   D x
WD Agropromet          Kuzevo               79            30           26            47           11                                        4
FC Lozovik             Lozovik               4                          3             7           23                          1             1
FC Milosevac           Milosevac             5                          1             4            6                          2             1
BOCF Mala Djresna      Mala Dresna                                                                                                                     7.00
Total Unit                            653          136           509          757           647           64           105            64           --           --
Total ha                                                                                                                                        398.50         237.00



APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Phasing of Orchard Plantations, Vineyards and Tobacco by Regions - Ha
Kolubara Region                         Danube Region                         Both Regions Combined
Commodity           1        2       3         4      Total       1        2        3     Total      1        2       3        4        Total
-----------------------------------------------------Project Year---------------------------------___________
Apple               -        -       -                    -     14.40   10.80   10.80   36.00   14.40   10.80   10.80          -        36.00
Pear                -       -        -         -          -     14.80   11.10   11.10   37.00   14.80   11.10   11.10          -        36.00
Quince            10.80   10.80    7.20       7.20      36.00    0.60    0.45    0.45    1.50   11.40   11.25    7.65    7.20           37.50
Apricot           21.45   21.45   14.30    14.30        71.50    3.80    2.85    2.85    9.50   25.25   24.30   17.15   14.30           81.00
Plum             251.10  251.10  168.40   168.40    839.00   74.00   55.50   55.50  185.00  325.10  306.60  223.90  169.40  1,024.00
Sour cherry       21.30   21.30   14.20    14.20       71.50   41.20   30.90   30.90  103.00   62.50   52.20   45.10   14.20    174.00
Black cherry      13.26   13.26    8.84       8.84     44.20   10.00    7.50    7.50   25.00   23.26   20.76   16.34    8.84            69.20
Raspberry         41.01   41.01   26.34    27.34    136.70         -        -       -        -    41.01   41.01   27.34   27.34    136.70
Blackberry        48.24   48.24   32.16    32.16    160.80         -        -       -        -    48.24   48.24   32.16   32.16    160.80
Black currant    12.39   12.39    8.26        8.26     41.30       -        -       -        -    12.39   12.39    8.26    8.26         41.30
Strawberry        13.80   13.80    9.20       9.20     46.00       -        -       -        -    13.80   13.80    9.20    9.20        46.00
Walnut              -        -       -         -         -       0.60    0.45    0.45    1.50    0.60    0.45    0.45          -         1.50
Subtotal,
Orchards       433.35  433.35  289.90   289.90  1,446.50  159.40  119.55  119.55  398.50  592.75  552.90  409.45  289.90  1,845.00
Vineyards         -       -        -         -         -      95.00   71.00   71.00  237.00   95.00   71.00   71.00          -      237.00         H y
Tobacco        524.00  210.00  210.00   104.00  1,048.00                                       524.00  210.00  210.00  104.00  1,048.00            e 3
GRAND TOTAL      957.35  643.35  499.90   393.90  2,494.50  254.40  190.55  190.55  635.50 1,211.75 833.90  690.45  393.90  3,130.00                 W



- 52 -                             Annex 4
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Phasing of Livestock Investment (Number of Equivalent Mbdels)
% of
Model Type            Year 1      Year 2      Year 3       Year 4       Total    Total
Danube Region
Dairy-Beef Mix             120          173         180         180           653       22
Cattle Fattening           102          152         153         102           509       17
Sheep Production             28          40          40          28           136        5
Piglet /1                  152          226         227         152           757       26
Pig Fattening              130          193         194         130           647       22
Broiler                      13          19          19          13            64        2
Eggs                         21          31          32          21           105        4
Bee Keeping                  13          19          19          13            64        2
2,935      100
Kolubara Region
Beef-Dairy                 136          185         185         180           686       44
Cattle Fattening            45           68          68          45          226        15
Sheep                       12           18          18          11            59        4
Piglet                       18          26          27          18            89        6
Pig Fattening                51          76          77          51           255       16
Broiler /2                   26          37          37          23          123         8
Eggs                          3           3           4           3            13        1
Bee Keeping                  21          28          28          21            98        6
1,549      100
Kolubara & Danube Region Total
Dairy-Beef                 256          358         365         360        1,339        30
Cattle Fattening           147          220         221         147          735        16
Sheep Production            40           58          58          39          195         4
Piglet                      170         252         254         170           846       19
Pig Fattening              181          269         271         181           902       20
Broiler                      39          56          56          36           187        4
Eggs                         24          34          36          24           118        3
Bee Keeping                  34          47          47          34           162        4
Total                   891       1,294       1,308          991        4,484      100
/1  Original request was 462.  120 were added to replace Letnjikovac and 175 to
replace Velika Plana.
/2 Original request was 46 and 77 were added to replace 2 million broilers
planned in Social Sector.



5T3 Annex 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Key Technical Assumptions Underlying Models
A. Deciduous Fruit, Berry, Grape and Tobacco
Individual Sector
Trees/    Init. Production            Full Development
Plants    Project    Yield    Project    Yield   Fertilizer
No/ha      Year        t/ha      Year        t/ha     kg/ha
Plum                     500         4       4.5         10       15.5       295
Blackberry             2,222         3       3.0          6       14.0       250
Grape                  3,333         4       6.0         10        15.0      360
Tobacco, Virginia    25,000          -        -           1         1.8      210
B.  Zabari Drainage Subproject
Individual Sector
Without Project             With Project
Yield     Fertilizer      Yield    Fertilizer
Crop                                 t/ha         kg/ha         t/ha        kg/ha
Wheat                                 2.5          155           4.5         240
Barley                                2.0          150            -           -
Maize                                 3.5          185           6.0         275
Sugarbeet                            25.0          295          40.0         415
Other industrial crops 1/             1.0          148           2.1         230
Vegetables 2/                        17.6          192          25.0         295
Cabbage (SC) 3/                        -            -           25.0         270
Natural meadow hay                    2.0          100            -           -
Alfalfa hay                           5.0          108           9.0         162
Annual forage green chop (SC) 3/       -            -           40.0         250
1/ Includes sunflower, soybean and rapeseed
2/ Includes tomato, pepper, onion, strong bean, carrot, potato and cabbage
3/ Second crop



- 54 -
Annex 4
Table 5
Page 2
C. Livestock
With Project            Without Project
Dairying
Number of cows/farm                     6                                 2
Calving Rate %                          80                               75
Milk yield/cow (liter)                  3,500                        3,000
Sheep
Number/batch                            40
Number of batches/year                  1.1
Liveweight gain/day (kg)                1.00                              1.00
Weight at slaughter (kg)                450                            450
No. of ewes/farm                        50                               15
Lambing rate %                          115                             115
Sheep mortality %                       2                                 4
Milk yield (liter)                      50                               35
Wool/ewe/year (kg)                      2.6                               1.7
Pigs (weanling production)
Number sows/farm                        10
Sow replacement rate %                  35
Farrowings/year                         2.0
Number weaned/sow                       17
Sale weight (kg)                        25
Pig Fattening
Number per batch                        80
Number of batches/year                  2.75
Fattening period (days)                 125
Purchase weight (kg)                    25
Sale weight (kg)                        100
Feed conversion efficiency
(kg feed/kg liveweight)                3.5:1.0
Broilers
Number/batch                            5,000
Feed conversion efficiency
(kg feed/kg liveweight)                2.42:1
Feeding period (days)                   52
Batch es/year                           5
Sale liveweight (kg)                    1.65
Egg Production
Average number of layers/farm           4,899
Mortality and culling rate %            6
Production period (days)                52
Number of eggs/hen/year                 250
Feed consumption/hen                    44
Beekeeping
Number of beehives/farm                 50
Beehive life (years)                    19
Honey production/beehive/year (kg)  40



- 55 -                                  ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Description of Support Services
A. Kolubara Region
1.       A total of 15 support service facilities would be constructed under
the project, excluding the pig breeding program (para 17) which would be
carried out by two existing social sector farms in Letnjikovac and Velika
Plana. Key assumptions and a detailed description of technical features are
given in Working Paper No. C-5 of the Project Implementation File. A summary
description of the support service facilities is given below.
Plum Drying
2.       Kolubara Region, and particularly the communes of Valjevo, Lajkovac
and Ljubovija, are famous for their plum production.  The present drying
facilities within AIK Valjevo and Ljubovija are old and obsolete, resulting in
inadequate and inferior production of prunes. The project would finance
reconstruction and modernization of 14 plum drying facilities (9 at WO
Poljokoop, 3 at WO Vocar, 1 at Slovac and 1 at Ljubovija). Each plum drying
plant would have between three and five tunnels. The total drying capacity is
expected to increase from about 2,500 tons to about 6,400 tons annually.
About 4,800 tons of prunes would be taken up by the Center for Prune
Processing in Valjevo (see Annex 6, para 3) for pasteurization, sterilization
and packing and the balance (1,600 tons) would go to the prune cake plant.
Service Repair Shops
3.       Farmers experience difficulty in obtaining repair and maintenance
services for their farm equipment due to inadequate existing facilities.
Currently, many farmers travel from 25 to 100 km to obtain service. The
project would construct and equip eight workshops for the repair and
maintenance of agricultural machinery in eight communes of the Kolubara
Region, namely in Krupanj, Lajkovac, Loznica, Ljubovija, Osecina, Ub, Ljig and
Valjevo. The new workshops would be organized as BOAL's, each workshop
providing employment for 20 people with various skills. Training would be
provided by existing workshops and machinery factories.
Fuel Storage
4.       The project would help to construct 12 new fuel storage stations in
the subregions of Valjevo and Loznica. The investors would be Work
Organizations and Cooperatives in the following locations; Lajkovac, Mionica,
Kadina Luka, Loznica, Draginac, Lesnica, Badnja, Mali Zvornik, Ljubovija,
Slatnik, Brezjak and Valjevo. It is estimated that about 4,500 tractors will
be serviced by these stations.  Currently farmers are obliged to travel
considerable distances (averaging 30 km round-trip) to refuel at the public
stations. Investment includes storage tanks, fuel pumps, platforms and
fencing.



- 56 -                                ANNEX 5
Page 2
Milk Collecting Centers
5.       The investments under this subproject would be for the expansion of
the bulk milk collecting system supplying three dairies in the regions of
Lajkovac, Ub and Loznica. The dairy in Lajkovac would construct a total of 27
collecting centers (4 at 2,000 liters and 23 at 1,000 liters capacity) and the
dairies in Ub and Loznica would each construct 12 centers (2 at 2,000 and 10
at 1,000 liters capacity). The expanded milk collection system would have a
nominal holding capacity of 59,000 liters and, together with the existing
system (old and new), would be able to handle about 107,000 liters of milk
daily, which would match the processing capacity of the three dairies.
Seed Center, Sabac
6.       Existing facilities in the Kolubara region for seed processing and
finishing are inadequate and technically outdated.  Against the estimated
requirements of 36,000 tons, the seed processing center at Sabac produces
10,000 tons of processed seeds. The project would increase the capacity of
the seed processing center to 28,000 tons, which would meet about 80% of the
current demand. About 70% of the output would be wheat seed. The investment
would include the supply of a multipurpose seed processing line, a packaging
line for processed seeds, storage facilities for raw material and processed
seed and civil works construction.  The objective of this subproject would be
to provide the region of Kolubara with sufficient high quality seed in order
to improve the crop yields.
Chicken Hatchery
7.       The project would support the existing poultry farm at Vladimirci to
expand its present stock breeding program and to modernize its hatchery. At
present, the unit produces about 5 million Ross one-day-old chicks per year and
would be expanded to produce about 10 million/year. Grandparent stock are
purchased in Slovenia, who in turn import their base stock from the Ross
company in Scotland. The increase is necessary to meet the requirement of the
social and individual sectors (including contract farmers under the proposed
project). Investment consists of a poultry farm with 6 units and one
incubator station with 6 tunnels.
Mechanization
8.       The project would finance mechanization of 7,800 ha of sugarbeet
within the subregion of Sabac. The investor would be COAL-AIK Sabac who would
distribute the equipment to 7 of its Working Organizations located in seven
communes, which in turn would rent the equipment to individual farmers.
Complete mechanization of 7,800 ha of sugarbeet would be achieved over a
period of three years and would involve about 4,000 farmers. The equipment
would include tractors, cultivators, planters, sprayers and harvesters.
Investment includes the construction of 15 machinery sheds and one consignment
storage.



- 57 -                               ANNEX 5
Page 3
Fruit Nursery
9.       The project would establish a modern 50 ha fruit nursery three
kilometers from the town of Loznica to produce 650,000 seedlings, 480,000
rootstocks and 450,000 scions annually which would contribute substantially to
requirements for the establishment of orchard and berry plantations under the
project.  The new nursery would replace and relocate two 15 ha nurseries which
were recently abandoned due to urbanization.  The layout proposes plant
collection and material source (10.5 ha), propagation (17.5 ha), crop rotation
(20 ha), and a service area (2 ha). The collection area will contain 14
species, including the currently recommended varieties of each. The
investment includes office buildings, greenhouse, equipment and basic source
nursery.
Center for Medicinal Herbs
10.      A center for collecting and processing medicinal herbs and forestal
fruits would be established in Krupanj, with a capacity to handle about 3,900
tons of raw material annually of different products such as linden flowers,
oak and sage leaves, juniper berries, mushrooms and essential oil plants such
as coriander. Collection of herbs and forest fruit would employ up to 2,000
collectors during the greater part of the year.  At present, about 1,500 tons
of dried medicinal herbs are purchased per year through six existing
collection centers with drying facilities.  The new plant would produce about
260 tons of tea, 2 tons of essential oils and 150 tons of forest fruits. The
investment consists of (i) civil construction works, (ii) equipment for
handling incoming raw material, (iii) a distillation line, (iv) drying and
milling lines, (v) a packaging line and (vi) supply of utilities.
Tobacco Drying - Ljubovija
11.      The project would finance a tobacco dryer plant with a capacity of
2,500 tons of tobacco leaves per year, mainly the Virginia, Burley and Jaka
varieties. The tobacco would be treated by a process know as "redrying". The
basic principle is to expose the tobacco leaves after cutting and removing the
stems at a temperature of 900C for 20 minutes and 11X absolute moisture.
After that, the tobacco is slowly cooled and the leaves will undergo natural
fermentation for one month. The drying facility would be constructed under
the turnkey concept and would include civil works, utilities, equipment and
transport vehicles.
B. Danube Region
Seed Processing Pozarevac
12.      The existing seed processing facilities in Pozarevac are inadequate
and insufficient to meet the increasing demand for improved seed in the Danube
region where more than 120,000 ha of maize and wheat are sown annually. The



- 58 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
subproject would finance the relocation and reconstruction of the existing
seed center to process improved seed of 3,u00 tons of maize and 6,000 tons of
wheat, barley, alfalfa and sunflower annually. Investment would also include
laboratory facilities and the construction of 3,000 tons of silos for raw
material.
Sheep Farm - Zagubica
13.      The existing sheep station at Zagubica would be further developed and
strengthened to provide high quality rams, and female hoggets for sale to
individual farmers. The station would be expanded from about 500 ewes to
2,000 at full development. Emphasis would be placed on developing a select
Wuertenberg Merino Flock of which about 200 rams and 950 hoggets would be sold
for breeding in the individual sector. Investment would include
reconstruction of hogget house, artificial insemination station,
administration building, sheep barn, hay barn, equipment and basic flock.
Poultry Farm
14.      The project would support the existing commercial poultry (layer)
farm at Pozarevac to establish a poultry breeding farm to supply its own
hatchery. At present this hatchery, with a capacity to hatch about six
million eggs annually, is supplied by Pancevo Belgrade. The Yugoslav poultry
producers association decided that Pozarevac should establish its own breeding
farm because the production from Pancevo is badly needed elsewhere.
Layer-type day-old chicks would be imported. Investment costs would include
6,OOOm2 poultry housing, technical equipment and day-old parent chicks.
Mechanization, Pozarevac
15.      The project would finance agricultural machinery for about 12,000
farmers on a total of 22,600 ha in seven communes to meet mechanization of
wheat (5,000 ha), maize (13,500 ha), sugarbeet (3,000 ha) sunflower (3,000 ha)
and vegetables (100 ha). The main investor, AIK Pozarevac, would distribute
the equipment to 28 affiliated work organizations and the second investor, AIK
Srbija, would serve 8 cooperatives. Mechanization service would be provided
in a variety of ways. Those farmers owning tractors of adequate horsepower
would rent only the equipment; service to other farmers would include tractor,
driver and implement. Combine operators would be trained on social sector
farms already possessing these types of machines.
Wine Nursery
16.      A 25 ha nursery for production of high quality grape vine rootstock
would be established in Kobrinje. The output would be used to replace a total
of 1,200 ha of old vineyards in the inaividual sector over a period of 4
years. The annual replacement would be in the range of 300 ha a year. The
investment includes farm equipment, planting material, planting stock and
operational expenses for three years.



59 -                              ANNEX 5
Page 5
Pig Breeding Improvement Program
17.      The project would support a pig breeding improvement program on two
existing social sector pig farms in Letnjikovac and Velika Plana. Both farms
are well established and are achieving good production coefficients. The
existing breeding program would be expanded by (a) modernizing the existing
houses to enable performance and progeny testing, (b) importing superior boars
and sows to broaden the gene pool, and (c) installing individual feeding
facilities, group feeding facilities and weighing equipment. Each farm would
establish a performance testing program for boars. Superior breeding boars
would be selected on the basis of growth rate and feed conversion efficiency;
later, high quality boars would be sold to the individual sector. In addition
to the performance testing of boars, a progeny test scheme would be
established to select such traits as number of piglets born and the mothering
capability of sows. The cost of the program is estimated to be US$500,000 for
each of the two farms.
18.      The pig breeding farms Letnjikovac and Velika Plana would engage an
internationally experienced pig breeding expert to assist in the design of an
efficient, cost effective breeding program, to assist with the detailed
specifications of facilities and to help design a recording and evaluation
system. The proposal would detail the staff allocated to this work and their
qualifications. It would provide details of the buildings, equipment,
breeding stock and facilities to be financed.



- 60 -                                             ANNEX 5
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Support Services - Summary of Investments and Procurement
Type of Procurement and Estimated Cost
Type of                                       Name of                    Equipment            Civil Works
Investment                   Place            Investor                ICB         LCB             LCB            Total
------------------US$ Milion     ------------
A. KOLUBARA REGION
COAL-AIK Valjevo
1.  Plum Drying              Valjevo        WO Poljokoop (9)          2.987       -               3.453            6.440
Valjevo       WO Vocar (3)
Valjevo        BCO Slovac (1)
Ljubovija     AC Ljubovija (1)
2  Service Repair Shops!/   Valjevo         BOCF Valjevo               -          1.039           2.181            3.220
Lajkovac      BCO Klas
Ub            BOCF Ub
Osecina       WO Podgorka
Bela Crkva    BOCF Zadruga
Loznica       BOCF Loznica
Ljubovija     AC Ljubovija
Ljig          BOCF Ljig
3.  Fuel Storage             Valjevo        BOAL Valjevo (4)           -          0.084           0.201            0.285
Loznica       AIK Loznica (8)
4.  Milk collecting Ctrs.   Ub              WO AIK Ub (12)            0.414        -              2.173            2.587
Lajkovac      BCO Lajkovac (27)
Loznica       AIK Loznica (12)
5.  Seed Center              Sabac          AIK Sabac                 2.954        -              4.819            7.773
BOAL Semenarstro
6.  Chicken Hatchery         Vladimirci    BOAL Veterinarska          1.098        -              3.227            4.325
7. Mechanization             Sabac          BOCF Sabac               10.101        -               -              10.101
8.  Fruit Nursery            Loznica        AIK Loznica                -          0.114           0.243            0.357
WO Loznica
9.  Center Med. Herbs        Krupanj        WO Jedvinsto              2.128        -              3.247            5.375
10. Tobacco Drying-/         Ljubovija      BOAL Duvan (1)            6.900       -               3.247            6.907
B.  DANUBE REGION
11. Seed Processing          Pozarevac      WO Zitostig               1.188       -               6.379            7.567
12. Sheep Farm               Zagubica       BOAL Poljopromet           -         0.040            1.050            1.090
13. Poultry Farm             Pozarevac      WO Center Zivinarstvo    -           0.634            3.478           4.112
14. Mechanization            Pozarevac      Various Cooperatives    8.459         -               -               8.459
15. Wine Nursery             Kobrinje       ATK Mlava                            0.067            0.257            0.324
TOTAL                                                  36.228       1.978          30.708           68.914
1/ Turnkey LCB
2/ Turnkey ICB



- 61-                             ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Agricultural Extension, Technical Services
and Applied Research
General Background
1.       In SR Serbia, education and some research are provided by two
university faculties of agriculture, eight secondary agricultural schools and
several technical schools.  Specialized investigation and research is carried
out by 14 agricultural research institutes located throughout the Republic.
The Institute for Applied Science for Agriculture in Belgrade is reported to
have a coordinating role for professional agricultural services in SR Serbia.
At present it employs 22 graduate specialists, 15 of which are working in
livestock and 7 in crop production.  Its research and development activity is
carried out on a contract basis in collaboration with other specialized
research institutes, agricultural stations and many other production oriented
working organizations in SR Serbia. Although the staff of the Institute,
which are qualified and experienced, have frequent contact with extension
agents of the cooperatives and specialists from the agricultural stations,
their role as coordinators is minimal. Direct technical assistance to
individual farmers is provided by extension agents employed by agricultural
working organizations and cooperatives supported by back-up services from
regional agricultural stations, veterinary stations and centers.
Current Status.
2.       Contact with individual farmers is made by about 1,220 extension
agents employed by 50 different social sector organizations (WO, BOCF, BCO and
FC). Collectively, this group is referred to as the Basic Agricultural
Service. At the current level there is one graduate agronomist for 480 farm
households, one agricultural technician to 240 households, and one
veterinarian to about 1,800 head of cattle. The ratio of extension personnel
to farmers is inadequate to ensure effective coverage, a situation which is
further aggravated by lack of mobility and the fact that these specialists
devote considerable time to promoting and negotiating production contracts
between the processing industry and the individual farmers.
3.       Four agricultural stations (two each in the Kolubara and Danube
Regions) are the principal sources of technical information.  They are
basically organized as independent working organizations affiliated to the
major agrokombinats. These stations have no land of their own and office
buildings and laboratories are rather modest. Besides applied research, which
is conducted on the land of the contracting employer, staff performs quality
control of agricultural produce, soil testing, feed analysis and selection of
breeding stock. As most contracts are for less than 5 years, the continuity
of research is impeded. Information is transferred from the stations to the



- 62 -                                 ANNEX 6
Page 2
extension personnel in the organizations referred to in para 2 above
informally, through personal contact and, more formally, through periodic
seminars and conferences, particularly during the winter.  Special courses are
offered to farmers in addition to field days on the experimental plots.
Except for those occasions, station staff do not provide assistance directly
to farmers.
4.       Additional services to individual livestock farmers are offered
through veterinary stations: 13 in the Kolubara Region and 15 in the Danube
Region. They are strategically distributed in the project area, located on a
range of about 10 km from each other, except in the hilly-mountainous areas
where adequate housing is a serious constraint. Veterinary stations vary in
their organizational status. Some are affiliated with work organizations of
agrokombinats; some are independent. They provide for animal health
protection, disease control, artificial insemination and sanitary control of
livestock produce. By law, they are the sole institutions able to render
these services. In addition, many stations are involved in the production
and/or sale of day-old chicks, mineral licks and some veterinary products.
All veterinary stations are self-financed from fees and charges paid by the
individual livestock producers and profit margins from veterinary medicaments.
Strengthening of the Basic Agricultural Services
5.       The project would assist in strengthening the Basic Agricultural
Service engaged in implementing the on-farm investments in livestock and crop
production. A total of 91 additional extension specialists (46 for livestock
and 45 for fruit and crop production) would be employed by those working
organizations and cooperatives which have been identified as investors under
the project, and which would require additional staff to service the
requirements of the incremental production. Fifty-one would be located in the
Kolubara Region and 40 in the Danube Region. Details are given in Table 1 of
this Annex. The project would finance 60 vehicles and 50 small apartments for
the 91 incremental extension agents to help alleviate these constraints, which
seriously impede the effectiveness of the current service. In addition, 60
man/months of training abroad would be provided under the project. Training
emphasis would be on pasture and sheep production, artificial insemination
technology, forage quality, agricultural mechanization and agronomy of
industrial crops, principally sugarbeet. The Inter-Communal Regional
Communities (IRC's) of Kolubara and Danube would be responsible for
implementing and coordinating this component in collaboration with the working
organizations and cooperatives which employ the new personnel.
Feasibility Study
6.       The project would also finance preparation of a master plan in
agricultural extension, technical services and applied research for SR
Serbia. The objective would be to come forward with recommendations to
improve and adapt the existing services to providing efficient, cost effective
technical assistance to the individual sector. The following principal
activities and services would be covered by the study:



- 63 -                                ANNEX 6
Page 3
(i)     extension service:  organization, staffing, facilities and
training, present situation and requirement for the future; attention
should be given to the suitability of the "Training and Visit System"
or a variant thereof under Yugoslav conditions;
(ii)    veterinary service: organization; staffing; facilities and
training, present and future, with particular attention to those
services that could be delegated to the farmer, and the cost of
providing those services;
(iii)   applied research:  emphasis on ruminant nutrition, forage
quality, technology of forage conservation, grassland production and
utilization, soil fertility and crop response, and linkages with
extension;
(iv)    artificial insemination (AI): improvement of AI technology,
policy decisions on use of AI in animal improvement, and the role of
AI in commercial pig and sheep breeding;
(v)     milk testing:  development of an efficient milk testing
service for the Republic, and appropriateness of centralized milk
testing for animal improvement and commercial testing;
(vi)    development of a cost effective animal improvement program
using (iv) and (v) above; and
(vii)   soil and plant analysis:  explore the concept of a
centralized service for the Republic.
7.       To carry out the above study, the Republic Committee for Agriculture
of SR Serbia would be responsible for preparing the terms of reference by the
time of negotiations and would engage an experienced consultant or group of
consultants acceptable to the Bank not later than June 30, 1983.  The study is
expected to take one year to complete and is estimated to cost US$300,000.



- 6 4 -                       Annex 6
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Estimated Number and Distribution of Incremental Agriculture Extension Staff
Extension Support for Livestock Production
Kolubara Region           Danube Region            Total
No. of       No. of       No. of        No. of       No. of
Activity                Farms        Experts       Farms        Experts       Experts
Dairy cattle              686             7          653             6           13
Beef cattle               226             2          509             5            7
Pig Fatt. & piglets       344             3        1,404            13           16
Sheep                      59             1          136            2             3
Broilers                  123             2          169             3            5
Layers                      13                       105             2            2
Total               1,451           15        2,976            31           46
Extension Support for Horticulture and Crop Production
Kolubara Region                Danube Region          Total
No. of  No. of  No. of        No. of  No. of  No. of    No. of
Activity          Farms       Ha    Experts    Farms        Ha    Experts   Experts
Fruit              3,402    1,446       17         797       398       4         21
Grape               -         -          -         474       237       2          2
Tobacco            1,782    1,048        9          -         -        -          9
Indust. Crops    3,190    6,380         10         883    1,767        3         13
Total         8,374    8,874       36       2,154    2,402        9         45
The above requirements were calculated on the basis of the following
coefficients:  For livestock - one extension agent for 100 dairy farms, 100
beef farms, 100 pig farms, 50 sheep farms and 50 poultry farms. For
horticulture and crop production - one extension agent for 200 farms with
orchards, 200 farms with vineyards, 200 farms with tobacco, and 300 farms with
industrial crops.



- 65 -
Annex 7
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Description of Agroindustry Facilities
1.       A total of 14 agroindustry facilities are being reconstructed and
modernized under the project, eleven of them in the Kolubara Region and three
in the Danube Region. They are described below.
A. Kolubara Region
Fruit Juice Factory - Valjevo
2.       The present fruit juice factory has been operative for over 15 years
and has a capacity of 15,000 tons of various fruit juices.  The processing
lines are old, incomplete, technologically imbalanced and obsolete and would
be reconstructed and modernized.  One obsolete juice filling line would be
replaced and a modern tetrapack packing line introduced. Capacity would
increase to 18,000 tons of fruit juice. Most of the raw materials (mainly
fruits) would be available locally in the subregion but part of the raw
material supplies would depend on yields from the new plantings. Although
fruit juice capacity utilization is about 70% at the national level, this
plant's present capacity utilization is almost 100% and would remain so even
after expansion. About 1,200 tons of fruit juice are earmarked for export,
which represents only 7% of likely Yugoslav exports of 17,000 tons by 1985.
The plant can aim at a higher export target. Consumer acceptance of medicinal
herb drinks needs to be watched carefully, as these are being introduced for
the first time.
Coldstorage Plant - Valjevo
3.       The present coldstorage plant at Valjevo is incomplete in its
structure and has outdated equipment. It is proposed to reconstruct and
modernize it.  Although the technical capacity would remain the same at 9,000
tons, the volume handled would increase from 13,400 tons to 20,000 tons by
improving internal transport and introducing the pallet system. The total raw
material requirements are 20,000 tons of fruits, vegetables and medicinal
herbs. Raw material procurement would not be difficult. About 3,000 tons of
the total output of 16,500 tons (the remaining output of about 3,500 tons is
service storing of meat), are for the reconstructed fruit juice plant, another
7,000 tons would be sold on the domestic market and the balance of 6,500 tons
would be for export.
Prune Processing - Valjevo
4.       An existing center for prune processing with a capacity of 5,000 tons
of prunes would be closed and a new facility constructed to process and pack
about 7,000 tons at full capacity. Reconstruction and modernization would



-66-
ANNEX 7
Page 2
include equipment for (i) drying 3,320 tons of plums, and (ii) sterilizing,
pasteurizing and packaging 7,000 tons of prunes of which 6,000 tons will come
from the plum dryers rehabilitated under the project and the balance from its
own dryer. The increased production of 2,000 tons is earmarked for export.
Vegetable Processing Plant - Lajkovac
5.       An existing plant belonging to the farmers cooperative Lajkovac would
be expanded by adding three new vegetable preparation lines, one boiler house
and one continuous deep freezing tunnel with a capacity of 2-3 tons per hour,
to process about 5,700 tons of vegetables into 4,700 tons of individual quick
frozen (IQF) products. It is planned to export about 1,500 tons. Investments
include bulk and retail packing lines and transport equipment.
Grain Storage & Dryer - Valjevo
6.       The capacity of an existing wheat flour mill would be expanded by
construction of a vertical silo with a capacity of 10,000 tons of wheat.  The
present capacity of 4,000 tons of silo and 3,000 tons of ground storage is
totally inadequate and does not guarantee safe warehousing of the raw
material. Investments would include the construction of a dryer with 12 tons
per hour capacity, a bulk reception unit and a material handling system.
Investments would improve the capacity and utilization of the connected flour
mill and improve the quality of flour and bread.
Feed Plant - Ub
7.       The animal feed factory at Ub (present capacity 10,000 tons) is
technically outdated. The plant would be reconstructed and modernized to
process about 17,500 tons of concentrated and premixed feed annually,
including (i) 4,000 tons of cattle feed; (ii) 10,200 tons of pig feed, and
(iii) 3,300 tons of poultry feed. In addition, storage facilities with a
capacity of 5,000 tons would be constructed to store the raw material and
finished products. The animal feed produced would be just adequate to meet
the increased demands of the farms owned by the Kombinat and individual
farmers who have contracted livestock production.
Coldstore Sabac
8.       A new coldstore with a capacity of 5,000 tons!/ of frozen product
would be constructed outside the town of Sabac to replace an older storage
facility of 2,500 tons capacity at Sapcana. Equipment to process and freeze
berries and fruit would be included. At full capacity, the new coldstore
would handle about 11,000 tons of fruits, berries and vegetables per year.
1/ Based on meat



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
Poultry Slaughterhouse - Vladimirci
9.       The present slaughterhouse in the city of Sabac (capacity 1 million
birds per year) is worn down and has serious sewerage problems. A new
slaughterhouse would be constructed in Vladimirci about 25 km south of Sabac.
The expanded slaughtering capacity of 6 million birds per year at full
capacity with two shifts would produce about 8,000 tons of poultry meat. The
present supply of broilers in the Kolubara region is 6 million birds and the
slaughterhouse would be adequate to process the available number. Consumer
demand for poultry meat is high.
Potato Processing - Krupanj
10.      A potato processing plant in Krupanj would be established to process
an input of about 8,300 tons of fresh potatoes. The investor already has a
potato processing plant producing flakes and the region of Krupanj has
favorable climatic and soil conditions for potato production. The output of
the new plant would be 3,600 tons of deep frozen french fries of which 690
tons would be sold through the retail network and the balance of 2,000 tons
directly to hotels, restaurants and market centers.
Prune Cake Plant - Ljubovija
11.      The plant is currently manufacturing 2,000 tons of cakes with sugar
glazing and chocolate-covered cakes both with fruit filling. The investment
would add a prune-cake line of 3,000 tons capacity including the processing
unit for the prune filling.  In the face of restricted imports of cocoa base
for chocolate, the introduction of prune filled cakes is a right strategy
since this subregion is surplus in plums and prunes. Raw material supplies
will not be a problem as the production of 3,000 tons of prune filled cakes
requires 1,200 tons of prune paste which would be made from 5,600 tons of
fresh plums. The plant belongs to the famous Kombinat Belgrade (PKB) which
itself operates in the confectionary market. Sales on the domestic market
will be easy to achieve; in fact, even higher quantities can be sold in the
domestic market with proper promotion.
Communal Slaughterhouse - Ljubovija
12.      The existing communal slaughterhouse, located in the center of the
town, is very old and obsolete and does not meet the minimum hygenic standards
required by the sanitary regulations.  The slaughterhouse would be
reconstructed and relocated at a new site. The slaughterhouse would remain
basically a slaughter operation and would have very limited processing
facilities. Planned raw material input would total 2,600 tons liveweight of
cattle, pigs and lambs per year to produce about 1,000 tons of fresh meat, 270
tons processed meat, 100 tons of edible giblets and 540 tons of offals.



- 68 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 4
B. Danube Region
Oil Factory - Veliko Gradiste
13.      An existing oil factory would be reconstructed and modernized by a
solvent extraction unit to increase the processing capacity from the present
18,000 tons to 42,000 tons of oilseed inputs. The expanded facility is
expected to process 21,000 tons of sunflower, 8,400 tons of soya bean and
12,600 tons of rapeseed at full capacity. The edible oil production would
increase from the current level of 6,000 tons to 16,000 tons. In addition,
oil cake output (a valuable by-product of the oil mill) would increase from
11,000 to 25,000 tons.
Livestock Feed Plant - Pozarevac
14.      An existing livestock feed plant would be expanded by increasing the
storage capacity (silo) from 30,000 tons to 50,000 tons. At full capacity the
plant is expected to produce (a) 37,000 tons of poultry feed, (b) 40,000 tons
of pig feed and (c) 11,000 tons of cattle feed to satisfy the need of the
livestock production in the region.
Coldstore - Mlava
15.      The investment is to construct a new cold storage plant with a
capacity of 2,500 tons for processing and storing of fruits and livestock
products. Apart from freezing 2,500 tons of fruits and vegetables for selling
on the domestic and export markets, the coldstore would also serve the needs
of the recently completed adjacent fruit processing plant (2,500 tons), and
provide service to the slaughterhouse of the same organization at Petrovac
(2,000 tons of meat per year). Construction of the coldstore would include
one processing line for fruits (with stones), a freezing tunnel (2.5 ton
capacity per hour) and a packaging line. At full development, the processing
plant is expected to process 1,000 tons of sour cherries, 1,000 tons of plums
and 500 tons of other fruit.



APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Agroindustry - Summary of Investments and Procurement
Type of                                                                                   Type of Procurement and Estimated Cost
Agroindustry                                         Name of                       Equipment       Civil Works       Turnkey
Facility                       Place                 Investor                         ICB             LCB              ICB         Total
---------US$ Million-----------------
A. KOLUBARA RFGION
1.  Fruit Juice Factory        Valjevo               WO Srbijank                      6.086           4.407             -          10.493
2.  Coldstore (9,000 ton)      Valjevo               BOAL Vocar Frigo                 1.516           2.734             -           4.250
3.  Prune Processing           Valjevo               BOAL Vocar Prerada               2.245           5.975             -           8.220
4. Vegetable Processing        Lajkovac              BCO Lajkovac, BOAL Hladnjaca   2.091             2.384              -          4.475
5.  Grain Storage & Dryer      Valjevo               WO 15 September                  0.547           2.269              -           2.816
6.  Feed Plant                 Ub                    WO-AIK Ub, BOAL Zitopromet        -               -                2.382        2.382
7.  Coldstore (5,000 ton)      Sabac                 AIK Sbac, WO Vocar                -                              10.100       10.100
8.  Poultry Slaughterhouse    Vladimirci             BOAL Veterinarski Center          -               -                7.881        7.881
9.  Potato Processing          Krupanj               AIK Loznica, WO Jedinstvo        2.883           3.695              -           6.078
10. Prune Cake                 Ljubovija             BOAL Ljubovija                   1.695           2.471             -           4.166
11. Com. Slaughterhouse        Ljubovija             BCO Ljubovija                    0.397           2.059             -           2.456
B. DANUBE REGION
12.  Oil Factory               Veliko Gradist        AIK Pozarevac, BOAL Dunavka    0.243             1.976             -           4.407
13.  Livestock Feed Plant      Pozarevac             WO Sitzanka                      0.654           2.839             -            3.493
14.  Coldstore Mlava           Petrovac na Mlavi   ATK Mlava                           -               -               6.791        6.791
TOTAL                                                                     20.045           30.809           27.154       78.008



ANNEX 7
- 70 -                              Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Quantity and Value /1 of Projected Output from Agroindustries
Full Development         Annual Exports
Product                 Unit   Quantity      Value        Quantity     Value
('000 Din)                ('000 Din)
Fruit Juice              tons    16,800      549,500        1,200      51,400
Frozen Fruit               "     11,980      610,865        5,300     208,640
Frozen Fruit Pulp          "      3,350       107,548
Frozen Vegetables          "      4,700      205,700        1,500      35,400
Dried Vegetables           "        250       41,250
Dried Fruits & Grain
Products               "       1,330      214,645
Prunes                     "      7,000      385,800
Prune Cake                 "      2,400      259,200          600      54,000
Fresh Meat                        1,020      147,934
Fresh Potatoes             "      1,650       18,150
French Fried Potatoes      "      3,600      155,700
Processed Meat                      370       37,697
Offals                     "        540       28,618
Poultry Meat               "      8,080      803,550
Livestock Feed             "     43,650      741,412
Vegetable Oil              "      1,790       93,000
Press Cake                 "     (1,790)     (30,092)
Savings in grain losses   "      73,486       21,830
Cold Store Services
(a) Meat & Eggs           "       9,800       27,800
(b) Fruits & Vegetables   "       2,500        6,000
Total                             4,426,107                  349_440
/1 Incremental.



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
A. Drainage
1.       Drainage facilities under the project would extend over about 27,000
ha gross, (about 24,000 ha net), covering 7 separate sub-projects, three of
which are located in the Kolubara Region (about 8,670 ha net) and the
remaining four in the Danube Region (about 15,370 ha net). The sub-projects
aim at safeguarding the areas from external and internal waters and at land
improvement through the following works:
2.       Lajkovac Drainage (Net drainage area 921 ha)
(a) construction of a peripheral interceptor surface drain, about
7.5 km in length;
(b) reconstruction of an existing 5.7 km long surface drain;
(c) construction of a new main surface drain about 2.8 km long;
(d) secondary and tertiary surface drainage network for about 921 ha
(net);
(e) underground tile drainage network for about 408 ha (net);
(f) on-farm development of about 921 ha, consisting of clearance of
brushwood, cutting of trees, removal of stumps, clearing of land
works and land levelling; and
(g) operation and maintenance roads along all main and secondary
drains, about 16 km in length.
3.       Kalovica Drainage (Net drainage area 6,427 ha)
(a) reconstruction of existing surface drains (main and secondary)
of about 160 km in length;
(b) construction of new surface drains (main and secondary) in a
length of about 63 km;
(c)  underground tile drainage to drain an area of about 1,150 ha;
(d) operation and maintenance roads along all main and secondary
drains; and
(e) on-farm development of about 6,427 ha, consisting of clearance
of brushwood, cutting of trees, removal of stumps, clearing of
land works and land levelling.



- 72 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
4.       Orlaca Drainage (Net drainage area 1,326 ha)
(a) construction of a new interceptor surface drain, about 3.5 km in
length located at the base of the highland;
(b) construction of new main, secondary and tertiary surface drains
in a length of about 35 km to an area of about 1,326 ha;
(c) construction of a new electric pumping station with an installed
capacity of 3xO.8m3/sec (=2.4 mJ/sec)( to lift the drained
water to a height of about 9m over the dyke and into the Sava
River) and repairs and reconstruction of an existing pumping
station having a discharge capacity of 0.4m3/sec;
(d) on-farm development of about 1,326 ha consisting of clearance of
brushwood, cutting of trees, removed of stumps, clearing of land
marks and land levelling; and
(e) operation and maintenance roads along all main and secondary
drains, about 12 km gravel roads and about 27 km dirt roads;
5.       Zabari Drainage (Net drainage area 6,628 ha)
(a) construction of new main surface drains about 38 km long;
(b) construction of about 240 km of new secondary and tertiary
surface drains to serve about 6,628 ha;
(c) underground tile drainage network to drain an area of about
4,200 ha;
(d) construction of a new electric pumping station with a capacity
of 1.5 m3/sec to lift the drained water by a height of about
7m into the Morava River;
(e) operation and maintenance roads along all main and secondary
surface drains; and
(f) on-farm development of about 6,628 ha, consisting of clearance
of brushwood, cutting of trees, removal of stumps, clearing of
land marks and land levelling.
6.       Malo Crnice Drainage (Net drainage area 1,748 ha)
(a) construction of an interceptor surface drain, about 1 km in
length;
(b) construction of about 34 km of new main surface drains to serve
an area of 1,748 ha;
(c) construction of a new electric pumping station, with a capacity
of about 0.5 m3 to discharge into the Mlava River;



- 73-
ANNEX 8
Page 3
(d) maintenance and operation drains along all interceptor and main
drains in a length of about 35 km; and
(e) on-farm development of about 1,748 ha, consisting of clearance
of brushwood, cutting of trees, removal of stumps, clearing of
land works and land levelling.
7.       Smederevska Palanka Drainage
(Net drainage area 3,600 ha)
(a) construction of new interceptor surface drains in a length of 29
km;
(b) construction of new main surface drains in a length of 26 km to
serve an area of about 3,600 ha;
(c) underground tile drainagenetwork to drain an area of about 3,600
ha;
(d) operation and maintenance roads along interceptor and main
drains; and
(e) on-farm development of about 3,600 ha, consisting of clearance
of brushwood, cutting of trees, removal of stumps, clearing of
land marks and land levelling.
8.       Velika Plana Drainage (Net drainage area 3,400 ha)
(a) reconstruction of interceptor surface drains in a length of
about 16 km;
(b) construction 26 km of main and secondary drains to serve an area
of about 3,400 ha;
(c) reconstruction of existing pumping station to a carry a
discharge of 3m/sec over a lift of Sm.
(d) operation and maintenance drains along all interceptors, main
and secondary drains; and
(e) on-farm development of about 3,400 ha, consisting of clearance
of brushwood, cutting of trees, removal of stumps, clearing of
land works and land levelling.
9.       All seven drainage projects would also provide operation and
maintenance equipment, engineering services, monitoring and evaluation of the
drainage systems and agricultural development and training of key personnel.



- 74 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4
B. Agricultural Aspects of Drainage Component
10.      Each one of the seven drainage areas are alluvial plains bounded by
one river or more containing internal depressions of varying sizes and
depths.  The soils are of heavy texture, unstable structure and unfavorable
physical characteristics with poor aeration in the root zone.  The most
commonly occurring soil types are fluvisols, eugleysols and semigleysols.
Land classification indicates that, generally, the soils are potentially good
for intensive crop production but they require drainage measures to regulate
the water regime which, under present conditions, is the principal
constraint. With the project, the amount of arable land increases by an
average of 82% as a result of reclaiming marshes and converting degraded
natural grassland and periodically flooded arable areas into cultivable land.
11.      The individual sector owns an average of 88% of the terrain in the
seven drainage subproject sites.  The current and future cropping pattern with
the project is as follows.
Cropping Pattern
Present     Future
Cereals                          57.2        52.7
Industrial crops                 5.4         25.8
Vegetables                        3.1         8.4
Natural meadow-pasture           23.9          -
Alfalfa                          10.1        11.8
Annual forage-fodder              0.3         1.3
Total                   100.0        100.0
The major changes in cropping pattern are (i) greatly increased area devoted
to industrial crops, consisting mainly of sugarbeet and vegetables; and (ii)
elimination of natural meadow and pasture land in favor of increased crop land.
12.      Within each of the drainage subprojects there are areas which are
less subject to flooding and waterlogging, permitting limited crop farming.
Current crop yields were based on experience from these areas.  Crop yields
would increase with completion of the drainage works due to (i) improvement of
soil/plant/water relations; (ii) greater and more efficient use of inputs, and
(iii) an expanded and more efficient agricultural extension service. The
estimated crop yields at full development are based on land capability classes
after land reclamation and improvement; yields on farms in the vicinity of the
drainage areas not affected by waterlogging, and the experience and advice of
the agricultural stations in the two Regions. Incremental crop production at
full development is presented in Table 1 of this Annex and is summarized as
follows:



ANNEX 8
- 7  -                             Page 5
'000 Tons
Cereals                     19.8
Industrial crops           122.4
Vegetables                  40.2
Forage and grassland        39.2
Total                 221.6



APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Drainage Cconponent
Incremental Crop Production at Full Development
Kalovica    Orlaca    Lajkovac    Zabari    V. Plana   Sned. Palanka   M. Crnice          Total
-  -   -  -   -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -  -    -    -   -   -   -000   Tons   -  -   -   -    -    -    -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -    -   -   -   -   -
Cereals
Wheat                    292.0       799.0      728.0    7,624.8    3,390.5        4,361.5        1,112.0      18,307.8
Barley                    -         808.0        -         (225.0)      -             -              -            583.0
Maize                    662.9       135.5   (1,312.5)  (4,885.0)    (284.0)       4,517.4        2,083.7         918.0
Total Cereals              954.9    1,742.5      (584.5)   2,514.8    3,106.5        8,878.9        3,195.7      19,808.8
Industrial Crops
Sugarbeet             54,700.0    8,240.0        -       31,250.0    7,430.0      10,345.0        3,666.0    115,631.0
Sunflower                145.2       (52.5)      -        1,734.0      375.0         675.0          178.7       3,055.4
Soybean                  877.5      497.0       364.0       414.0      325.0         500.0          425.0       3,402.5
Rapeseed                  -          -           -          342.0       -             -              -            342.0
Total Indust. Crops    55,722.7    8,684.5        364.0   33,740.0    8,130.0       11,520.0        4,269.7    122,430.9
Vegetables                (741.0)       -       4,750.0    7,975.0    8,880.0       13,890.0        5,445.0      40,199.0
TOTAL FOOD CROPS        55,936.6   10,427.0    4,529.5   44,229.8   20,116.5        34,288.9       12,910.4    182,438.7
Forage - Grassland
Natural meadow          (252.0)    (577.5)    (644.0)    (900.0)  (1,589.0)    (6,352.5)         (1,239.0)    (11,554.0)
Natural pasture         (180.0)       -          -           -          -             -              -           (180.0)
Sawn meadow               -          -           -           -         400.0          -              -            400.0
Alfalfa                2,794.0    1,766.0    1,040.0        330.0    2,340.0       2,920.0         (556.0)    10,634.0
Maize silage              -          -           -           -       7,460.0       8,800.0        5,600.0      21,860.0
Forage rape               -          -           -       18,000.0       -             -              -         18,000.0
Total Forage-Grass       2,362.0    1,188.5       396.0   17,430.0    8,611.0        5,367.5        3,805.0      39,160.0
TOTAL NON-FOOD           2,362.0    1,188.5       396.0   17,430.0    8,611.0        5,367.5        3,805.0      39,160.0
GRAND TOTAL             58,298.6   11,615.5    4,925.5   61,659.8   28,727.5        39,656.4       16,715.4    221,598.7



ANNEX 9
- 77 -                                     Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB)
Consolidated Income Statement
1978     1979       1980             1981
Dinars      US $
INCOME                                                          ------Mill------
Interest on Loans and
balances with foreign banks    9,901    12,322    17,232         22,783       545
Commissions and fees                         386        661         838        20
Other income                     2,503     3,589      1,809       3,262        78
TOTAL INCOME                    12,404    16,297    19,702       26,883       643
EXPENSES
Interests on Dinars and
foreign exchange borrowings    6,932       8,229    11,656      15,546        372
Operating Expenses               1,569     2,407      3,423       4,474        107
Commissions and Fees                          174       228         370         9
Debts written off                1,180        75        125         413         10
Other expenses                    -        3,480      2,338       2,866        68
TOTAL EXPENSES                   9,681    14,365    17,770      23,669        566
NET INCOME                       1,155     1,932      1,932       3,214        77
US$1 = Din 41,8225



- 78 -
Annex 9
Table 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLVIA
Udruzena Beogradska Bank (UBB)
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Dec. 31, 1981
ASSETS                          Dec. 31   Dec. 31    Dec. 31                 us$
(Din Mill)                       1978       1979        1980       Dinars   Million
Cash & Other Liquid Assets       12,033      9,915      13,789      20,361      487
In Dinars                       5,057      5,877       6,852       9,491     227
In Foreign Exchange             6,976      4,038       6,937      10,870     260
Obligatory reserve & deposit
with National Bank of Yug.    12,541    11,148         20,590      27,599      660
Assoc. funds, time deposits
and securities                   8,519    13,702       27,373      39,943     955
Short-term deposits               5,349      9,852      21,797      30,893      739
In Dinars                       5,349      9,256      13,700      14,446     346
In Foreign Exchange                 0        596       8,097      16,447     393
Long-term deposits                3,170      3,850       5,576       9,050      216
In Dinars                       3,168      3,848       5,574       9,042     216
In Foreign Exchange                 2          2           2           8       0
Short-term loans                 33,350    43,670       67,322    110,416   2,640
In Dinars                      33,032    43,424       62,227    107,144   2,562
In Foreign Exchange               318        246       5,095       3,272       78
Long-term loans                 139,512   170,148    211,449    249,036   5,955
In Dinars                     120,203   145,973    174,174    201,088   4,808
In Foreign Exchange            19,309    24,175       37,275     47,948   1,147
Interbank relations               7,904      8,465      12,083      13,820     330
Fixed Assets                      2,938      3,760       4,619       5,701      136
Other Assets                      6,396      9,522      13,609      27,038      646
Transactions on behalf and
for account of legal
entities and citizens           16,900    16,101       19,823      26,701     639
TOTAL ASSETS                    240,093   286,431    390,657    520,615  12,448
Other banking transactions    248,895   303,130    378,192    561,104  13,417
Letters of credit               7,820      3,982       7,520       5,994      144
Guarantees                    160,999   191,238    223,713    302,030   7,222
Bills for collection            1,870      1,032       2,464       7,322     175
Other transactions             78,206   106,878    144,495    245,758   5,876
TOTAL                           488,988   589,561    768,849  1,081,719  25,865
US$1 = Din 41.8225



- 79 -
Annex 9
Table 2
Page 2
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLVIA
Udruzena Beogradska Bank (UBB)
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Dec. 31, 1981
LIABILITIES                     Dec. 31   Dec. 31    Dec. 31                  us$
(Din Mill)                       1978       1979        1980        Dinars   Million
Funds                             9,445    10,297       11,992      14,466      346
Joint & Several Liab. Fund    3,211        3,330       3,666       4,353      104
Reserve Fund                    2,715      2,882       3,216       3,716       89
Fixed Assets Fund               3,278      3,937       5,022       6,313      151
Other Funds                       241        148          88          84        2
Short-term assoc. funds
& other deposits                79,149    93,242    132,548    182,344   4,360
By legal entities                62,086    71,215    103,987    141,255   3,377
In Dinars                      48,644    57,691       75,199      94,482   2,259
In Foreign Exchange            13,442    13,524       28,788      46,773   1,118
Short-term personal deposits   17,063    22,027         28,561      41,089      983
In Dinars                      11,198    13,839       15,044      18,927      453
In Foreign Exchange             5,865      8,188      13,517      22,162      530
Long-term assoc. funds
& deposits                     48,720    61,917       77,959    101,535   2,428
By legal entities                33,993    42,390       50,568      63,994   1,530
In Dinars                      33,791    42,186       50,281      63,814   1,526
In Foreign Exchange               202        204         287         180        4
Long-term personal deposits    14,727    19,527         27,391      37,541      898
In Dinars                       7,878      9,674      11,403      15,818      378
In Foreign Exchange             6,849      9,853      15,988      21,723      520
Securities                        7,211      8,007       9,698      10,294      246
Short-term borrowings            14,061    15,564       31,866      50,070   1,197
Domestic                       13,461    14,551       24,125      40,790      975
Foreign                           600      1,013       7,741       9,280      222
Long-term borrowings             53,242    65,331       84,712      99,213   2,372
Domestic                       33,950    41,940       47,307      46,945   1,122
Foreign                        19,292    23,391       37,405      52,268   1,250
Interbank relations                 475        393       4,287       7,348      176
Other liabilities                 7,339    11,545       14,950      23,816      569
Trans. on behalf and for
account of legal entities
and citizens                    20,451    20,135       22,645      31,529      754
TOTAL LIABILITIES               240,093   286,431    390,657    520,615  12,448
Other banking trans.            248,895   303,130    378,192    561,104  13,417
TOTAL                           488,988   589,561    768,849  1,081,719  25,865
US11 = Din 41,8225



- 80 -
ANNEX 10
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Agrobanka - Statement of Income and Expenses: 1981 and 1980
Rearranged by Auditors but not Covered by Auditors' Opinion
in Din '000
1981                1980
Interest Income                                 198,188              142,003
Interest Expenses                                77,457               41,897
Net interest income                    120,731             100,106
Otner Operating Income                            15,770              11,056
136,501             111,162
Less:
Provisions for doubtful loans and
interest                                       21,490                 _
Other Operating Expenses                          99,180              84,672
Income before statutory
obligations                          15,831              26,490
Less: Statutory Obligations                        7,787               6,034
Net Income                               8,044              20,456
Appropriation of Net Income
Proposed distribution to members               12,776
Unappropriated income--interest not
collected                                    (4,732)              20,456
Total appropriations                     8,044              20,456



- &1 -
ANNEX 10
Table 2
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Agrobanka - Balance Sheets at Year-end 1981 and 1980
Rearranged by Auditors but not covered by Auditors' Opinion
in Din '000
1981           1980
ASSETS
-  Cash and due from banks                               727,813        219,470
-  Deposits with National Bank                           216,097        189,856
-  Securities and discounted bills                        80,554        108,789
- Short term loans up to one year and current
maturity of long-term loans                       2,233,045      1,211,246
-  Accrued interests and other assets                     93,628         58,231
3,351,137      1,787,592
- Long term loans over one year less
current maturities                              1,437,807         942,979
-  Long term investments                                 105,351         81,861
-  Deferred foreign exchange losses                         -            15,374
-  Property and equipment                                160,433        119,729
Total Assets                5,054,728      2,947,535
LIABILITIES
-  Demand deposits                                     1,690,278      1,125,522
- Savings and short-term deposits up to
one year                                           130,847         84,346
- Short-term borrowings and current
maturity of long-term borrowings                 1,065,313        363,897
-  Accrued interests and other liabilities                95,225         43,807
2,981,663      1,617,572
-  Savings and long-term deposits over one year          564,571        282,900
-  Long-term borrowings less current maturities    1,208,666            787,082
Total Liabilities            4,754,900      2,687,554
FUNDS EMPLOYED
-  Property and Equity Fund                              176,151        133,682
-  Reserve Fund                                           13,833         14,496
-  Joint Liability Fund                                   74,038         71,264
Total Funds Employed           264,021        219,442
UNAPPROPRIATED INCOME NOT COLLECTED                       35,807         40,539
TOTAL                 5,054,728       2,947,535
Collective consumption assets/funds (per cont.)           21,471         20,928



APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
PROJECT FINANCING PLAN 1!
In Yugoslav Dinars (million)
Total        % Share           Interest         Front-End       Total Project       % Share
Project      In Project          During           Fee on           Financial         In Funds
Cost           Cost          Construction       Bank Loan       Requirements        Required
Funds Required       30,815.2        1O0.0            7,963.2             64.8            38,843.2            100.0
Funding Sources
a) World bank         8,572.6         27.8              476.0 3/          64.8             9,113.4            23.5
b) Agrobanka         4,622.3          15.0            4,381.6               -              9,003.9            23.2
c) Equity             6,163.0         20.0                  -                -             6,163.0             15.8
- Investors        3,528.3         11.4                 -                -              3,528.3             9.0
- SFUR             2,634.7          8.6                                                 2 -  2,634.7        6.8
d) SFUR               2,283.4          7.4                  -               -              2,283.4             5.9
e) Local Banks 2/    9,i73.9          29.8            3,105.6               -             12,279.5            31.6
1/  Based on Yugoslav price inflation rates: 1983 - 25%; 1984 - 20%; 1985 - 15%; 1986 - 15%
2/ Should co-financing in an estimated amount of US$50 million (Din 3,175.5 million) be available, the local
bank's slhare would be proportionately reduced
3/ US$1 = Din 63.51
03



- 83 -                          ANNEX 11
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Description of Implementing Organizations
1.       The on-farm production investment, support services, extension
services, agroindustry and drainage components of this project would be
implemented by about 70 different organizations within the project area of the
Kolubara and Danube Regions. A brief description of the major groups of
investors, Composite Organizations of Associated Labor - COAL's, Agrokombinats
and Work Organizations, is given below.
2.       COAL -AIK Vaijevo (Kolubara) unites 67 Basic Organizations of
Associated Labor (BOAL's) widely dispersed in the communes of Valjevo,
Osecina, Ub, Lajkovac, Mionica and Ljig, of which 32 BOAL's and Working
Organizations would participate under this project. COAL-AIK Valjevo employed
about 3,830 people at the end of 1979 and its gross revenues exceeded Din
2,419M.
3.       COAL- AIK Sabac (Kolubara) covers the northern part of the Kolubara
Region with the communes of Sabac, Bogatic, Vladimirci and Koceljeva. It
unites 91 BOAL's with a total of 5,021 employees and a gross revenue of Din
2,790M. The drainage areas of Kalovica and Orlaca are located in this
sub-region.
4.       COAL-AIK Loznica (Kolubara) was founded only recently at the
beginning of 1982 It unites 19 BOAL's within the communes of Loznica,
Krupanj, Mali Zvornik and Ljubovija, all of which would participate under the
project.
5.       COAL-AIK Pozarevac (Danube) has its main office in Pozarevac and
unites 29 basic work organizations widely dispersed throughout the communes of
Pozarevac, Veliko Gradiste, Golubac, Petrovac na Mlavi, Malo Crnice, Zagubica
and Zabari. COAL-AIK Pozarevac is engaged in agricultural production in the
individual sector. It unites several important agroindustry facilities to
process grains, milk, meat, fruit, grapes and vegetables. It processes edible
oil and owns a network of retail shops.  In 1980 the organization employed
5,622 persons and during the last two years had gross revenues above Din
5,090M. PIK Pozarevac would be the investor for the Zabari and Malo Crnice
drainage projects.
6.       AIK-Srbija-10 Octobar (Danube) is the second largest organization of
associated labor in the region. Its head office is located in Velika Plana.
It unites 6 BOAL's and 10 basic cooperative organizations (BCO's). In 1980 it
employed a total of 1,895 persons and had gross revenues amounting to Din
2.605M.  AIK-Srbija-10 October is active in agricultural production of
livestock, fruit and grapes and unites a number of processing industries
including the meat processing plant in Velika Plana.



- 84 -                               ANNEX 11
Page 2
7.       Other organizations in the Danube Region participating under the
project include the two Agrokombinats Godomin and Scumadija together with 15
BOAL's, the agricultural Trade Organization ATK Mlava with 3 BOAL's, the Work
Organization WO Agrarpromet in Kucevo with 2 BOAL's and 4 Farmers Cooperatives
Selevac, Azanja, Milosevac and Lozovik.
Drainage Investors
8.       Farmer's Cooperative Lajkovac.  This cooperative was founded in
1930. It is a member of the COAL Vaijevo/Kolubara Region and is composed of 3
basic organizations of associated labour (BOAL). The internal organization of
the cooperative consists of four collection units and another unit for common
services. A dairy complex now under construction would be controlled by a new
BOAL, and would also join the Cooperative. Relations between the cooperative
and the individual farmers are well developed. The Cooperative presently -
employs 184 workers, of which 14 hold university diplomas, and is well suited
to serve as the investor for the Lajkovac Drainage Project.
9.       Self-management Community of Interest for Land Improvement (SIZ)
Sabac. The investor for the Kalovica and the Orlaca Drainage Project would be
SIZ Sabac (Kolubara Region). This organization was established in 1976 for
land improvements on the Macva and Posavina plains; however, its origins date
back to 1924 when the inhabitants of village Glusac and surrounding villages,
troubled by continuous flooding, established the first Water Cooperative in
Macva. The activities of the SIZ are managed by a two chamber assembly. The
first chamber consists of the representatives of the users of the services and
have 54 delegates elected by local communities and BOAL's. The second chamber
consists of 16 delegates elected by the Water Management Organization and
represents the supplier of services. The area covered by the operations of
SIZ Sabac encompasses about 170,000 ha in the north-western part of Serbia.
The investor would implement the project by entrusting the work through
separate SiMA's to two suitable existing BOAL's in the project area within the
complex Working Organization AIK Sabac.
10.      Farmers' Cooperative Buducnost.  Six Basic Organizations of
Associated Labour are a part of this Cooperative, which also maintains a
separate unit for common services. The farmers' cooperative would be the
sub-borrower and the investor for the Malo Crnice Drainage Project. The
physical implementation would be entrusted to the largest of the six BOAL's,
namely BOAL for Production and Trade, Malo Crnice. The present activities of
the cooperative center around cereal production, animal husbandary, fruit
growing, wine making, supplying individual farmers with production materials
and buying and selling agricultural products as a result of mutual cooperation
with the individual farmers.
11.      Self-management Community of Interest for Drainage and Irrigation
(SIZ), Smederevska Palanka. This SIZ covers the territory of Velika Plana and
Smederevska Palanka in the Danube Region and would be the sub-borrower and the
investor for these two drainage projects. Project implementation would be
entrusted to suitable existing BOAL's in the project area.



- 85 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Main Provisions of Consortium Agreement (CA),
Self-Management Agreement (SMA), SFUR Agreement
and Participation Agreement 1/
A.       Consortium Agreement (CA)
1.       The purpose of the proposed CA is to ensure sufficient domestic
resources and their timely availability for financing of the Serbia Regional
Development Project. The CA establishes the procedures to be used for pooling
local funds. The signatories of the CA would be Agrobanka, Beogradska bank,
Investbank, Yugobank and other basic banks in the two project areas. Other
banks may join. The main provisions of the CA are:
(i)    Signatories undertake to combine their resources with those
from SFUR and the World Bank for implementation of the Serbia
Regional Development Project.
(ii)   Signatories agree to nominate Agrobanka as the lead bank to
handle all project related matters including appraisal, approval,
disbursement, procurement, supervision and recovery of subloans.
(iii) Signatores agree to transfer resources to Agrobanka within
three days of such a request and provide Agrobanka with short-term
loans up to 60 days if required to cover payments.
B.       Self-Management Agreement (SMA)
2.       There would be two SMA's, one for each region.  The purpose of the
proposed SMA is to generally define the mutual rights, obligations and
responsibilities of a large number of organizations involved in implementation
of the Serbia Regional Development Project. The signatories of the SMA in
each region would therefore include (a) the investors under the project
(Organizations of Associated Labor), (b) SFUR as financing partner, (c) UBB,
(d) Agrobanka and the Intercommunal Regional Community as project
implementation agency and local Government body, (e) the Chamber of Commerce
1/ Copies of all three agreements are available in Working Paper No. 8 in the
Project File.



- 86 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2
of Serbia, (f) the Regional Association of Cooperatives, (g) scientific
organizations such as the Institutes for Agricultural and Incdustrial Economics
and (h) major trade organizations such as General Export, PKB and Centropromet
from Belgrade. The main provisions of the SItA are:
(i)    The investors are obliged to carry out their respective
investments under tne project on a timely basis in accordance with
the provision of the preparation reports and the loan agreement with
the World Bank.
(ii)   Intercommunal Regional Communities (IRC's) are obliged to
coordinate preparation and implementation of the project and take
remedial action as needed, and all necessary measures to approve the
sites and conditions necessary for project implementation.
(iii) Signatories agree that Agrobanka would be the implementing
bank and would sign a subsidiary loan agreement with UBB.
(iv)   Signatories agree to form a Coordination Committee in each
region composed of delegates from the Composite Organizations of
Associated Labor, IRC, SFUR, the Chamber of Commerce, the Association
of Cooperatives and local banks.
(v)    Signatories agree to establish project implementation units in
each region, namely in Valjevo and Pozarevac, with full time
employees assigned from the IRC, the Regional Chamber of Commerce and
regional farmer cooperative associations. Each of these two units
would be headed by an acting project manager.
(vi)   The "Green Plan" funds would be combined with other sources of
funds for financing investments in the individual sector.
C.       Project Implementation Agreement (SFUR Agreement)
3.       The statutes of the SFUR forbid the Fund from entering into any
speciffic financing or bank consortium agreement as proposea under this
project. Therefore, a separate agreement between the SFUR and Agrobanka is
proposed to establish the mutual rights ana relationship between the SFUR and
Agrobanka. The main provisions of the SFUR Agreement are:
(i)    Signatories agree on procedures for subloan appraisal,
approval and implementation.
(ii)   The SFUR agrees to provide 18.1% of total investment cost,
provided that its share in project investments in under-developed
communes amounts to 28%.



- 87 -
ANNEX 12
Page 3
(iii) The SFUR would assist Agrobanka in bridging liquidity gaps
towards the investor by extending 60 day short-term credit to
Agrobanka proportionally to its share in financing, if required; and
(iv)   To assist in mobilization of financial funds from domestic
sources and to participate in project preparation and coordination.
D.       Participation Agreement
4.       There would be two Participation Agreements, one for each Region, the
purpose of which would be to guarantee the financial participation of the
investors under the Serbia Regional Development Project. The signatories of
the Participation Agreements would include Agrobanka and the various
organizations of associated labor in the KoluDara and Danube Regions.



-88-
ANNEX 13
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Guidelines for Appraisal of Subprojects by Agrobanka
1.       All social sector investments proposed under this project, including
the support service, agroindustry and drainage components, have been
technically and economically appraised by the Bank. At the time of subloan
application, Agrobanka would therefore only be required to appraise the
financial capability of the investors and ensure the availability of
investors' equity and other domestic resources.  Individual sector investments
have been appraised on the basis of typical farm models developed during
appraisal. Agrobanka would not be required to prepare farm models for each
subloan request, but would still have to appraise the subloans.  Agrobanka
would appraise subprojects submitted to it for financing under the project in
accordance with general guidelines presented below.
Social Sector Subprojects
2.       Agrobanka will prepare a detailed subproject appraisal report for
each investment project, taking into account the following:  (a) subprojects
provide satisfactory financial and economic rates of return on the basis of
detailed and realistic cost and benefit estimates and would generate
sufficient cash flow to cover debt service, legal claims, compulsory
alloctions to enterprise funds, and reinvestment needs.  Subprojects would
have a minimum financial and economic rate of return of 12% in constant
Dinars;  (b) subprojects are technically feasible; (c) subborrowers are credit
worthy, and their organization, management, and financial structures are
satisfactory for subproject implementation; (d) appropriate attention is given
to the economic impact of subprojects, including employment, income, and
import/export effects, and (e) the necessary amount of long-term credit to
finance permanent working capital requirements would be available for the
project.
3.       An outline of the subjects to be covered in each subproject appraisal
report is given below.
(i)   Summary and Conclusions
(essential elements of subprojects, purpose, size, benefits,
total value, main components and stages, period of investment,
financial and economic results, conclusions).
(ii) Introduction
(iii) Investor
(background information and analysis)
(iv) Conditions for Subproject Implementation
(social, economic, environmental)
(v)   Subproject
(description, purpose, capacities, technical aspects,
procurement, implementation schedule)
(vi) Raw Material Supply



_ 89 _
ANNEX 13
Page 2
(vii)   Marketing
(viii)  Financing
(ix)    Organization
(x)     Economic and Financial Effects of Investment in the Subproject
individual Sector Subprojects
4.       For the individual sector, a simplified appraisal methodology would
be used.  The present practice, under Bank-financed agricultural projects in
Yugoslavia, is to examine the production and financial viability aspects of
individual sector subprojects by preparing detailed farm budgets, cash flows
and investment projections for each subproject.  The simplification proposed
under this project is to examine the production and financial viability
aspects of the individual sector subprojects for primary agricultural
production, by relating them to typical farm models developed during appraisal
of the Serbia Regional Development Project.  Thus, it would not be necessary
to prepare farm models for each subloan request.  The resultant savings in
time are expected to be substantial. Agrobank will update the general farm
models at least annually, in collaboration with the Agricultural Institutes,
to taKe account of price changes and experience gained from monitoring and
evaluation during project implementation, and will make sure that investments
financed nave an economic rate of return of at least 9%.
3.       Agrobanka will prepare a brief (1 page) appraisal report for each
Individual Sector subproject for primary agricultural production, which would
comment on the following:
(a) Creditworthiness of the loan applicant in accordance with the
Yugoslav regulations.
(b) Adequacy of technical assistance provisions for helping the
individual farmers in implementing the investment.
(c) Adequacy of marketing arrangements.
(d) Reasonableness of investment cost estimates, and
(e) Expected range of financial rate of return, by comparing it to
the typical farm model valid for the current year, and
(f) Availability of seasonal credit.



- 90 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project Files
A.       Selected Reports and Studies on Socialist Republic of Serbia
A-I     Agreement on the Basis of the Social Plan of the Socialist
Republic of Serbia for the period 1981 - 1985 concerning
Development of the Agroindustrial Complex (52 pages).
A-2     Yugoslavia; Adjustment Policies and Development Prospectives
(3 Volumes) Country Programs Department I, May 27, 1982,
Green Cover.
13.      Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
K-I     Toe Podrinje-Kolubara Region Agricultural and Agroindustrial
Project - Preparation Report February 1981. Institute for
industrial Economics, Belgrade.  Four volumes;
Vol I.    Project Area and Market Products Study for Program
Identification.
Vol. II   Agriculture
Vol.  II  Agroindustry
Vol. IV   Drainage and Irrigation System
B-2   Danube Region Agricultural and Agroindustrial Project -
Preparation Report, March 1981. Economic Institute and
Agricultural Economic Institute, Belgrade.  Three volumes;
Vol. I    Basic Project Characteristics.
Vol. II   Project Area and Market Analyses
Vol. iLL  The Project
B-3   Regional Development Project, Podrinje-Kolubara and Danube
Regions.  Part I Main Report Agrobank, March 1982
3-4   Regional Development Project, Podrinje-Kolubara and Danube
Regions.  Institute for Economics and Institute for
Agricultural Economics, Belgrade, May 1982
Part Li - Market Analysis
Part Ill - Primary ProdutLion - Individual Sector
Part IV - Support and Extension Services
Part V - Agroindustrv



ANNEX 14
- 91 -                            Page 2
C.       Project Implementation File
C-1   Working Paper No. 1:   Project Costs.
C-2   Working Paper No. 2:   Financial and Economic Analyses
C-3   Working Paper No. 3:   Market Analysis
C-4   Working Paper No. 4:   On-farm Production Investment
C-5   Working Paper No. 5:   Support Service Component
C-6   Working Paper No. 6:   Extension Service Component
C-7   Working Paper No. 7:   Agroindustry Component (2 Volumes)
C-8   Working Paper No. 8:   Self-Management Agreement (SMA),
Financing Agreement (CA) and Project
Implementation Agreement (PIA).
C-9   Working Paper No. 9:   Agrobanka:  The Implementing Agency
C-10  Working Paper No. 10:  Drainage Component



I



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organization and Coordination
Coordinating Board for
Podrinje-Kolubara Region
Coordinating Board fo;                                                                                                                                   Beogradska Banka
Danube Region                                                                                                                                             Beograd      A
Executive Council                                                                                                                                       tnvestbanka
of SR Serbia                                                                                                                                           Beograd
Repubic Secretariat                                                                                                                                       Jugobanka
for Finance                                                               UDRUZENA                                                                      Beograd
BEOGRADSKA BANKA
BORROWER                                                        _.:          !
Republic Secretariat                                                          BR       E                                                                 BBBa1c Banb         !
for Agriculture       __Sabac                                                                                                                                        
for__Agric__                                   AGROBANKA                                                                                       i
Fund for Underdeveloped                                                    IMPLEMENTING BANK                                                               BB-Bauic Bane
Regions - Beograd
|  Cooperative Association                                                  CoodInter-regional                                                            RB-Basic
Cooperatiw                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Coordinating Board
of SR Serbia
I-ntitute for                                                                                                                                       BB-Basic Bank
Industrial Economics                                                                                                                                      _Pearecuc
Agricultural                                                             AGROBANKA                                                                 Ljubaa ank
Economics Institute                                                            PROJECT
UNIT
Economic Institute
Intercomunal Regional                                                   Intercomanal Regional
Community IRCI                                                          Community tIRCI
Kolubara Region                                                         Danube Region
Regional Coordinating                                                   Regional Coordinating
Belbard fRai-                                                       Board for Danube Region
VALJEVO                                                               POZAREVAC
Regional Unit for                                                       Regional Unit for
Project Implementation                                                  Project I0ple-entation
r:                ::1               I            IlI        I                                    I                                               T          ~           1
COAL-AIK                COAL-AIK                COAL-AIK                  OTHER                  COAL-AIK                                       AIK SRBIJA                 OTHER
Valjevo                  Sabac                  LoTnica               INVESTORS                 Pozarevac             ATK MLAVA               10 OCTOBER              INVESTORS
Fruit Juice            Coldstore              Potato Processing        BOAL DUVAN               Oil Factory              Coldstore              Mechani-ation           BCO IZOR
Tobacco Drying
Coldstore              Poultry                Prune Cake                                        Feed Plant               Wine Nursery           306 L-seutock           Sheep Farm
Plum Processing        Slaughterhouse                                                                                                            Farms
|    Plum Processing   |                  |  Coin. Slaughterhouse                               Seed Processing          546 Livestock                                  P  A o i
Seed Center                                                                                       Farms                  AK SUMADIJA
Vegetable                                     Fruit & Nursery                                    Poultry Farm                                                           37 L-estock
Processing             Chicken Hatchery       Center Med. Herbs                                                          625 ha                 346 Lioestock           Farms
l   l                 l                        l                       |    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mechanization  | Orchards  | Farms              gj
Gram Elevator          Mec-ahnatio-           Tobacco Dry,ng                                                                                                            B Euh- t-  OrcOrdhads
and Dryer                                                                                        1305 Li-istockl          Various               0.5 ha Vineyard
581 Livestock         365 Livestock                                      Farms                                                                  WO Agroypron o
Feed Plant             Farms                  Farms                                                                      280 ha                 33 ha Orchatds         
ZABARI                   Orchards                                      197 Livesmock
Plum Drying            170 ha                 878 ha                                                                                            FC Selevac              Farms
Tobacco                Tobacco                                            6628 ha
Seruice Repair                                                                                   Drainage                                       66 Lioestock            FC Lozorik
Shops                  506 ha                 373 ha                                                                                            Farms
Orchards              Orchards                                           BCO M. CRNICE                                                          39 Lvesot.c        i
Fuel Storage           S   S                                                                     1     h                                        2.5 ha Orchard          Farms
|                |  ~~~~SIZ SABAC                                                              1 l    749 ha                                                                             T
Milk Collecting                                                                                  Drainage                                       0.5 ha Vineyard         FC ML osevII    -
Centers                7753 ha
603 L,,|stk            DieDrainag                                                                                                               AK Godomin              19 Livesto-k
| 603 Livestock                                                                                                                                                       | Farmsi
Farms                                                                                                                                           74 Livestock
1 567 ha l l | | l l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Farms   
567 ha                                                                                                                                                                 S IZ _SP FA L2K
Orchards                                                                                                                                        15 ha Orchards
7000nh.
BCO Laikovac                                                                                                                                    236 ha Vineyards       Droivage
921 ha
Drainaeg
WorI  Barn- 2477



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
1982               1993                           1984                            1985                            1986                           1987                           1989
Descrnpt,on~                               4      1                                                             | 2              3 4  3  |  4   1       2       3       4       1 |                                    2 3             41
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
ApPoint--en of Projec-  Unit
Appointm-nt of Regional CoordCnatio- Unit
ON FARM INVESTMENTS
ORCHARDSIVINEYARDS AND TOSACCO IHECTARES)
PY1 Fruit Ochards i593 hal Vin-yard (95 to                                                                     1212 n.
Tooan-o 15241                                               ....   *..s.... s.                                12  2h
834
PY2 Fruit (533 hal Vineyatd  1771 ha. Tfobaco (2101                                   ......          ....           ... ..  _ *
PY3 Fr,it 1409 hal Vineyards (71 hal Toba.co  (2101                                                                                   .....  ......                           690 hn
PY4 Frtit 1299 hal Tobaccn  (104 hal                                                                                                                      1     .   ...n...... ...                              9. ha
LIVESTOCK (NUMBER OF FARMSi
PYI Dairy (2561 Fa-tening (147) Sheep i401 Piglet (170)                                                    991
Pig Fatt-ning (1111 1roi3nt (39) Egg 124) Be (34)           ....  .....        *    I ..._ I                                                                                                                                                   i
PY2 Dary (358) F.t1ein9 1220i Sheep (51) PiglAt 2521                                                                                             1294
Pig Fatttning (2591 Eroilr 156) Egg 1341 Ba  1471                                  lmI,s,H    ll.e ...   I  ...lol l... i
PY3 Dairy 1365  Fattening 1221) Sheep (591 Piget 1254i
Pig Fattening (2711 BroilC, 156) Egg (36) B6f (47)                                                                 i"1s..,,;.       S lIEU II  11112111
PY4 Daity (360) Fattaning 1747) Sheep (391 Piglet (170)
Plg Fatteng (1911 9toihr 1361 Egg (241 Be  1241                                                                                                   tn (31  ...a...    ..a .....                          9
SUPPORT SERVICES
Plrn Dyinig                                                  ....  I... d...0_
Serice Repei, Sho.t ... I.... **                                                0                                     _
Fu.l Stot-g                                                  ..... .........W
Mi k Cl-leting Centet                                        ....  .......
Seed Canter Sabac & Poareev.                                1.....   .........  1
Chicke natonern Hag                                                   ..........I
Medina; Herb CatnP  Krupanj                                 *... * *......                                                                         _
Toac-o D1ying                                                 ... ..II.... ....._._
Sheep Farm                                                      In    IlIlsIll|X1  
PoShtty Farm                                                  ....  I...... t...
No,setes Frein 150Ohal Vin  125 hal                               I .. .........
MFanfl  -ation                                                .. ... ...a...
AGRO-INDUSTRY
Ft.it Junie Vj-avo                                           ...   ........s.                                                         _
Coldstote Va;evo                                             ..    *s***...a.  ....
Prnen  Psoa-saimt Velj                                        - IIS   **... .......
Veetaebl Pro-e-ing Ltjkovac                                  .....   .........s
GSain Seonge & Dtyer Ve1i-a_
Fed Plant  U9                                                .. I
Ca,dttote Saban                                                  |      ||| 4|              ||     
Pou tny Sla,ghtethos  Vladimiri                              ..... I.........I.I.....            .  *-
Potato Pton-sing Kruparj                                      ...  I........_
Prtn-  Cake Li4uboviaKa                                      |     l                                                                lialellellal
Communa Sluanthfha-  Liuboniia                               ....  ........
Oil Fentoty Veliko Gradiste                                  ..   sa ...   "|I           *| .....
Live-took Fed Plant Pttrovan                                 ... A.....E
-alostote  Mlavi                                             1         ....    .
DRAINAGE
Lajko-ec 1921 ht) el                                                I                                                                             I                               I                              I
Kaluiem 16.427 hal                                                    ..... email ..... llegl  ....                       _
Orlac  ;1.326 hal                                            ....................._
Zabati 16628 hal                                                  mil     ..................           l      i  l.
MaIn Cnenie (1.748  .a.  I........I............
Sm  Pelarka. 3.6    h.hal)                                    Olli   "|||"   ..ANIM111 ....   l.
Vlika Plane (3.400 h.al                                              ... ...................
EXTENSION SERVICE
Apernmem n (501 Vehicnes 160                                 ...   .      ....
Py= p tiect Y.ar
lii*8   = Appraval of Sugl-an, Prepatatian of Do -umene,
Fina Design Adetsing and E-sUetion-  A-ard
and Signing of Contman
= Construction and Implementation Periwd and                                                                                                                                                                                   et  Bnk-24324
Staff Appoinnmeae.



YUGOSLAVIA
APPRAISAL OF SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Arrangements
|    WORLD BANK         
|ILoa,, Agrement
Project Agreement    ,    .|.UDRUZENA BEOGRADSKA
S*R SR  ABANKAT-NBORROWER AR-'''''''''-''''
S'b- Lon A ngrobtnks  Agrernt
lBEOGRADASKA BANKA
SFUR                              SFUR  A9reernt          A           S OBANKA-IMALEMECAINGs_ YUGOBANKA
AGENCY                             Consortium                        INVESTBANKA
Agreement (CA)                       BASIC BANKS
SKb- Loan Agreeg rntseem.nt
KOLUBAEA REGION
KOLUBARAlPROJEC                                                                                       INVESTOR
KLAJKBVAC -BCO LAJKOZ VAC
INTERCOMUNAL    _            SMA .KALOVICA -SIZ SABAC
ANUEREGION                                                                                                                      MCREGIONAL  ... ......  ORLACA-SIZ SABAC
KOLUBARA                                         COMMUNITYL                                            DriaeAemnt;
REGION                                                                                    L  _        ,amg _ _  _  _ e_t_ _ __
INVESTORS                                                                                                                                  A
DANUBE   "                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DANUBE REGIONl
I                                                                                        I        ~~~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT  INVESTOR
INTERCOMUNAL    _              ._                                                           ZABAR I -PIK PtiZAREVAC
DANUBE REGION                      REGIONAL         ...~~~~ SMA                                                       MALO CRNICE --PIK POZAREVAC
INVESTORS                                       COMMUNITY                                                                              S. PALANKA -SIZ S. PALANKA
f                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~V. PLANA- -SlZS5. PALANKA
SELF MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT (SMA)
SMA Would Ensure Commitment so Project
Impiementation and Specify Rights and
Obligations - Signed by AanoeAe
....................  Loa  ak,adAlPriiaig                      ...........................
Local Bun,ks, an,d All Participatin,g......
Organizations In Project, Chamber of
Commerce, Interregional Communities,
Trade Organizations, and Institutes
for Economics and Agriculture.                                          World Bank-24325






IBRD 16607
AIL'STRA   ._-2'0-   SEPTEMBER 1982
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                                                                                                    HUNGARY
YUGOSLAVIA                                                                                                        4                                                                                    ' S  ROMANIA
SERBIA  REGIONAL  DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                   0 A F   V0JI4DINA                     4
DANUBE REGION                                                                                               H_GgN R                      M           Nd   e
*                                                                                                                                                                                                              _o                                  2.o;VOjVOD  \       g=, i  V<W@7
Q       Anmmo  Feed   M                                                                                                                                           P
+      Center for Seed  Processing                                                                                                      eMACEDON/A,}
M.Ik Prod,ct on                                                                                                                                              /_
FS]    Sheep Freed rtg                                                                                                                                                                                40- t~                                              0
CO     Cattle Fattening
C Piglet Productroe)                                                                  MEDEREV
Pig Fattening                                     ~I~                                                           i~- 
Po B    e, e  Fatter tAtt
Q       Fggs Prod.ocf,on                                                                                       P ;bz/a
1      Beekeeping
Fru,it Orchards
E~tiension Sete,ees
Drainage Areas                                                                                                               a
V-ieyards                         PODRUCJE                                                                                                                                                                                         Te N    t-er:r-
LL   0iFtoyEOGRADA
Meclanizat o-, u:
Paul try 'orm
Vine Rootstock Nersety t-
ase~   Pr mary Roods
Secondary Roads                                                                                                                                    n    iv
Tertiary Roadcs                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ld,,
I-i   en rpw rthe----t-  Rot    m ys                sld                               yl  rvska ~  . - -               w/roht  I n r        /
toso-dRa ers                                                                       alcmye o
---  Com,,une Boundaries                                                                                                                                                                                                           REGIO
- - Region Boundaries 
-   Repuolic and Aetonomous Prt  nne Boundaries
International Bou,ndaries
EL EVAT IONS
500-1000 meters
0 -200FeN
010                      20                30 Kilometers                               SUMADIJSKO  - POMORAVSKI   REGION.






IBRD 16608R
DECEMBER 1982
YUGOSLAVIA
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KOLUBARA REGION
/1  K )/eg3 ,                       ELEVATIONS                             Primary Ronds                        A    Juice Production
BO   S   NIA I         -                         >*' i   e                                                         1000-2000 meters             -          Secondary Roads                      *   Finishing  and Packing ol Prunes
*Itg   \  _>   -R   p(j        [;31lr n's. 1 500-1000                    _       Tertiary Roads                      Do  Grain Elevaor vi,th Dryer
A//F  R  Z ,  G  O    V  / N  A            A      t    Bogati               t,                                n        200 - 500                              Radways                                    Coldstore
E#w   gtyE A          (                                          0 (1    | O- 200             57~       R,vers                               JO   Service Workshop
ii AS   t          X  i                                                                        - - - -   Subregional Boundaries                0   Fuel Oil Storage
Region Boundaries                    (9   Milk Collection Center
V  0]  V   JOD/ NA                             Republic and Autonomous              0    Plum  Dryer
SAB \ 3 i_>s  l! O f3  ll33+/  99t='R-Pro-nce Boundaries                                                        S   Mechanized Sugar Beet Production
International Boundaries            [h  Potatoe Processing
o    Animal Feed Mill
:5.:                                    #~~~~~~~~~ Center for Seed Processing
(1  Broiler Hatchery
A-                                                                                                13~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Poultry Slaughterhouse
TaY >     Jadetrs+W:l 2 \ t    /  A g   r  >}   <   0 Be/grade  [iii  Fruit Nursery
+    Center for Medicinal Herbs
41                                                                     ITORIJA                    W   "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Redrying" Tobacco Dryer
BEOGRADA                            prune Cake
7k ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NCommunal Slaughterhouse
A    Dairy / Beef Farming
rn Sheep Breeding
znic >                                                                                                                                                                     :  >; v < , ;; QV Q .,,< ,, A [3 Catt e Fattening
\    Piglet Production
f-P  Pig Fattening
FB   Broiler Pattening
N                                                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Eggs Production
Beekeeping
;W ml                            ^                              E 0 IN   Fruit Groaing
f~~~~~~1A ?~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ 
/>                                          '>   '       -Sfpt                                                                              A    E.tension Services
vi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ltoa Drainage Areas
14!                             ~ ~~~~~~~Vegetable Processing
i:vP,                                                                                                                    ~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  20  30
Kilometers
AUST.RI A 15- -4.                20       '
pro~ ~ ~~~~<   AI1?VOJVODlNvA RDMANIA
This m-p ha b..u prrp-md by thu
ThnBie  -hdr on  ths ma                                                                                                                                                                                    t ~ 
Wold- han  Ionta7rli7e, ay                                                                                                                                                       EGON(
Judomo ontelylsau  f                                                                 10
luy ~trritory or any -va-r,-mnv                                                                                                                           KRAJEV          K2REIO                                                              Y./AtlEFCE
or nnPt.-u osuh ha..od-rr                                                          kC                                 o  raoUI



