Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3477-YU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$136 MILLION
TO
UDRUZENA BEOGRADSKA BANKA (UBB)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 10, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Calendar 1981
Currency Unit           Yugoslav Dinar        June 30, 1982    October 22, 1982
US$ 1                     Din. 41.82           Din. 46.0           Din. 63.51
Din 1                     US$   0.024          US$   0.0217       US$   0.0157
Din 1,000,000            US$  23.910           US$  21,739         US$  15,700
YUGOSLAVIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
Agrobanka             -    Specialized Agricultural Bank
AIK                   -    Agro-industrial Kombinat
BOCF                  -    Basic Organization of Cooperative Farms
BOAL                  -    Basic Organization of Associated Labor
COAL                  -    Composite Organization of Associated Labor
FC                    -    Farmers Cooperative
ICB                   -    International Competitive Bidding
IRC                   -    Intercommunal Regional Community
LCB                   -    Local Competitive Bidding
SDK                   -    Social Accounting Service
SFRY                  -    Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
SFUR                  -    Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions of
Serbia
SIZ                   -    Self Management Water Community of Interest
for Water Economy
SMA                   -    Self Management Agreement among Participants
in the Project
SR SERBIA             -    Socialist Republic of Serbia
UBB                   -    Udruzena Beogradska Banka (Associated
Belgrade Bank)
WO                    -    Work Organization
* The Yugoslav Dinar bas been floating since July 13, 1973. It was
devalued by 20% against the US Dollar effective October 22, 1982. The
currency equivalents effective on June 30, 1982 have been used for project
analysis.  For cost estimates, unit costs are based on June 1982 Dinar
estimates and have been updated to December 1982, reflecting the effects
of the October '82 devaluation and international price escalation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YUGOSLAVIA
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Loan and Project S,urmmary
Borrower:                 Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB).
Guarantor:                Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Beneficiaries:           Agrobanka, about 50 social sector organizations and
about 15,000 individual farmers.
Amount:                   US$136 million equivalent in various currencies,
including a capitalized front end fee of
US$1,012,407 and interest on loan during
construction of US$7,500,000..
Terms;                   Amortization in 15 years, including three years
grace, with interest at the standard variable
interest rate. Repayment would be according to an
amortization schedule partly fixed and, in the case
of the sub-loans financed, composite.
Re-Lending Terms:         The Bank loan would be passed on by UBB to
Agrobanka on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan. The proceeds of the loan would be
on-lent by Agrobanka to the social sector
enterprises at the prevailing Bank rates plus a fee
of 1.25% to cover Agrobanka's administration costs,
except in the case of the drainage sub-projects,
where a fee of 0.5% would be added. The on-lending
rate to the individual sector farmers would be the
same as that charged for domestically intermediated
funds (presently 18%). The foreign exchange and
the variable interest rate risks of the Bank loan
will be borne by the social sector and by the
Government of Serbia for the individual farmers.
Project Description:    The main objectives of the project are to develop
the Kolubara and Danube regions of SR Serbia.
These would be achieved by provision of funds for
(i) on-farm investments in the form of credit to
about 10,900 individual farmers for livestock,
tobacco production and fruit crops; (ii) support
services in the form of farm mechanization for
sugar beet, sunflower and vegetables, nurseries and
seed processing centers, repair workshops, fuel
storage depots,
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
poultry hatcheries and breeding farms for poultry,
pigs and sheep; (iii) provision of about 90
additional specialists, 60 vehicles, 50 small-scale
apartments, 60 man months of training abroad to
strengthen extension services and preparation of a
master plan for agricultural extension, technical
assistance and applied research for SR Serbia;
(iv) modernization and reconstruction of 14
agro-industrial facilities, including four fruit
and vegetable processing plants, three cold stores
for fruit and meat production, two livestock feed
mills, five specialized facilities (oil mill,
potato processing plant, poultry slaughterhouse, a
communal slaughterhouse and grain silo); (v)
drainage facilities in about 27,000 hectares; and
(vi) technical assistance to Agrobanka to provide
banking and credit experts and computer equipment.
Beneficiaries of the project would be some 15,000
individual farm families. Additional 16,000 farm
families would benefit from increased efficiency
through mechanization. At full development, the
project would result in 1,630 permanent full-time
jobs, 765 man-years of increased employment and
bired seasonal labor and 3,065 man years of
increased family labor. The annual incremental
output induced by the project is estimated at $300
million, consisting of primary agricultural
production and output of agro-industries. Export
of processed output would increase by about $8
million annually. Increased maize production would
contribute to foreign excbange earnings and
increased self sufficiency in wheat and industrial
crops would reduce imports. Uncertainty associated
with individual farmer response and reaching export
targets are risks facing the project. However,
detailed identification of individual sub-borrowers
and possibility of adjustment of export targets
annually and changes in the product mix would
reduce these uncertainties. Timely availability of
adequate local funds may also be a problem in view
of the current stabilization measures in
Yugoslavia. Project design and appraisal have
minimized the above risks, which, due to potential
direct and indirect benefits, are acceptable.



- lii -
Estimated Cost:
Local        Foreign          Total
-----------…(Us  Mill)-
Component
On-Farm Investments                   61.4          52.4           113.8
Support Service                       31.4          32.7            64.1
Extension Service                      1.5           1.4             2.9
Agro-industry                         38.3          36.6            74.9
Drainage                              15.3          18.7            34.0
Agrobanka                              -             0.3             0.3
Total Base Cost                         147.9         142.1           290.0
Physical Contingencies                13.6          14.9            28.5
Price Contingencies                   21.0          19.9            40.9
Total Project Costs 1/                  182.5         176.9           359.4
Front End Fee on Bank Loan                -             1.0              1.0
Interest during Construction             91.3          34.1           125.4
Total Project Financial
Requirements                          273.8         212.0           485.8
1/ Includes taxes and duties estimated at US$9.5 million.



- iv 
Financing Plan
% of
Local        Foreign        Total    Financing
-----------------…us$ Mill…-----------------
World Bank                          -            136.0 1/      136.0        28
Agrobanka & other
Basic Banks                      176.8           76.0         252.8        52
SFUR                               25.1            -            25.1         5
Investors Contributions            71.9            -            71.9        15
Total Project Financial
Requirement                     273.8         212.0          485.8       100
Estimated Disbursements
-------------- US$ Million ---------------
Bank FY                       FY84       FY85      FY86      FY87       FY88
Annual                        16.2       32.2      38.6      24.9       24.1
Cumulative                    16.2      48.4       87.0    111.9       136.0
Rate of Return:                 25%.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 4216-YU, Dated March 2, 1983.
1/ Includes front end fee of US$1,012,407 and interest on loan during
construction of US$7,500,000.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
UDRUZENA BEOGRADSKA BANKA (UBB)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR A SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB) for the equivalent of US$136
million, with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, to help finance a Regional Development Project in the
Socialist Republic of Serbia. The loan would have a term of 15 years,
including three years of grace, with interest at the standard variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY _/
2.       A Basic Economic Mission visited Yugoslavia in October and
November 1976. Its report entitled, "Yugoslavia: Self-Management
Socialism and the Challenges of Development", 1615a-YU, was distributed
to the Executive Directors on April 5, 1978. An economic mission visited
Yugoslavia in November, 1979; its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Export
Performance and Policies", 2972-YU, was distributed to the Executive
Directors on November 5, 1980. In November 1980 an economic mission
visited Yugoslavia and its report entitled "Raising Productivity in
Yugoslav Industry: Some Issues", 3383a-YU was distributed to the Executive
Directors on August 3, 1981. An economic mission visited Yugoslavia in
June 1981 and its report entitled "Yugoslavia: Adjustment Policies and
Development Perspectives" was distributed to the Executive Directors on
November 2, 1982. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Institutional Setting
3.       The social sector in Yugoslavia, which includes government,
enterprises and public institutions plays the leading role in economic and
social development. It accounts for 85% of GDP and employs over half the
total labor force. The private sector consists predominantly of peasant
farms and small enterprises, mainly engaged in handicrafts, construction,
trade, transport and tourism. Decision making at all levels is governed
by the principle of workers' self-management, involving a unique set of
institutions and instruments of economic policy. The current system has
evolved over the years with major changes introduced through the
constitution of 1974. Responsibility for important social and economic
decisions has been shifted from the Federation to the Republics,
Autonomous Provinces and communes. Concurrently, the control of workers'
collectives over the socially-owned means of production has been increased
1/ Part I of this report is substantially unchanged from part I of the
Report and Recommendations of the President for the Tuzla Region Water
Supply and Environmental Project (Report No. P-3445-YU) of January 7,
1983.



-2-
by a restructuring of all economic organizations into legally autonomous Basic
Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs) which are the smallest production
units producing a marketable output.
4.       In addition to this strengthening of workers' participation at the
microeconomic level, the concept of workers' management has been extended to
encompass macroeconomic decisions. A set of instruments called social
compacts and self-management agreements have gradually become a part of the
system of macroeconomic management. These measures enable the participation
of all economic agents in the formulation of macroeconomic policy while
maintaining decentralized responsibility for policy implementation. Beginning
with the last medium-term plan (1976-80) these instruments have been used to
augment more conventional monetary and fiscal policy measures, particularly in
the areas of prices, incomes, and employment.
5.       The 1974 Constitution also introduced a new framework for economic
and social planning, designed to reconcile decentralized-decision making with
consistent and coordinated action. The system of planning first seeks to
establish a national consensus on the major medium-term goals for the
economy. Thereafter, plan formulation is based on participation of all
economic and social units, including government bodies, on a nonhierarchical
basis. An exhaustive interchange of information is required to achieve
consistency among the plans of economic units concurrent with broader social
objectives. Once consistency is achieved, economic units enter into legally
binding medium-term agreements on supply, demand and investment intentions.
In case agreements cannot be reached by the prescribed date, the state is
permitted to intervene, but only on a temporary basis.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
6.       The economic development of Yugoslavia over the past two decades has
been impressive, characterized by rapid economic growth and structural
transformation. Between 1960 and 1981, GDP grew at an average annual rate of
about 6% in real terms. The share of investment in GDP has been high
throughout the period, above 30% in recent years. As population growth has
been only 1% per annum, real per capita income has more than doubled during
the period. Per capita GNP in 1981 is estimated to be US$2,790 at 1981 market
prices. 1/ The social sector, in particular industry, has been the driving
force of the economy between 1960 and 1981 with the share of industry in GDP
increasing to around 45% while agriculture has declined to about 12%. The
past two decades have also witnessed the growing integration of Yugoslavia
into the world economy. Between 1960 and 1981 merchandise exports and imports
grew by around 6% and 8% per annum in real terms, respectively; much of this
was with markets in the convertible currency area.
7.       While overall growth performance has been impressive, large regional
income disparities persist. The Republics of Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia
and Montenegro, each with two-thirds of the national average per
capita income, and the Autonomous Province of Kosovo, with one-third, are
1/ According to World Bank Atlas methodology.



ofLicially designated as less developed regions (LDR). The difference
between the most developed region, Slovenia, and the least developed,
Kosovo, is 6 to 1. In addition to these interregional disparities there
are large intraregional disparities with differences in per capita income
between communes as high as 10 to 1. These disparities reflect several
factors, notably the greater incidence of low productivity agriculture in
the LDR and their higher dependency ratios and population growth rates.
Since 1971 sizeable concessionary credits (with about 50% grant element),
equal to about 10% of the social product of the LDR, have been transferred
to the LDR through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of the
Less Developed Regions, which is financed through-a tax on all social
sector enterprises in the economy.
8.       Linked to the issue of regional income disparities has been
the problem of providing adequate employment opportunities in the modern
sector. Since 1954 employment in the modern social sector has increased
by around 4% per annum, facilitating rapid outflows from the agricultural
sector. Despite this impressive record, substantial productivity and
income differentials remain between the modern (mainly social) and the
traditional (private or individual agricultural) sectors. The persistence
of these differentials has resulted in high demand for modern sector
employment on the part of the rural labor force. The increase of the
working age population caused by relatively high population growth in the
LDR has further added to employment demand. Large numbers of Yugoslavs
have sought temporary employment abroad since the late 1960s. At its peak
in 1973 Yugoslavia had about 1.1 million external migrants. However, since
1973, with changes in policy and the slower growth in the host countries,
this trend has been reversed, accentuating domestic imbalances and placing
added pressure on the social sector to create new work places.
Une,nployment rates have risen rapidly from about 7% in 1971 to over 12% in
mid 1982. 1/ The incidence of unemployment is highly regionalized, because
population and labor force growth rates, as well as the proportion of
agricultural employment, are all much higher in the LDR. In June 1982
unemployment rates ranged from 30.7% in Kosovo to 1.5% in Slovenia.
Recent Economic Developments
9.       Despite an impressive long-term growth record, Yugoslavia today
faces perhaps its most difficult economic situation since it liberalized
its economy in 1965.  The domestic and international repercussions of the
1979 oil price shock are still being felt by the Yugoslav economy. In that
year the combination of slow export growth on the one hand and the steep
rise in import prices on the other generated a record $3.7 billion deficit
in the balance of payments. This deficit, which was equivalent to
5.4 percent of GDP, prompted the government to introduce a series of
1/ These rates are not strictly comparable to those in other countries.
They represent the ratio of registered job-seekers (including some
currently employed) to social sector labor force. The ratio of
registered job seekers to total resident labor force was about
9.0% in mid-1982.



stabilization measures. The main elements of the stablization program
introduced thus far have been more restrictive monetary and fiscal policies
to curb investment and reduce inflationary pressure and the more active use
of exchange rate policy to encourage exports. At the same time, import
purchases have been scaled back in line with the revenues accruing from
export earnings and more limited foreign borrowing. Yugoslavia is being
supported in its stabilization efforts by the IMF through a three-year
standby arrangement in an aggregate amount of SDR 1,662 million which took
effect in January 1981.
10.      As a result of these stabilization measures, Yugoslavia succeeded
in reducing its current account deficit to $2.3 billion in 1980 and to $750
million in 1981. This latter performance is particularly noteworthy, since
the original 1981 plan target was to reduce the deficit to $1.8 billion.
Underlying this improvement has been a strong surge in exports which
increased in volume b-y 11 percent in 1980 and 12 percent in 1981. At the
same time, import volume was reduced by 10 percent in 1980 and 2 percent in
1981. In 1982 the deficit was further reduced to an estimated $0.1 billion
which was again considerably lower than the plan target of $0.5 billion.
However, in 1982, merchandise exports declined by an estimated 11 percent
in volume compared with 1981. This was due to recession in its major
trading countries, some erosion of Yugoslavia's competitiveness, and to
some extent, because of the shortage of imported inputs caused by the
earlier import cutbacks. Performance in invisibles in 1982 has also been
below expectations. The Yugoslav authorities responded by further
devaluing the dinar by 20 percent against the dollar in October 1982 and
cutting imports sharply so that the value of merchandise imports declined
by 21 percent. One notable effect of this cutback has been the shortage of
oil products. In October 1982, the government introduced rationing of
gasoline for domestic passenger vehicles which are now restricted to
purchases of 40 liters per month. While every effort is being made to
isolate important domestic producers and exporters in particular from the
effects of the import restrictions, the import squeeze is clearly causing
some difficulties for Yugoslav enterprises.
11.      Yugoslavia's external adjustment efforts have been further
complicated by adverse developments in the international capital markets.
The increases in international interest rates since 1979 helped push
interest payments from $0.8 billion in 1979 to an estimated $2.2 billion in
1982. At the same time, the bunching of maturities has meant that
principal repayments on medium- and long-term debt have risen from
$1.7 billion in 1979 to an estimated $2.2 billion in 1982. The private
international capital markets have, however, proved reluctant to extend
significant amounts of additional credit to Yugoslavia during 1982. This
has partly been due to the general uncertainty in the capital markets
caused by developments in Latin America and Eastern Europe. While there is
widespread recognition of the magnitude of Yugoslavia's adjustment efforts,
the commercial banks are still adopting a cautious position toward the
country, particularly in the light of liquidity problems experienced by
some Yugoslav banks. During 1982, medium- and long-term credits to
Yugoslavia declined to approximately $2.5 billion, compared with $2.8
billion during the same period in 1981. Similarly, while Yugoslavia was



-5-
able to increase its short-term borrowing by $461 million in 1981, it was
unable to roll these debts over and in 1982 it reduced outstanding
short-term debt by $750 million. These developments have put severe
pressure on external liquidity in the second half of the year.
12.      Yugoslavia's economic growth has slowed markedly since 1979, when
GDP grew by 4.2 percent. In 1980 and 1981 GDP is estimated to have
increased by 2.4 percent and 2.2 percent respectively. The latest
available estimates indicate that GDP growth in 1982 will be less than
1 percent. This reduction in growth rate is partly a result of the
stabilization measures but is also due to shortages of imported inputs.
Industrial output has been particularly affected. In 1979 industrial
output increased by over 8 percent, but in 1980 and 1981 industrial output
rose by only 4 and 1 percent respectively, and it declined by an estimated
2.7 percent in 1982. There have been marked fluctuations in agricultural
output mainly due to climatic factors. In 1980 agricultural output
stagnated while in 1981 it increased by only 1 percent. 1982 has been a
much more successful year for Yugoslav agricultural producers, however, and
output increased by about 5 percent over its 1981 level.
13.      Fixed investment has fallen markedly in the past three years.
Whereas fixed investment increased at' an average rate of 9.5 percent
between 1975 and 1979, it declined by 1.7 percent and 9.6 percent in 1980
and 1981 respectively. Fixed investment is estimated to have declined by a
further 6 percent in 1982. Despite these slowdowns in investment and
economic growth, Yugoslavia has been remarkably successful in maintaining a
fast pace of job creation in the social sector. Social sector employment
increased by 3.2 percent in 1980, 2.9 percent in 1981 and an estimated
2.5 percent in 1982. Generally speaking, employment growth has been
fastest in the less developed regions where the incidence of unemployment
is more severe.
14.      Inflation rates have fluctuated considerably in recent years.  In
1977 and 1978 inflation averaged 13 percent; in 1979, in part due to
increases in indirect taxes and fuel prices, it increased to 22 percent.
One of the aims of the stabilization program is to secure a significant
reduction in the rate of inflation. Unfortunately, despite significant
declines in the growth of investment and real domestic demand, inflationary
pressures have continued to pose substantial problems for the economy. In
1980 and 1981 inflation accelerated to 30 percent and 38 percent
respectively. This has been due to a combination of factors. The
dismantling of domestic price controls in order to promote more efficient
resource allocation, increases in administered prices in agriculture to
stimulate production and in energy to rationalize energy use, have all
served to put upward pressure on the price level. In addition, the
increase in international prices since 1979 and the cumulative effects of
the substantial depreciation of the dinar have resulted in a considerable
increase in domestic production costs. While nominal personal income
levels have risen sharply since 1979, real personal incomes declined by
8 percent in 1980 and 5 percent in 1981. This compares with an average
increase of 2.4 percent recorded during 1975-79. In 1982 the Government
set a price target of 15 percent for the year as a whole. Although there



-6-
was a significant decline in inflation in the first six months of the year,
the rate was still above the target set by the authorities. In an effort
to bring inflation under control, the authorities introduced a temporary
price freeze on July 31. Despite that, the inflation rate during 1982 is
estimated at 30 percent.
Mledium Te?rm P,spects
15.      The Federal Five Year Plan for 1981-85 was adopted in March 1981,
but in view of the external constraints on economic growth, particularly
the constraints on external borrowing, the plan is being significantly
revised.  Rather than setting detailed medium-term targets for production
and investment, the plan in effect now consists of a series of rolling
targets determined by each successive annual plan resolution. The main
goal of economic policy is to put the balance of payments on a secure
footing and to ensure stable and sustained growth during the 1986-90 plan
period. For the next few years, however, the authorities expect to see
continued slow growth in social product and even slower growth in domestic
expenditure to allow resources to be released for exports. This strategy
also implies a significant reduction in the share of investment in GDP
compared with the previous plan. Through a combination of import
restriction and export promotion, the aim is to achieve a current account
surplus before the end of the plan period. Within the reduced investment
program, the priorities stressed are export promotion, the development of
domestic energy sources and raw materials, production of basic metals,
basic chemicals and capital goods. The plan also stresses agricultural
development in order to reduce food imports and to expand food exports.
Nonproductive investment, except for housing, is to be cut back sharply.
16.      Slower growth will make it more difficult for the social sector
to generate additional employment at the pace of the past plan while the
demand for new work places will remain high. Given these difficulties,
more emphasiE is being laid on the development of labor intensive
activities, including small-scale enterprises and the increased use of
shift work.
17.      Finally, the reduction of regional disparities remains a major
objective of Yugoslavia's economic planning. Financial transfers between
regions will play an important role in this process, with particular stress
on encouraging social sector enterprises in the more developed regions
(MDR) to make direct investments in the LDR.  The initial experience with
such joint ventures is encouraging and a substantial number of such
projects have been launched. They could make a significant contribution to
the overall efficiency of production within the LDR by facilitating the
transfer of technological and managerial know-how within Yugoslavia.
Creditworthiness
18.      As a result of limited access to the international capital markets
in the past three years, commercial financial credits to Yugoslavia have
declined significantly and most recent credits have been organized on a
bilateral intergovernmental basis. Gross medium- and long-term capital



- 7 -
inflows declined from $2.8 billion in 1981 to an estimated $2.5 billion in
1982.  Total medium- and long-term debt, outstanding and disbursed, is
estimated at about $17.0 billion at the end of 1982 while short-term debt
at the end of September 1982 stood at about $0.9 billion. Total foreign
exchange reserves as of November 1982 were $1.8 billion. There was a
substantial decline in official foreign exchange reserves during 1982, and
at the end of November 1982 these amounted to $1.0 billion, or roughly
three weeks of imports of goods and services from the convertible currency
area.
19.      About three-quarters of the debt contracted by Yugoslavia in past
years has been provided in convertible currencies through commercial
sources. The bulk of this commercial credit has been in the form
of suppliers' credits. The World Bank is the principal source of
non-commercial long-term credit to Yugoslavia.  Yugoslavia will continue to
require a substantial inflow of foreign lending if it is to achieve its
medium-term objectives. Taking account of workers' remittances, the debt
service ratio on aggregate medium- and long-term debt averaged 16% between
1976 and 1981, while the debt service ratio in convertible currencies
averaged 19% over the same period. In 1982, however, the estimated
aggregate debt service ratio climbed to 22 percent reflecting the increase
in interest payments on floating rate debts and the decline in the value of
exports. Similarly the estimated debt service ratio on convertible
currency debts rose to 27 percent. In order to ensure the orderly
repayment of its external debts, the Federal Government passed a special
foreign exchange law in 1982 which established a series of regional and
federal funds for debt repayment. A major effort, involving some OECD
countries, the international commercial banks and the IMF, has been
initiated to assist Yugoslavia in maintaining an orderly debt repayment
structure. As a result of a series of meetings held in January this year,
at the suggestion of the commercial banks, Yugoslavia has requested a 90
day moratorium on repayment of principal on its commercial bank debts.
This will be of considerable help to Yugoslavia, since it traditionally
faces a substantial seasonal deficit in its current account during the
first half of the year. Although its liquidity situation may remain
difficult in the near term, the aggregate debt service ratio is expected to
decline somewhat over the next few years. Given Yugoslavia's past debt
service record, pragmatism and its demonstrated capacity to implement firm
stabilization policies when these are called for, it remains creditworthy
for a substantial level of Bank lending.
1/ Part II of this report is substantially unchanged from Part II of the
Report and Recommendation of the President for the Tuzla Region Water
Supply and Environment Project (Report No. P-3445-YU) of February 7,
1983.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA 1/
20.      The proposed project would be the 77th loan by the Bank in
Yugoslavia totalling about $3,350.8 million. 1/ Of this, approximately 39%
($1,248.4 million) has been for 23 operations in the transportation sector
-- 12 for highways, 7 for railways, and one each for a natural gas pipeline
and an oil pipeline, and two for a port project. Historically, Bank
lending has concentrated on infrastructure including, in addition to the
transportation loans, five power loans, one telecommunications loan, four
water supply and sewerage and three multipurpose loans (two of which
include substantial irrigation components).  In recent years, Bank lending
has increasingly focussed on the agriculture sector for which fourteen
operations totalling $806.6 million (about 24% of the total) have been
made.  Twenty-one loans amounting to $475 million (about 15% of the total)
have also been made for industry. Two loans have been made for tourism and
the first Bank loan primarily for air pollution control was approved in
1976. In addition, IFC has made nineteen investments in Yugoslavia
totalling about $326 million.
21.      Yugoslavia's disbursement performance (disbursements as a
percentage of total commitments) deteriorated somewhat in 1981 largely due
to a sbortage of local funds arising from financial constraints. Following
an implementation review of the whole loan portfolio with Borrowers in the
Fall of 1981, performance markedly improved in 1982. Yugoslavia's
performance now, as traditionally, compares most favorably with Bank-wide
and regional averages and with most other countries of a similar per capita
income. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC
investments as of September 30, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
22.      The interrelated objectives which the Bank has pursued in its
lending to Yugoslavia remain essentially unchanged. These objectives
are to; (i) increase exports and improve the efficiency of import
substitution; (ii) increase the efficiency of domestic investment with a
view to increasing production with the more limited investment resources
available; (iii) improve access to capital markets; and (iv) reduce
unemployment, particularly in the LDR. It is obvious that not every Bank
operation can address all these objectives nor be entirely oriented towards
the LDR, but the basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia
continues to be toward the development of the LDR and the agricultural
sector in particular. Underpinning this orientation are economic surveys
of the four LDRs undertaken by the Bank, intensified Bank assistance in
project formulation and ongoing economic and sector analysis.
1/ The 76th loan, the Tuzla Region Water Supply and Environment Project
(US$30 million) was approved by the Executive Directors on January 25,
1983 and signed on February 10, 1983 (Loan 2233-YU).



9-
23.      The Bank's emphasis on assuring the accelerated development of
the LDR is fully in accord with the Federal Governmert's policies embodied
in the 1981-85 Development Plan. As in the last plan period, the Federal
Government agreed with its constituents on the level of domestic resources
to be channeled to the LDR through the Federal Fund mechanism (para. 7) as
well as the distribution of external resources including Bank lending. The
distribution of Bank lending was determined broadly on the basis of income
levels and population size of particular regions. Over the past five
years, almost two-thirds of Bank lending has been to the LDR through
operations for transportation, power, agricultural development and
lndustrial credit. In the next few years significant Bank lending to
the LDR through similar operations is expected to continue.
24.      Decentralized management, the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, adds to the inherent difficulties involved in
formulating coherent sector plans. One of the principal features of the
1974 Constitutional changes and subsequent legislation, however, has been
to revamp the institutional framework and to introduce mechanisms for
coordination. Given the complexity of the Yugoslav system (para. 5),
the process of evolving acceptable solutions to problems is cumbersome.
The Bank has therefore put increased emphasis on having an impact on the
shaping of the policy framework and fostering coordination, particularly
in the transport and energy sectors where significant progress has been
achieved. Through its future operations the Bank will seek to consolidate
past successes in institutional reform. Further development of the project
preparation, appraisal and supervisory capabilities of the regional banks
through which a large amount of Bank funds are channelled will remain a
major objective. In transport, intermodal coordination will be sought
through the implementation of the results of the rail costs and road user
studies undertaken under the Eighth Highway Project (Loan No. 1377-YU
approved March 15, 1977). The Bank will concentrate its lending operations
in areas where its incremental institutional and/or policy coordination
impact has most potential.
25.      A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment
to Yugoslavia's ability to maintain its growth momentum and to address
the critical issues of unemployment and regional disparities. The Bank
has helped to attract additional sources of credit through co-financing
arrangements and forge banking relationships for Yugoslavia. The Bank,
however, is the major source of long-term external capital and will remain
so in the near future. Its significant level of operations in Yugoslavia
is regarded by foreign financiers as evidence of confidence in Yugoslavia's
economic performance, policies and prospects. In its future lending to
Yugoslavia, the Bank intends to put increased emphasis on co-financing.
However, in view of the present commercial market constraints that
Yugoslavia is facing and because of the country's complex banking and
foreign exchange allocation system, the extent and form of co-financing
related to Bank projects will have to be handled flexibly.
26.      Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank in 1981 amounted to about 9.0% of
its total debt outstanding and disbursed and this ratio is expected to
remain fairly stable. Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total
debt service was 5.47. in 1981 and is projected to be about 6% by 1986.



- 10 -
27.      IFC started its involvement in Yugoslavia in 1970; since then,
IFC has made 19 investments in the country and, as of September 30, 1982,
IFC's portfolio amounted to $326.5 million gross and $172.6 million net of
participation and repayments. The basic objectives of IFC in Yugoslavia
are to: (a) assist priority subsectors in industry and natural resources
development; (b) encourage foreign investment on a joint venture basis;
(c) foster technological transfers; and (d) mobilize other financial
resources in addition to IFC's own funds. Also, IFC continues to give
special, although not exclusive, emphasis to the less developed regions
of the country.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agyicullture in~ YIgoslavia
28.      In Yugoslavia, the share of agriculture in social product and
employment has declined steadily in the post-war period. However, the
agricultural sector remains important in the overall development of the
economy, contributing about 14% of social product, and engaging about 30%
of the country's active population. The agricultural sector accounts for
the income of one-third of the population--a group which is largely rural,
under-employed, and in the relative poverty target group with per capita
income under US$850 per annum. In addition, the agricultural sector makes
an important contribution to reducing Yugoslavia's trade deficit. The
country has a large agricultural resource base, and its favorable climatic
conditions have fostered the growth of a well-diversified agricultural
sector with a significant potential for future development.
29.      Yugoslavia has a unique framework of economic management and
decision-making based on a system of workers' self-management, a system
characterized by social ownership and workers' control of the means of
production. In agriculture this has led to the co-existence of social and
individual (private) sectors. About 83% of agricultural land is owned and
operated by nearly 2.6 million individual farmers making it the only
predominantly privately-owned sector of the economy. With an average
family holding of around 3.2 ha and representing about 95% of the total
agricultural labor force, the individual sector accounts for about 85% of
maize production, 60% of wheat, 75% of vegetables, and owns between 85% and
95% of all livestock. A considerable portion of production in the
individual sector is, however, retained for home consumption and
contributions to marketed output are low. The share of the individual
sector in the marketed output of cereals is about 45%, with a similar
situation prevailing in vegetables and fruits. In livestock, however, a
much higher proportion of individual sector output is marketed. In an
effort to increase income and overcome under-employment, an increasing
number of individual households are moving out of purely agricultural
occupations into part-time agriculture supported by non-farm sector
income. Current estimates indicate that as much as 10% of arable land is
uncultivated because of a large influx of rural population into the urban
sector.
30.      The potential of the individual sector in agriculture received



- 11 -
scant attention until the early 70's and all investment funds were directed
entirely to the social sector. Since then, the individual sector has
received some support through various forms of cooperation and association
with the social sector. The linkage between the two sectors is provided
through agricultural cooperatives (Zadrugas). Cooperation with individual
farmers is achieved through short- or long-term production contracts.
Cooperatives sell agricultural inputs and buy agricultural outputs from all
farmers cooperating in their area of operation and provide farm machinery
services, technical advice, and credit to member farmers. The repayment of
the credit is ensured through the sale of the produce. About half of
Yugoslav farmers are involved in some form of cooperation with the social
sector.
31.      The Yugoslav food production system relies on integration of
primary agricultural production, food processing, marketing and
distribution of food products in agro-industrial complexes called
agrokombinats (the integrated factory farms). The social sector controls
about 17% of the total agricultural land in the country and produces 28% of
total agricultural output. Social sector agricultural production grew 5.4%
annually during 1970-1980, compared to 1.2% for the individual sector.
While social sector growth has been impressive in absolute terms,
production etficiency needs improving. Overall, about 85% of total
investment funds in agriculture still flow to the social sector.
32.      The Federal 1981-1985 Social Plan calls for improved primary
production to satisfy domestic demand; generation of surplus production to
promote agricultural exports; modernization and reconstruction of existing
agro-industry facilities; and utilization of currently unused and abandoned
lanas through land reclamation and social sector purchase. The growth of
agricultural output has been targeted at 4.5% per year, with the social
sector planned to grow at 6% and the individual sector at 4% per year.
Agriculture is expected to play an important role in reducing the deficit
in the balance of payments. Agricultural exports are expected to grow at
an annual rate of 10% by the end of the Plan, and agricultural imports to
be reduced by 5% per year. To achieve these objectives, the Plan provides
for investments of Din 152 billion in 1982 prices, representing 9.6% of
total investment in the economy. Overall, the Plan represents a relatively
optimistic view of agricultural production possibilities. Policy and
organizational changes well beyond those currently set out in the Plan will
be needed to achieve the objectives.
g..ricultural DeveloPment Issues in Serbia
33.      About one-fourth of Yugoslavia's cultivated land lies in the
Socialist Republic of Serbia (SR Serbia) and is farmed by 26% of the
country's active agricultural population. Serbia contributes 22% of the
agricultural social product of Yugoslavia and is one of the largest
producers of fruit, milk, meat and eggs. One-fourth of the total cereal
production of Yugoslavia is produced in Serbia. During 1970-1980, Serbia
has maintained an average annual growth rate of 3.1% of agricultural social
product which is above the Yugoslav average of 2.8%. The individual sector
owns 94% of arable land in Serbia compared to 83% in Yugoslavia. Formal



- 12 -
cooperation between the individual and the social sectors between 1970 and
1980 has been declining as indicated by the reduction in the number of
livestock cooperants and seed and fertilizer sales to cooperants. Rural
poverty and income disparities between the social and individual sectors in
Serbia are widespread.
34.      The importance of agricultural development and the need to
alleviate the constraints facing the individual sector have been recognized
and are being addressed by the SR Serbia in its Five-Year Plan
(1981-1985). The Plan aims at an annual 4% agricultural production growth;
the social sector is expected to grow at 10%, and the individual sector at
3.3%. Agro-industries are expected to grow at 7% per annum, while
agricultural exports are planned to increase at an annual rate of 7-8%.
The Plan's strategy is primarily to encourage social sector growth while
promoting increased cooperation between the individual and social sectors,
with each sector drawing on its respective comparative advantage. Thus
meat, milk, fruits and vegetables would be mainly produced by the
individual sector, and cereals and processed food products mainly by the
social sector. Provisions are included in the Plan to strengthen the
extension service for the individual farm sector. In addition, the
planners in SR Serbia will also have to address the constraints which have
impeded faster growth in the individtial sector.
35.      The pace and extent of individual farm sector modernization will
depend largely on the policy framework devised to ensure:
(a) allocation of adequate financial resources for investment in
technically balanced agricultural development packages;
(b) provision of technical assistance, credit, markets, and an
adequate supply of modern farm inputs;
(c) adoption of appropriate pricing policies;
(d) development of a land plan which, over time, will provide for
(i) consolidation of existing individual land holdings, (ii)
increased average farm size, and (iii) improved opportunities
for young farmers to take up farming as a career; and
(e) decrease in income disparities between, firstly, the social
and individual farm sectors and, secondly, between the farm
and the non-farm sectors.
Bank Involvement in, Yugoslavia's Agricultural Secto,r
36.      The Serbia Regional Development Project would represent the
fifteenth Bank loan for agriculture and agro-industries in Yugoslavia.
Since 1971, when it first became involved in the agriculture sector, the
Bank has financed three nationwide agricultural credit projects (Loan Nos.
1129-YU, 1477-YU and 1801-YU), eight agriculture and agro-industry projects
in Macedonia, Montenegro, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia and Kosovo (Loan Nos.
894-YU, 1370-YU, 1371-YU, 1621-YU, 1951-YU, 1993-YU,  2039-YU and 2136-YU),



- 13 -
one drainage project in Croatia (Loan No. 1756-YU), another in
Bosnia-Herzegovina (Loan No. 2161-YU), and a large scale irrigation project
in Macedonia (Loan No. 1616-YU). In addition, financing was provided for
two multipurpose projects in Kosovo with significant irrigation components
(Loan Nos. 777-YU and 1360-YU). The Bank's involvement in these projects
has been both in the social and individual sectors. As summarized in Annex
II, these projects are generally proceeding satisfactorily. Two projects
have recently been completed, Macedonia Agro-Industries I (894-YU) and
Agricultural Credit I (1129-YU); no project completion or performance audit
reports have yet been issued.
37.      In recent years, the Bank's lending strategy in Yugoslavia has
given increasing importance to the agricultural sector. To accelerate
agricultural growth, the Bank assisted in formulating the 1973 'Green
Plan', a comprehensive framework for agricultural development which, for
the first time, emphasized the need to support the individual farm sector.
The strategy has been to support the development of primary production in
the individual sector in recognition of the fact that the major output
increases can be expected to come from the largest resource block.
Investments in agro-industries in the social sector which serve as the
marketing channels for farm production have also been financed under Bank
loans. This strategy has recognized the need to use investment to promote
a more equitable income distribution by raising the incomes of the rural
poor, and alleviating rural-urban migration.
38.      An agricultural sector review, whose terms of reference have been
agreed with the Government, is expected to be completed by end-1983. The
review will be jointly financed by the Bank and the Yugoslav Government and
would include participation of staff from both the Bank and selected
Yugoslav institutes. Future Bank lending and sector activities, which
would draw on the conclusions of this review, are expected to assist in the
reorientation of investment, promote institutional development and
training, and the evolution of a satisfactory policy framework.
Performance Under Prev iousE Agjcultural   o ects i Seyb?.a
39.      Serbia has received one direct Bank loan for agriculture for the
Morava Regional Development Project in April, 1981, (Loan 1951-YU - US$87
million) and a share of US$36.9 million under the three nation-wide
agricultural credit projects (Loans 1129-YU, 1477-YU and 1801-YU). The
Borrower under the Morava Regional Development Project is Investbanka which
is one of the constituent banks of the Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB), the
Borrower of the proposed loan. The Morava project was well prepared and
the present project drew heavily on the experience gained from that project
in preparation and design. The Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions
(SFUR), which would be financing part of the costs of the present project,
is responsible for the implementation of the Morava project which is
progressing satisfactorily. About 11% of the loan proceeds have been
disbursed and procurement actions for all agro-industries have been
completed. The participating bank in Serbia under the three agricultural
credit projects is Beogradska Banka Belgrade, another constituent bank of
UBB. The First Credit project (Loan 1129-YU) has been successfully



- 14 -
completed and a completion report is presently being prepared. The Second
Agricultural Credit project (Loan 1477-YU) is delayed but Beogradska Banka,
Belgrade has all funds committed and is expected to complete disbursements
by the revised closing date of August 31, 1983. The Third Agricultural
Credit project (Loan 1801-YU) is in its third year of implementation; as of
December 31, 1983, 83% of the funds allocated to Serbia are committed, 25%
aisbursed, and no major delays are anticipated. The overall performance of
Serbia under World Bank financed projects is good but should be improved.
Procurement continues to cause delays, and delays have also arisen with
regard to commitment of individual sector loans. Disbursements are
proceeding, but slowly, mainly due to restrictions imposed on import
licensing and granting of credit by commercial banks under the current
stabilization program in Yugoslavia. These issues have been taken up with
the Federal, Republican and Provincial Governments and Bank project-related
imports and credits have recently been exempted from the operation of the
restrictive measures. Implementation and disbursements under the on-going
projects are, therefore, expected to show improvements.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.      The project was prepared by the Inter-Communal Regional
Communities of the Kolubara and Danube Regions in Serbia, with the
assistance of the Institute of Industrial Economics, Institute of Economics
and the Institute of Agricultural Economics. Assistance was given in the
preparation of the drainage component by the FAO Cooperative Program. The
project was appraised in June-July 1982. Negotiations were held from
February 1-9, 1983 in Washington. The Yugoslav delegation was led by Mr.
Borislav Atanackovic, Secretary for Finance, Socialist Republic of Serbia.
Annex III summarizes key events leading to the presentation to the
Executive Directors and special conditions provided for in the Loan
Agreement.
Project Objectives and Description
41.      The proposed loan and project are summarized in the Loan and
Project Summary at the beginning of this report and described in detail in
the report "Staff Appraisal Report on the Serbian Regional Development
Project," Report No. 4216-YU, dated March 2, 1983. This report is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
42.      The project aims at developing the Kolubara and Danube regions of
SR Serbia. The per capita income in the two regions is the lowest in SR
Serbia with the exception of the Morava region. Of a total of 25 communes,
16 have been declared less developed (with per capita income of between
US$1,200 and $1,500) by the Serbian Government and qualify for assistance
from the Serbian Fund for Underdeveloped Regions (SFUR). The project
objectives would be achieved by: (a) increasing agricultural production;
(b) improving rural incomes ano employment opportunities; (c) reducing
income disparities between developed and less developed communes; (d)
increasing processed food production for the domestic and export markets;



- 15 -
(e) providing drainage to increase arable land and improve land
proauctivity; and (f) strengthening technical capacities and credit
delivery systems in the project area.
43.      The project would include: (i) on-farm investments in the form of
credit to about 10,900 individual farmers for livestock, tobacco
production and fruit crops; (ii) support services in the form of farm
mechanization for sugar beet, sunflower and vegetables, nurseries and seed
processing centers, repair worksbops, fuel storage depots, poultry
hatcheries and breeding farms for pigs and sheep; (iii) provision of about
90 additional specialists, 60 vehicles, 50 small-scale apartments, and 60
man months of training abroad to strengthen extension services and
preparation of a master plan for agricultural extension, technical
assistance and applied research for SR Serbia; (iv) modernization and
reconstruction of 14 agro-industrial facilities, including four fruit and
vegetable processing plants, three cold stores for fruit and meat
production, two livestock feea mills, five specialized facilities (oil
mill, potato processing plant, poultry and communal slaughterhouses and
grain dryer with silo); (v) drainage facilities in about 27,000 hectares in
three areas in Kolubara, and four in Danube regions, including flood
control works, surface and tile drains, pumping stations and equipment for
operation and maintenance; and (vi) technical assistance to Agrobanka by
provision of about 26 man-months of banking and credit experts and computer
equipment.
Project Organization and Implementation
44.      Institutional Arrangements.  Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB) would
be the Borrower of the proposed loan since current Yugoslav procedures and
agreement between its basic banks stipulate that only the UBB retains the
right to borrow abroad. UBB has undertaken to provide all necessary local
finance for wbich it has authorized Agrobanka to conclude a Consortium
Agreement between UBB and other basic banks in the UBB system (Investbank,
Yugobank, Beogradska Bank and basic banks in the project area (Valjevo,
Loznica, Pozarevac and Smederevo). Prior to effectiveness, Agrobanka will
also conclude a Project Implementation Agreement with SFUR concerning the
latter's financing of investments in the underdeveloped communes in the
project area (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (b)). UBB would also be
responsible for securing co-financing to fill the gap in the foreign
exchange cost of the project for which it is seeking financial credits from
commercial banks abroad and bilateral sources.
45.      UBB, an associated bank, is the largest banking system in
Yugoslavia and the dominant banking institution in SR Serbia. It is
comprised of 20 basic banks in Serbia, representing about 10,000 Basic
Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs). UBB performs a wide range of
services for its member banks, mainly in the field of foreign borrowing and
exchange transactions. Although UBB is not a borrower under previous bank
loans, its largest member, Investbanka (IB), is the Borrower under the
Morava Regional Development II Project. UBB was also the lead bank to
organize the co-financing for the Trans-Yugoslav Highway project
(Highways XI - Loan No. 1819-YU).



- 16 -
46.      Implementation Procedures.  Under a Project Agreement with the
Bank, the responsibility for project implementation and coordination will
rest with the Specialized Agricultural Bank (Agrobanka), which was created
in June, 1981 following a resolution of the Assembly of SR Serbia as a
successor to the former Basic Agricultural Bank. Agrobanka is a member of
the associated banking group of Udruzena Beogradska Banka (UBB). On the
basis of its self-management agreement, Agrobanka comprises some 277
BOAL's, COAL's, cooperatives and other organizations. The day-to-day
business of Agrobanka is conducted by a Board of Management consisting of a
President ana two Vice-Presidents, appointed for a renewable term of four
years. Eight departments operate directly under the Board of Management
dealing with, among otber things, organization, savings and credit,
international banking and World Bank matters. By mid-1982 Agrobanka had an
aggregate staff of 273 including 165 professionals. Two project divisions
have been created with a total of 60 staff members, including 48
professionals with university education. Agrobanka's iong-term investment
credit approvals (including that of its predecessor) amounted to Din 757
million in 1980 and declined to Din 666 million in 1981. The projections
for 1982 to 1985 show a substantial increase in its long-term lending
operations, averaging about Dinar 4.8 billion annually. The two
Intercommunal Regional Communities (IRCs) of the Kolubara and Danube
Regions would also be party to the Project Agreement with the Bank. The
IRCs will coordinate project implementation at the regional level through
project implementation units which have already been set up. The
individual sub-projects would be implemented by the respective investors.
Agrobanka would enter into separate implementation and financing agreements
with the four investors responsible for the seven drainage projects. These
investors would also enter into self-management agreements with Basic
Organizations of Associated Labor (BOAL). The signing of four drainage
agreements and SMAs with BOAL's would be conditions of effectiveness (Loan
Agreement, Section 7.01(c)). The signing of such agreements for the
seventh drainage project would be a condition of disbursement (Loan
Agreement, Schedule l, para 4(b)). All sub-borrowers and implementing
organizations involved in the project in each region would sign a
Self-Management Agreement (SMA) regulating their mutual rights and
obligations as well as an agreement on financial participation. The
signing of the SMAs and agreements on financial participation would also be
a condition of effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (b)).
47.      All agro-industries, drainage and support services sub-projects
have been fully appraised by the Bank. Regarding on-farm investments, a
large number of the individual sub-borrowers have been identified and
representative farms in various sub-sectors have been appraised. Agrobanka
will conduct detailed appraisal of the individual sector sub-loan proposals
in accordance with the methodology agreed to by the Bank. In case of major
changes in design and/or increase of more than 20% in costs above appraisal
estimates in the social sector sub-projects, Agrobanka would be required to
carry out and send to the Bank for its approval a full technical and
economic appraisal report in accordance with a format agreed upon at
negotiations prior to any reimbursement for the sub-project concerned
(Project Agreement, Schedule 2, Part IC (b).



- 17 -
48.      Project implementation started in Fall 1982 and expected to
continue over a period of 5 years. Disbursement is expected to begin
shortly after effectiveness. For all 14 agro-industrial facilities to be
financed under the project, bids have already been invited in accordance
with Bank Guidelines for ICB and contracts are expected to be finalized
prior to effectiveness of the Bank loan. Most of the individual farmers
and Basic Organizations participating under the on-farm investment
component for livestock and fruit production have been identified. It is
expected that Agrobanka would have appraised and approved about one-third
of first year investments in the individual sector by the time the loan
becomes effective. Detailed designs for drainage areas are being prepared
and bids are expected to be invited in time for construction in one
sub-project to begin in 1983 and the remainder in 1984.
49.      In order to strengthen its capacity as a development bank,
Agrobanka would employ, by December 31, 1983, a senior development banking
expert and an agricultural credit consultant for a total of 26 man-months
at a cost estimated at $10,000 per man-month (Project Agreement, Section
2.02). Agrobanka has agreed to prepare by June 30, 1984, with the
assistance of the banking consultant, a plan of action to improve its
organization and management and to implement the plan as agreed with the
Bank, by September 30, 1985 (Project Agreement, Section 2.07). Regarding
the pig improvement program, investment proposals would be prepared by the
two concerned social sector enterprises with the assistance of an expert in
pig breeding and submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1984 (Project
Agreement, Schedule 2, Part IC (a)). A master plan for agricultural
extension, technical services and applied research for SR Serbia would be
prepared by Agrobanka in cooperation with the Republic Committee for
Agriculture. For this purpose, experienced consultants under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank would be employed. The plan would be
submitted to the Bank by December 31, 1984 (Project Agreement, Section
2.03). IRCs of each region would be responsible for coordination of
preparation of the training program for extension staff, estimated 60
man-montbs abroad, in the field of pasture and sheep production, artificial
insemination, agricultural mechanization and agronomy of industrial crops.
Project Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
50.      Monitoring and evaluation of the project would be done at regional
and Agrobanka levels. For this purposes, Agrobanka and the regions would
be assisted by suitable experienced institutes whose qualifications and
experience are acceptable to the Bank. The institutes would be employed by
Agrobanka no later than December 31, 1983, under terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank (Project Agreement, Section 2.10(c)). Regional
Project Implementation Units already established would identify bottlenecks
and report them to the regional coordination boards and to Agrobanka for
appropriate remedial action. Agrobanka would monitor sub-projects, through
field supervision, sub-loan approvals, overall status of commitments, and
disbursements. Impact of price policies on the project and the
profitability of individual sub-projects, particularly the agro-industries,
would also be monitored. Agrobanka, assisted by the two IRCs and
respective institutes, would prepare annual evaluation reports and submit



- 18 -
them to the Bank no later than three months after the end of each fiscal
year. Agrobanka would also prepare semi-annual progress reports and submit
them to the Bank in an agreed format. The Bank and Agrobanka would conduct
a mid-term review of the project not later than September 30, 1985, to
evaluate progress made, objectives achieved and to consider modifications
as may be required (Project Agreement, Section 2.05). Within six months
after the closing date, Agrobanka, in cooperation with the IRCs, would
furnish to the Bank a report on the execution of the project and its costs
and benefits (Project Agreement, Section 2.10 (e)).
Project Cost and Financing Plan
51.      Total financial requirements, including physical and price
contingencies, the front-end fee, and interest during construction, is
US$485.8 million. Taxes and duties, estimated at US$9.5 million, are
included in the project costs. The foreign exchange component is estimated
at US$176.9 million or about 50% of the total project cost. Unit costs
have been based on June 1982 Dinar estimates, and have been updated to
December 1982 to reflect the effects of the October 1982 dinar devaluation
and international price escalation. An average physical contingency of 10%
of base cost, (such contingencies for various components are estimated to
vary between 7 and 15%) and a weighted average price contingency of 13% on
base cost plus physical contingencies, have been included in the cost
estimate. The price contingencies reflect the expected movement of
international prices of 8%, 7.5% and 7% in 1983, 1984 and 1985
respectively, ana 6% in 1986-87. Cost estimates have been prepared in US
dollars as the Government has decided to adjust the value of the Dinar to
compensate for differences in domestic and international price movements.
Details of the cost estimates are shown in the Loan and Project Summary.
52.      The proposed Bank loan of US$136 million would finance 28% of the
total financing requirements of the project and 64% of the foreign exchange
cost. It would include US$1.02 million capitalized front end fee and
US$7.5 million of interest during construction. Bank financing of part of
the interest during construction is justified due to long-gestation
investments in orchards, vineyards and drainage. The loan would be made to
UBB for 15 years, including three years of grace. A portion of the loan
would be repaid within this period on the basis of an adjustable repayment
schedule, reflecting the composite repayments of sub-loans by the
sub-borrowers. The balance of the loan, which would not be on-lent to the
sub-borrowers (technical assistance for Agrobanka and drainage), would be
repaid on the basis of a fixed amortization schedule. UBB would make the
Bank loan available to Agrobanka on the same terms and conditions as the
Bank loan and acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)).
The signing of the agreement between UBB and Agrobanka would be a condition
of loan effectiveness (Loan Agreement, Section 7.01 (a)). Agrobanka would
on-lend the proceeds of the Bank loan to the sub-borrowers in accordance
with the terms and procedures described in paragraphs 53 and 54. As in the
case of other agricultural loans in Yugoslavia, the foreign exchange risk
(and the variable interest rate risk) of the Bank loan would be borne, in
the case of the social sector sub-borrowers, by the social sector



- 19 -
enterprises and in the case of the sub-borrowers in the individual sector,
by the Government of SR Serbia. The balance of the project's financial
requirements, US$ 349.8 million, would be financed as follows: Agrobanka,
and other basic banks would provide US$ 252.8 million, SFUR US$ 25.1
million and the investors US$ 71.9 million from their own funds. Efforts
are being made by UBB to secure about US$50 million from commercial banks
abroad to contribute to the foreign exchange requirements of the project.
The Bank has agreed to consider participating in such co-financing
transaction up to an amount of US$10 million, by either guaranteeing or
funding the later maturities. If Bank participation materializes, then the
proposed loan will be reduced by the amount of such participation. Should
UBB fail to secure this amount of co-financing by December 31, 1983, and
local financing is also not secured, the Bank and the Borrower would
consider reduction in the scope of the project. UBB would also provide or
make arrangements for the provision of funds to cover possible cost
overruns (Loan Agreement, Section 5.01). Commencing 1984, Agrobanka would
prepare and submit to the Bank by January 31 of each year, an updated
financing plan, including a revised schedule of estimated expenditures,
taking into account the effects of inflation on costs (Project Agreement,
Section 2.06).
On-Lending Terms
53.      The terms of the sub-loans under the project would be related to
the cash flow projections for each investment. The repayment period of
individual sector sub-loans for orchards and vineyards would range up to 15
years, with a grace period of five years; while livestock sub-projects
would normally not exceed 13 years including a grace period of three
years. For agro-industry sub-projects, repayment periods would normally
not exceed 13 years, including grace periods of up to three years (Project
Agreement, Schedule 2, Part 2C). For the drainage sub-projects, the
repayment period would be 15 years, with a grace period of three years.
Sub-borrowers would normally be required to contribute not less than 20% of
total investment costs.
54.      The interest rates for on-lending would be:
(a) for Bank funds to social sector sub-borrowers, the prevailing
Bank rate plus 0.5% per annum for the drainage sub-projects
and 1.25% per annum for all social sector sub-projects to
cover administrative costs of Agrobanka 1/, and to individual
sector sub-borrowers, the same interest rate as charged on
domestically intermediated funds (a minimum of 18%);
(b) for the portion of domestic funds provided from the resources
of Agrobanka and other basic banks, a minimum of 18% (Project
1/ The lower fee of 0.5% for the drainage component is consistent with the
practice in previous drainage projects in Yugoslavia and the
comparatively low administrative costs involved.



- 20 -
Agreement, Schedule 2, Part 2B); and
(c) for the portion of domestic funds provided from the resources
of SFUR, the interest rate would be SFUR's prevailing rate,
currently 5% to 5.5%.
Interest Rates.
55.      Despite a prevalent view in Yugoslavia that the role of interest
rates in investment allocation is subordinate to that played by social
planning and group consensus, a more active use of interest rate policy has
increasingly become the object of Government policy. Indeed, the new
Federal Social Plan and the National Assembly have resolved that interest
rates should play a more important role in resource mobilization and
allocation. The medium term objective is to introduce over time a
structure of positive real interest rates by gradually adjusting nominal
rates upwards and concurrently reducing inflation. In this respect,
Government anti-inflationary measures, applied in accordance with
agreements reached with the IMF, have succeeded in bringing inflation down
from an annual rate of over 50% in the first half of 1981 to about 30% in
1982. At the same time, the Government has over the past three years more
than doubled lending rates for consumer credits, most recently in October
1982 raising from 16 to 18% the costs of long-term consumer credit while at
the same time raising interest rates on time deposits. The three year time
deposits are now at a level of 28%.
56.      In the present project, in addition to the contributions from
sub-borrowers, proceeds from the Bank loan, the Serbian Fund for
Underdeveloped Regions (SFUR), and funds of the local commercial banks
would be used. Since SFUR funds are derived through obligatory
contributions from enterprises to meet specific social objectives and their
mobilization and allocation are inelastic to interest rate charges, their
cost is fixed at 5% to 5.5%. For Bank funds for the social sector, the
prevailing variable interest rate would be charged. Agrobanka would charge
a spread of 1.25%, except in the case of the drainage sub-projects (where
0.5% would be charged), bringing the rate to between 11.47% and 12.22%, on
the basis of the current Bank rate of 10.97%. The social sector
sub-borrowers themselves will carry the foreign exchange risk, bringing the
real cost of Bank funds to them close to that of international commercial
sources taking into account the currency pooling system and current
international lending rates.  Because the individual sector investors are
amongst those with Yugoslavia's lowest per capita incomes, the foreign
exchange and the variable interest rate risks for these sub-borrowers will
be carried by the Government of SR Serbia. The on-lending rate for Bank
funds for these farmers would, however, be a minimum of 18%. A minimum
interest rate of 18% to be charged for local commercial bank funds is also
likely to be positive in real terms over the life of the loan, taking into
account the Government policy to bring about a reduction in the inflation
rate. Understandings have also been reached with the Federal Government
for periodic reviews of interest rates on loans to the agricultural sector
in order to achieve positive real interest rates over the next three years.



- 21 -
Cost Recovery
57.      The drainage investment costs would be financed by a 20% equity
contribution, and 80% borrowed funds. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that debt service (principal and interest) would be recovered
from the sub-project beneficiaries in the form of an annual per hectare
sub-project levy which would be charged commencing 2 years after completion
of construction (Project Agreement, Section 5.03). The sub-project levy
will be collected by the local communes and is expected to be about Din
9,950 per hectare at full development. The individual farmers pay a land
tax calculated on the basis of the cadastral value of the land determined
every few years by local authorities according to the land's estimated
productivity and any incremental land tax revenue accruing as a result of
the drainage sub-project can be considered to be an indirect recovery of
capital outlays made on behalf of the individual sector from community
budgets. It is estimated that this tax would increase as a result of land
improvement from the current level of Din 3,800 per hectare to Din 4,180.
The agricultural social sector enterprises in Serbia pay a tax equal to
about 30% of gross income. As in the case of land taxes, any incremental
income tax revenue accruing to the commune as a result of the sub-project
would be considered an indirect recovery of sub-project costs. Operation
and maintenance costs associated with the drainage system would be
recovered commencing in 1985 through an appropriate annual per hectare
charge collected by the local fiscal agency of the commune. This charge is
estimated to be about Din 1,480 per hectare at full development.
Assurances have been obtained during negotiations that appropriate
operation and maintenance charge related to the farmers' ability to pay
would be collected and these charges would be gradually increased to the
full development level. Any deficits during the construction period would
be covered by provisions of additional funds by Agrobanka. (Project
Agreement, Section 5.04). The cost recovery index is estimated at 47%. If
indirect recoveries are taken into account, a much higher proportion (about
100%) of cost recovery would be indicated. Substantial incremental
benefits would also accrue to the beneficiaries and the level of the
charges would be in line with their ability to pay and the project
objective to increase their incomes significantly, particularly in the less
developed communes.
4roduction and Marketipg
58.      At full development, the project would induce annually an
incremental output of primary agricultural products estimated at US$204
million. These would include fruits, cereals, industrial crops,
vegetables, milk, cattle, pigs, poultry and other items. The annual
incremental output from agro-industries is estimated to be about US$96
million. Good market opportunities exist for projected output in view of
both future incremental domestic demand and export prospects. There is a
shortfall of production relating to demand, which is likely to increase due
to population growth and real per capita income growth during the life of
the project.



- 22 -
59.      A majority of the agro-industries sub-projects involve
reconstruction and modernization of their existing facilities which are
very old with technologically obsolete equipment. A slight increase in
capacity was simultaneously proposed in the case of many sub-projects since
their present capacities are based on past requirements. In most cases,
the investors have experience with the products which will be marketed and
have established marketing systems which would be suitably expanded in the
future. There is a surplus production of cereals in both Regions which is
not fully utilized due to lack of capacities. The increased requirements,
therefore, of wheat and corn for seed processing centers, grain elevators,
flour mills and animal feed factories can be easily met. Currently, there
is not enough surplus available within the Regions to meet the anticipated
raw material requirements of some of the sub-projects. In order to meet
the needs of these processing industries, production of fruits, vegetables,
sugarbeets and oilseeds is being promoted under the project. The
incremental processing capacities have been analyzed in relation to
projected demand for the concerned output and the available processing
capacities in the Regions as well as nationally. Only those capacities
which meet these criteria were included in the project. Capacity increases
are fully justified for cereal-based agro-industries and meat
slaughterhouses. Regarding fruit processing and cold storage, during
appraisal only sub-projects which would be consistent with raw material
availability were included.
60.      The regions can absorb the entire output which passes through the
seed processing centers, grain elevators, animal feed factories and meat
slaughterhouses included in the project. The remaining processed outputs
(such as frozen fruits, vegetables and french fries, prune cakes, fruit
juice, edible oil and poultry meat) would be surplus, but the balance after
meeting regional requirements can be easily marketed in the deficit areas
of Serbia and Yugoslavia. Substantial quantities of frozen fruits and
vegetables, processed seeds, processed prunes, fruit juice and prune cake
would be exported. These products have demand in the Western European
market and the market prospects for the processed output of various
agro-industries appear reasonably good.
Accounts and Audits
61.      Agrobanka would maintain separate accounts for sub-loan
disbursements and other project expenditures under the project (Project
Agreement, Section 4.01). The Borrower (UBB) and Agrobanka would have
their accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied by the
Yugoslav Social Accounting Service (SDK) or an independent auditing
organization acceptable to the Bank. UBB and Agrobanka would furnish to
the Bank, as soon as available but in any case not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of their financial
statements for the year, and the audit report. The auditors would also
give a separate opinion as to whether satisfactory procedures are in
operation to ensure that statements of expenditures (SOE) supporting
withdrawals relate to expenditures for project purposes (Loan Agreement,
Section 5.03, and Project Agreement, Section 4.02).



- 23 -
Procurement and Disbursement
62.      Procurement for (i) agro-industries equipment estimated to cost
about US$20 million, (ii) turnkey construction for four agro-industry
facilities costing about US$27 million, (iii) major equipment and
agricultural machinery for support services, including vehicles for the
extension service amounting to about US$36.5 million and (iv) all drainage
works including civil works and 0 & M equipment costing about US$45 million
would be carried out following International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in
accordance with the Bank guidelines. Yugoslav manufacturers would be
allowed a preference of 15% or the applicable customs duty, whichever is
lower. Computer equipment for Agrobanka valued at US$50,000 would be
procured through Limited International Tendering (LIT). Contracts for
agro-industry equipment would include provisions to train local staff in
operation and maintenance. Civil works for agro-industry and support
services and extension services amounting to about US$63.8 million and
procurement of miscellaneous goods estimated at US$1.9 million would be
carried out under Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to
the Bank. Works and equipment involved are not suitable for ICB as they
are unlikely to attract foreign bidders due to the dispersion of investors,
wide differences in the types of construction and equipment required and
the relatively small size of each contract. Sufficient commercial channels
and civil work contractors are available in Yugoslavia to provide adequate
competition for the supply of goods and civil works needed under these
components. Total procurement under this project is estimated to value
about US$194 million and is expected to result in about 120 to 160
contracts. Of these, about 50 ICB contracts amounting to about US$130
million would be reviewed by the Bank, representing roughly 70% of the
total value of procurement.
63.      Retroactive Financing.  All final designs and tender documents for
the first year investments, except for the drainage component, would be
finalized by about April, 1983 and bids evaluated prior to loan
effectiveness. Drainage designs are proceeding and are expected to be
completed by December 1983. Expenditures incurred for the preparation of
final designs, cost estimates and bidding documents for the drainage
component in the amount of US$0.8 million would be financed retroactively
from the proposed loan. For the individual sector sub-loans, retroactive
financing of up to $2 million was agreed for expenditures to be incurred
prior to loan signing (Loan Agreement, Paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1.
64.      Disbursements.  Bank disbursement would take about five years.
The expected annual disbursement of the proposed loan is given in the Loan
and Project Summary. Disbur'sements of the Bank loan would be made as
follows: (a) sub-loans to the individual sector - 46% of amounts
disbursed by Agrobanka; (b) sub-loans to social sector support services,
extension services (including training) and agro-industries - 100% of
foreign expenditures and 50% of local expenditures of amounts disbursed by
Agrobanka; (c) civil works for drainage - 55%; (d) drainage equipment and
computer equipment for Agrobanka - 100% of foreign expenditures and 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory); (e) engineering and training in drainage
sub-projects, consultants' services and Master Plan for extension service -



- 24 -
100%; and (f) interest during construction - amount due up to US$7.5
million. Disbursements would be supported by full documentation in the
case of foreign expenditures and for contracts for local expenditures above
$500,000 for agro-industries, support services and extension services. For
local expenditures for contracts below $500,000 for agro-industries,
support services and extension services, and for sub-loans for the
individual sector, the Bank would disburse against statements of
expenditures (SOE), since they would involve financing small and numerous
local expenditures. Agrobanka is considered capable of using SOE
procedures which would be audited by SDK. The documentation in support of
SOE's would be retained by Agrobanka and would be available for inspection
by the Bank during the course of project implementation. Disbursements for
the drainage component would be against full documentation.
Benefits and Risks
65.      Production and Fpreign Exch,age Effects.  Most of the incremental
production due to the project would be used to satisfy domestic consumption
needs. However, part of the incremental processed output valued at about
US$8.0 million annually or US$160 million over the 20-year life of the
project would be exported, resulting in foreign exchange earnings. In
addition, the increased self-sufficiency in wheat and industrial crops
would enable the country to reduce imports. These savings in scarce
foreign exchange are important in view of Yugoslavia's 1980 trade deficit
of US$6.1 billion.
66.      Emplgy,nEnt and Income Effects.  The project's contribution to
employment would be substantial. It is estimated that at full development
the project investments would result in 1,630 permanent full-time jobs, 765
man-years of increased employment of hired seasonal labor and 3,065
man-years of increased family labor requirements on participating farms,
which would reduce under-employment and pressure to migrate from the
project area. Women are expected to gain more than half of the employment
opportunities created under the agro-industries and support services
components of the project, and would participate significantly in
livestock, crop and fruit production on individual farms. There are many
women among the professional staff in the institutions with which the Bank
would be involved in the proposed project. About 15,000 individual farm
families would benefit directly from sub-loans for livestock, horticulture
and drainage. An additional 16,000 farm families would benefit from
increased efficiency through greater use of mechanization. The incomes of
the direct beneficiaries are expected to increase by about 120% as compared
to their pre-project incomes (presently about US$1,200 to USl,500 in less
developed communes). This would significantly improve their economic
conditions, particularly in the less developed communes. The investments
under the agro-industries and the support service components of the project
would result in indirect benefits to an estimated additional 33,000
families by providing steady market outlets for their production as well as
inputs and services.
67.      Institution Building Effects.  The project's non-quantifiable
benefits would include: (a) the institutional development of Agrobanka



- 25 -
through provision of training and through experience gained in preparing,
implementing and evaluating a regional development project of this size and
scope; (b) fostering of increased cooperation between the individual and
social sectors; and (c) improved extension service to the individual sector
through existing institutions.
68.      EconPRic Rate of Return.  The economic rate of return (ERR) of the
project, as a whole, is about 25%. The ERR for the major components with
their share of total project costs given in parenthesis are as follows:
Livestock (34%) - 26%; Agro industries (27%)-24%; Support Services
(22%)-23%; and Drainage (11%)-28%. With 20% increase in investment costs,
the rate of return for the entire project would be reduced to 13%; a 10%
reduction in benefits would result in a rate of return of 9%. However,
with a lag of two years in benefits and operating costs, the economic rate
of return would remain attractive at about 17%. Agro industries and
support services which include some processing facilities are particularly
sensitive to changes in benefits and operating costs. This is common in
the basic food processing industry where gross margins are characteristi-
cally low.
69.      Risks and Uncertainties.  All sub-projects including drainage,
support services and agro-industries have been identified. Project
procurement is at an advanced stage. An important risk is the possibility
of restrained farmer response for some investments, due to possible changes
in input/output ratios. These will have to be dealt with on a case-by-case
basis as new price ratios develop. The detailed indentification of most of
the individual sector sub-borrowers done so far should reduce these
uncertainties. Marketing presents some uncertainties. While the internal
market analysis has been thorough, the export market analysis indicates
that export targets, particularly for frozen fruits, are somewhat high.
Therefore, these export targets may require some changes in product mix,
after taking into account the operating margins, profits, long-term
agreements and market preferences. Availability of adequate local
counterpart investment funds also poses some risk. Current economic
problems and the Government's stabilization measures can adversely affect
the timely availability of local funds. The mechanism under this project
by which annual financing plans are to be prepared by the Serbian
authorities, and to be reviewed by the World Bank, should help to reduce
this risk. Also, import restrictions have hampered implementation of
Bank-financed projects in Yugoslavia. However, the Federal Government has
recently decided to exempt Bank project-related imports from restrictions.
Considering the potential benefits, both direct and indirect, to the
economy and individuals, the risks mentioned above are acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
70.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Udruzena Beogradska
Banks, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal Republic
of Yugoslavia and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank,
Agrobanka and the Intercommunal Regional Communities of Kolubara and Danube
Regions, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



- 26 -
71.      In addition to the features of interest of the loan whicb are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III, special
conditions of effectiveness are the execution and authorization of:
(i)    the Agreement between the Borrower and Agrobanka for making
available the Bank's loan to Agrobanka;
(ii)    the Self-Management Agreements among all participants;
(iii)    the Agreement on Financial Participation among Agrobanka and
the investors;
(iv)    the Project Implementation Agreement between Agrobanka and
SFUR;
(v)    the on-lending Drainage Agreements between Agrobanka and four
drainage investors and the related Self-Management Agreements
(Loan Agreement, Section 7.01).
A condition of disbursement for the Seventh Drainage Project is the
execution and authorization of the on-lending Drainage Agreement between
Agrobanka and the investor and the related Self-management Agreement (Loan
Agreement, Schedule 1, para 4 (b)).
72.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
73.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
March 7, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-27--                                             ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
TABLE 3A
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YUGOSLAVIA                            REFERENCE CROUPS (WEIGHiTED AVRACES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                                    -  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
T OTAL             55' . 6                                   MO0ST RECENr           MIDDLE INCOKE          INDOSTRIALizED
AGRICULTURAL      142.4                  1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b               EUROPE             MAREET ECONOMIES
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                      380.0       840.0    2620.0                   2323.9                   10328.2
ENERCY CONSUMP`ION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         932.1       1604.5    2414.9                   2107.4                    7277.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)    18402.0       20371.0   22328.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)    27.9          34.8      42.3                     47.9                      78.0
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                           25.8
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                             28.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2065
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1M.                           71.9         79.6      86.5                     83.3                     138.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        124.2        139.6     155.5                    155.4                     509.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                             3D.5         27.4      24.6                     31.1                      22.7
15-64 YRS.                             63.2         64.8      66.5                     61.2                      65.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                       6.3          7.8       8.9                      7.7                      11.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   1.2         1.0       0.9                      1.6                       0.8
URBAN                                  3.6          3.2       2.9                      3.5                       1.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)         23.5         19.0       17.0                    23.6                      14.5
CRUDE DEATH RATS (PER THOUSAND)         10.0          9.0       9.0                      9.2                       9.3
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   1.4         1.3        1.1                     1.6                       0.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..         59.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX Of FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              85.0         93.0     117.0                   116.0                      111.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OP
REQUIREMENTS)                      128.1        130.0     135.5/c                 125.1                      130.8
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              95.5         93.3     LOO.9/c                   92.7                      97.1
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           28.6         31.7      39.2/c                  35.9                       61.3
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         11.2          4.3       2.0                      9.2                       0.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)        63.2         66.7       70.5                    67.6                      73.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               92.0         53.1      32.5                     65.1                      11.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                              33.6
URBAN                                 42.4         62.0
RURAL                                              12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                    ..          ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              1616.2       1000.1     762.4/c                 1105.4                     620.7
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          632.6/d      406.4     361.9/c                 634.4                      246.9
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                185.5/d      177.1     165.8/e                 286.8                      122.0
URBAN                                 91.4 /d      95.7     101.7/e                  192.0                     140.6
RURAL                               1035.5/d    1603.9    1835.3/e
ADMlSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         17.3      18.2/e                   20.0                      17.7
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  4.0          3.8       3.8/e
URBAN                                  3.3          3.2       3.3/e
RURAL                                  4.4          4.3       4.1/e
AVERAGE NUMBER OP PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                  1.6          1.4
URBAN                                  1.7          1.3
RURAL                                  1.5          1.5
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 54.5         87.9
URBA.V                                92.7         98.4
RURAL                                 36.1         80.1



-28-                                                         ANNEX I
YUGOSLAVIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                                   Page  2  of  6
YUGOS'LAVIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV7RAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MOST RECENT            MIDDLE INCOME            INDUSTRIALIZED
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b                EUROPE             MARKET ECONOMIES
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 111.0        106.0      99.0                    102.4                      101.7
MALE                 113.0        108.0      99.0                    107.1                      103.9
FEMALE               108.0        103.0       98.0                    99.0                      103.6
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  58.0         69.0      82.0                     60.2                       88.4
MALE                  63.0         78.0       86.0                    66.4                       83.4
FEMALE                53.0         58.0       78.0                    54.0                       84.2
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)    ..           26.4      20.5                     31.6                       18.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRLMARY                             33.0         27.1      24.9                     25.8                       20.3
SECONDARY                           13.0        22.4       18.9                     22.2                       16.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         77.0         83.5      85.0/f                   75.9                       98.9
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           3.0        35.4       88.5/c                   51.0                     338.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          84.9       165.9      209.3                    157.2                    1021.7
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.4        88.3      189.2                    123.7                     403.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   70.3         85.3     103.1                    112.3                      331.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ArTENDANCE PER CAPITA  7.0            4.5       3.3                      4.0                        3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       8302.0      8837.7/g  9422.2/g
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    35.0        35.9       36.0                     36.6                      36.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               63.0         51.0      29.0                     38.7                        6.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  18.0        23.0       35.0                     25.9                      37.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 45.1         43.4      42.2                     44.5                       45.4
MALE                                  60.0         56.6      54.8                     56.3                       58.9
FEMALE                                30.9         30.6      30.0                     32.8                       32.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.8        0.8                     0.9                        0.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.4/h         15.1/i    13.1
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  41.5/_h        41.471    38.7                       ..                      43.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.97h          6.67I     6.6                       ..                        5.5
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   19.0oh         18.47i    18.7                       ..                       16.5
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTLIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..     530.0                    406.6.
ESTiMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977; /d 1962; /e 1976; /f 1975; /j Including migrants workers abroad; /h 1963; /i 1968.
May, 1982



-29 -                                                                        AiNNEX I
Pfage 3 of 6
00... a  1000,000  4400 0r* 4004  ft0*0.0  00001  240   000*   oaO0I.o',04  ooIfll .00d,04,1  o±oOd 04 h.  0000 004  0b.Y 40* 00t 4* to(0
oo ol(y ooop ...... 04000 ..    0±0 1*00 o. f  cabbl.Odtoo   W141.1b±I.o   0   -oOoot*  -o0  0  4±1ff00  00.00. toi   I 00±101-04 'h.  04.t-   TM± A00 t05, 06
-d,0cit      h..oo   afto  .   10 ..00 h. 0.t0.f.r th00000  4 ...0.. ±04040 h. (0-4g4:0±60.4 '00010   .0.0. 0 im t--  HoAPo.oo.0 t.00 - 0011't 0.0  
i0AoO of1. aooo±01±00(0  (O for 0.0 0.1000-.   10.00   0000   f00.0    aoOo -P. 100.04 4.ly-.L  boOh.oolofio  100
404±01000 _   40-401        .. 10000 .8 00000   *4 o,.ooc ~.-oooy0.             dt.                                                                   ;I
IoA- 200       0,0.0000 4000,0 1i004 4-0*0 00        .1o  00000±197  4.04.                 40.,04P - tl4y44  70.000000.o O   t0,0.  0f.40
OaOlooOa*(   fOO.0,of  oocolotl 0*4410  00(0*0±7  7  00*0.1±by.001at             10. (40(00 00   S00000  40011  o- O P-.14i0o0 p1.00101  -040-
GNPPE CAoPITA p0000  .00   0  0000)040   r -1,GNP1.0  19790,-.                                00011001000t       Oo.   0010±500  04001±40000 -00000W. h08(1,4
I..0%-  ld. Nath"   ~ ~ ~            ~ ~~~~0. 0looo00 001010 200±.0.01p004(4poolpIl 000
1400  0  001   05      0   0   000   0100   00000000  (014g.o44-                               410-di.    00  001tdt  0144.1d0., -± 00p0I.b Oown.. looo04
00I10 It  01044004±L00  00000000*0   -P0*11; 1900, .97±, 004 1079                            1.000.10oll±0400*1000   (0140  40±0  -00   04.I
04-00.4.0±1040000(404-                                                                                                            ...0 oc0   0   014±0.0  0  (0000
10000*00000±0  (0.0.00  1 00.1) - Rc.00  of -t4   1001  o.100±                           0001   -0.0100  f A          P400  al 1o4±oi 0 id    000±00  9.0
4014o,-o  40(100140  of '40. A00  000 Roy(1t000              LI f01010   d..0 400            0  00010 -*.  -..1.       Oot.  00lojo  000 o- 09  000 0  1"oo44 ±0
(00±.    0  0000040                                                                         000±  00- 01,                AL 0*0010000-00±  0*00  400 000  -00*04
001*010100 01'r 04 .-    0  004it   m 0(00  0000110  004 0000110. 00..4.Iog.±000001.001,4000000*0000   0000.
I00± .04 1,00±. (Ito *o.oOoo.t001(014      77.1  000   10* (00,                          14.0001001 4 .1100  alt!, 010000   0  ±049.00a                   0*0*02
60 -07  1 0  000(110   000100 0.00 00000 - .ot  4..000  400110  ±0'                 of 0001, 0000,00  0:.0±I01400.014
004 (..Ility 000040b  P1100     ti0-000000*00.-4   00   .010   000
00140 40*04000.  1000 0. .01.000 001* 4±1.0 0.1410    oa.. A00±000 00         *0600   000.001 740,.10±0± -       01001± 1-,1,44014.   gd01
tOo 001000000 1001 o  001  004 -077040-01     000 10.0.0  goooi00000                            Ad400 bo   OOoOO  000  ±41.0000 1-0400. of (0(0-0  oAoccOOOo; Ia
0$  0  ±0100  (000$ 0001,   Th. 0004077*100.00.00.1000  00**1000(000100   0   0±0(0 F00004
001404ao0. 11.1. ofoih     0.04o.00o000   $0.  t oooOoa.0(0    -4  (00100, -0*1-0  1 'bo., t0  jllo   0001  2.
1-  -0±70- 20              L 040. 000  o  0 h.0(0   f(0010  0*00 t 00 0001000-b            100040  0±          '0001   000±4001             t 1004,40  0040- ±    - P00400
400, i11± 0.  -00004                                                                        bool   f 12 ic 17 :000 ...    44±                    ......0000000000 . 00011
±0001  -000  1900  1907  -d4 1970 404.1014                                                       h00.1-41, (040000001 .0h0 000.0  -oo ho . 0100000   0 04
P., 00. 00. -00-0t04-0  1004 - Ca."ot   I4000  o   0010±000   (.0                           00(  0  40   "00000Ifoc00y41000
0(1 140. 1590 .0  I        A0 00.                                                   0001-000.0  001-           0101.Z0  00,0 -      -0.1 000460. .              E.(041
U..lOto  0           .....OoO  o,oon   - (0h140.. (0-04  -,00  .rOolbt.s  (10-          *11.00  .0    -dAo4cO   1-01. 40.1404 byAI...  I000.±1  t0.
-0100,000100   0  00   0  0001 Y      0000404±  f  4-40(PoP.                      -cOoPdd40± 10001.
1.0140± 19040  1970, 404 190  40t..                                                      i04010 IIt.-P0 0-0* (04.00-$ - L10.00. M.14o     (04± 0.0- 0.04*0  0006±
*o*Ioo.tt   G000±4  ho. 10.00±t0  - .4..I ' 400001 oloolO  -.*  of 0001 014-                  A6.00-0006* a  It.100  ",1   7.0      p01000  15 Y005*0  00.0
70(40 -00   (00 10140. I900-3 , *4(9700-
*041004  000  000  1("000   -400- 4000- 0001400000                      p (*-       CON10MPT104
C,1.001000.        .'th-d                 If 00.190-00  19I-0.  04  07140                 74±0000  00  1000  00040  7010000   - *01,02   40*0004040
*0.0(0-400; 1060, 1930..00  1040ig  (.0..                                                  0±100070- ±04
10*0100104± 1440d-h...190  0 di8  do,.,                                                      000040400biidy  Ri.A- .   (0P000  0,1(  700 00.44-04l oX .4o o01-o,cl-  I- d
00*  oO.1 *pOoocoo.  0004    - 00   00*0010006   7060404-(il  10- 00-              4001640.0.±44   -0 000d7000000   000041                             b10
00107040±  60000f(o-*oo  0.000  .0414  0 100  (90,.04100.                       oo A4.00, 001f.      4  11.o.o4.                   b          bl    -
70.01, (b -ll  - 11F400.Loot  0 .000,0 -b O "O,co oct60,a .40(00(040100(040004001011   100*0000,04000
00'    . 0(40000.    A400  440.0-     0.100000 A        Jll  10000  *040*0                   00000  (410-          0.04 (p-00(04±04;b~   T   -0004 -  f.oO0 0  10- 00.0*0
0(   0044  00010005  400.                                                            .44000of   -11  ±000   000006.06'  0  oO44(001
-A., Z11.                                                PId..~~~~010*0004.*00   000110700400   0001  00         TV 1604040.
700404  ?I-101..04    -P                                             f-.                       00 -. '00I..        t0(.*0   (.000000000
(04. af  'o  -t700400(00,  (1-40±    10 t47114                                                                                           _IV, f(0000   00.  00*001000*04(0(((   0   *0     04   ,0   040O
0±00   .o(44.0o .ozo  (040.1. of1 4000" 1000000      00.4S a,-d0001
00100140000  000007000*±lO.o190-0  1570,. 04 (9400004.t.00.1 1.'0 00.-  (00404±- 000001  400.0000.10140
(00 440.  10±201 I**014  -pwou. 4Ooino,It dd04o010., ip4o40  10..0                          00000000*10±1 . 1970 000 1.90  4040.
40P*0t46, 00  0000   (4 -00,.  0*0 000010.001040 .0L1*60±   .0.Wo..                        F.-I.±((00)   7- 7.01±00  (0                P --00040" 000-0  140*0 (000.
900*00100 0.4 10004 (Oo..*(04  004 ±0000 0* 40000100000.  100100.         001000  (400$             - 0.00F_00    f±*4100. (002-0. *00010  004
0000  04 0.010 0.4040b0  0000*0020410..211 0*400  0             0100.   04                 (4000  (0040000± -.-Mt 1.00   -10, (061000.  0000400L1000. .04L9014001
0-4 00. d4044 -0000(000  70410410b. 404010004  10*000004 1.  000400                          0.4 *IOcOltA* 00000  0   .*00000   f04010000.
100004014  o.ol±  ±94119 100 ±0d (977 4*0.0                                            19601, 190 00   90  0*
0.400±   f o0  7007   04  001' f od  *0204040,0   6- I000T00                                     At000000  000.1   0±,  040o.0  .10(0000
.10004a '00 Ooo* of"00±    Ioo1   (04 4007   40 S- f ool.01   W                      1900, ±9000  Ad4 1904  000.  T0.6000  0000± 00 (1'.0 (.-Ocloo±    004
(047001. af- th14  (0   is00  .0,40.0004  (000010.  100001 .0*04-                     004 1000  0*000000  o -"-I                 1,40   0   00   00064
00(00±0001*104±000*0400. f00 000 0014  p. 0000*0  by PAO 040.  1±1404T                   000±oo.1O       so.W-   It41  -At4.4  If *00(4040  4040  ±1 004 09 00-00
2001  *04Ooo;104,190412   00                                                                00(00011*0(00
1*0 1400*  0000.0  00010 00 9000001 400104 -" 70001  0971  0  104  4-
1014(.0  14   A00  4.0m. 1. 000H_04  4- 000196L0*04  9,05 40.00 W ,                 700000000. MIWTof  000   104   000±000   ,   14      .040   106
45 D00   .0 00±  0  O±4.oo1   0046400        06   010144 001                        17040,0110   30  000 .4 (040 .0 20d 000 d40  *0             l00   00000
00144 4,40 40-10d (00  !(f. 01,;1900. 1070 A04 1900 H0.-                                   of h...±04o
010110                                                              7100.120~~~~~~~~~~pgl   14400  (GROUPS
11*  0000,0  00 01001- -000±-10000  00        Y0±700  of "it.00±00                       10. f101-0110  -0±2-.  00 -000000.05  00-*0  *007 lo-o±
400040 40 0.00 0100  ±Ii000 oift. oooooo0l-.00.  r.  40400001 - 1,0                          000010040011  04.-00I_  4± I plo   L..000  00-L 404 . h400000  100
S. o  70f1   100.,a0 ...00 0,0011) 040  -o.Io0o,o*. fL-              *                   c b-     Ol. I   "a.4tP.   .-i4                        -.=        :
040 P.;1   00,400*04604.  0000000.40   4  00000*06                                    0±004±(00*-0*0'±0001001(1 I.,±0   -40000   04 
b*0  60  0*4.4(a  00*0A    00010,0010,  0   0400701010                                       .01±100  7071   00.  *1±1h44010 -                     000.70070
P00001     t00*004101   00  0   4.00.0  -000*0 -. (.  00.00010                              .4 0-1 I- 7000  o   44000  (00000 404 L.41  0000- 400 "40-'.I
4400   40  0   p044     -100001.0  (00400 10.. 04 .. 00 (.-000 -0*                   74A00           .ft       .             ,fLtt*            -      ...
001400 00 00104.0 1±00d001  10000-0 ol 000014-0f± - larob. 4100. 004 rood.
00   41.14  t.0dIop±1.00  00*01040-    U--4S1 d00- 0±4  000000
000 060*000*  470404**  *7404 - 00- 0040*00   (1  741000* 00 
(±0             by 00*-  h...114P40001i4.4   .1
*00 -.10(±  00*4  700_    - ?*070104±00 ~        b   ..1440   01-000  00 -04(014                                                     My 1942
:*1I00   06d 4  200400000. 4-4004  40011*00 0-000  70400000 400*
0-060  00±0011



- 30 -
Population:  22.3 million  (mid-1981)                                                                                                                            ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  1552,790 (19el)                                                                                                                                 Page 4  f 6
YUGOSLAVIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
A.mo.nt                                                   Annual Growth Rates (Z)
(million US3 at                                               (at constant 1972 prices)
Indicator                     current prices)                                      Actual                                      c/           Projected
1980 c/           1975       1976       1977       1978        1979       1980       1981       1982       1983      1984       1985
hATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Grosn domestic prodoct at           69,232              0.9        5.2        8.4         8.5        4.2        2.2        2.2         0.7       -2.5       1.0       2.0
Agriculture                        8,516            -2.6         6.4        5.7       -5.4         5.4        0.0        1.0         5.0        0.0       2.0       2.0
Industry                         28,801              7.4         4.1        9.5        9.3        8.5         3.6        1.4       -2.7       -3.5        1.5       2.5
Services                         24,993               1.4        5.3        7.1       13.1        -2.0       -2.2        3.4       -1.0        -2.0       1.0       1.5
Consumption                         48,760             -3.3        0.0        9.8       13.0         3.8        0.6       -1.1         0.7       -1.7       1.2       1.8
Gross investment                    23,218             10.1        3.6       17.4       -3.2        12.0       -3.2       -1.2       -6.0        -8.0       2.5       3.0
Exports of GNFS                     14,053              1.1       10.4       -2.0        4.8         2.6       12.6        9.3      -10.3         0.5       6.3       6.0
lmports of GNFS                    16,799             -1.3        -8.6       16.1        2.5        12.0       -9.7       -2.6      -19.1        -4.7       9.4       6.0
Cross national savings              19,619             14.7       20.6        5.6       -3.1         3.4         5.8        -           -          -         -         -
PRICES
GIP deflator (1972 =100)               411            170        204        232        260         313        411            -
Exchange rate                           24.9           17.4       18.2       18.3       18.6        19.0       24.9         -
Share of GDP at Market Prices (M)                                         Average Annual Increase (x)
(at current prices) b/                                               (at constant 1972 prices)
1960      1970       1975      1980       1985                            1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85
Gross  .mestic Product a/        100.0    100.0        100.0    100.0       100.0                               5.9        6.5         5.7        0.7
Agricult-re                     22.5      16.1        13.8      12.3       12.5                               3.3        2.9        2.4         2.0
Indostry                        42.2      37.4       44.3       41.6       40.0                               6.3        8.3        7.0       -0.8
Services                        29.0      38.1        33.1      36.1       37.1                               6.9        4.7        4.3        0.6
Consomptios                       67.2       72.8       74.3      70.4       69.8                               6.5        6.9         5.4        0.2
Gross investment                  36.5       32.3       33.5      30.3       27.8                               4.7        5.5         5.3       -2.0
txports GNFS                       13.9      18.5       20.2      27.7       33.7                              10.2        6.7         5.7        2.4
lopo-ts GNFS                      17.5      23.5        28.0      31.4       31.3                               9.8        6.7        2.5       -2.2
Gross national savings               32.6      29.6       25.6      28.3       28.4                               5.3         6.2        6.5         -
As 2 of GDP
1960      1970       1975      1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Total revenues                    27.9       33.1       36.8      37.6
Total expenditures                24.1       33.2       37.2      38.2
S-rplus (-) or deficit (-)         3.3       0.1       -0.4        0.6
Foreign financing                  0.0        0.0      -0.4        0.0
1960-70  1970-75    1975-80  1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                 6.1       6.7        5.7       0.6
GNP per capita growth rate          5.0       6.6        4.7      -0.3
ICOR                               5.4       4.6         5.8       9.1
Import elasticity                   1.6       1.0        0.5      -0.2
al  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
b/ Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
c/ Estimate.
EIEMNA IC
January 5, 1983



- 31 -
Population:  22.3 million (rid-1981)                                                                                                                ANNEX I
GNP Per Capita:  US$2,790 (1981)                                                                                                                    Page 5 of 6
YUGOSLAVIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Amount                                                   Annual Growth Rates (2)
(million USi at                                             (at constant 1972 prices)
Indicator                    current prices)                                   Actual                                  e/              Projected
(1981)            1975       1976      1977       1978       1979       1980    1981    1982   1983    1984    1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
Merchandise exports               10,929              0.0      14.5       -5.3        1.0        4.4       11.2    10.6   -10.5    0.6       6.0      6.0
Primary a/                       1,940            -3.1       16.6        3.9        1.5        5.6       2.5   -10.7   -11.0    0.0        2.0     2.0
Manufactures b/                  8,989             0.4       13.9       -8.8        0.8        4.0       14.1    16.4   -10.0    1.0       8.0     8.0
Merchandise Imports               15,757             -2.8      -6.5       18.5        3.8       18.8     -13.9    -4.9   -19.0   -5.4        9.4     6.0
Food                               893           -40.9       45.8        4.3     -24.2       51.9       -3.1    -5.5   -10.0   -4.4        7.5     4.0
Petroleum c/                     3,786            -5.0       10.1       12.0       11.6       10.6      -8.2      0.0    -2.0   -0.4       8.0     5.0
Machinery and equipment          4,360            22.3       -8.8       17.8        7.1       22.4     -23.1   -19.8   -30.0   -2.4        6.0     5.0
Others                           6,718           -11.9      -12.7       22.1        4.4       12.8      -9.3      4.3   -21.0    0.0       9.9     6.9
PRICES (1972 - 100)
Export price index                                  172       180        202        220        253       301      331      364    393      423     453
Import price index                                 184        189        216        226       269        319      351     385    419      452      486
Terms of trade index                                93.5       95.2       93.5       97.3       94.0      94.4    94.4    94.7   94.0    93.5    93.1
Composition of Merchandise  Trade (Z)                                     Average Annual Increase (Z)
(at current prices) d/                                              (at constant 1972 prires)
1960      1970       1975       1980  -   1985                            1960-70   1970-75   1975-80  1980-85
Exports                                    100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0      100.0                             8.1        5.7        5.1       2.5
Pr-nary a/                                49.6      29.4       19.5       22.0       16.0                              -        -1.3        6.0     -3.4
Manufactures b/                           50.4       70.6      80.5       78.0       84.0                              -         8.1        4.7      4.9
Irports                                    100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0      100.0                             9.0        7.4        4.1     -2.9
Food                                       9.1       7.2        5.5        7.2        8.6                              -         5.0       14.9     -1.3
Petroleum  c/                              5.4       4.8       12.3       23.6        7.9                              -         8.2        7.2      2.1
Machinery and equipment                   36.8      33.2       33.9       28.0       24.6                              -         9.4        3.1     -8.2
Others                                    48.7      54.8       48.3       41.2       58.8                              -         6.0        3.5      0.0
Share of Trade with                 Share of Trade with           Share of Trade with Capital            Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (Z)            Developing Countries (X)          Surplus Oil Exporters (Z)       Centrally Planned Economies (Z)
1965    1970      1975      1979     1965    1970    1975    1979   1965    1970    1975    1979          1965    1970    1975    1979
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                40.1    53.3       34.0     40.5      17.4    13.6    16.8    19.3    0.4        0.7      2.1    11.5      42.1    32.4    47.1    40.3
Primary              61.0    70.2       54.0     55.0       9.1      8.2     8.9    14.2    0.2       0.2      1.9     5.8      29.7    21.4    35.2    30.7
Manufactures         24.0    41.9       26.0     33.5      23.8    17.2    20.0    21.6    0.6        1.0      2.1    14.2      51.6    39.9    51.9    44.9
Imports                55.3    66.1       59.1     60.8      16.0    12.7    15.7       n.a.   0.1      0.1      0.6     n.a.    28.6    21.1    24.6    25.3
a!  S1TC 0-4
b/  SITC 5-8
c/  SITC 3; includes lubricants, coal and electricity.
d/  Projected years at constant 1972 prices.
e/ Estimates. Owing to changes in the valuation of trade, components do not add up to totals, nor do aggregate price and volume indices equal value growth
between 1978 and 1979 shown in next table.
EMENA IC
January 5, 1983



- 32 -
ANNEXII 
YUGOSLAVIA - WAAWZ OF PADUIfT8, ZSISIIAU   CAPITAL AND DEBT                                           PANgE6 of 6
(US$ millions)
Populstion:  22.3, illion (lid-1981)
GNP Per Capita: US$2,790 (1981)
led jastor                                                                     AcEatl                                                                     Projected
1970       1975        1976        1977        1978        1979       1980   1981          1982 !.    1983         1984    1985
BAlANCE OF PAYMENTS
E.ports of goods *nd services                    3,037       8,012       9,142      10,586      12,069     14,276      18,300 22,207    19,591         19,586    22,419   25,302
of which:  Merchandise f.o.b.                 1,679       4,073       4,893       5,191       5,809       6,794       8,978 10,939       9,800       10,036    11,338   12,927
I.ports of good. snd services                   3.385       9,013       8,977      11,932      13,352      17,937      20,592 22,957    22,800         19,941    22,002   24,806
of which:  Merohandise c.i.f.                 2,874       7,697       7,367       9,789      10,439      14,019      15,065 15,758    12,500         12,309    14,274   16,309
Ne  transfers
Corrent eccount balance                            -348     -1,001          165     -1,346      -1,283      -3,661      -2,292   -750         -51         -355        -83        -4
Private direct inve-tment
MLT loans (net)                                    196         951       1,094       1,432      1,394       1,009       2,410    762         277          952        472       935
Official                                          18        246         213          61         128         131          59  1,097       1,083          451        222       388
Private                                          178        705         881       1,371       1,266         878       2,351   -335        -806          401        270       547
Other oapital b/                                    38         135         119          45         541      1,487          657    143      1,669         -347         22      -416
Change in reserves                                 114          85     -1,378        -131        -652       1,165        -775   -155       1,100         -250       -367      -468
Interna-tionl cecerven a/                         276       1,502       2,880       3,011       3,663       2,498       3,273  3,428       2,328        2,578      2,945    3,413
Of which:  Gold (official valuation)             51          62           62         64          69          73          78      78         78           78         78        78
Reserves us months imports                           1.0         2.0         3.8         3.0         3.3         1.7         1.9    1.8        1.1          1.6        1.9       1.9
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Gross disburseaents                                611       1,647      2,096       2,665       2,800       2,438       4,156  3,223       2,478        3,752      2,897    3,818
Official grantu                                    -           -           -           -          -           -           -       -          -            -          -         -
Concessional loans                                67        134          134        159          29          13          20      12          -
DAC                                             0          71          62          66          11          11          15       8          -            -          -         -
OPEC                                            -           -           -           -           -           -           -       -          -            -          -         -
IDA                                             -           -           -           -           -           -           -       -          -
Other                                         675          63          72          93          18           2           5       4          -            -
Non-conceusiontl loats                          573       2,037       1,962       2,506       2,671       2,425       4,136  3,211       2,478        3,752      2,897    4,423
Official expect credits d/                     39         203         283          75          74          60          85  1,375           n..          -          -         -
IBRD                                           37         154         119         133         180         294         258    240        285             -          -        -
Other =ultilateral                              -           -           -           -           8          24          36      18          -
Private                                       497       1,680       1,560       2,298       2,409       2,047       3,757  1,578           n.a-
Yugoslav export credit (net)                      (-37)       (-82)      (-100)      (-183)     (-106)      (-125)      (-300) (-250)    (-220)         (-210)    (-240)   (-156)
fnternal debt
Debt out.tanding and
disburued e/                                2,053       5,820       7,172       8,956      11,117      13,608      15,446 16,458    16,995        18,157    18,869   19,960
Official                                      854       2,327       2,792       3,085       3,410       3,662       4,552  4,982      6,492        7,163      8,057    8,855
Private                                     1,199       3,493       4,380       5,871       7,707       9,946      10,894 11,476    10,503        10,994    10,812   11,105
Uodiuhorsed debt                                948       2,971       2,525       4,438       3,713       3,817       2,542  3,666      3,705         3,627     3,247    3,747
Dhbt service f/
Total service pay=ents                          503       1,441       1,440       1,595       1,886       2,125       2,441  3,961       4,628        4,490      4,316    4,896
Interest g                                    128         289         302         367         578         821         995  1,750      2,150        1,800      2,131    2,014
Payments as 2 noporta                             16.6        18.0        15.8        15.6       14.9        14.9         13.3   17.8       23.6         22.9       19.2      19.4
Average ictereat rate on ne . loans (2)              7.1         8.1         7.1         7.4         7.7         8.0         8.4    9.2        9.6          8.9        8.2       8.4
Official                                           7.0        8.3          7.0         7.3         7.7        -           -       -          -            -          -         -
Priv-te                                            7.5         7.5         8.6         9.3        8.7         9.5         -       -          -            -          -         -
Average naturity of se . leans (years)              16.5        15.2        18.3        15.4        15.1        10.8        10.1   10.2       10.1         10.6       10.9      10.6
Official                                          18.5        16.5        10.0       15.9        15.1         -           -
Private                                           10.9        10.9         5.7         7.5        -           -           -       -          -            -          -         -
_/  Estimates.
b/  Includes net use of IMF credit (drawings less repurchases), net use of short-tern credit and changes in bilatera1
balances.
cloIncluding gross foreign asseta of comercial banks.
d/  After 1980, includes borrowings guaranteed by National Bonk of Yugoslavia.                                                                                 EIENA IC
a/  Internal borrowing reported is the historical balance of payments is not consistent with external debt data.                                               January 5, 1983
f   Debt service excludes axr-tisatio. and interest o. export credit extended by Yugcstavia.
After 1981, includes interest payments on use of IMF resources.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as of September 30,,1982)
US$ Million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
Thirty-eight Loans fully disbursed                                1,238.8
916    1973   Naftagas                       Gas Pipeline           59.4     9.6
1262    1976   Republicki Fond Voda           Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources            20.0      2.3
1263    1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &        Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise-          Sewerage             45.0      1.1
1360    1977   Management Organization        Multipurpose
"Metohija"                    Water                54.0    37.0
1370    1977   Investiciona Banka             Agriculture
Titograd                      Industries            26.0     3.1
1371    1977   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Agriculture
Industries           24.0      4.1
1469    1977   JUGEL and six Electric
Power Organizations in       Second Power
each Republic                 Transmission         80.0    20.2
1477    1977   Vojvodjanska Banka             Second Agricul-
tural Credit         75.0    21.4
1534    1978   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                     Railways             100.0      9.6
1535    1978   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia and
Serbia                       Roads                 80.0      0.9
1561    1978   Elektroprivreda
Bosnia Herzegovina           Hydro Power           73.0    14.5
1611    1978   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Third Industrial
Credit               40.0      8.8
1612    1978   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0      2.2



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year              Borrower(s)           Purpose             Bank Undisbursed
1613    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Fourth Industrial
Credit               20.0        5.0
1614    1978   Investiciona Banka             Fourth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit                20.0        1.9
1616    1978   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Macedonia Strezevo
Irrigation           82.0       10.8
1621    1978   Privredna Banka                Bosanska Krajina
Sarajevo                      Agriculture and
Agro-Industries      55.0       38.5
1678    1979   Road Organizations of
Kosovo, Montenegro, -
Vojvodina and Herze-
govina and Macedonia         Roads                 148.0      49.9
1756    1979   Zagrebacka Banka               Croatia Sava
Drainage             51.0       40.8
1759    1979   Road Organization of           Earthquake Rehab-
Montenegro                    ilitation-
Highways             21.0        4.8
1768    1979   Port of Bar                    Earthquake Rehab-
ilitation-Port
of Bar               50.0       38.4
1769    1979   Railway Organization           Earthquake Rehab-
of Montenegro                 ilitation-
Railways             14.0        8.5
1801    1980   Vojvodjanska Banka             Third Agricultural
Credit               86.0       66.1
1819    1980   Road Organizations of
Slovenia, Croatia,
Serbia and Vojvodina       Roads                 125.0       88.9
1909    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Fifth Industrial
Credit              50.0       49.2
1910    1980   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Fifth Industrial
Credit              30.0       14.6
1911    1980   Investiciona Banka             Fifth Industrial
Titograd                      Credit              20.0       19.8
1912    1980   Stopanska Banka                Fifth Industrial
Skopje                        Credit              10.0        5.9



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose            Bank  Undisbursed
1951    1980   Investbanka                    Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    87.0        82.6
1977    1980   Pristina Railway
Transport Organization    Railways                34.0       30.9
1993    1980   Kosovska Banka Pristina        Agriculture &
Agro-Industries    90.0        89.0
2039    1981   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Agriculture           80.0       69.8
2055    1981   Radna Org. Regional
Vodovod                       Kosovo Water Supply  41.0        33.2
2132 1/ 1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Sixth Industrial         33.0       33.0
Credit
2133 1/ 1982   Stopanska Banka Skopje         Sixth Industrial      33.0       33.0
Credit
2136 1/ 1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Agriculture              35.0       35.0
2161 2/ 1982   Privredna Banka Sarajevo    Semberija Drainage   34.6           34.6
Total (less cancellation)                                3,184.8 3/ 1,019.0
of whicb has been repaid                                  523.5
Total now outstanding                                    2,661.3
Amount sold                              9.2
of which: Amount repaid                9.2
Total now held by Bank                                   2,661.3
Total undisbursed                                                  1,019.0
1/  Declared effective on November 23, 1982.
2/ Signed but not yet effective.
3/ In addition a US$30.0 million loan for a Tuzla Water Supply and
Environmental Project was signed on February 10, 1983 (Loan 2233-YU) but
not yet effective.



- 36 -
Page 4 of 12
B.  STATEENT ° OF ,IFC -NPygS,TMEN,TS     L2pfb,eppeby,r: ,,,, !9$82)
Fiscal                                        Type of           & n,t, n, M$, inl3i.pn
.Year           .c,lgpr                       ,ies.s           L,oan   gapi,iy   Total
1970   International Investment             Investment
Corporation for Yugoslavia          Corporation        -      2.0      2.0
1970/  Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.p.A.  Automotive
1972/                                        Industry         12.4      0.6    13.0
1980
1971/  Tovarna Automobilov in Motoriev    Automotive
1980     Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt   Industry            9.2      0.9    10.1
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972/  FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler-          Automotive
1980     Benz A.G.                           Industry         16.3      0.8    17.1
1972/  Sava Semperit                        Tires             12.5      2.5    15.0
1978/
1980
1973   Belisce-Bel Tvornica Papira          Pulp and Paper   70.9       -      70.9
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO             Special Steel    10.0       -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                       Cement Plant      10.0      -      10.0
1975   RMK Zenica                           Steel             50.0      -      50.0
1977   Frikom RO Industrija Smrznute        Food and Food
Hrarte/Unilever                     Processing        4.0     2.4      6.4
1977   Tvornica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin  Pulp and Paper
Products         15.6     2.6    18.2
1978   Soko-Mostar                          Hermetic
Compressors       7.0     -        7.0
1980   Investiciona Banka Titograd-
Udruzena Banka                    Tourism            21.0     -       21.0
1980   Radoje Dakic                         Machinery         18.7      -      18.7
1980   Eight Republican/Provincial          Small-Scale
Banks                               Enterprises      30.3     -       30.3
1982   Igalo                                Physical
Medicine
Center           15.8    -        15.8
1982.  Industrija za automobilski           Motor Vehicles
Delovi I Traktori (Ruen Auto)        & Accessories    I
Total Gross Commitments                               314.7    11.8   326.5
less cancellations, terminations,
exchange adjustment, repayment
and sales                                                         2   172.6
Total commitments held by IFC                         147.3     6.6   153.9
Total Undisbursed held by IFC                         -66.6     0.8    67.4



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/ (As of September 30, 1982)
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline:  US$59.4 Million Loan of June 25, 1973;
Effective Date:  March 22, 1974; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
For a variety of reasons substantial delays occurred during the
implementation of this project (cost overruns, administrative hurdles, poor
management, etc.). In December 1979, the Government requested and the Bank
eventually agreed to entrust implementation of the pipeline in Serbia to a
different borrower. The loan was divided into two tranches, Naftagas Gas
Unit (NGU) being in charge of the pipeline in Vojvodina, and Butangas of the
pipeline in Serbia. The amendment of the loan was approved by the Bank in
November 1980, and became effective in May 1981. The pipelines in Serbia are
now under construction.  Practically all the bid evaluation reports for
Butangas have been approved by the Bank and contracts have been awarded. The
main component of the project left to be implemented by NGU and Butangas are
the respective telemetry and controL installations.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Su2pply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 Million Loan of June~ 14,, 1976; Effective
Date:  November 3, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
The flood control and water quality studies are completed.
Construction of the Vrutci Dam is about 2 years behind appraisal schedule due
to foundation, design and construction problems which, however, have been
overcome. Construction is completed on the principal parts of the Cacak and
Titovo Uzice components, the remainder are nearly completed. Feasibility
studies on sewage treatment plants in Cacak and Titovo Uzice have been
completed. The pilot irrigation components are in place. Monitoring and
evaluation of the base line data for 1980 and 1981, prior to project
operation, has been reviewed by the Bank. Post implementation evaluation
would continue through local resources during 1983-85. Staffing has been
strengthened in the water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice and in the
Republic Water Community of Interest. About 89% of the loan has already been
disbursed. Outstanding project works are expected to be completed by the
current closing date of the loan.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Loan 1263  Sarajjevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 Million Loan of
June 8, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982.
Construction of the water distribution system and sewage collec-
tion has been satisfactorily completed and construction of the sewerage
treatment plant is underway and is also expected to be completed by
December, 1982.
Loan 1360 Metohija Multipurpose Water: US$54.0 Million Loan of February 3,
1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Radovic Dam, intake weir and feeder canal to the reservoir are
completed. Overall project progresS is about two years behind schedule.
Procurement contracts for pipes larger than lm, automatic control system and
maintainance equipment are underway and it is expected that by end 1982 all
ICB contracts would have been awarded. While demonstration farm of 32 ha
involving 28 farmers has been highly successful, on-farm development is
slower than expected due to time consuming land consolidation procedures. A
program for completion of remaining project works has been submitted to the
Bank for consideration of extension of the closing date.
Loan 1370 Montenegro Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$26.0 Million Loan of
March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July 27, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The project is expected to be completed on schedule by December
31, 1982. The winery operations are completed and operational. Farm center
construction is complete and farm roads are nearing completion. The
completed irrigation system is supplying 2,014 ha under vineyards and
orchards. The loan is 88% disbursed. Due to high rates of local inflation
costs have exceeded appraisal estimates by about 60%.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Toan 1371 Macedonia Agrriculture and Second Agro-Industries: US$24.0 Million
Loan of March 10, 1977; Effective Date: July, 2_7,_ 1977; Closing Date
June 30, 1983.
Due to delays in implementation of social sector sub-projects the
loan Closing Date has been postponed by 12 months to June 1983. Recently,
progress in project implementation has shown improvement as all contracts
for construction of agro-industry facilities have now come into force and
four of the seven sub-projects are completed with two others to be completed
by end December 1982 and the final project to be completed by June 1983.
All individual sector funds have been completed and disbursed. The loan is
83% disbursed.
Loan 1469 Second Power Transmission: US$80.0 Million Loan of July 11, 1977
Effective Date: January_31, 1978,; Clos,ing Date.: December 31., 1982..
The loan is practically fully committed; however, the project is
expected to be completed with a delay of about two years and an extension of
the closing date by six months to allow full loan disbursement is under
consideration. Various studies included under the project have either been
completed or are in progress.
Loan 1477 Second Agricultural Credit: US$75.0 Million Loan of July2;9_,,1977;
Effective Date: January 30  17;CoigDt:ecember 31, 192
The loan is fully committed and all agro-industry investments are
in the implementation phase. Implementation of the project is about one and
a half years behind appraisal estimates. About 72% of the loan has been
disbursed. As a result of the Government's recent stabilization measures
however, exceptional delays in contracts coming into force have resulted and
consequently the closing date will be extended a second time, to
August 31, 1983 so as to be able to disburse against purchases of equipment
for the agro-industry component only.
Loan 1534 Fifth Railway: US$OO Million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: September 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Bank financed investments have progressed well and disbursements
total US$ 90.4 million. The level of compensation payments has however
increased and substantial tariff increases have failed to keep pace with
inflation. Processing of the proposed loan for a Sixth Yugoslav Railway
Project has been made dependent on an agreed program of actions to resolve
this problem.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
Loan 1535 Ninth Highway: US$80 Million Loan of April 13, 1978; Effective
Date: August 10, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
All sections are now open to traffic. The loan account has been
kept open to facilitate procurement of equipment by December 1982. The
amount involved is only $0.9 million.
Loan 1561 Middle Neretva Hydro Power: US$73 Million Loan of May 31, 1978;
Effective Date:  November 15, 1978; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983.
Part A of the project (construction of the Grabovica and Salakovac
Dams and power plants) has been completed and both Grabovica and Salakovac
have been in operation since December 1981. Full commissioning of all
generating units in these two power plants is scheduled for early 1983.
Part B, which is not financed by the Bank (Mostar Dam), however, has been
delayed due to additional studies needed on account of problems of site
geology. Construction of this dam and power plant is now planned to start
in late 1982, and completion is expected by end 1985.
Loan 1611 Third Industrial Credit: $40.0 Million Loan of July 26, 1978;
Effective Date:  November 16, 1978; Closing Date:  December 31,
1982.
The loan is fully committed. Disbursements are behind appraisal
estimates mainly because of changes in the originally approved equipment
lists and often incomplete withdrawal applications. The Industrial Credit
Department of the borrower Kosovska Banka Pristina (KBP) continues to be
weak, especially in terms of proper project appraisal and supervision. This
matter is being focussed upon through frequent supervision. Also,
institutional improvements will be a major component of a possible new loan
to KBP.
Loans 1612, 1613 and 1614 Fourth Industrial Credit: $20.0 Million each
Loans of July 26, 1978; Effective Date:  November 16, 1978;
Closing Dates: December 31, 1983.
The loans are fully committed. Disbursements for Loans 1612 and
1614 are well ahead of the disbursements expected at appraisal, while Loan
1613 is somewhat behind appraisal estimates. While the closing dates for
Loans 1612 and 1613 have been extended from December 31, 1982 to December
31, 1983, an extension of the closing date for Loan 1614 is still under
consideration.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Loan 1616 Macedonia Strezev  Iriain    S8   ilo oan of Augus   2
1978; Effective Date:  February 14, 1979; ClosinR Date:.
SeGtember 30, 1982.
Project construction has been substantially completed. The loan
account has been kept open for a few months to enable disbursements against
contracts for which commitments have been made prior to
September 30, 1982.
Loan 1621 Bosanska-Krajina Agriculture and Agro-Industries: US$55 Million
Loan of November 6, 1978; Effective Date: March 28, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30,,1983.
Project implementation has been delayed by about two years and an
extension of the closing date will be necessary. Cost overruns have neces-
sitated a reduction in scope of the_project. Recently, the implementing
agencies have taken actions which will improve performance. The financing
problem and inadequate progress in the individual sector are being resolved
and specific action programs are being worked out with the borrower and the
implementing agency.
Loan 1678 Tenth Highway:  US$148 Million Loan of April 9, 1979; Effective
Date: August 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,, 1983..
Due to shortage of local funds, three of the borrowers (Macedonia,
Kosovo and Bosnia-Herzegovina) have changed their programs with Bank
agreement. Project implementation is progressing satisfactorily except in
the case of a section in Bosnia-Herzegovina due to technical difficulties.
The funding situation has now eased due to additional taxes on gasoline.
However, due to earlier implementation delays, project completion will be
about 18 months behind schedule. Extension of the closing date is
anticipated.
Loan 1756 Croatia Sava Drainage:  US$51 Million Loan of October 11, 1979;
Effective Date:  April 17, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
Decisions to award contracts for supply of equipment and construc-
tion of civil works have been finalized. Studies on sub-surface drainage in
experimental plots are under implementation. Progress on civil works,
although somewhat behind schedule, is satisfactory. Land consolidation is
progressing on schedule. Farm development works are progressing.
Disbursements are behind appraisal estimates but are expected to improve
with progress in supply of equipment against the contracts awarded.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
Loan 1759 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Highways:  US$21 Million
Loan of September 21, 19792  Effective Date:  December 19, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
All contracts have been approved and project works are expected to
be completed by the original closing date.
Loan 1768 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Port of Bar: US$50 Million
Loan of November 30,,1979; ,Effective Date: April 29, 1980_;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Project implementation has shown significant improvement through
additional contracted assistance. All contracts for civil works and goods
except for cargo handling equipment are now awarded. Because of a decline
in current and anticipated traffic, the borrower will no longer procure bulk
cargo handling equipment, and the respective loan allocation is likely to be
cancelled. In order to take account of a longer than anticipated delivery
period for tugboats and cranes finanfced under the loan, the closing date is
likely to be'extended to June 30, 1984.
Loan 1769 Montenegro Earthquake Rehabilitation - Railways: US314 Million Loan
of November 30, 1979; Effective Date:1  pril 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Disbursements of about $5.5 million for urgent reconstruction
works have been made. Contracting procedures for remaining works have been
slower than expected largely as a result of complicated engineering design
for repairs to a badly damaged tunnel.
Loan 1801 Third Agricultural Credit: US$86 Million Loan of February 29, 1980
Effective Date:, August 25, 1980;, Closing, Date: March 31,, 1985.
About 77% of the loan has been committed. With few exceptions,
most agroindustries sub-projects have been identified in the various
republics and are in the procurement phase. Some agroindustries in
Macedonia, Serbia and Kosovo are being implemented. The agroindustries
study has been completed. The loan is about 28% disbursed which is in line
with appraisal estimates.
Loan 1819 Eleventh Highway: US$125 Million Loan,of,April 23, 1980; Effective
Date; August 7, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,.1983.
All contracts relating to the participating Republics/Provinces
have been approved by the Bank. The Toll Study Draft Final Report has been
reviewed. Cofinancing was obtained for an amount of US$ 110 million in
October 1980. Due to implementation delays, project completion will be
about 18 months behind schedule. Extension of the closing date will be
necessary.



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
Loans 1909, 1910, 1911 and 1912 Fifth Industrial Credit:  $50.0, $30.0  $20.0
and $10.0 Million,. respectively,L.oans of February 9,_ 1981,;
Effective Date; August 17, 1981; Closing Dates: October 31, 1984_
Loans 1910 and 1912 are being committed rapidly while commitments
under Loans 1909 and 1911 are behind schedule.  Frequent supervision of the
latter two loans is likely to result in more rapid loan commitment.
Loan 1951 Morava Regional Development II: $87 Million Loan of April 13,
1981; Effective Date: -August 28, 198.1; .Clo2sing Date: December
31 1986
72% of the loan proceeds are committed. Withdrawals have
commenced but are behind appraisal estimates. The delay is due to
procedural problems in withdrawing Bank funds. However, progress in
physical implementation is good. Irt the individual sector, about 800
livestock farms, 1,150 ha orchards and 140 ha vineyards are expected to be
completed by end 1982, while 11 of 14 agro-industrial facilities are under
construction. Five of the agro-industries are likely to be operational in
December 1982. Progress under irrigation and support services components is
unsatisfactory.  Final designs for irrigation works have now been completed
and construction is due to start soon. A detailed investment plan for
support services has been approved by the Bank and implementation will begin
soon.
Loan 1977 Kosovo Railway: $34.0 Million Loan of May 15,, 1981; Effective
Date:  November 16, 1981;  Closing Date:  December 31, 1984.
After slight delay due to expropriation issues, the project is
proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement of signalling and telecommunications
equipment and freight wagons has been completed. Bid invitations for four
diesel multiple units are to be issued in December 1982.
Loan 1993 Kosovo Agricultural Development: $90 Million Loan of June15,
1981; Effective Date: December 23, 1981; Closing Date: June 30,
1987.
*                   Contracts, as a result of ICB, have been signed for 7 of the 12
agro-industries sub-projects with an eighth on the verge of signature. The
four remaining agro-industries sub-projects are being replaced, taking into
consideration changes in market potential of inputs and outputs. Out of
2,000 ha of plantation sub-projects, the Borrower has approved sub-loans to
seven social sector investors covering about 1,500 ha for vineyards and
orchards. For the individual sector, the Borrower has approved sub-loans
for 300 ha of vineyards. Ground water studies have commenced. However,
hiring of additional supervisory staff by the Borrower and processing of
sub-loans are behind schedule.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
Loan 2039 Macedonia III Agricultural Development:  $80 Million Loan of
July 23, 1981; Effective Date:  January 6, 1982; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987.
Project implementation is ahead of schedule. Disbursements are
about one year ahead of schedule, and by end April 1982, the social sector
vineyard (1,400 ha) and orchard (2,500 ha) components and the cold store
component (15,000 tons) were fully committed. Feasibility studies for all 7
small scale irrigation subprojects have been completed and construction has
begun on 3 of the sub-projects.
Loan 2055 Kosovo Water Supply: $41 Million Loan of December 14, 1981;
Effective Date:  April 14, 1982; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985.
Loan declared effective on April 14, 1982. Construction is in
progress, considerably ahead of schedule.
Loan 2132 and 2133 Sixth Industrial Credit Project: $33 Million Loan
Each Loans of of August 31, 1982; Effective Date:
November 23, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1987.
Loans declared effective on November 23, 1982. Commitments of
sub-loans progressing satisfactorily.
Loan 2136 Bosnia Agricultural Development Project: $35 Million Loan
of May 4, 1982; Effective Date:   November 23, 1982; Closing
Date: March 31, 1987
This loan became effective on November 23, 1982.
Loan 2161 Semberija Drainage:  $34.6 Million Loan of May 27, 1982;
Effective Date:  January 14, 1983; Closing Date:  September 30,
1987.
The loan is not yet effective.



- 45 -
AppIX, II
Page 1 of 2
S§ip2pp,ey!Xtpry,* r,pject.p ,    aSheet
S,ebction I.., imsetajX1e,s.o,f Key,. Ayppns
(a)   Project First presented to Bank:          March 1981.
(b)  Time taken to prepare project:             20 months (August
1980 - March 1982).
(c)  Agency which prepared the project:         Two IRAS and three
Institutes.
(d)   First Bank mission to review project:  Jur~e 1981.
(e)   Departure of Appraisal mission:           June 16, 1982.
(f)   Completion of negotiations:               February 9, 1983.
(g)   Planned Date of Effectiveness:            September 1983.
Section,Il:  Speci,aj, Ba&,  Jmp.lppena,ttipn. A,c,ions
Retroactive financing of expenditures of up to US$0.8 million
for preparation of final design and bidding documents for the drainage
sub-project and up to US$2 million for the individual sector sub-loans is
recommended (para. 63).
Sectio,n.,L: ,Sp,ecRia5pdIi,t,ions
A.    fectieyness Conditions
(i)     Signing of the Agreement between UBB and Agrobanka for making the
loan available to Agrobanka (para. 52);
(ii)     Signing of the Self-Management Agreements (SMA) among all
participants (para. 46);
(iii)     Singing of the Agreements on Financial Participation among
Agrobanka and the investors (para 46);
(iv)     Signing of the Project Implementation Agreement (PIA) between
Agrobanka and SFUR (para. 44); and
(v)     Signing of the on-lending Drainage Agreements between Agrobanka
and three drainage investors and the related Self-Management
Agreements (para. 46).



- 46 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Condition of Disbursmenet
Signing of the on-lending Drainage Agreement for the Seventh
Drainage Project between Agrobanka and the investor and the related
self-management Agreement (para 46).
Other Conditions
(i)     employment by Agrobanka of a senior development banking expert
and an agricultural credit consultant (para 49);
(ii)     preparation of a plan of action for improvement of Agrobanka's
organization and management (para. 49);
(iii)     employment by Agrobanka of agricultural or industrial economic
institutes for project monitoring and evaluation (para 50);
(iv)     submission of investment proposals to the Bank for the pig
improvement program (para. 49);
(v)     Agrobanka and the Bank to conduct a mid-term review to evaluate
progress and to consider changes in the project as may be
required (para. 50);
(vi)     Agrobanka to submit by January 31 of each year commencing 1984,
an updated cost and financing plan for investments to be financed
in the following year (para. 52); and
(vii)     IRCs to cause to collect appropriate levy to cover debt service
and appropriate operation and maintenance charges related to the
farmers' ability to pay and increase charges gradually to the
full development level, and any deficits during the construction
period would be covered by the investors (para. 57).



IBRD 16607
Os L                                                  _ _ A$                                                                                                                ,      HUNGARY
YUG OSL AV A                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIA
SERBIA  REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                              A  % nA F IA5'OJA45
DANUBE REGION                                                                                                                PROM \ A N I A                                                           erde
3    Coldstore                                                           VOJVODINANGP   i. 
O      Ani-a' Feed / Wi I                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SvN
Center for Seed  Processing V
F      Sh-eep Erecidng                                                                                                                                   K/4                                                5K2 '4RT E0
E 1  Cott e Ftten-ng                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  40I
Pi Pglet Prod-Ectiue                                                                                                                   r -
E  P Fg Fattenng                                                                                     %733®~    M MI@®/>Oouq
i Brole  F.Ptenign                                                                  Se                                                                   II
~I  Egg, Producro
®   Beekeeping
Fr-t 0rcriards 
Erte,roun Serece,
0! D~,oeAreas
V neyards                        PODRUCJE   
IL     Odl Pacrory                       BEOGRADA                                                                              1AoNeu
(A     Poultry Form
Vine Roorstock Nursery                                                                                    zo
OKO50Pr erory Roads                                              L C:.Cr
Se-ond-ry  Roods                                                                                                                                  no
Tertiary Roods                                                                                                                                                                                                          To M'1doopek
~~~ Ruers                                        0   SO                                                                                                            orx~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MOK     ZAJECARSK1
-  --    Commune Boindaries                                     -g.ls                                                             '                                                              --* '                                REGION
- Reg-o  Boundaries                                                                                                        K 7~
-    Repuo,ic 0nd Autonomous Pnouince Boundonies
Internur -nol Boundaries
ELEVAT IONS
500-1000 meters
0 -200                                                                                              N
o 10                              20               30 Kdometers                                SUMADIJSKO- POMORAVSKI REGION                                                               *i ,
bor,oOK mmm h r,Kw n prmadh hurnii,O   rrrnr e lhsfr,r0iii KOiiOue,irKOiswc 
.1f R]F{EdlW JDS Ze lMonro wscLst u araChe ecdenmm 9,0SSsedSI.h. 






IBRD 16608R
DECEMBER 1982
YUGOSLAVIA
SERBIA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
KOLUBARA REGION
/ Pa\ tl   /ocr7/O2T: go           ELEVATIONS                             Pr--ary Roads                       A    Juice Produt-on
0   £  IV  / A    -                                                        if  Orarrre                           1000-2000 meters            -          Secondary Roads                     0   Finishing and Packing of Prunes
500 -1000                             Tertiory Roads                      Do   Gri  Elevator with Dryer
HYERZEGO0V/NA                                                                                                        200  BagRa,pLy                                                              U  Coldtore
0 - 200             R,~~~~~~~~~e,s      ~U Servie Workriohp
Subtegianal Boundaries              *   Fuel Oil Stotage
Region, Boundaries                     W~ Ilk Collectio  (ester
VOJ  V OD  / NA                               Republic and Autonomous              0    Pluo   Dryer
Province Boundaries                    Mechonired Sugar Beet Production
: t                                                                           v Xz"M5j;/   > -+- International Boundaries  [h   PoFatae Pracessing
iLT X'                                                                                                                   A,,mal Peed MI
* Center for Seed Prioessig
Broier Hatchery
oPoultry Slaughterhouse
44I                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~To Be/grade                            EU  Fruit Nursery
+ Center for Medcinal Hetbs
TERITORIJA                            Redryin,g' Tobacco Dryer
BEOGRADA                       ® Prun  Cake
EUSheep Breeding9
KI Cattle Fatten-g
Piglet Producton
TPigP Fatten,ing
Bm Erv o  Fattoning
or ;ouaptencr    K      9 /t                            U ;                                                          Eggs Production
liqq~~~~,\ ~A                                                Frut Drawig
Ii  <-~~~~~  -v                  A                                 La1kouoc ~~~~~~Dranage Areas
6%   To0 r,/ovO                                                                                                                  Vegetable Processin,g
L0                                                                                                                                                                                                   r ID 20 30
\~  ~~--    ~   er  ASSTBIA  yA                             RDMANIA
e'   ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1801CM/I11A-
TIhe mop ae keen prepard or rye                                                                                                                          -eYUG~~    '    
lh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~) '   m-                                                                                                                                                                               S.-'- 
Ooundanne1tilw on~ha, tt-ih ma
rraevenen-eo t/     d rhaer o
l-ednmioin uney anp mey
World Bank and-ir atfraa, a-
anY lrntoqY or any -nd--toine                                                                                                                           KRAUJEVACKI  REGION
en-pvat--c e,fuc onv- ve 3b-d.-BE
Ta Jrlni'O ShIne  To TIrono 021cc~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(    EC



