OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS LOAN NUMBER 2307 YU
Loan Agreement
(Serbia Regional Development Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
UDRUZENA BEOGRADSKA BANKA
Dated          4                   , 1983


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2307 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      /                , 1983, between INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank) and UDRUZENA BEOGRADSKA BANKA' (hereinafter
called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(B) by an agreement, known as the Self-management Agreement
on Mutual Rights, Obligations and Responsibilities for the Imple-
mentation of the Project in the Kolubara Region (hereinafter
called the Kolubara SMA), to be entered into among, inter alia,
the Borrower, Specijalizovana Poljoprivredna Banka "Agrobanka" -
Beograd  (hereinafter   called  Agrobanka), Republicki    Fond  za
Podsticaj BrIeg Razvoja Privredno Nedovoljno Razvijenih Pod-
rucja - SR Srbije (hereinafter called SFUR), PodrLnsko - Kolu-
barska Medjuopstinska Regionalna Zajednica (Podrinje-Kolubara
Intercommunal Regional Community) (hereinafter called Kolubara
Community), local banks operating in the Kolubara Region of the
Project Area (as hereinafter defined), organizations of associ-
ated labor concerned with the Project and self-management commu-
nities of interest for management of water resources and land
reclamation, such entities will undertake certa!n obligations
with respect to the carrying out of the Project;
(C) by an agreement, known as the' Self-management Agreement
on Mutual Rights, Obligations and Responsibilities for the Imple-
mentation of the Project in the Danube Region (hereinafter called
the Danube SMA), to be entered into among, inter alia, the
Borrower, Agrobanka, SFUR, Podunavska Medjuopstinska Regionalna
Zajednica (Danube Intercommunal Regional Community) (hereinafter
called Danube Community), local banks operating in the Danube
Region of the Project Area (as hereinafter defined), organi-
zations of associated labor concerned with the Project and
self-management communities of interest for management of water
resources and land reclamation, such entities will undertake
certain obligations with respect to the carrying out of the
Project;
(D) by an agreement, known as the Agreement on Financial
Participation for the Implementation of the Project in the
Kolubara Region (hereinafter called the Kolubara Participation


﻿-2-
Agreement) and by an agreement, known as the Agreement on
Financial Participation for the Implementation of the Project
in the Danube Region (hereinafter called the Danube Participation
Agreement), to be entered into among Agrobanka, organizations of
associated labor concerned with the Project and self-management
communities of interest for management of water resources and
land reclamation, such entities will undertake certain financial
obligations with respect to the carrying out of the Project;
(E) by an agreement, known as the Agreement on Conducting
Business and Providing Funds for the Realization of the Project
(hereinafter called the Consortium Agreement), entered into on
March 17, 1983, among the Borrower, Agrobanka and local banks
operating in the Project Area (as hereinafter defined), such
entities have undertaken certain obligations with rF _pect to the
financing of the Project;
(F) by an agreement (hereinafter called the SFUR Agreement)
to be entered into between SFUR and Agrobanka, SFUR and Agrobanka
will define their respective responsibilities with respect to th-
carrying out of the Project;
(G) the Borrower intends to contract from lender(s) outside
Yugoslavia an amount equivalent to about fifty million dollars
($50,000,000) to assist in the financing of the Project;
(H) the Project will be carried out by Agrobanka, in co-
operation with the Kolubara Community and the Danube Community,
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to Agrobanka the proceeds of the
Loan as hereinafter provided;
(I) the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (herein-
after called the Guarantor), in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to
guarantee the Loan as to payment of principal, interest and other
charges; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan available to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith among the Bank, Agrobanka, the
Kolubara Community and the Danube Community;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions), namely, that the following sub-paragraph (d) is
added to Section 3.04 of the General Conditions:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree
upon arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the application
of such prepayment in addition to, or in substitution for, those
set forth in paragraph (b) of Section 3.04."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreeaent, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement among the Bank,
Agrobanka, the Kolubara Community and the Danube Community of
even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and
all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "UBB-Agrobanka Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Agrobanka pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
UBB-Agrobanka Agreement;
(c) "Drainage Agreement" means any of the agreements to be
entered into between Agrobanka and each of the entities respon-
sible for carrying out Part E of the Project pursuant to Section
2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to such
Agreement;


﻿(d) "Self-management Agreement of the Borrower" means the
Self-management Agreement on Association into Udruzena Beogradska
Banka, dated March 29, 1978, as may be amended from time to time;
(e) "Statutes of the Borrower" means the Statutes of
Udru'ena Beogradska Banka, dated March 29, 1978, as may be
amended from time to time;
(f) "Self-management Agreement of Agrobanka" means the
Self-management Agreement on Association into the Specialized
Agricultural Bank "Agrobanka" - Belgrade, dated June 22, 1981, as
may be amended from time to time;
(g) "Statutes of Agrobanka" means the Statutes of the Spe-
cialized Agricultural Bank "Agrobanka" - Belgrade, dated July 29,
1981, as may be amended from time to time;
(h) "Social Compact of the Kolubara Community" means the
Social Compact of Community of Communes into the Podrinje-
Kolubara Intercommunal Regional Community, dated 1975, as may be
amended from time to time;
(i) "Statutes of the Kolubara Community" means the Statutes
of the Podrinje-Kolubara Intercommunal Regional Community, dated
June 6, 1977, as may be ameoded from time to time;
(j) "Social Compact of the Danube Community" means the
Social Compact of Community of Communes into the Danube Inter-
communal Regional Community, dated 1975, as may be amended from
time to time;
(k) "Statutes of the Danube Community" means the Statutes
of the Danube Intercommunal Regional Community, dated April 28,
1977, as may be amended from time to time;
(1) "SFUR Legislation" means collectively the laws and
decrees of the Socialist Republic of Serbia, dated March 31,
1977, governing the activities of SFUR, as may be amended from
time to time;
(m) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
Agrobanka: (i) out of its own funds, out of the funds to be
provided under the Consortium Agreement and out of the funds to
be provided under the SFUR Agreement; and (ii) out of the


﻿- 5 -
proceeds of the Loan in accordance with Section 2.02 (a)(i) of
this Agreement;
(n) "Sub-borrower" means a beneficiary of a Sub-loan who
may be either: (i) an Individual Sub-borrower who is an indivi-
dual farmer borrowing through a social sector organization or an
individual farmer directly borrowing; or (ii) a Social Sector
Sub-borrower which may be any form of social sector organization;
(o) "Investment Project" means a specific investment pro-
ject to be carried out by a Sub-borrower utilizing the proceeds
of a Sub-loan;
(p) "Statement of Operations and Policies" means the state-
ment of lending and investment operations and policies for Parts
A, B, C (b) and D of the Project set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Project Agreement, as such statement may be amended from time to
time with the prior approval of the Bank;
(q) "Dinar" means the currency of the Guarantor;
(r) "Social Accounting Service" means the Slulba Druitvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in paragraph (5) of Article 281 of the
Guarantor's Constitution; and
(s) "Project Area" means the area described in the Preamble
of Schedule 2 hereto.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one
hundred thirty-six million dollars ($136,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn by
Agrobanka, pursuant to Section 2.11 of this Agreement, from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time
by agreement between the Bank and the Borrower:
(i) for amounts disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, for disbursements required to be made) by


﻿- 6 -
Agrobanka under Sub-loans in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for Parts
A, B, C (b) and D of the Project and to be financed
under the Loan Agreement pursuant to the provisions
of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and
(ii) *for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for Parts C
(c), E and F of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of
interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On each of the semiannual interest payment dates speci-
fied in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself
the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and other
charges on the Loan accrued and payable on the date set forth,
and up to the amount allocated, in Schedule 1 to this Agreement,
as such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Bank and the Borrower.
Section 2.03. Except as"the Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods and civil works required for the Project
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1988 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower 'and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to- the Bank a fee
equivalent to one million twelve thousand four hundred seven
dollars ($1,012,407).
(b) On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account
and pay to itself the amount of the said fee in such currency or
currencies as the Bank shall determine.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan noit withdrawn
from time to time.


﻿- 7 -
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a rate per annum for each Interest Period equal to one
half percent per annum above the Cost of Qualified BorroTwings for
the last Semester ending prior to the commencement of such
Interest Period.
(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c) For the Intere. t Period commencing      Ono      , 1983,
the interest rate shall oelo"91% per annum.
(d) For purposes of this Section:
(i)  "Interest  Period" means    the  six-month   period
commencing on each date specified in Section 2.08
of this Agreement, including the Interest Period
in which this Agreement is signed.
(ii) "Cost" of Qualified Borrowings means the cost,
expressed as a percentage per annum, as reasonably
determined by the Bank, provided that the amount
of $8,520.5 million referred to in (iii) (B)
hereunder shall be reckoned at a cost of 10.93%
per annum.
(iii)  "Qualified  Borrowings"   means:  (A)   outstanding
borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30,
1982; and (B) until July 1, 1985, the amount of
$8,520.5 million (representing borrowings of the
Bank between July 1, 1981 and June 30, 1982) less
any part thereof repaid earlier than July 1, 1985.
(iv) "Semester" means the first six months or the
second six months of a calendar year.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) (i)
hereof in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Column 1 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement as such Schedule 3 shall


﻿- 8 -
be amended from time to time by the Bank to the extent required
to: (i) conform in relevant part substantially to the. aggregate
of the amortization schedules applicable to Sub-loans which have
been approved or authorized for withdrawals from the Loan Account
under Section 2.02 (a) (i) of this Agreement; and (ii) take into
account any cancellation pursuant to Article VI of the General
Conditions and any repayments made by the Borrower under Section
2.10 of this Agreement; provided that any such amendments to the
amortization schedule permitted hereunder shall not authorize
repayments of the principal amount of the Loan beyond the latest
repayment date set forth in Column 1 of such Schedule 3. Repay-
ments due hereunder shall be made on June 1 and December 1 in
each year. Such amendments of Column I of said Schedule 3 shall
include amendments to the table of premiums on prepayments, if
necessary.
(b) The amortization schedule applicable to each Sub-loan
shall provide for an appropriate period of grace and, unless the
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree: (i) shall not extend
beyond fifteen years from the date hereof; and (ii) shall provide
for approximately equal semiannual, or more frequent, aggregate
payments of principal and interest or approximately equal semi-
annual, or more frequent, payments of pringipal.
(c) The Borrower shall transmit to the Bank, for its prior
approval, any substantial changes proposed to be made by Agro-
banka in respect of the repayment provisions of any Sub-loan.
(d) The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan withdrawn pursuant to Sections 2.02 (a) (ii) and 2.05 hereof
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Column 2 of Schedule 3 .to this Agreement.
Section 2.10. Unless the Bank and the Borrower shall other-
wise agree:
(a) If a Sub-loan or any part thereof shall be repaid to
A-robanka in advance of maturity or if a Sub-loan or any part
th-ieof shall be sold, transferred, assigned or otherwise dis-
posed of for value by Agrobanka, the Borrower. shall promptly
notify the Bank and shall repay to the Bank on the next following
interest payment date, together with the premiums specified in
Schedule 3 to this Agreement or in any amendment thereof under
Section 2.09 (a) of this Agreement, the amount withdrawn from the
Loan Account in respect of such Sub-loan or part thereof and not
theretofore repaid to the Bank.


﻿- 9 -
(b) Any amount so repaid by the Borrower shall be applied
by the Bank to the maturity or maturities of the Loan in amounts
corresponding to the outstanding amounts of the maturity or
maturities of the -,-loan so repaid or disposed of.
(c) Paragraph (b) of Section 3.04 of the General Conditions
shall not apply to any repayment made under paragraph (a) of this
Section.
Section 2.11. Agrobanka is designated as representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, the Bor-
rover shall cause Agrobanka to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of Agro-
banka therein set forth, shall take or cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Agrobanka
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
periormance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Loan
available to Agrobanka under a UBB-Agrobanka agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and Agrobanka, under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the UBB-
Agrobanka Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the
Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the UBB-Agrobanka
Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative and
financial policies and practices under the supervision of quali-
fied and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers and in accordance with its Self-management
Agreement and Statutes.
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower unconditionally undertakes, when-
ever there is reasonable cause to believe that the funds avail-
able to Agrobanka and to any of the Sub-borrowers will be inade-
quate to meet the estimated expenditures respectively required
for the carrying out of any of the Investment Projects and Part E
of the Project, to make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank,
promptly to provide, or cause to be provided, to Agrobanka and
any such Sub-borrower such funds in foreign or local currencies
as needed to meet such expenditures.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with 'consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)   have its accounts and financial statements (balance
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements)
for each fiscal year . audited,' in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by the Social Account-
ing Service or another competent and experienced independent
auditing organization acceptable to the Bank;
(b)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year:
(i) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited; and '(ii) the report of such audit by said auditors
(including an analysis of the quality of the Borrower.'s port-
folio), of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and


﻿- 11 -
(c) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
said accounts and financial statements, as well as the audit
thereof, as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provisions will be made to that effect,
at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt,
the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time
of purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the
purchase price of such property or as security for the payment of
debt incurred for the purpose of financing the purchase of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of
banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than
one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take steps satisfactory to
the Bank to protect itself against the risk of losses resulting
from changes in the rates of exchange between the currencies
(including Dinars) used in its lending and borrowing operations.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in
advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual


﻿- 12 -
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become
enforceable.
(b) Agrobanka or the Kolubara Community or the Danube
Community shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that Agrobanka or the
Kolubara Community or the 'Danube Community will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d) A change shall have been made in the Self-management
Agreement or Statutes of the Borrower or of Agrobanka, or in the
SFUR Legislation, which would materially and adversely affect the
financial condition or operations of the Borrower or of Agrobanka
or of SFUR or the carrying out of the Project.
(e) The Kolubara SMA or the Danube SMA or the Kolubara
Participation Agreement or the Danube Participation Agreement or
the Consortium Agreement or the SFUR Agreement referred to in
Recitals (B), (C), (D), (E) and (F), respectively, of the
Preamble to this Agreement shall have been amended, repealed,
waived or suspended in a such way as to affect materially and
adversely the carrying out of the Project.
(f) A change shall have been made in the Social Compact or
Statutes of the Kolubara Community or of the Danube Community
which would materially and adversely affect the carrying out of
the obligations of the Kolubara Community or of the Danube
Community under the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (b) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower and the Guarantor; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (a), (d), (e) or (f)
of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following ievents are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Condi-
tions:
(a) the UBB-Agrobanka Agreement has been executed on behalf
of the Borrower and Agrobanka;
(b) the Kolubara SMA, the Danube SMA, the Kolubara Partici-
pation Agreement, the Danube Participation Agreement and the SFUR
Agreement referred to in Recitals (B), (C), (D) and (F) of the
Preamble to this Agreement have been executed in form and sub-
stance satisfactory to the Bank on behalf of all the parties
thereto; and
(c) the Drainage Agreements for Parts E.I (a), (b) and (c)
and E.II (b), (c) and (d) of the Project have been executed on
behalf of Agrobanka and each of the entities referred to in
Section 2.01 (b) of the Project Agreement and the self-management
agreements relating thereto, referred to in paragraph 1 of Sched-
ule 3 to the Project Agreement, have been executed on behalf of
the parties thereto.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by Agrobanka, the Kolubara Community and the Danube
Community, and is legally binding upon Agrobanka, the Kolubara
Community and the Danube Community in accordance with its terms;
(b) that the UBB-Agrobanka Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by the Borrower and Agrobanka and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and Agrobanka in accordance with its
term;
(c) that the Kolubara SMA, the Danube SMA, the Kolubara
Participation Agreement, the Danube Participation Agreement and
the SFUR Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by all


﻿- 14 -
the parties thereto and are legally binding upon such parties in
accordance with their respective terms; and
(d) that each of the Drainage Agreements referred to in
Section 7.01 (c) hereof has been duly authorized or ratified by
all the parties thereto and is legally binding upon such
respective parties in accordance with its terms.
Section 7.03. The date         'e 'd   '  is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Borrower:
Udru'ena Beogradska Banka
Knez Mihailova 2
11000 Belgrade
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                      Telex:
UDRUZENA BEOGRADSKA BANKA            11712 YU
Belgrade


﻿- 15 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By,
By       /     7      Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
UDRUZENA BEOGRADSKA BANKA
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                % of
(Expressed in               Expenditures
Category         Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans for          47,350,000            46% of amounts
Part A of the                                disbursed by
Project                                      Agrobanka
(2) Sub-loans for                           )     100% of foreign
Parts B, C (b)                         )     expenditures
and D of the                           )     and 50% of
Project:                               )     local expendi-
)     tures of
(a) Support           27,600,000       )    amounts dis-
facilities                        )     bursed by
)     Agrobanka
(b) Extension          1,077,593       )
services                          )
(c) Agroindustries    32,360,000       )
(3) Expenditures for
Part E of the
Project:
(a) Civil works       11,100,000             55%
(b) Equipment          2,000,000             100% of foreign
expenditures
and 100% of
local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory cost)


﻿- 17 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated              % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Ca':'egory          Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(c) Engineering        4,400,000             100%
services
(d) Training           1,000,000             100%
(4) Equipment for              50,000             100% of foreign
Part F of the                                expenditures
Project                                      and 100% of
local ex-
penditures (ex-
factory cost)
(5) Consultants'              550,000             100%
services for
Parts C (c) and
F of the Project
(6) Interest and            7,500,000             Amounts due
other charges on
the Loan accrued
on or before
November 30, 1987
(7) Fee                     1,012,407             Amount due
under Sec-
tion 2.05 of
this Agreement
TOTAL       136,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Guarantor; and


﻿- 18 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Guarantor or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on
the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned
policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals may be made,
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $2,000,000
in respect of Category (1), and in an aggregate amount not ex-
ceeding the equivalent of $800,000 in respect of Category (3)
(c), on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after February 1, 1983;
(b) in respect of payments made for expenditures for Part
E.II (a) of the Project in respect of Category (3) (a), (b) and
(d), until the Drainage Agreement for said Part E.II (a) and the
self-management agreement relating thereto, referred to in para-
graph 1 of Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement, shall have been
executed on behalf of the parties thereto and the Bank shall have
been furnished with an opinion satisfactory to it showing that
said Drainage Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by
the parties thereto and is legally binding upon such parties in
accordance with its terms; and
(c) for amounts disbursed (or for disbursements required to
be made) by Agrobanka under Sub-loans which shall be approved by
Agrobanka after June 30, 1986 or such other date as may be agreed
between the Bank and Agrobanka.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table ir, paragraph


﻿- 19 -
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to
such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disburse-
ment percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan ahd the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to assist in the
development of an area covering about 10,850 square kilometers
and comprising fourteen communes in the Kolubara Region located
in the northwestern part of Socialist Republic of Serbia and
eleven communes in the Danube Region located in the mid-northern
part of the same Republic (the Project Area).
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   On-farm Production
This Part consists of a program of Sub-loans to about 10,900
Individual Sub-borrowers to finance the following investments:
(a) the establishment of deciduous orchards (rainfed fruit
trees and berries) covering about 1,800 ha in the Project Area
and vineyards covering about 230 ha in the Danube Region;
(b) tobacco production covering about 1,000 ha in the
Kolubara Region; and
(c) livestock production including investments benefitting
about 4,500 farmers for pig fattening and piglet production, mix
dairy-beef production, cattle fattening, broiler and egg produc-
tion, sheep and poultry production and bee-keeping.
Part B:   Support Facilities
This Part consists of a program of Sub-loans to Social
Sector Sub-borrowers to finance the following investments:
I.   In the Kolubara Region
(a) Reconstruction and modernization of about 14 plum
drying facilities.
(b) Construction and equipping of about 8 workshops
for agricultural machinery.
(c) Construction and equipping of about 12 fuel
storage stations.


﻿- 21 -
(d) Construction and equipping of about 51 milk
collection centers.
(e) Expansion and modernization of the seed processing
center at Sabac'
(f) Expansion and modernization of the poultry farm
and incubator station at Vladimirci.
(g) A Sub-loan to COAL-AIK Sabac for mechanization of
about 7,800 ha for sugarbeet production, including
the construction of storage facilities and the
provision of equipment for rental to individual
farmers.
(h) Establishment of a fruit nursery (about 50 ha)
near Loznica to serve the needs of the Individual
Sub-borrowers  benefitting   from  the   Sub-loans
referred to in Part A (a) hereof.
(i) Construction and equipping of a center for collec-
ting and processing medicinal herbs and forestal
fruits at Krupanj.
(j) Construction and equipping of a tobacco dryer
plant at Ljubovija.
II.   In the Danube Region
(a) Reconstruction and equipping of the seed proces-
sing center at Pozarevac including the provision
of laboratory facilities and the construction of
silos.
(b) Expansion of the sheep farm at Zagubica, including
the provision of equipment and the acquisition of
basic flock.
(c) Construction and equipping of a poultry breeding
farm, including the provision of imported chicks,
to supply the existing hatchery at Pozarevac.
(d) A Sub-loan to AIK Pozarevac and a Sub-loan to AIK
Srbija for mechanization of about 22,600 ha for
production of wheat, maize, sugarbeet, sunflower
and vegetables.


﻿- 22 -
(e) Establishment of a wine nursery (about 25 ha) at
Kobrinje.
III.   Pig Breeding Improvement Program
A Sub-loan to WO Letnjikovac and a Sub-loan to WO
Velika Plana for the carrying out of an expanded pig
breeding improvement program.
Part C:   Extension Services
This Part consists of the strengthening of the basic agri-
cultural services and agricultural and veterinary stations in the
Project Area, through:
(a) the provision of additional experienced and qualified
extension specialists (about 90);
(b) a program of Sub-loans to Social Sector Sub-borrowers
to finance housing facilities (about 50) and vehicles (about 60)
for the afore-mentioned specialists and training abroad (about 60
man-months) for the key personnel of such stations; and
(c) the preparation of a master plan in agricultural
extension, technical services and.applied research in Serbia.
Part D:   Agroindustries
This Part consists of a program of Sub-loans to Social
Sector Sub-borrowers to finance the following investments:
I.   In the Kolubara Region
(a) Reconstruction and modernization of: (i) a fruit
juice factory at Valjevo; (ii) a cold storage plant at
Valjevo; (iii) a communal slaughterhouse at Ljubovija; and
(iv) an animal feed plant at Ub.
(b) Construction and equipping of: (i) a prune
processing center at Valjevo; (ii) a cold store near Sabac;
(iii) a poultry slaughterhouse at Vladimirci; and (iv) a
potato processing plant at Krupanj.
(c) Expansion of: (i) a vegetable processing plant at
Lajkovac; (ii) a wheat flour mill at Valjevo; and (iii) a
prune cake plant at Ljubovija.


﻿- 23 -
II.   In the Danube Region
(a) Reconstruction and modernization of a solvent
extraction unit of an oil factory at Veliko Gradiste.
(b) Expansion of an animal feed plant at Pozarevac.
(c) Construction and equipping of a cold storage plant
at Petrovac na Mlavi.,
Part E:   Drainage
This Part consists of the following drainage facilities over
about 27,000 ha gross area:
I.,  In the Kolubara Region
(a) Lajkovac Drainage
(1)  Construction of a peripheral interceptor sur-
face drain (about 7.5 km long) and a main
surface drain (about 2.8 km long), recon-
struction of a surface drain (about 5.7 km
long)  and  construction  of   service  roads
(about 16 km long);
(ii) construction   of a   secondary  and  tertiary
surface drainage network over about 920 ha
and an underground tile drainage network for
about 400 ha; -and
(iii). on-farm development over about 920 ha, con-
sisting of clearance of brushwood, cutting of
trees, removal of stumps, clearing of land
works and land levelling.
(b) Kalovica Drainage
(i) Construction and reconstruction of main and
secondary surface drains (about 123 km long)
and construction of service roads (about 220
km long);
(ii) construction of an underground tile drainage
network for about 1,150 ha; and


﻿- 24 -
(iii) on-farm development over about 6,400 ha, con-
sisting of clearance of brushwood, cutting of
trees, removal of stumps, clearing of land
works and land levelling.
(c) Orlaca Drainage
(i) Construction of an interceptor surface drain
(about 3.5 km long), main, secondary and
tertiary surface drains (about 35 km long)
and service roads (about 40 km long);
(ii) construction of an electric pumping station
with an installd capacity of about 2.4
m3/sec, and repairs and reconstruction of an
existing pumping station with a discharge
capacity of about 0.4 m3/sec; and
(iii) on-farm   development  over  about 1,300 ha,
consisting of clearing of brushwood, cutting
of trees, removal of stumps, clearing of land
works and land levelling.
II.   In the Danube Region
(a) Zabari Drainage
(i) Construction of main surface drains (about 38
km long), secondary and tertiary surface
drains (about 240 km long), service roads
(about 280 km long) and an underground tile
drainage network for about 4,200 ha;
(ii) construction of an electric pumping station
with an installed capacity of about 1.5
m3/sec; and
(iii) on-farm   development over   about 6,600 ha,
consisting of clearance of brushwood, cutting
of trees, removal of stumps, clearing of land
works and land levelling.
(b) Malo Crnice Drainage
(i) Construction of an interceptor surface drain
(about 1 km long), main surface drains (about


﻿- 25 -
34 km long) and service roads (about 35 km
long);
(ii) construction of an electric pumping station,
with  a  discharge   capacity  of  about  0.5
m3./sec; and
(iii) on-farm development over about 1,750 ha, con-
sisting of clearance of brushwood, cutting of
trees, removal of stumps, clearing of land
works and land levelling.
(c) Smederevska Palanka Drainage
(i) Construction of interceptor surface drains
(about 29 km long), main surface drains
(about 26 km long), service roads (about 55
km long) and an underground tile drainage
network for about 3,600 ha; and
(ii) on-farm development over about 3,600 ha, con-
sisting of clearance of brushwood, cutting of
trees, removal of stumps, clearing of land
works and land levelling.
(d) Velika Plana Drainage
(i) Reconstruction of interzeptor surface drains
(about 16 km long) and construction of main
and secondary drains (about 26 km long) ard
service roads (about 42 km long);
(ii) reconstruction of a pumping station with a
discharge capacity of about 3 m3/sec; and
(iii) on-farm   development over about 3,400 ha,
consisting of clearance of brushwood, cutting
of trees, removal of stumps, clearing of land
works and land levelling.
Part F:   Institutional Development
Strengthening Agrobanka's capacity for appraisal and super-
vision of investments in the agricultural sector through the


﻿- 26 -
provision of technical assistance, the review of its organization
and management system and the provision of computer equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1987.


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Column     Column    Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due       1*         2      (Expressed in dollars)**
December 1, 1986    537,000   1,150,000        1,687,000
June 1, 1987        537,000   1,150,000        1,687,000
December 1, 1987 1,703,,000   1,150,000        2,853,000
June 1, 1988      1,703,000   1,150,000        2,853,000
December 1, 1988  3,241,000   1,150,000        4,391,000
June 1, 1989      3,241,000   1,150,000        4,391,000
December 1, 1989  4,343,000   1,150,000        5,493,000
June 1, 1990      4,343,000   1,150,000        5,493,000
December 1, 1990 5,543,000    1,150,000        6,693,000
June 1, 1991      5,543,000   1,150,000        6,693,000
December 1, 1991 5,543,000    1,150,000        6,693,000
June 1, 1992      5,543,000   1,150,000        6,693,000
December 1, 1992 5,543,000    1,150,000        6,693,000
June 1, 1993      5,543,000   1,150,000,       6,693,000
December 1, 1993 5,543,000    1,150,000        6,693,000
June 1, 1994      5,543,000   1,150,000        6,693,000
December 1, 1994 5,543,000    1,150,000        6,693,000
June 1, 1995      5,543,000   1,150,000        6,693,000
December 1, 1995 5,543,000    1,150,000        6,693,000
June 1, 1996      5,543,000   1,150,000        6,693,000
December 1, 1996 5,543,000    1,150,000        6,693,000
June 1, 1997      5,543,000   1,150,000        6,693,000
December 1, 1997 5,543,000    1,150,000        6,693,000
June 1, 1998      5,594,593   1,162,407        6,757,000
*    This part of    the Amortization   Schedule is   subject to
amendment pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.09 (a)
of this Agreement.
**   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 28 -
Preinm on Prepaymnt
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                             Premium
The interest rate (ex-
pressed as a percentage
per annum) applicable to
the balance outstanding
on the Loan on the day
of prepayment multiplied
by:
Not more than three years                           0.20
before maturity
More than three years but                           0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but not                         0.73
more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not                      0.87
more than thirteen years
before maturity
More than thirteen years before                     1.00
maturity


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this         -day of     L, 198    .
FOR SECRETARY


