Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19338
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
(Ln. 3836-AR)
May11, 1999
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be
disclosed without Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso (Arg$)
EXCHANGE RATE
Arg$1 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOCEP       -     Bono para la Creacion de Empleo Privado
ICR         -     Implementation Completion Report
IBD         -     Inter-American Development Bank
FONAVI    -       National Housing Fund
(Fondo Nacional para la Vivienda)
MDP-I       -     First Municipal Development Project
MDP-II      -      Second Municipal Development Project
PDP-1       -     First Provincial Development Project
PDP-II      -      Second Provincial Development Project
PERAL       -     Public Enterprise Adjustment Loan
PEREL       -      Public Enterprise Adjustment Loan
PRL         -     Provincial Reformn Loan
PSRTAL      -     Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
SEF         -     Superintendence of Financial Entities
SUCATS    -       Project Coordinating Unit
(Subunidad de Coordinaci6n, Asistencia Tecnica y
Seguimiento)
TATAL       -     Tax Administration Technical Assistance Loan
SAREP       -     Ministry of Interior's Secretariat for the Economic Reform
of the Provinces (Secretaria de Asistencia para la Reforma
Econ6mica Provincial)
Vice President:          Shahid Javed Burki-
Country Director:        Myrna Alexander
Sector Director:         Guillerrno Perry
Task Manager:            Miguel Mercado-Diaz



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
(Ln. 3836-AR)
Contents
Preface ..............1i
Evaluation Summary .............. ii
Part  I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.          Statement of Objectives          .1
B           Achievement of Objectives         .3
C.          Provincial Resource Mobilization     .6
D.          Provincial Current Expenditures     .7
E           Provincial Banks              .9
F           Major Factors Affecting the Project   .9
G.          Project Sustainability .10
H.          Bank Perforance .11
I           Borrower Perforance .11
J .         Assessment of Outcome .12
K.           Future Operations .13
L           Key Lessons Leared .14
Part  II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:    Summary of Assessment .17
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits .19
Table 3:  Project Tietable .20
Table 4:    Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual .20
Table 5:    Status of Legal Covenants .21
Table 6:    Project Indicators .27
Table 7:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .30
Table 8:    Bank Resources: Missions. .30
Table 9:    Matrix of Project Activities .31
Table 10:    Provincial Financing Under
the Transformation Fund .33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 11:    Change in Ingresos Brutos for PRL and
Non-PRL Provinces: 1994-97 .................................. 34
Table 12:    Change in Own-Source Revenues for PRL and
Non-PRL Provinces: 1994-97 .35
Table 13:    Change in Personnel Expenditures: 1995-97 .37
Table 14:    Change in Provincial Employees for PRL Provinces:
1992-97 ...                                  37
Table 15:    Change in Current Account Surplus for PRL and
Non-PRL Provinces: 1994-97 ...................  38
Table 16:    Change in Primary Surplus for PRL and Non-PRL
Provinces: 1994-97 .39
Table 17:    Strategic Projects in PRL and Non-PRL Provinces.... 40
Table 18:    Privatization of Provincial Banks and Enterprises
in PRL and Non-PRL Provinces .41
Appendices:
A.          Borrower's Contribution to ICR .42
B.          Mission's Aide Memoire .53



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
(Ln. 3836-AR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Provincial Reform Loan in
Argentina, for which Loan 3836-AR in the amount of US$300 million equivalent was
approved January 24, 1995. The loan was disbursed in three tranches of US$100 million
each on March 24, 1995, January 3, 1996, and January 22, 1997 respectively. The loan
closed on June 30, 1998 as expected. It was disbursed in its totality, thus no balance was
canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Cecilia Zanetta (consultant), under the supervision of
Miguel Mercado-Diaz, Task Manager (LCSPR), and reviewed by Mark Hagerstrom
(LCSPR), David Rosenblatt (LCSPR), David Vetter (LCSPR), and Geoffrey Shepherd
(LCSPR).
Preparation of the ICR was begun in September 1998. It is based on infornation in
the project files, and discussions with government at the national level and in participating
provinces, and with technical staff of the project implementation unit. The Borrower
contributed to the preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation of the project's
initial preparation and execution, and by contributing its views, providing background
material, and ample support whenever needed.



IMdPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
(Ln. 3836-AR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Towards the end of 1994, the success of Argentina's reform program was already
being reflected in the country's economic performance. As a result of the swift and far-
reaching reforms irnplemented under the Menem's administration, inflation rates had
been drastically cut, economic growth had rebounded, and fiscal balance had been
attained at the federal level. However, several challenges still remained, including the
need to extend fiscal and economic reforms to the provinces. Provincial reform was
critical to ensuring the sustainability of the government's stabilization program, since
most provincial governments continued to be a source of fiscal imbalance and were ill-
prepared to fulfill their role as efficient service providers, thus seriously endangering the
productivity and competitiveness of the country's economy.
2.    Since 1991, the national government had launched a concerted effort to promote
fiscal adjustment in the provinces. Within its own direct jurisdiction, the national
government's efforLs were aimed at correcting distortions within the revenue-shared
system, including the reduction of discretionary transfers, and at eliminating Central
Bank rediscounts for provincial banks, a traditional source of provincial deficit financing.
To promote reform, within the jurisdiction of sub-national governments, the national
government sought the Bank's assistance in developing a lending portfolio that provided
both technical and financial support to provincial governments' efforts to stabilize their
public finances, reform their administrations, and increase their efficiency as providers of
public goods and services. Targeted at a group of reform-minded provinces, the
Provincial Reform Loan (PRL) became a central component of the Bank's provincial
lending portfolio, as, it mapped a comprehensive reform strategy that effectively guided
provinces on their path towards reform.
Project Objectives
3.    The PRL's specific objectives were: a) to support an overall environment of
incentives for restructuring provincial public finances by increasing provincial
accountability in the use of federal transfers and eliminating special treatment of
provincial banks; and b) to support reforms in eight of the 24 provincial governments
with financial and technical assistance to improve the structure and administration of



iii
taxation, establish budgetary and administrative controls, reduce redundant public
employment, improve the efficiency of transfers to the municipalities, privatize services
now performed by public enterprises, and reduce the potential for deficit spending and
inflationary financing by privatizing provincial banks.
4.    To accomplish these objectives, the operation was designed as a quick-disbursing
adjustment loan of US$300 million to be disbursed in three tranches of US$100 million
each. Specific policy actions and conditions had to be fulfilled by the federal government
and provincial governments for the disbursements of the three tranches to take place (see
Policy Matrix, Table 9). At the federal level, the loan's conditionalities ensured an
adequate macroeconomic environment and the elimination of structural disincentives that
hampered provincial fiscal responsibility. At the provincial level, the loan required a
comprehensive set of structural reforms, ultimately aimed at sound fiscal performance.
5.    The proceeds from the loan were used to capitalize the Transformation Fund,
established by the national government in April 1993 to promote structural adjustment in
the provinces. The national government established individual agreements with each of
the participating provinces under the framework of the Transformation Fund, determining
in each case the measures to be taken by the provincial governments, their needs for
technical and financial support, and the terms for repayment.
Implementation Experiences and Results
6.    Achievement of Project Objectives: The operation has been highly instrumental
in improving resource mobilization, containing public spending while improving
efficiency, and reducing the size of the provincial banking sector among participating
provinces. All but one of the PRL conditions have been satisfactorily met and even
exceeded. The condition that required provinces in the second group to achieve
operational primary balance in 1995 was waived, as the crisis provoked by the Mexican
devaluation had caused severe shortfalls in the provinces in terms of own-source
revenues and national transfers. As of the closing of the loan, twelve out of the 24
provinces have signed agreements under the Transformation Fund for over US$407.5
million, implementing a set of key policy actions that has set up the foundations for
sound fiscal performance. The impact of these reforms is reflected in the fiscal and
reform performance of the PRL provinces which, in the aggregate, has been considerably
better than for the non-PRL province over the 1994-97 period (see Tables 11 tol 8).
7.    The contribution of the PRL goes well beyond the specific conditions that have
been documented for each tranche. Conceptually, it provided a road map that effectively
guided provinces on their path of reform -- both those provinces with a vocation for
reform of their own as well as those for which reform was the only option out of the deep
financial crisis. Financially and technically, the PRL set in place the support mechanisms
that not only furthered reform among provincial governments but also helped contain the
impact of the Mexican crisis at the provincial level.
8.    Major Factors Affecting the Project: The loan was implemented at a fast pace,
with the conditions required for all three tranches being met several months before



iv
expected. It is important to point out, however, that the regional financial crisis that
resulted from the Mexican devaluation in December, 1994 had a major impact in
accelerating the pace of reform. Provincial revenues preceding the crisis had been
artificially high as the result of the Tanzi effect and windfalls from federal privatizations.
Thus, most provinces managed to avoid making the necessary reforms until the end of
1994, when capitals financing the public deficits fled the country in response to the
Mexican devaluation. The PRL provinces were better prepared to weather the crisis than
non-PRL provinces. With their reform program already in place, they were able to move
faster on the implementation of reforms.
9.   It is also important to underscore the importance of a cohesive portfolio of Bank-
financed project ainmed at promoting provincial reform. While each operation contributed
to specific aspects of provincial reform, such as institutional development or the reform
of individual sectors - i.e., banking, pension funds, roads, health and education -- , the
PRL provided the forum for the provinces to agree on an overall reform strategy. The
PRL-II continued to advance the overall reform strategy, when four of the twelve PRL
provinces committed to a more stringent policy matrix in mid- 1 996.
10.   Project Sustainability: The operation's objectives have been met and important
reforms have been successfully implemented.  While the reduction in provincial
employment could be potentially reversed, it would be hard to reverse most of the other
PRL actions, such as the privatization of provincial enterprises and banks. The
Transformation Fund has itself become a sustainable financing instrument to promote
reform among sub-national governments. Loans to provinces were done under tougher
conditions than the Bank loan -- five years, period of grace of six months, and 10 percent
interest rate. This has allowed for the successful capitalization of the Transformation
Fund, which is expected to reach US$40 million after the repayment of the loan.
11.   Assessment of Bank's and Borrower's Performance: The success of the PRL
is directly related to an outstanding performance on the part of the national government
and the Bank. The Igovernment's overall strategy towards the provinces had high internal
consistency and, through the Fiscal Pacts and tight Central Bank policies, most of the
structural disincentives to provincial fiscal responsibility were systematically eliminated.
In turn, the Bank's lending portfolio was fully consistent with the government's strategy
towards the provinces, with common rules being adopted for all provincial lending. The
PRL, a central elemnent of both the government's and the Bank's strategy towards the
provinces, permitted to capitalize on the window of opportunity provided by the Mexican
crisis.
Summary of Findiings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons of Experience
12.   The project objectives have been met satisfactorily and even surpassed. The
project widely promoted public sector reform among participating provinces, thus
effectively consolidating the sustainability of the country's reform program. The loan's
specific achievements include: a) the reduction of 55,000 provincial agents, b) the
privatization or concessioning of 48 provincial enterprises; and c) the privatization of
nine provincial banks. The project has also served as an interface promoting structured



v
consultations between provincial and national authorities in relation to policy issues
central to the process of public sector reform, including developing an adequate system of
incentives at the national level. Finally, the PRL underscores the importance of sub-
national governments for the overall success of a national reform program
13.   For the Bank, the PRL is a landmark operation, as it is one of the first adjustment
loans targeted to sub-national governments. Its innovative design addressed effectively
the complexity of Argentina's provincial sector and can serve as a model for other
operations, both in LAC and other regions.
14.   The following lessons, which are relevant for future public sector reform projects
for sub-national governments beyond Argentina, can be highlighted from the
implementation of this Provincial Reform Loan.
15.   Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) targeted at sub-national governments
can be key elements within the framework of a country's overall reform program.
They can provide the forum for the provinces to agree on an overall reform strategy to
articulate other operations designed to support actions in specific areas.
16.   The success of SAL loans depends on a combination of factors, among the
most important of which is strong political support. In the case of Argentina, the
arnbitious set of reforms supported under the PRL succeeded as a result of a unique
combination of strong political support, a solid leadership with a high level of
determination, and access to a pool of sound professionals, both at the national and
provincial levels.
17.   Financial support cannot substitute adequate policy incentives. A sustainable
reduction of expenditures depends on establishing an adequate system of incentives, both
at the national and provincial levels. At the national level, the moral hazard of having the
central government guaranteeing provincial debts needs to be removed and the
intergovernmental transfer system needs to be improved to reduce the existing mismatch
between unconditioned federal transfers and shared-revenues and provincial
responsibilities. At the provincial level, incentives should come from constituencies that
hold elected officials accountable for their management of public resources.
18.   Early on during the reform program, identify possible post-stabilization
windfall transfers and other sources of "soft" deficit financing available to sub-
national governments. Windfall transfers and soft sources of deficit financing available
to sub-national governments undermine the potential for fiscal reform. Thus, it is
important to identify them early on in the process as well as a set of measures that could
reduce or neutralize them. Potential sources of windfall transfers include increases in the
automatic revenue sharing system due to the Tanzi effect, and some elements of the
stabilization program itself, such as the consolidation of provincial debt or privatization
of government assets.
19.   If windfall transfers or soft financing appear, negotiate to neutralize their
impact. Although many maintained it was "politically impossible" to modify the



vi
revenue sharing system, the government negotiated continually to try to neutralize the
impact of windfall transfers. The negotiation of the Fiscal Pacts provided a forum for
engaging the provinces in the national reform effort. The success of these negotiations
was largely due to the considerable incentives the national government was willing to put
on the table. Some of these incentives were the guaranteed floor on the revenue share
transfers, the gradual elimination of the national assets tax, and the transfer of the
provincial pension systems to the national government.
20.   Be preparecl to take full advantage of crises, as they generate risks but also
opportunities. In spite of the incentives included in the Fiscal Pacts, only a few
provinces chose to reform. The financial and economic shock that resulted from the
Mexican crisis provided a window of opportunity for large-scale provincial reform. As
provincial revenues dropped drastically and provincial banks became largely insolvent,
the national governmnent took full advantage of the crisis by pushing for the privatization
or closure of the provincial banks as well as the transfer of provincial pension funds to
the central government. In this way, two major chronic sources of provincial fiscal
imbalance were effectively eliminated.
21.   Develop a portfolio of alternative sources of financing for provincial
investment to increase reform leverage. In the case of Argentina, the government was
very effective in developing a portfolio of loans designed to support provincial reform
efforts. To gain reform leverage, it is critical that strict creditworthiness criteria be
applied to all lending available to the provinces, including international lenders
22.   Maximize reform  leverage by focusing on a few reforming sub-national
governments, especially in the case of adjustment lending. As Bank lending may be
only a minuscule portion of total financing available, it should be focused as much as
possible on the reforming provinces. Thus, focus as much as possible on the reforming
provinces, as the worldwide lesson in adjustment lending is that political willingness to
reform is a condition sine qua non.



I
Part I
Project Implementation Assessment
A.   Statement of Objectives
1.    Towards the end of 1994, Argentina was already experiencing the benefits from
the ambitious reform program implemented by the Menem administration after it took
office in July 1989. Swift and far-reaching reforms targeted at reducing the role of the
state in the economy, tackling fiscal imbalances and achieving price stability had been
implemented successfully. The success of the reformn program was evidenced by the
substantial improvements in the country's economic performance: inflation rates were
drastically cut from a monthly rate of 200 percent in 1989 to an annual inflation rate of
3.9 percent in 1994, growth rebounded to an average of 7.7 percent over the 1991-94
period, and fiscal balance was achieved at the federal level by 1994. However, several
challenges still remained, including the need to reduce high unemployment rates, sustain
poverty reduction efforts, and rebuild the country's deteriorating infrastructure.
2.    Within this framework, extending fiscal and economic reforms to the provinces
was now critical to the sustainability of the government's stabilization program.
Provincial governments not only affected the country's overall fiscal effort but were now
primarily responsible for the provision of services. The adjustment at the federal level
had been accomplished partly through a strong decentralization in the provision of
services, which had made provincial governments the major providers of health,
education, security, water and sanitation, electricity and other infrastructure. In 1993,
provincial governments accounted for 60 percent of all public investment.
3.    However, most provincial governments were ill-prepared to fulfill their role as
efficient service providers, thus seriously endangering the productivity and
competitiveness of the country's economy. They also continued to be a source of fiscal
imbalance, as illustrated by an overall provincial deficit equivalent to 0.8 percent of GDP
in 1993. Provincial taxes were being poorly collected and provincial spending was highly
inefficient, mainly as a result of substantial overstaffing, inadequate administrative
controls and weak provincial budgeting mechanisms. Provincial resources were also
being drained by highly inefficient public enterprises, insolvent provincial banks, and
insufficiently financed provincial pension funds. Moreover, fiscal irresponsibility of
provincial governments, especially in the case of the northern provinces, had been a
source of social unrest, as some of the provincial deficits had resulted in significant
delays in meeting their payroll obligations.
4.    Since 1991, the national government had launched a concerted effort to promote
fiscal adjustment in the provinces. Within its own direct jurisdiction, the national
government's efforts were aimed at correcting distortions within the revenue-shared
system, including the reduction of discretionary transfers, and at eliminating Central
Bank rediscounts for provincial banks, a traditional source of provincial deficit financing.
To promote reform within the jurisdiction of sub-national governnents, the national
government sought the Bank's assistance in developing a lending portfolio that provided



2
both technical and financial support to sub-national governments' efforts to stabilize their
public finances, reform their administrations, and increase their efficiency as providers of
public goods and services.
5.     The main vehicles of the Bank's assistance strategy targeted directly at sub-
national governmernts were the First Provincial Development Project (PDP-I) and
Municipal Developrnent Project (MDP-I) and subsequent follow-up operations -- PDP-II
and MDP-II.1 These loans were operations covering all provinces to provide, at a
minimum, support: for institutional strengthening and, for those satisfying
creditworthiness criteria, financing for investments linked to sector reforms and improved
fiscal performance. These loans were complemented by a series of sector investment
operations aimed at improving the efficiency of delivering secondary education, public
health, provincial roads, water supply, and agricultural services and infrastructure. In
terms of reform, the umbrella operations had been successful in strengthening the weak
technical capacity o:f provincial and municipal governments and introducing the concept
of rewarding good iiscal performance. However, they were not suitable to provide the
necessary financial support to those provinces willing and able to implement major
structural reforms. This was the objective of the Provincial Reform Loan (PRL).
6.     Targeted at a group of reform-minded provinces, the PRL was aimed at deepening
the fiscal reforms underlying macroeconomic stability and enhancing the capacity of the
provincial governments to fulfill their increasingly important role as providers of public
goods and services.  The PRL's specific objectives, as stated in the Report and
Recommendation of the President (Report No. P-6414-AR, December 30, 1994), were:
a)    to  support an  overall environment of incentives for restructuring
provincial public finances by increasing provincial accountability in the
use of federal transfers and eliminating special treatment of provincial
banks, and
b)     to support reforms in eight of the 23 provincial governments - including
the Municipality of Buenos Aires2 -- with financial and technical
assistance to:
i)     improve the structure and administration of taxation;
ii)    establish budgetary and administrative controls;
iii)   reduce redundant public employment;
iv)    improve the efficiency of transfers to the municipalities;
The Inter-American Development Bank co-financed the First Provincial Development Project and
the Second Municipal Development Project.
2      Although the Municipality of Bs. As. was eligible to participate in the operation, it was a federal
district rather than a provincial government. It has since adopted the status of provincial government - now
called the Government of the City of Buenos Aires -- together with Tierra del Fuego, previously another
federal territory. Thus, there are now twenty-four provincial governments.



3
v)    privatize services now performed by public enterprises; and
vi)  reduce the potential for deficit spending and inflationary financing
by privatizing provincial banks.
7.    To accomplish these objectives, the operation was designed as a quick-disbursing
adjustment loan of US$300 million to be disbursed in three tranches of US$100 million
each. It was estimated that the first tranche would be disbursed before end FY95, the
second tranche before end FY96, and the third one before end FY97. Specific policy
actions and conditions had to be fulfilled by the federal government and provincial
governments for the disbursements of the three tranches to take place (see Policy Matrix,
Table 9).  At the federal level, the loan's conditionalities ensured an adequate
macroeconomic environment and the elimination of structural disincentives that
hampered provincial fiscal responsibility. At the provincial level, the loan required a
comprehensive set of structural reforms, ultimately aimed at sound fiscal performance.
8.    The national government of Argentina was the borrower. The proceeds from the
loan were used to capitalize the Transformation Fund, established by the national
government in April 1993 (Decree 678/93) to promote structural adjustment in the
provinces. The national government established individual agreements with each of the
participating provinces under the framework of the Transformation Fund, determining in
each case the measures to be taken by the provincial governments, their needs for
technical and financial support, and the terms for repayment. The conditions to be met by
each province consistently exceeded PRL conditionality, requiring even more ambitious
targets and actions. Federal revenue-sharing funds were used to guarantee repayment by
provincial governents.
9.    This design effectively supported the operation's objectives. It combined a set of
comprehensive, well-defined policy conditions that ensured the achievement of the
project's main objectives with a high degree of flexibility in terms of the specific
provinces in which the conditions were to be met. Specifically, four provinces were
required to meet the conditions in each tranche, although the individual provinces could
change from one tranche to the next. This flexibility served as an effective risk-control
mechanism, spreading the risk of reforms being stalled among various provinces. In
addition, four different provinces were required to meet the conditions of the first
tranche.
B.   Achievement of Overall Project Objectives
10.   The operation has been highly successful in extending the national government's
program to reform and modernize the public sector into the participating provincial
governments. As of the closing of the loan, twelve out of the 24 provinces have signed
agreements under the Transformation Fund for over US$407.5 million, implementing a
set of key policy actions that has set up the foundations for sound fiscal performance
(Table 10). In particular, the PRL has been highly instrumental in improving their
resource mobilization, containing public spending while improving efficiency, and
reducing the size of the provincial banking sector. All but one of the PRL conditions have



4
been satisfactorily mnet and even exceeded. The condition that required provinces in the
second group to achieve operational primary balance in 1995 was waived, as the crisis
provoked by the Mexican devaluation had caused severe shortfalls in the provinces in
terms of own-source revenues and national transfers.
11.   Overall, the contribution of the PRL goes well beyond the specific conditions that
have been documented for each tranche. Conceptually, it provided a road map that
effectively guided provinces on their path of reform -- both those provinces with a
vocation for reform of their own as well as those for which reform was the only option
out of the deep financial crisis. Financially and technically, the PRL set in place the
support mechanisms that not only furthered reform among provincial governments but
also helped contain the impact of the Mexican crisis at the provincial level.
12.   It is important to point out that the success of the PRL is closely linked to that of
other loans. The P:DP-I and II in particular illustrate the potential complementarities
between SALs and investment loans in terms of objectives, government counterparts, and
time frames. Throuigh the PRL, the Bank and the national government worked closely
with top provincial government officials in the design of the necessary reforms and
provided strong financial incentives for the adoption of the enabling policy framework
within a short time frame -- i.e., less than three years. However, the field work was done
through the PDP-I and II, including building the necessary technical capacity at the
provincial level and providing ongoing support to the provinces in developing and
implementing the key instruments required to carry out these reforms, such as initial
diagnostic studies, as well as cadastre projects, financial administration systems and tax
administration systems. The Provincial Bank Privatization and the Provincial Pension
Reform loans also reinforced the efforts to promote provincial reform, providing the
support necessary to carry out the massive privatization of provincial banks and transfer
of provincial pension funds to the national government.. The internal cohesion of the
provincial portfolio in terms of objectives and creditworthiness criteria significantly
increased the Bank's, leverage.
13.   Macroeconoimic Policies: Substantial Achievement. When the PRL was
designed, macroeconomic stability was still fragile, as evidenced by the high levels of the
current account deficit, the volatility of capital flows financing such deficits, and the
modest level of resierves exhibited at the time. Within this framework, the PRL has
effectively contributed towards the stabilization of Argentina's economy and the
sustainability of the overall reform program by supporting the implementation of
measures conducive to reorient provincial public spending in ways that increased
productivity and efficiency in the delivery of services while strengthening fiscal
positions. Overall, ihe consolidated provincial deficit has been reduced from 0.8 percent
of GDP in 1994 to 0.4 percent in 1997. 3
14.   At the national level, the PRL has promoted conditions consistent with the
objective of provincial reform. These conditions have been met successfully by the
national governmeint over the life of the loan, including maintaining stable
3     "Argentina Provincial Finances," Update 1998, LCSPR, June 30, 1998.



5
macroeconomic conditions even under the strain of the Mexican crisis, reducing
discretionary transfers to the provincial governments, auditing FONAVI funds to increase
provincial accountability, and eliminating rediscounts to provincial banks by the Central
Bank, a historical source of financing provincial quasi-fiscal deficits. The PRL has also
promoted the restructuring of provincial taxes in line with the 1993 Fiscal Pact, thus
reducing regressive taxes and distortions in the overall economy.
15.   Financial Objectives: Substantial Achievement.  Significant savings have
resulted from increased efficiency in the functioning of the public sector, the reduced role
of the government in the economy, improved tax administration, and the rationalization
of public expenditures. Some of these savings are described below for each of the
individual components.   They include savings in the payroll of the provincial
administration corresponding to a reduction of 55,000 public sector positions and the
privatization of 48 public enterprises. Finally, the closing or privatization of nine
provincial banks will prevent the need for future provincial government bail-outs, such as
the one that took place in Mendoza in 1995, the cost of which has been estimated at
approximately US$138.7 million, or equivalent to 1.8 percent of the GDP at that time.4
16.   Public Sector Reform: Substantial Achievement. This is the area in which the
operation has made its central contribution. It has successfully accomplished its original
objectives by effectively supporting reforms aimed at improving provincial resource
mobilization, increasing efficiency in provincial public expenditures, and reducing the
size of the provincial administrations. As a result, participating provincial governments
are now considerably stronger, leaner and more efficient. Moreover, the idiosyncrasy of
government officials and provincial administrators has been drastically transformed, with
a new awareness regarding the importance of sound public administration.
17.   It is important to note that the specific actions agreed upon by each province
resulted from sound sector work financed under PDP-I. A comprehensive diagnosis of
the overall situation of the provincial public sector was carried out in each of the potential
participating provinces. The findings and recommendations of these diagnostic studies
served as a framework for the specific agreements under the Transformation Fund,
adapting and fine-tuning the targets required by the PRL for each province and including
additional conditions when necessary. In this way, participating provinces were also
required to deregulate various economic activities within provincial jurisdiction,
introduce cost recovery mechanisms for public investments, undertake institutional
strengthening subprojects in various areas including tax administration, personnel
management, and evaluation of physical investments, and undertake reforms in the health
and education sectors, including improvements in the provision of services and sizing of
personnel.
4      Since 1995, approximately 70 percent of Mendoza's consolidated indebtedness has been incurred
as a result of the liquidity and credit crisis suffered by the Banco de Mendoza and Banco de Prevision
following the Mexico Crisis. In order to privatize both banks, the government of Mendoza had to assume a
US$679.3 million in debt (excluding voluntary retirement programs) equivalent to 8.3 percent of the
province's GDP in 1996. (Source: Offering Circular of $S250,000,000 Bonds; Province of Mendoza,
August 29, 1997.)



6
18.   The improvements in these areas have translated in the improvement in the
overall fiscal performance among the participating provinces. As shown on Tables 12
through 18, the reiForm and fiscal performance have been considerably better in the
aggregate for the PRL provinces as compared to the non-PRL provinces over the 1994-97
period. Clearly, the "tequila effect" from the Mexican devaluation provided added
reform impetus for all provinces. However, as most of the PRL provinces had their
reform programs already designed and ready for implementation when the crisis hit, they
were able to react faster, thus more reforms were implemented. Although the fiscal
performance of some PRL provinces leaves much to be desired, as a group they did better
than the non-PRL provinces as the good performers more than compensated for the less
consistent ones.
19.   A detailed analysis of the factors that affected the implementation of each
component and the achievement of their specific objectives follows below.
C.   Provincial Resource Mobilization
20.   As a result of tightening federal transfers, provinces had already begun to focus
on increasing the collection of provincial taxes, which increased by over 50 percent in
real terms between 1991 and 1993.  However, to consolidate and deepen these
improvements it was still necessary to increase the institutional capacity of the provinces
to collect taxes and to change the structure of provincial taxation, bringing taxing and
spending responsibilities more in line. The PRL supported these actions.
21.   Structure of Provincial Taxes: The August 1993 Fiscal Pact sought to eliminate
the stamp tax, to transform the cascading tumover tax into a retail sales tax to remove the
negative effect on output, and to promote the use of provincial property taxes. As a
Second and Third 'Tranche condition, participating provinces were required to obtain
legislative approval of the Fiscal Pact and to adhere to their agreed timetables for
substantially implementing the tax reform measures. These conditions were satisfactorily
met. There were as many as 23 potential individual tax reforms in each province, and it
is estimated that comapliance reached more than 80 percent.
22.  Improved Tcx Administration: The successful implementation of the Fiscal Pact
depended largely oIn the capacity of provincial governments to implement fundamental
reforms in tax administration, including incentives for collection and automation of
information systems' with assistance from the National Tax Agency (DGI). As a Second
and Third Tranche condition, participating provinces were required to adopt the DGI
program  for monitoring, inspecting and auditing the nation's largest taxpayers.
Technology was developed for DGI and transferred to the provinces with support from
the Bank-financed SLecond Tax Administration Loan (Ln. 3460-AR). This condition was
satisfactorily met, with 50 percent and 75 percent of the largest taxpayers in each
province being adequately monitored by the Second and Third Tranches release.
Moreover, all PRI, provinces have made substantial progress towards developing
integrated systems linking cadastres, tax administration, and registries of real estate
property as a way of strengthening collection of property taxes. Most of these systems



7
have been promoted under PRL with financing under PDP-1 and II (see Table 17).
23.   These actions had a positive effect on increasing own-source revenues, with 60
percent of the PRL provinces evidencing an increase larger than the media over the 1994-
97 period, compared to only 43 percent of non-PRL provinces (see Tables 11 and 12).
The same is true for the change in revenues from Ingresos Brutos during the same period:
60 percent of all PRL provinces exhibited increases greater than the media for all
provinces, compared to just 43 percent of all non-PRL provinces. In aggregate, the PRL
provinces increased revenues from Ingresos Brutos by 16.57 percent over the 1994-97
period, which is more than twice as much as the non-PRL provinces -- 7.69 percent.
D.   Provincial Current Expenditures
24.   Several PRL conditions were aimed at improving expenditure efficiency among
participating provinces, including:
25.   Downsizing of Provincial Administrations: Provincial efforts at reforming
administrative practices and reducing redundant public employment had been limited by
inadequate programs, insufficient financing, and concern by provincial authorities about
the lack of alternative employment opportunities. While several provinces had already
attempted employment reduction programs, these had generally not been based on a prior
diagnosis and strategy for administrative reform, nor were adequate controls set in place
to ensure that such reductions would be sustained over time. In most provinces,
important adjustments were needed, including reductions in labor force, reform of leave
policies and mechanisms for leave verification, and mechanisms for provincial agencies
to improve accountability in human resource management.
26.   The PRL supported provincial efforts to reduce the level of public employment by
requiring as a condition for Second and Third Tranche release that redundant public
employment in participating provinces be reduced by a total of 20,000 (10,000 per
tranche). This target has been amply surpassed, with more than 55,000 public sector
positions having been eliminated in the participating provinces (see Tables 13 and 14).
This considerable reduction has had a positive impact on current expenditures. For
instance, personnel expenditures among PRL provinces have decreased 3.49 percent over
the 1995-97 period, compared to an increase of 4.55 percent among non-PRL provinces.
27.   Provincial strategies towards downsizing included identifying and removing
"ghost" employees from the public rolls, privatizing and contracting out ancillary
services, targeted hiring freezes, and employment separation incentive programs.
Reforms of leave policies and mechanisms for proper enforcement were also adjusted,
thus contributing to a reduction in the size of the public work force by greatly reducing
the need for retaining large numbers of substitute workers. In response to concerns
expressed by provincial governments about the lack of viable job alternatives for
displaced public workers, the Government implemented a retirement incentive scheme,
the "Bono para la Creaci6n de Empleo Privado" (BOCEP), which was financed through
the Transformation Fund. As of the closing of the PRL, a total of 6,322 provincial agents
have benefited from this program, which amounted to US$89 million.



8
28.   Strengthening of Financial Management Systems: To improve accountability, the
PRL supported the transfer to the provinces of financial management and personnel
control systems introduced at the federal level under the Bank-financed Public Sector
Reform Loan (PSFL, Ln. 3394-AR) and its companion technical assistance loan
(PSRTAL, Ln. 3362-AR). As a Second Tranche condition, the participating provinces
were required to draft legislation to reform provincial financial management procedures
and reporting in line with the Federal Law of Financial Management (No. 24,156). For
the Third Tranche they had to submit such legislation for approval. These conditions
have been met, although the law has not been passed in all cases. Nine of the ten PRL
provinces are impleraenting financial administration projects -- either under PDP-I and II,
the Secretary of Finance, or with their own resources -- compared to only five of the 14
non-PRL provinces. (See Table 17).
29.   Privatization of Provincial Public Enterprises: The PRL also supported the
privatization of public enterprises in the provinces.   Financing through the
Transformation Fund was required since the financial benefits from these efforts were not
expected to be as great or immediate as for the federal privatization program. In some
instances, proceeds from sales did not cover the costs of employee layoffs and liquidation
did not cover existing debts. Apart from the fiscal benefit, the long-term benefits of
privatization have been reducing the cost and expanding the availability of the services
provided. Privatizations and concessions were patterned on those implemented at the
federal level and in several provinces, which the Bank has supported through Water
Supply I (Ln. 2641..AR) and Power Distribution (SEGBA V, Ln. 2854-AR). Several
fuature privatizations/concessions were supported through technical assistance under
SEGBA V and Water Supply II (Ln. 3281 -AR). As a condition for the Second Tranche
release, participating provinces were required to offer at least eight public enterprises for
sale/concession or legally declare them  in liquidation.  Environmental audits or
evaluations satisfactory to the Bank were also required for public enterprises involved in
manufacturing, extractive and power-generating activities. As a Third Tranche condition,
eight public enterprise had to be privatized or concessioned or be in the process of
liquidation.
30.   These conditions were largely exceeded by the number of enterprises that were
actually privatized or concessioned. A total of 48 provincial enterprises (including two
municipal banks) have been privatized in the ten PRL provinces, compared to only 27
(including one municipal bank) in the fourteen non-PRL provinces. Thus, PRL provinces
have privatized at arn average rate of almost five enterprises per province, compared to
less than two enterprises per non-PRL province (see Table 18).
31.   Provincial Transfers: As a condition for the Second Tranche release, participating
provinces were required to draft new legislation on revenue-sharing with municipalities,
incorporating incentive rules that based at least 30 percent of transfers directly on fiscal
performance. A Third Tranche condition required that such legislation be submitted to
provincial legislatures. These conditions were met. However, it was very much an effort
pro forma, as none of the proposals were adopted.  In general, most provincial
governments are waiting to see the outcome of the forthcoming Fiscal Pact negotiations



9
where some innovative concepts, such as direct revenue-sharing transfers to the
municipalities, are likely to be discussed. Also, the revision of current criteria implies
that some municipalities stand to lose revenues; thus there is a lot of political opposition
to the proposed changes.
E.    Provincial Banks
32.   Since 1991, and in line with the new Central Bank Charter, provincial banks have
been denied access to Central Bank rediscounts except for liquidity purposes. Also,
provincial banks have adhered to tighter regulations of the Superintendence of Banks on
lending to the public sector, repayments to the Central Bank (about US$400 million was
recovered), reserve requirements, maximum lending rates and loan classification and
provisioning. Provincial banks are now treated on a footing equal to that of all other
banks. Furthermore, the Superintendence has improved its supervisory capacity and has
been stepping up supervision. As a condition for the release of all tranches, the Central
Bank was required to maintain regulations that treated provincial banks as equal to all
other banks; as a condition for the Second and Third Tranche release provincial banks
had to be inspected or audited during the 15 months prior to tranche releases. These
conditions have been met adequately over the life of the loan.
33.   Despite the tighter regulatory and supervisory framework, it was imperative to
accelerate the privatization of provincial banks. Provincial bank performance was well
below that of Argentina's banking system and any major failure would create political
pressure for a Central Bank bailout. As an overall condition for the Second Tranche
release, at least four banks had to be offered for sale or be legally declared in liquidation.
The Third Tranche release required that four banks had been privatized or were under
liquidation. These targets have also been amply exceeded: nine provincial banks have
been privatized or liquidated in the ten PRL reforms, compared to only six among the
fourteen non-PRL provinces (see Table 18).5
F.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
34.   The loan was implemented at a fast pace, with the conditions required for all three
tranches being met several months before expected. It is important to point out, however,
that the regional financial crisis that resulted from the Mexican devaluation in December,
1994 had a major impact in accelerating the pace of reform. Provincial revenues
preceding the crisis had been artificially high as the result of the Tanzi effect and
windfalls from federal privatizations. Thus, most provinces were able to avoid making
the necessary reforms in the earlier period, 1991-93.
35.   However, the vulnerability of the fiscal situation in most provinces was evidenced
shortly after the PRL's approval, when capitals financing the public deficits fled the
country in response to the Mexican devaluation. The PRL provinces were better prepared
5     In the case of Corrientes, the privatization of the provincial bank was not completed due to the
failure of the selected bidder to complete the transaction. The province is currently working on a second
attempt to privatize it.



10
to weather the crisis than non-PRL provinces. With their reform program already in
place, they were able to move faster on the implementation of reforms. Even with the
economic downturn in 1995 due to the "tequila effect," the PRL provinces had a deficit
only 14 percent higher than in 1994, while the rest of the provinces had an increase of
37.5 percent. The experience of the PRL underscores the importance of having an
adequate system of incentives at the macro level that is conducive to fiscal reform.
36.   Towards the end of 1997, financing under the Transformation Fund had
considerable competition for sources of private financing that offered more attractive
lending terns withouit conditionalities. This eroded the interest of participating provinces
and the pace of reforms began to slow down. This was resolved during the Midterm
Review by devising a system of incentives that rewarded good provincial performance
by improving terms and interest rates on undisbursed balances. As of the closing of the
loan, a total of US$380 million have been disbursed to the provinces through the
Transformation Fund, with only US$68.4 million still undisbursed (see Table 10).6
37.   Finally, it is important to underscore the importance of a cohesive portfolio of
Bank-financed project aimed at promoting provincial reform. While each operation
contributed to specific aspects of provincial reform, such as institutional development or
the reform of individual sectors - i.e., banking, pension funds, roads, health and
education -- , the PRL provided the forum for the provinces to agree on an overall reform
strategy. The PRL-II continued to advance the overall reform strategy, when four of the
ten PRL provinces committed to a more stringent policy matrix in mid-1996.
G.   Project Sustainability
38.   Sustainabilily: Likely. The operation's objectives have been met and important
reforms have been successfully implemented.  While the reduction in provincial
employment could be potentially reversed, it would be hard to reverse most of the other
PRL actions, such as the privatization of provincial enterprises and banks.  The
sustainability of the reform efforts on the part of the provinces is also evidenced by their
continued interest on the Transformation Fund. Two more provinces have signed
agreements within the last few months (i.e., Chubut and Santa Cruz), and participating
provinces have signed additional agreements to extend reforms to other areas, such as the
municipal sector.
39.   The Transformation Fund has become a sustainable financing instrument to
promote reform among sub-national governnents. Loans to provinces were done under
tougher conditions than the Bank loan -- five years, period of grace of six months, and 10
percent interest rate. This has allowed for the successful capitalization of the
Transformation Fund, which is expected to reach US$40 million after the repayment of
the loan. It is important to note that the actual establishment of the Transformation Fund
can be directly attribiuted to the PRL, as the other sources of funding that were anticipated
-- i.e., proceeds fromL the privatization of various national financial institutions, including
6     Included in this amount are US$31 million to be disbursed to Chubut and Santa Cruz. The two
provinces signed subsidiary agreements just recently, i.e., on 3/2/98 and 7/2/98 respectively.



11
the Caja de Ahorro -- never materialized.
H.   Bank Performance
40.   Project Identification: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank correctly diagnosed the
need to consolidate the larger national objectives of public sector reform by extending the
reforms already implemented at the national level to provincial governments. The
operation's design as an agile, quick-disbursing adjustment loan provided attractive
financial incentives to those provinces willing and able to implement reforms. Moreover,
the PRL was just one of the several lending operations that were implemented within the
framework of a broad, comprehensive and internally-consistent Bank strategy that
capitalized on the potential synergy with other loans in the provincial portfolio, the PDP-I
and II in particular.
41.   Project Preparation: Highly Satisfactory. The Bank's perfonnance was highly
satisfactory with respect to the sectoral and technical aspects of the operation, identifying
an ambitious but feasible Policy Matrix that operationalized the major aspects of the
government's reform strategy towards the provinces. The Bank worked in close
collaboration with individuals in the national and provincial governments and maintained a
high degree of coordination between the PRL and other Bank operations, both provincial
and sector loans.
42.   Project Appraisal: Highly Satisfactory. During appraisal, the Bank took into
account the various risks that could affect the operation and set up mechanisms within the
project to mitigate them, including spreading risk among different provinces.
43.   Project Supervision: Highly Satisfactory. SAL operations pose a challenge in
terms of supervision, as they require both precision and agility. The Bank worked closely
with the Borrower, assessing the overall evolution of the provincial sector, as well as
monitoring the progress towards reform being made in each of the participating
provinces. Individual supervision missions were reported by the Borrower as being
highly satisfactory and described as a team effort between the Bank and the Borrower.
The Bank provided strong support during the Mexican crisis, moving quickly to
accelerate the disbursement of the corresponding tranches and in preparing related loans,
such as the Provincial Pension Reform Loan. Periodic Bank reports on provincial
finances have provided a close pulse-taking of the sector, permitting the timely
identification of changing trends and the elaboration of appropriate actions.
I.    Borrower Performance
44.   Preparation of the Project: Highly Satisfactory. The project had a unique
combination of political support, strong determination of individual actors and excellent
technical resources that were key to the success of the programn. Rather than constituting an
isolated effort, the operation was an integral element within the country's strategy to reform
the public sector. The Undersecretary of Provincial Reform was responsible for the entire
package of provincial lending operations with multilateral financing, including he PDP-I
and PDP-I1. He was also responsible for the Fiscal Pact negotiations that were carried



12
out by the govemrnent, thus generating sufficient bargaining leverage to induce the
provinces to reform.
45.   Another key element in the success of the loan preparation was the excellence of the
technical team, a group of top-quality professionals with years of experience in the different
areas to be reformed. Moreover, the majority of them came from the provinces. Thus,
although playing the role of the "feds," they understood the problems and idiosyncrasies of
the provinces and had a deep respect for provincial autonomy.
46.   Project Implementation: Highly Satisfactory.  The implementation of the
project was shared by the Federal Ministries of Economy and Interior. The Ministry of
Interior, through the Secretariat for the Economic Reform of the Provinces (SAREP), was
responsible for coordinating and monitoring activities by participating provinces, as well
as providing technical assistance to the provinces. The project's coordinating unit
(SUCATS) was established within SAREP.
47.   This unit is constituted by a multidisciplinary group of top-notch professionals
with expertise in different areas, such as fiscal policies and tax administration, public
finances, privatizations and deregulation, and sector specialists in education and health.
Its excellent perfonnance in providing technical support to the different provincial
governments has been a key factor in the success of the PRL. The SUCATS has become
a pole of reform and cross-fertilization among provinces. It has become a routine stop for
top provincial government officials visiting Buenos Aires, thus developing both formal
and informal networ]ks of reform-oriented actors across political affiliations. The smooth
implementation of the PRL illustrates the importance of using top professionals in project
management. The Ministers of Economy of the participating provinces have served as
counterpart, thus providing a clear and effective interlocutor at the provincial level.
48.   Compliance with Covenants: Satisfactory. Compliance with legal covenants
was satisfactory. Over the life of the project, compliance with the stipulated covenants
and agreements was met. Reports of excellent quality have been submitted in a timely
manner, offering a clear and complete picture of the progress of the program. Adequate
documentation was made available to support the request for each tranche.
49.   Despite these achievements, there were some shortcomings in the administration
of the Transformalion Fund. In some cases, provinces received advances on
disbursements without having complied with all conditionalities. Although a waiver
reportedly had been granted in each case, no record was kept to document it. Future
disbursements were mnade only after the Bank's no objection had been granted.
50.   As explained above, the Third Tranche condition requiring operational primary
balance for participating provinces in 1995 was waived based on the extraordinary
circumstances resulting from the Mexican crisis.
J.    Assessment of Outcome
51.   Overall Rating: Highly Satisfactory. The project objectives have been met



13
satisfactorily. The project widely promoted public sector reform among participating
provinces, thus effectively consolidating the sustainability of the country's reform program.
The loan's specific achievements include: a) the reduction of 55,000 provincial agents, b)
the privatization or concessioning of 48 provincial enterprises; and c) the privatization of
nine provincial banks. The project has also served as an interface promoting structured
consultations between municipal and national authorities in relation to policy issues central
to the process of public sector reform, including developing an adequate system of
incentives at the national level.
52.   For the Bank, the PRL is a landmark operation as it is one of the first adjustment
loans targeted to sub-national governments. Its innovative design has addressed
effectively the complexity of Argentina's provincial sector and can serve as a model for
other operations, both in LAC and other regions.
53.   In summary, the PRL had set in place the financial and technical resources that
helped the national government to capitalize on the financial pressure resulting from the
Mexican crisis and to promote structural reforns at the provincial level. Moreover, it
underscores the importance of sub-national governments for the overall success of a national
reform program.
K.   Future Operations
54.   Based on the experience from this project, the following aspects ought to be taken
in consideration for future operations:
a)    Minimize the risk of changing political commitment towards reform in
individual provinces by working with groups of provinces.
b)    Make sure that the additional conditions imposed by the government are
within reach.
c)    Make sure that lending conditions remain attractive, in line with the
reform efforts being required on the part of sub-national governments. For
this, take into account the ability of sub-national governments to access
private lending using their revenue sharing as a guarantee.
d)    Through the PRL-II, the Bank has targeted subsequent adjustment lending
in Argentina to individual provinces, with the objective of deepening
reforms in those provinces that have demonstrated the strongest
willingness and ability to reform.
e)     The PRL model, however, might be use effectively to promote the
municipal reform, which is still pending in Argentina. The PRL-II has a
specific municipal component that sets the stage for future dialogue. The
coming fiscal year provides a window of opportunity, with incoming
provincial authorities and strong financial pressure as the result of the
Asian and Russian crises in 1998, and the Brazil crisis in 1999. The
lessons learned from PRL indicate that the conditions are right to promote



14
another round of structural reforms among sub-national governments.
L.    Key Lessons Learned
55.   The following lessons, which are relevant for future public sector reform projects
for sub-national governments beyond Argentina, can be highlighted from the
implementation of this Provincial Reform Loan:7
56.   Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs) targeted at sub-national governments
can be key elemenlts within the framework of a country's overall reform program.
They can provide the forum for the provinces to agree on an overall reform strategy to
articulate other operations designed to support actions in specific areas.
57.   The success of SAL loans depends on a combination of factors, among the
most important of which is strong political support. In the case of Argentina, the
ambitious set of reforms supported under the PRL succeeded as a result of a unique
combination of strong political support, a solid leadership with a high level of
determination, and access to a pool of sound professionals, both at the national and
provincial levels.
58.   Financial support cannot substitute adequate policy incentives. A sustainable
reduction of expenditures depends on establishing an adequate system of incentives, both at
the national and provincial levels. At the national level, the moral hazard of having the
central government guaranteeing provincial debts needs to be removed and the
intergovernmental transfer system needs to be improved to reduce the existing mismatch
between unconditioned federal transfers and shared-revenues and provincial
responsibilities. At ithe provincial level, incentives should come from constituencies that
hold elected officials accountable for their management of public resources.
59.   Early on duaring the reform  program, identify possible post-stabilization
windfall transfers and other sources of "soft" deficit fimancing available to sub-
national governments. Windfall transfers and soft sources of deficit financing available to
sub-national governments undermine the potential for fiscal reform. Thus, it is important to
identify them early on in the process as well as a set of measures that could reduce or
neutralize them. Potential sources of windfall transfers include increases in the automatic
revenue sharing system due to the Tanzi effect, and some elements of the stabilization
program itself, such as the consolidation of provincial debt or privatization of government
assets.
60.   If windfall transfers or soft financing appear, negotiate to neutralize their
impact. Although nriany maintained it was "politically impossible" to modify the revenue
sharing system, the government negotiated continually to try to neutralize the impact of
windfall transfers. The negotiation of the Fiscal Pacts provided a forum for engaging the
7     For a more extensive analysis, see David Vetter and Cecilia Zanetta's article on "Subnational
Governments in a Stabilization Program: Lessons Learned from Argentina", Journal of International
Administration, forthcoming.



15
provinces in the national reform effort. The success of these negotiations was largely due
to the important incentives the national government was willing to put on the table. Some
of these incentives were the guaranteed floor on the revenue share transfers, the gradual
elimination of the national assets tax, and the transfer of the provincial pension systems to
the national government.
61.   Be prepared to take full advantage of crises, as they generate risks but also
opportunities. In spite of the incentives included in the fiscal pacts, only a few provinces
chose to reform. The financial and economic shock that resulted from the Mexican crisis
provided a window of opportunity for large-scale provincial reform. As provincial
revenues dropped drastically and provincial banks became largely insolvent, the national
government took full advantage of the crisis by pushing for the privatization or closure of
the provincial banks as well as the transfer of provincial pension funds to the central
government. In this way, two major chronic sources of provincial fiscal imbalance were
effectively eliminated.
62.   Develop a portfolio of alternative sources of financing for provincial
investment to increase reform leverage. In the case of Argentina, the government was
very effective in developing a portfolio of loans designed to support provincial reform
efforts. To gain reform leverage, it is critical that strict creditworthiness criteria be applied
to all lending available to the provinces, including international lenders
63.   Maximize reform  leverage by focusing on a few reforming sub-national
governments, especially in the case of adjustment lending. As Bank lending may be
only a minuscule portion of total financing available, it should be focused as much as
possible on the reforming provinces. Thus, focus as much as possible on the reforming
provinces, as the worldwide lesson in adjustrnent lending is that political willingness to
reform is a condition sine qua non.



16
Part II
Statistical Tables
Table 1:       Summary of Assessment ..................................   17
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans/Credits ..................................  19
Table 3:       Project Timetable ..................................  20
Table 4:       Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual ...................              20
Table 5:       Status of Legal Covenants ......       ............. 21
Table 6:       Project Indicators ...................               27
Table 7:       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ........     ........... 30
Table 8:       Bank Resources: Missions ...................         30
Table 9:       Matrix of Project Activities .......     ............ 31
Table 10:      Provincial Financing Under
the Transfornation Fund.33
Table 11:      Change in Ingresos Brutos for PRL and
Non-PRL Provinces: 1994-97 .34
Table 12:      Change in Own-Source Revenues for PRL and
Non-PRL Provinces: 1994-97 ..............................     35
Table 13:      Change in Personnel Expenditures: 1995-97 .............. 37
Table 14:      Change in Provincial Employees for PRL Provinces:
1992-97 .37
Table 15:      Change in Current Account Surplus for PRL and
Non-PRL Provinces: 1994-97 .38
Table 16:      Change in Primary Surplus for PRL and Non-PRL
Provinces: 1994-97 ..................................  39
Table 17:      Strategic Projects in PRL and Non-PRL Provinces .... 40
Table 18:      Privatization of Provincial Banks and Enterprises
in PRL and Non-PRL Provinces .41



17
Table 1
Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives
Achievement of Objectives     Substantial    Partial    Negligible     Not
___________________________                                         A pplicable
Macro Policies                    /
Sector Policies                   /
Financial Objectives              /
Institutional Development              -
Physical Objectives                                                     I
Poverty Reduction                        _
Gender Issues                                                           I
Other Social Objectives
Environmental Objectives                  _
Public Sector Management          I
Private Sector Development    _
Other                                                                   I
B. Project Sustainability
8 Project Sustainability           Likely          Unlikely    |   Uncertain
C. Bank Performance
Bank Performance                  Highly        Satisfactory      Deficient
Satisfactory
Identification                      I
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal                           /
Supervision                         I



18
D. Borrower Performance
Borrower Performance          Highly           Satisfactory         Deficient
Satisfactory
Preparation          =-
Implementation                  J
Covenant Compliance                                                              l
Operation (if applicsable)
E. Assessment of Outcome
Assessment of Outcome      Highly      Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory     Highly
L                 ~~~~~~Satisfactory                            Unsatisfactory



19
Table 2
Related Bank Loans
Loan                            Purpose              Year of Approval               Status
Preceding operations
2641-AR - Water Supply I  Privatization                     1988                    Closed
1330-AR - Power          Privatization                     1988                     Closed
Distribution SEGBA
2920-AR - Municipal      Municipal Reform                   1988                    Closed
Development I
3280-AR - Provincial     Provincial PS and                  1991                    Closed
Development Loan         Reforms
3291-AR Public           Public Enterprise Reform           1991                    Closed
Enterprise Reform Loan I
3556-AR - Public         Public Enterprise Reform           1993                    Closed
Enterprise Reform Loan II
3555-AR Debt and Debt   Debt Reduction                      1993                    Closed
Service Reduction Loan
3558-AR - Financial      Financial                          1993                    Closed
Sector Adjustment Loan
FoUlowing operations
3877-ARProvincial        Provincial PS and                  1995                   Ongoing
Development Loan II      Reforms
3860-AR Municipal        Municipal Reform                   1995                   Ongoing
Development II
4218-AR Provincial       Provincial Reform                  1997                   Ongoing
Reform (Rio Negro)
4219-AR Provincial       Provincial Reform                  1997                   Ongoing
Reformn (Salta)
4220-AR Provincial       Provincial Reform                  1997                   Ongoing
Reform (San Juan)
4221-AR Provincial       Provincial Reform                  1997                   Ongoing
Reform (Tucuman)



20
Table 3
Project Timetable
Steps in Projeclt Cycle           Date Planned              Date Actual
Identification
-(Executive Project Summary)
Preparation
-Appraisal                              ----                July 29, 1994
Negotiations                                             November 7, 1994
Letter of Development Policy           ----              December 6, 1994
Board Presentation                                        January 24, 1995
Signing                                ----               March 24, 1995
Effectiveness                                             March 24, 1995
First Tranche Release                                        May 1995
Midtern Reviewv                                            April 21, 1997
Second Tranche Release                                    January 2, 1996
Third Tranche Release                  ----               February 7, 1996
-Project Completion                June 30, 1998            June 30, 1998
;Loan Closing                       June 30, 1998           June 30, 1998
Table 4
Cumulative Loan Disbursements:
Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
'umulative               FY95    FY96    FY97
D][isbursements
Appraisal Estimate          100      100       100
Actual                      100      100       100
Actual as % of Estimate    100%    100%      100%
Date of final disbursement: February 7, 1996.



21
Table 5
Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Section  Covenant Present                   Description of                   Comments
Type    Status                      Covenant
L3836     2.02   5         C       The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan  In compliance
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to
this Agreement
2.03   5         C       The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date
as the Bank shall establish.
2.04   5         C       The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge  In compliance.
at a rate of 3/4 of 1% per annum on principal amount of the
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
2.05(a) 5        C       Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the  In compliance
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to the cost of Qualified
Borrowing determined in respect of the preceding
Semester, plus 1/2 of 1%.
2.06   5        C        Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually  In compliance.
on March I and September 1 in each year.
2.07   5         C       The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the loan  In compliance.
in accordance with the amortization schedule set for in
Schedule 2 of this Agreement.
2.08(a) 5        C       BCRA is designed as representative of the Borrower for the In compliance
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions
2.08(b) 5        C       Borrower entrusts BCRA with responsibility for the  In compliance.
preparation of withdrawal applications under the Loan and
for the collection of documents & other evidence to be
furnished to the Bank in support of such applications.
3.01(a) 5        C       Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time exchange   In compliance.
views on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the
Program and the fulfillment of the conditions set forth or
referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule I to this Agreement.
3.01(b) 5        C       Prior to each exchange of views, Borrower shall furnish to  In compliance.
the Bank for its review and comment a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
3.01(c) 5        C       Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any  In compliance.
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the
Third Tranche which would have the effect of materially
reversing the objectives of the Programn, or any action taken
under, including any action specified in paragraph 4 of
Schedule I and in Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement
3.02   5        C        Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of  In compliance.
the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
3.03(a) 5        C       The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained  In compliance.
records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan.



22
Table 5
Status of Legal Covenants (Cont.)
Agreement Section  Couenant Present                      Description of                     Comments
Type    Status                        Covenant
3.03(b) I         C       Borrower shall have the records and accounts referred to in  In compliance.
(i)                       para. (a) of this Section in respect of expenditures under
each of the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third
Tranche audited, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
3.03(b) I         C       Subject to paras. 9 and 14 of Schedules 4 and 5 to this  In compliance.
(ii)                      Agreement, respectively, furnish to the Bank as soon as
possible, but in any case not later than 4 months after the
last withdrawal from the Loan Account has been made
under each of the First Second and Third Tranches, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by said auditors.
3.03(b) 1         C       Borrower shall furnish to the Bank other information  In compliance.
(iii)                     conceming records and accounts and their audits
3.03(c) I         C       For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals  In compliance.
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall maintain or
cause to be maintained, in accordance with Section 3.03(a),
records and accounts reflecting such expenditures.
3.03c(i I         C       Borrower shall retain, until at least one year after the Bank  In compliance.
i)                        has received the audit report in respect of the expenditures
under the Third Tranche, all records evidencing such
expenditures.
3.03c(i I         C       Borrower shall enable the Bank's representative to examine In compliance.
ii)                       such records referred to in para c (ii) of this section.
3.03 c  I         C       Borrower shall ensure that such records and accounts are   In compliance.
(iv)                      included in the audits referred to in para (b) of this Section
and that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure
submitted during the fiscal year, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.
3.03(d) I         C       The Borrower shall appoint the auditors referred to in para. (b) In compliance.
(i) of this Section not later than 30 days after the respective
dates on which final disbursement of the proceeds of the first
Tranche, Second Tranche, and Third Tranche have been made.
3.04    1         C       Borrower shall, promptly after the respective dates on  In compliance.
which final disbursement of the proceeds of the First
Tranche, Second Tranche, and Third Tranche have been
made, deposit into the Transformation fund, an amount
equivalent to the respective amounts disbursed under the
First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third Tranche.
3.05    1         C       The Borrower shall (a) maintain a unit, within the   In compliance.
Borrower's Secretariat for the Economic Reform of the
Provinces, for the purposes of administering the
Transformation Fund; (b) provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required by
such unit to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a
timely manner.



23
Table 5
Status of Legal Covenants(Cont.)
Agreement Section Covenant Present                     Description of                   Comments
Type    Status                      Covenant
Schedule I 1      1        C        Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this  In compliance.
Schedule, the loan proceeds may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account for expenditure made during the execution of
the Program.
I      I         C       Notwithstanding the provisions of para. I above, no  In compliance.
withdrawals shall be made in respect of::
2(a)    I        C       Expenditures included in the SITC groups or subgroups    In compliance.
2(b)    I        C       Expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods  In compliance.
supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
2 c     I        C       Retroactive financing no greater than $60,000,000 for  In compliance.
expenditures before September 15, 1994.
2(d)    I        C       Expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing   In compliance.
less than $10,000 equivalent
2(e)    I        C       Expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any In compliance.
national or international financing institution or agency
other than the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance
2(f)    1        C       Expenditures for goods intended for a military or  In compliance.
paramilitary purpose or for luxury consumption
2(g)    I        C       Expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent  In compliance.
to $50,000,000 for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3       1        C       Withdrawals for the procurement of goods estimated to cost In compliance.
less than $5,000,000 may be required by the Bank upon the
basis of SOEs under such terms and conditions as the Bank
shall specify.
4       1        C       No withdrawals shall be made and no commitment shall be In compliance.
entered into after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of
such commitments shall have reached.
4(a)    I        C       The equivalent of $100,000,000, unless the Bank is  In compliance.
satisfied, after an exchange of views (para. 3.01), based on
evidence satisfactory to the Bank.
4(a)(I)  I       C       With the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying In compliance.
out of the Program
4(a)(ii)  I      C       That the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower In compliance.
is consistent with the objectives of the Program.
4(a)(iii) I      C       That BCRA is maintaining and enforcing regulations which   In compliance.
treat banks owned or controlled by the Provinces in the same
manner as the private commercial banks
4(a)(iv) 1       C       That Provincial banks (owned or controlled) have been  In compliance.
inspected by the Superintendency of Financial Institution,
or received from an external auditor an opinion on their
financial statements consistent with BCRA within the last
15 months.
4(a)(v)  I       C       That the records and accounts for the expenditures made by In compliance.
Provinces with proceeds for FONAVI and FEDEI are being
audited in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
4(a)(vi) I       C       That the Borrower is complying with its obligations and    In compliance.
enforcing its rights under the Transformation Fund
Agreements in accordance with the respective terms.



24
Table 5
Status of Legal Covenants(Cont.)
Agreement Section  Covenant Present                      Description of                     Comments
T ype    Status                       Covenant
Schedule 3 4(a)(vii) 2       C       That the actions described in Schedule 4 to this agreement  In compliance.
have been taken.
4(b)    I         C       The equivalent of $200,000,000 unless the Bank shall be   In compliance.
satisfied, after an exchange of views as described in section
3.01 of this agreement, based on evidence satisfactory to
the Bank.
4(b)(ii)  I       C       If the Bank notifies the Borrower that it has not met the  In compliance.
conditions referred to in para 4 above, and if within 90 days
of notification the conditions are still not met, the Bank may
cancel the unwithdrawn portion of the Loan.
Schedule 4 1       11        C       Standardized reports on the Provinces' budgets, including   In compliance.
both current and capital expenditures and their financing,
have been prepared in accordance with principles of the
Borrower's Law in respect of the calendar year preceding
the release of the 2d Tranche.
2       11        C       First group of provinces is complying with the timetable for In compliance.
implementation of tax reforms set forth in the Pacto Fiscal.
3       9         C       First group of provinces in monitoring, in a manner  In compliance.
satisfactory to the Bank, at least 50% of the target groups of
large Taxpayers in each such Province.
4       9        C        The First Group of Provinces has reduced in 10,000 the  In compliance.
aggregate number of staff positions in the public service in
relation to the number on 12/31/92.
5       5         C       The First Group of Provinces has prepared draft legislation  In compliance.
of reform each such Province's financial management
system in accordance with the principles contained in the
Borrower's Law.
6       11        C       8 Enterprises and four banks owned or controlled by  In compliance.
Provinces included in the First Group of Provinces or have
been prepared for concessioning acceptable to the Bank.
7       6         C       The Enterprises referred to above, which are in      In compliance.
manufacturing, extracting, or power generation industries
have been submitted to an environmental audit or
evaluation acceptable to the Bank.
8       11        C       The First Group of Provinces has prepared draft legislation  In compliance.
satisfactory to the Bank, on revenue-sharing with
municipalities providing that at least 30% of financial
transfers from Provinces to Municipalities will be based on
performance.
9       1         C       A certified copy of the audit referred to in section  In compliance.
3.03(b)(ii) of this
Agreement in respect of expenditures financed out of the
First Tranche has been furnished to the Bank.
Schedule 5 1       11       C        Standardized reports on the Provinces' budgets, including   In compliance.
both current and capital expenditures and their financing,
have been prepared in accordance. With principles of the
Borrowers' Law, in respect of the calendar year preceding
the release of the 2nd Tranche.



25
Table 5
Status of Legal Covenants(Cont.)
Agreement Section Covenant Present               Description of                    Comments
Type    Status                 Covenant
Schedule 5 2      11       C        The Second Group is monitoring, in a manner  In compliance.
satisfactory to the Bank, at lest 75 of the target
groups of Large Taxpayers in each such
Province.
3       11       C       The Second Group has implemented, in a   In compliance.
substantial manner satisfactory to the Bank, the
tax reform measures set forth in the Pacto
Fiscal.
4       5        C       The Executive branches of the 2nd Group have  In compliance.
submitted to the respective legislative branches
of each such Province bills of law substantially
similar to the draft legislation referred to in
para. 8 of Schedule 4.
5       1        C       The Second Group has reduced in 20,000 the   In compliance.
aggregate number of staff positions in the
public service of such Provinces in relation to
that number on December 31, 1992.
6       1        CP      The executive branches of the Second Group   All have drafted their
have submitted to the provincial legislative    respective laws.
branch laws substantially similar to the draft   Corrientes is the only
legislation referred to in para 8 of the Schedule province in the group to
4 of this agreement.                    have submitted their law;
Misiones will by the end of
August.
7(i)    I        NC      The Second Group has achieved an operation   None of the provinces in
primary balance (excl. SS expenditures) in each the second group reached
Province's budget for FY95 and any other later an operational primary
FY preceding the 3rd Tranche Release.   balance in FY 1995;
however, several did for
1996, and most of the first
semester data for FY 1997
shows significant
improvement.
7(ii)    I       C       The 2nd Group has been submitted, for leg.    In compliance.
approval a balanced budget for their FY96 and
any other later FY preceding the Third Tranche
release.
8(a)    I        C       8 Enterprises and four banks owned or    In compliance.
controlled by Provinces included in the 2nd
Group have at least 51% of their respective
voting shares sold to private companies or have
concessionized in a way acceptable to the
Bank.
8(b)    I        CD      All action recommended in any environmental In compliance.
audit as necessary to correct environmental
damage resulting from past operating practices
of the enterprises referred to in para (a) in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank.



26
Table 5
Status of Legal Covenants(Cont.)
Agreement Section  Covenant Present                  Description of                      Comments
lType    Status                  Covenant
9       1         C        Legislation ratifying the Pacto Fiscal has been  In compliance.
ratified in the Third Group of Provinces.
10      I         C        The 3d Group of Provinces has formnulated,    In compliance.
with the assistance of the Sec. of Public
Revenues, systems satisfactory to the Bank to
monitor and carry out the audit and inspection
of Large Taxpayers.
11      I         C        The 3rd Group of Provinces has agreed with    In compliance.
SAREP on plans satisfactory to the Bank, for
downsizing of public employment in such
Provinces.
12      1         C        The 3rd Group has formulated accounting and   In compliance.
budgeting systems compatible with those of the
Borrower.
13(i)    I        C        Legislation has been approved authorizing: (i)  In compliance.
private juridical or natural persons of at least
51% of the voting shares of 8 enterprises or
four banks.
1 3(ii)   I       C        Legislation has been approved authorizing the  In compliance.
transfer or concessioning of the enterprises or
banks.
13(iii)   I       C        Legislation has been approving liquidation or  In compliance.
such enterprises or banks.
14      I         C        A certified copy of the audit referred to in  In compliance.
Section 3.03(b) of this agreement has been
furnished to the Bank with regard to the Second
Tranche of the Loan.
Covenant Types:
I = Accounts/Audits                                   8 = Indigenous people
2 = Financial performance/generate revenue from       9 = Monitoring, review and reporting
beneficiaries                                      10 = Project implementation not
3 = Flow and utilization of Project funds                 covered by categories 1-9
4 = Counterpart funding                               11 = Sectoral or cross sectoral
5 = Management aspects of the project                     budgetary or other resource
or executing agency                                    allocation
6 = Environmental covenants                           12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
7 = Involuntary resettlement                              regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other
Present Status:
C = covenant complied
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = Not complied with



27
Table 6
Key Indicators for Project Implementation
L  Key Implementation Indicators in President's Report   Estimated   -   Actual
(These indicators are taken from Schedule 4 of the loan      NA
agreement)
This set of indicators considers a First group of four provinces
for which the 2nd tranche disbursement would proceed upon
compliance of such activities
1. Standardized reports on the province's budgets, including           1. Complied
both current and capital expenditures and their financing, have
been prepared, in accordance with the principles contained in
the Borrower's Law No. 24,156, of September 30, 1992, in
respect of the calendar year immediately preceding the release
of the second tranche.
2. At least four provinces shall comply with timetable for              2. Complied
implementation of tax reforms set forth in the Pacto Fiscal
3. At least four provinces shall monitor at least 50% of the
target groups of Large Taxpayers in each such province                  3. Complied
4. At least four provinces shall reduce in 10,000, the aggregate
number of staff positions in the public service of such                 4. Complied
Provinces in relation to that number on December 31, 1992
5. At least four provinces shall prepare legislation to reformn                   l
each such province's financial management systems in                    5. Complied
accordance with the principles contained in the borrower's Law
No. 24, 156 of September 30, 1992
6. Eight enterprises and four banks owned or controlled by
provinces included in four provinces have been brought to the
point of sale, and/or the respective services of such enterprises       6. Complied
and/or banks have been offered to be transferred under
concession arrangements, to private juridical or natural persons,
and/or such enterprises and/or banks have been legally declared
under liquidation.
7. The enterprises referred to in paragraph 6 above, which are
manufacturing, extracting or power generation industries, have          7. Complied
been submitted to an environmental audit or evaluation.
8. At least four provinces have prepared draft legislation, on          8. Complied
revenue-sharing with municipalities, providing that at least 30%
of financial transfers from each such province to their
municipalities will be based on satisfactory fiscal performance
by such municipalities.



28
Table 6
Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Cont.)
L   Key Implementation Indicators in President's Report   Estimated       Actual
(Cont.)
This next set of indicators considers a Second group of four  NA
provinces for which the 3rd tranche disbursement would
proceed upon compl iance of such activities
(These indicators are taken from Schedule 5 of the loan
agreement)
1. Standardized reports on the province's budgets, including           1. Complied
both current and capiital expenditures and their financing, have
been prepared, in accordance with the principles contained in
the BoiTower's Law No. 24,156, of September 30, 1992, in
respect of the calendar year immediately preceding the release
of the second tranche.
2. At least four provinces shall monitor at least 75% of the            2. Complied
target groups of Large Taxpayers in each such province
3. At least four provinces shall implement in a substantial
manner, the tax reforms measures set forth in the Pacto Fiscal          3. Complied
4. The Executive Branches of the second group of provinces              4. Complied
have submitted to the respective legislative branches of each
such province bills of law substantially similar to the draft
legislation referred to in paragraph 5 of schedule 4 to this
agreement.
5. At least four provinces shall reduce in 20,000, the aggregate        5. Complied
number of staff positions in the public service of such
Provinces in relation to that number on December 31, 1992
6. The Executive Branches of the second group of provinces
have submitted to the respective legislative branches of each           6. Complied
such province bills of law substantially similar to the draft
legislation referred to in paragraph 8 of schedule 4 to this
agreement.
7. The second group of provinces has (i) achieved an                    7. Complied
operational primary balance (excluding social security
expenditures) in each such province's budget for their 1995
fiscal year and any other later fiscal year preceding the release
of the third tranche; and (ii) had submitted, for the approval of
the respective legislative branches of each such province, a
balanced budget for their 1996 fiscal year and any other later
fiscal year including the year of the release of the third tranche.



29
Table 6
Key Indicators for Project Implementation (Cont.)
I.  Key Implementation Indicators in President's Report   Estimated       Actual
(Cont.)
8. (a) Eight enterprises and four banks owned controlled by             8. Complied
provinces included in the second group of provinces have had
at least 51% of their respective voting shares sold to private
juridical or natural persons, and/or the respective services of
such enterprises and/or banks have been transferred under
concession arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, to private
juridical or natural persons, and/or such enterprises and/or
banks have been legally declared under liquidation.
(b) All action recommended in any environmental audit as
necessary to correct environmental damage resulting from past
operating practices of the enterprises referred to in paragraph
(a) above has been taken in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
9. Legislation ratifying the Pacto Fiscal has been enacted in the       9. Complied
third group of provinces.
10. The third group of provinces has formulated, with the
assistance of the borrower's Secretariat of Public Revenues,            10. Complied
systems, satisfactory to the Bank, to monitor, and to carry out
audit and inspection of, Large Taxpayers.
11. The third Group of Provinces has agreed with SAREP on             11. Complied
plans, satisfactory to the Bank, for downsizing of public
employment in such Provinces.
12. The Third group of Provinces has formulated accounting             12. Complied
and budgeting systems compatible with those of the Borrower.
13. Legislation has been approved authorizing (i) the transfer to      13. Complied
private juridical or natural persons of at least 51% of the voting
shares of eight enterprises and four banks owned or controlled
by provinces included in the Third Group of Provinces, and/or
(ii) the transfer to such persons, under concession
arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, of the services of such
enterprises and/or banks. And/or (iii) the liquidation of such
enterprises and/or banks.
II. Modified Indicators
Not Applicable
|m. Other Indicators
Not Applicable



30
Table 7
Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                 Revised                   Actual
Stage of
Project Cycle                             Weeks    US$'000    Weeks    US$'000    Weeks    US$'000
Preparation to Appraisal                         0           0            0                     90         290.3
Appraisal-Board                                  0     0                  0                    9.1           37.1
Negotiations through Board Approval              0           0            0                   13.6           41.8
Supervision                                   51.5       177.1        61.9                    55.9         191.9
Completion                                       5        52.1            7                    4.3            7.6
TOTAL                                        56.5       229.2        68.9                   172.9         568.7
' Includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants. Dollars are direct costs only.
Table 8
Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                   Specialized    Implementati   Develop-met
Stage of        Month/       of        Days in      Staff Skills       on         Objectives     Types of
Project Cycle      Year      Persons      Field       Represented       Status                     Problems
Through Appraisal    _-    = 
Appraisal through     _          _         __
Board Approval
Supervision
3/95        2                    TM, Economist        HS            HS
11             2/96        2                    TM, Economist        HS            HS
III            7/96         1                        TM              HS             HS
IV             5/97         1          12          Operations        HS             HS          Project
Analyst                                   Management
V              9/97        2           4         TM, Prov. Fin.      HS            HS
Completion               -          -
1/ Mission leader.
2/Key to specialization:
A. Sr. Public Enterprise Specialist
B. Legal Counsel
C. Sr. Country Economist
D. Principal Financial Management Specialist
E. Consultant
F. Sr. Country Officer
G Tax Administration Specialilst
H. Task Manager



Table 9
Policy Matrix
.                          I                                                        Actions
Activity                  Objective               Accomplisbed         l         By Board           j      Second Tranche           I         Third Tranche
1. FEEA G}==-EN                                                                                                  ____
A. Macroeconomic Stability   Maintain macroeconomic    In broad compliance with  Maintenance of a sound       Maintenance of a sound          Maintenance of a sound
stability to facilitate further   IMF Extended Fund Facility   macroeconomic framework  macroeconomic framework   macroeconomic framework consistent
fiscal reforms in sub-    during the past three years.   consistent with policy    consistent with policy objectives    with policy objectives and programs
national governments.                                objectives and programs       and programs described in the  described in the Letter of
described in the Letter of   Letter of Development Policy.   Development Policy.
Development Policy
B. Transfers to Provinces  Reduce incentives for      Reduced discretionary                                   Provide financial support to    Provide financial support to provinces
inefficient provincial    transfers to provinces from                              provinces implementing agreed    implementing agreed adjustment
spending and help finance    21% of total transfers in                             adjustment programs through the   programs through the Transformation
provincial reforms.        1990 to 11% in 1993.                                    Transformation Fund. Audit     Fund. Audit provincial expenditures
provincial expenditures under  under FONAVI and FEDEI. Provide
Created a Transformation                                FONAVI and FEDEI. Provide       Bank with report on budgetary
Fund and earmarked surplus                              Bank with report on budgetary   performance of all provinces.
revenue sharing resources to                            performance of all provinces.   Comply with its agreements and
provinces undertaking                                   Comply with its agreements and    enforce its rights under the
reforms.                                                enforce its rights under the    Transformation Fund Agreement.
Transfoirmation Fund Agreement.
C. Provincial Banks        Increase incentives for    Under PSAL, BCRA           Maintain BCRA regulations    Maintain BCRA regulations that   Maintain BCRA regulations that treat
privatization/closure by  reduced discounts and      that treat provincial banks the   treat provincial banks the same as   provincial banks the same as other
eliminating special       established regulations to  same as other banks.         other banks, and inspect or audit   banks, and inspect or audit provincial
treatment by Central Bank    limit provincial bank                                 provincial banks during the fifteen  banks during the fifteen months prior
(CBRA).                   funding to public sector, and                            months prior to tranche release.    to tranche release.
to establish reserve
requirements for public
deposits.
L. PROVIICIIAL G                                      FM* Provinces bive         At loom. Ar provincs ave       t     four pto    eshave      Ae       o       i      a
..ft: re form pgtms.   met conditions below.:  .              nditlios  low             conditionS below.
At leastfur additionl Provinces
_________  ----__  -__  --__   _have fiht frstwlchIconditiokns
A. Improve Resource        Improve tax administration....                        Formulate system to monitor    System monitors at least 50% of    System monitors 75% of large
Mobilization                                                                     largest taxpayers.           large taxpayers.                taxpayers.
Change the structure of
provincial taxes in line with                        Legislative approval of the   Adhere to timetable to achieve  Tax reforms substantially
the Fiscal Pact.                                    Fiscal Pact,                 reforms.                        implemented.



Table 9
Policy Matrix (cont.)
Activity                  Objective         |    Accomplished                   By Board                   Second Tranche           |         Third Tranche
B. Improve Efficiency of   Reduce the number of                               I Formulate plan for dowsizing.   Achieve a reduction in 10,000  Reduce public employment positions
Expenditures             | public provincial employees. |                                                     public employment positions from   by an additional 10,000.
I    I                                                         end~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--1992 leve!.
Strengthen management,                               Formulate improved
information, and control                             accounting and budgetary     Draft legislation to reform     Submit legislation to reformn provincial
systems.                                             system compatible with that of  provincial financial management   financial management law in
the Federal Govemment.       law in accordance with the      accordance with the principles of
principles of Federal Law No.  Federal Law No. 24.156.
24.156.
Approve legislation for
Reduce the size of the public                        privatization/concession of  Offer eight enterprises for sale,  Eight enterprises have been privatized
sector and improve                                   eight provincial public      concession or liquidation, with  or concessioned, or are under
efficiency of transfers.                             enterprises.                 environmental audits satisfactory   liquidation. Recommendation of
to the Bank.                   environmental audits undertaken.
Draft legislation on revenue-  Submit legislation on revenue-sharing
sharing with the municipalities  with the municipalities incorporating  s
incorporating incentive rules that  incentive rules consistent with sound
base at least 30% of transfers on    fiscal behavior and expenditure
fiscal performance.            efficiency.
Execute balanced budget in 1995;
Improve fiscal performance.                                                                                       submit balanced budget for 1996 and
subsequent years.
C. Provincial Banks        Reduce the size of                                    Approve legislation for      Four banks have been offered for   Four banks have been privatized or
provincial public banking                            privatization of four provincial  sale or legally declared under  are under liquidation.
sector.                                              banks.                       liquidation.
Source: Report and Recommendiation to the President (Report NO. 6414-AR), December 30, 1994.



33
Table 10
Provincial Financing Under the Transformation Fund
As of 9/10/98
(US$ Million)
Provinces         Date      Sub-Loan Amount  Amount Disbursed  Amount Pending
Initial Sub-Loan   (US$ Million)  (US$ Million)     (US$ Million)
Entre Rios       3/31/95           54.0             54.0              0.0
Misiones         4/11/95           48.6             48.0              0.6
Corrientes       4/26/95          42.0              40.5               1.5
Chaco             5/4/95           36.0             30.0              6.0
San Juan         5/23/95          24.0               18.5             5.5
Catamarca        5/23/95           35.1             31.1              4.0
Santiago del     6/28/95           12.0              6.4              5.6
Estero
Tucuman           1/9/96           25.8             25.6              0.2
Salta             7/96            30.0              30.0              0.0
Rio Negro        11/27/96          40.0             26.0              14.0
Chubut           3/2/98            30.0             21.5               8.5
Santa Cruz       7/2/98           30.0               7.5              22.5
Total                             407.5             339.1             68.4
(*)   It includes capitalization of the Fund.
Source: SUCATS, Interior Ministry



34
Table 11
Change ill Ingresos Brutos Among PRL and Non-PRL Provinces
1994-97
Ingresos Brutos (US$ '000)
Province                              1994             1997       1997-94  %  Change 1994-97
Ne   ueo                ~~~~78,5.01     103,785.00      25,031-993.7
Buenos Aires                  1,8,8.5           ,3,500           41754
La Rioja                          14,822.52       17,408.17       2,585.65                17.44%
Jujuy                            31,341.99        34,900.00       3,558.01                11.35%
..................................................................86......4 2.......4 0.... 00................  4 ,10...........................................................................14..........1...........7.......
La Panpa                         38,792.00        42,340.00       3,548.00                 9.15%
G.C.B.A.                       1,4578.7        1509,900.00       84,151.63                5S.90%
S,anta Fe                       50789             9,0.0          -,5.0-.5
Cordoba                         503,118.20       459,800.00    -43,318.20                 -8.61%
Tierra del Fuego                 41,424.46        36,960.00      -4,464.46               -10.78%
Formosa                          20,419.71        18,200.00      -2,219.71               -10.87%
Mendoza                         233,650.13       201,000.00    -32,650.13                -13.97%
San Luis                         46,740.43        35,394.32    -11,346.11                -24.27%
Media                                                                                      9.86%
Mean
All Provinces                                                                          8.68%
Non-PRL Provinces                                                                      7.69%
(*)     The media has been used instead of the mean because it is a more stable measure of centrality.
(**)    Chubut and Santa Cruz have not been included in the PRL provinces, as they have signed
agreements much later than the other provinces.
Source: SUCATS, Ministly of Interior (based on data from the national and provincial Ministries of
Economy).



35
Table 12
Change in Own-Source Revenues Among PRL and Non-PRL Provinces
1994-97
Own-Source Revenues (US$ '000)
Province                        1994           1997       1997-94  % Change 1994-97
oia             ~~~~22,668.77   29,642.00      6,973.2            30.76%
Buenos Aires             3,432,923.86   4,327,876.00    894,952.14          26.07%
Neuquen          _           _ 113,599.59  136,095.00   22,495.41            19. 80%
Jujuy                       52,545.79     61,859.00      9,313.21            17.72%
LaPampa                     82,839.00     94,861.00      12,022.00           14.51%
Santa Cruz                  55,112.11     61,467.66      6,355.55            11.53%
G.C.B.A.                 2,315,638.28   2,524,750.00    209,111.72           9.03%
Chubut                      52,142.69     55,562.00      3,419.31            6.56%
Snt Fe                    97052.90       97,800.00       -9,252.9            0.5%
Cordoba                    881,566.62    856,166.00    -25,400.62           -2.88%
Mendoza                    415,656.31    392,200.00    -23,456.31            -5.64%
San Luis                    79,749.24     73,637.62      -6,111.62          -7.66%
Formosa                     27,275.96     24,557.00      -2,718.96          -9.97%
Tierra del Fuego            54,497.24     43,581.00    -10,916.24          -20.03%
Media                                                                         9.24%
Mean
All Provinces                                                            12.65%
Non-PRL Provinces                                                         12.69%
(*)    The media has been used instead of the mean because it is a more stable measure of centrality.
(**)   Chubut and Santa Cruz have not been included in the PRL provinces, as they have signed
agreements much later than the other provinces.
Source: SUCATS, Ministry of Interior (based on data from the national and provincial Ministries of
Economy).



36
Table 13
Change in Personnel Expenditures Among PRL and Non-PRL Provinces
1995-97
Personnel Expenditures (US$ Million)
Province                      1995          1997        1997-95   % Change 1995-97
La Rioja                    333.00          82.10        -09                1.9
Tiradel' Futego          20.81782                     -25 J98            -12.72%
Neuquen                     474.24         430.10        -44.14             -9.3 1%
San Luis                    2 1.7          1970          -18.7              -8.69%
Jujuy                       3.41.54        327.00        -14.54              -.6
Santa Cruz                  28.8273.4                     -7:1              -2.56%
Cordoba                   1,202.72       1,180.2087
Mendoza                     653.91         645.90         -8.01             -1.22%
Chubut                      291.07         290.40         -0.67             -0.23%
SantaFe                   1,172.74       1,213.30         40.56              3.46%
Formosa                     342.94         355.50         12.56              3.66%
La Pampa                    206.70         218.50         11.80              5.71%
B.A.                      1,580.53       1,708.90                             .12%
Buenos Aires              3,497.98       3,988.20        490.22             14.01%
Media                                                                       -2.03%
Mean
All Provinces         15,206.14      15,543.00        336.86               2.22%
Non-PRL Provinces     10,797.88      11,288.70        490.82               4.55%
(*)    The media has been used instead of the mean because it is a more stable measure of centrality.
(**)   Chubut and Santa Cruz have not been included in the PRL provinces, as they have signed
agreements much later than the other provinces.
Source: SUCATS, Ministry of Interior (based on data from the national and provincial Ministries of
Economy).



37
Table 14
Change in Number of Provincial Agents in PRL Provinces
1992-97
Number of Provincial Agents
Province          1992     1997 Decrease 97-92
Catamarca       30,708   25,685          5,023
Corrientes      43,133   37,752          5,381
Chaco           51,825   46,025          5,800
Entre Rios      64,028   55,610          8,418
Misiones        38,821   36,386          2,435
Sgo. del Estero    36,585   30,435       6,150
San Juan        40,046   36,097          3,949
Tucuman         55,580   50,751          4,829
Rio Negro       31,446   29,095          2,351
Salta           42,822   32,141         10,681
Total          434,994  379,977         55,017
Source: SUCATS, Ministry of Interior



38
Table 15
Change in Current Account Surplus Among PRH and Non-PRL Provinces
1994-97
Current Account Surplus (US$ Million)"
1994           1997         1994-97 % Change 1994-
97
Neuquen                         -11.2           90.5           101.7        909.27%
San Luis                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~248.03
Cordoba                        -193.3          222.6           415.8        215.16%
La Pampa                                                         8.          89.24
Jujuy                  ~~~~-83.5       -45.1            384          45,95
La Rioja                       -157.2         -144.9            12.3          7.84%
Formosa                         -65.1          -66.2            -1.1         -1.66%
T. del Fuego                    -69.9          -80.4           -10.4        -14.92%
Bs. As.                         202.6           15.5          -187.1        -92.36%
Mendoza                         143.5          -47.4          -190.9       -133.07%
Santa Cruz                       -5.8          -16.2           -10.4       -178.00%
Media                                                                        66.26%
Mean
All Provinces                -703.6          301.3         1,004.9        142.83%
_!___~~~~slw
Non-PRL Provinces              86.7          325.6           238.8        275.46%
Current Revenues (excluding Transfers) minus Current Expenditures (including Interest).
(*)    The media has been used instead of the mean because it is a more stable measure of centrality.
(**)   Chubut and Santa Cruz have not been included in the PRL provinces, as they have signed
agreements much later than the other provinces.
Source: Ministry of Economy and Public Works.



39
Table 16
Change in Primary Surplus Among PRL and Non-PRL Provinces
1994-97
Primary Surplus (US$ Million)"'
1994        1997     1994-97  % Change 1994-97
Santa Fe                   -13.85      44.04        57.89          417.97%
La Rioja                  -23.27       64.60        87.88          377.57%
San Luis                  -40.58       99.71       140.29          345.74%
Cordoba                  -320.13       98.44       418.57          130.75%
Neuquen                  -109.01       26.25       135.26          124.08%
La Pampa                  -44.01        8.72        52.73          119.82%
Santa Cruz                 -50.73      -4.14        46.60           91.85%
Jujuy                    -133.37       -34.24       99.13           74.33%
Mendoza                    10.15       16.84         6.68           65.85%
Chubut                   -185.79      -91.14        94.65           50.94%
T. del Fuego               -32.64     -38.24        -5.60          -17.16%
Formosa                  -116.60      -143.42      -26.82          -23.00%
MCBA                      133.84       29.82      -104.02           -77.72%
Bs. As.                  -250.46     -536.38      -285.91         -114.15%
Media                                                               76.18%
Mean
All Provinces         -2162.89     -603.70     1559.19            72.09%
Non-PRL Provinces     -1176.45     -459.13      717.32            60.97%
Current Revenues (including Transfers) minus Current Revenues (excl. Interest) minus Capital
Expenditures.
(*)    The media has been used instead of the mean because it is a more stable measure of centrality.
(**)   Chubut and Santa Cruz have not been included in the PRL provinces, as they have signed
agreements much later than the other provinces.
Source: Ministry of Economy and Public Works.



40
Table 17
Strategic Projects Under Implementation in PRL and Non-PRL Provinces
Strategic Projects Under Implementation
Tax           Financial       Property
Province               Cadastre   Administration   Administration    Registry      Total
La Rloja                  Yes           Yes              Yes            Yes          4
BuenosAires               Yes           Yes              Yes                         3
banta Fe                  Yes           Yes              Yes                         3
Tierra del Fuego          Yes            es              Yes                         3
Cordoba                   Yes           Yes                                          2
Formosa                   Yes           Yes                                          2
Jujuy                     Yes           Yes                                          2
Mendoza                   Yes           Yes                                          2
Neuquen                   Yes           Yes                                          2
San Luis                  Yes           Yes                                          2
La Pampa                                Yes                                           I
G.C.B.A.                                Yes                                          I
Santa Cruz                                                                           0
Media                                                                                3
Number of Subprojects
All Provinces          20            23                14             5          62
Non-PRL Provinces    11              13                5              1          30
Note: All these subprojects: are being financed under PDP-I and II, unless it is indicated
differently.
(1) Financed by the Secretaria de Hacienda de la Nacion.
(2) Financed with provincial resources.
Source: SUCATS, Ministry of Interior.



41
Table 18
Provincial Banks, Other Banks and Enterprises Privatized
in PRL and Non-PRL Provinces
Provincial Banks and Enterprises Privatized, Concessioned or Liquidated
Provincial    Other       Provincial         Total
Province                 Bank        Banks       Enterprises   (w/o Provincial Bank)
;,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   ..   ...   ..   ...
San Luis                 Yes                         6                6
Mendoza                  Yes     .      1            4                5
Formosa                  Yes                         3                3
Buenos Aires                                         3                3
Neuquen                                              3                3
Tierra del Fuego                                     3                3
Jujuy                     Yes                        1                I
La Rioja                  Yes                        1                1
Santa Fe                 Yes                         1                1
Chubut                                               1                1
Santa Cruz               Yes                         0                0
Cordoba                                              0                0
La Pampa                                             0                0
G.C.B.A.                                             0                0
Media                                                                 3
Total
All Provinces            16           3            72               75
Non-PRL Provinces        7            1            26               27
(*)    Although the provincial bank was privatized in Corrientes, it is now back in the hands of the
provinces, as the selected bidder failed to complete the transaction. The province is currently working on a
second attempt to privatize it.
Source: SUCATS, Ministry of Interior.



42                                   Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
Annex A
Borrower's Contribution8
INFORME FINAL DE EVALUACI6N
PIROGRAMA DE REFORMA PROVINCIAL (PREP)
Resumen Ejecutivo
1. Marco Macroecon6mico y Situaci6n Financiera en las Provincias:   Cuando la
Administraci6n del Presidente Menem comenz6 su primer periodo constitucional en julio de
1989, la economia argentina estaba sumida en una profunda recesi6n y en una hiperinflaci6n que
Ilegaba a los tres digitos por mes. La situaci6n economica que se vivia demandaba urgentemente
de una reforma estructural a fondo, la que fue pronta y responsablemente asumida por la nueva
Administraci6n. La serie de reformas que siguieron fueron notables por su alcance y la rapidez
con que se ejecutaron. En todo el proceso de ajuste estructural, el Banco Mundial jug6 un papel
de relevancia, sustentado en un trabajo y dialogo de varios afios con el Gobierno. Es asi que
cuando se negocia el Programa de Reforma Provincial (PREP) en 1994, la relaci6n con el Banco
Mundial contaba ya con una lista significativa de operaciones fructiferas. Como resultado de las
reformas, la economia argentina se habia expandido en un 25,5% en el trienio 1991-93, y seguia
creciendo a buen ritmo en 1994. El perenne problema de la inflaci6n estaba claramente bajo
control. No obstante, la profunda reestructuraci6n econ6mica seguia enmarcada en un mercado
laboral rigido, que se reflejaba en una alta tasa de desempleo. Este era uno de los sintomas de
que el esfuerzo por transformar la economia necesitaba auin continuar vigorosa y decididamente.
2. Hacia 1994, el tipo de cambio real se habia apreciado y el deficit en la balanza comercial
requeria de monitoreo, derivado del fuerte crecimiento mostrado por las importaciones. Sin
embargo, su financiamiento no aparecia como un problema, por la fuerte entrada de capitales
externos y el mas holgado acceso al credito internacional. En agosto de 1994 se establecia el
MERCOSUR, paso trascendental para la creaci6n de un mercado comfin regional e importante
motor para el crecimiento del pais. Planteaba tambien el desafio de ahondar y extender el
proceso de ajuste, particularmente hacia areas como la gesti6n pfiblica provincial, donde el
impetu reformista era ai6n incipiente.
3. Un riesgo importante era la frAgil situaci6n financiera de la banca publica provincial. Los
problemas del sector bancario, combinados con una potencial desaceleraci6n en la entrada de
capitales externos-como efectivamente se materializ6 con el Ilamado "Efecto Tequila"-se
vislumbraban como una mezcla peligrosa, que podian causar fuertes alzas en las tasas de interes
domdsticas y una contracci6n en la actividad productiva. En lo positivo, las tasas de interes de
los dep6sitos en pesos habian bajado substancialmente hacia 1994. Sin embargo, los margenes de
intermediaci6n de la banca se mantenian altos (cerca de 13%), reflejando claramente sintomas de
segmentaci6n y fragilidad en el sistema financiero argentino.
4. En particular, se telmia que una crisis financiera pudiese lievar a una falla sisternica de la
banca p(iblica provincial, por lo que uno de los objetivos del PREP fue tratar de desactivar dicho
8     The Borrower has prepared a comprehensive report presenting its own views on the project's
performance. For reasons of space, only the Executive Summary is included in this ICR. A copy of the
complete report is in the project's files and can be made available upon request.



43                                    Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
riesgo. La estrategia del Gobiemo era terminar con la gesti6n puiblica en estos bancos, optAndose
por la privatizaci6n o su liquidaci6n ordenada. Cuando la crisis en Mexico deriv6 en una escasez
generalizada del financiamiento extemo en la regi6n, la crisis bancaria a nivel local se desat6
fuertemente. Se recurri6 entonces no s6lo al PREP, sino que ademas a otros programas, como el
Prestamo para la Privatizaci6n de la Banca Provincial.
5. La crisis facilit6 politicamente las privatizaciones. En 1994, habia 25 bancos de propiedad de
las Provincias, los que contaban con cerca de 700 oficinas y empleaban unos 24.000 funcionarios.
Su actividad crediticia se habia expandido fuertemente, concentrindose principalmente en
pr6stamos a sus propios gobiernos y a las empresas puiblicas. Los bancos provinciales acudian
frecuentemente al redescuento del BCRA, para asegurar su financiamiento. Hacia 1994, cuando
se disefiaba el PREP, la pobre gesti6n de cr6dito y a las perdidas acumuladas ya habian motivado
a los gobiernos provinciales a atacar resueltamente el problema. En efecto, el 80% de los banco
provinciales eran candidatos para la privatizaci6n y seis ya habian incorporado capital privado.
6. En relaci6n a la situaci6n fiscal, los gobiernos provinciales hist6ricamente habian contribuido
fuertemente a la cr6nica inestabilidad macroecon6mica del pais. El equilibrio fiscal del Gobiemo
Nacional se habia restaurado hacia 1993, mientras que las Provincias continuaban como grupo
siendo deficitarias. Las dificultades fiscales de las Provincias persistian aun despues de un alza
de proporciones en la coparticipaci6n federal. Los deficits resultaban muy dificiles de financiar y
se habia producido un exceso de endeudamiento con bancos privados nacionales y extranjeros,
garantizados comunmente por los ingresos de coparticipaci6n federal. La precaria situaci6n fiscal
de varias Provincias era especialmente preocupante por las nuevas y expandidas funciones que
sus gobiemos debian desarrollar, como resultado de la descentralizaci6n de los servicios y la
privatizaci6n de funciones por el Gobierno Nacional. Se requeria, por un lado, mejorar la gesti6n
estatal, haciendo mas eficiente el gasto puiblico y, por otro, incrementar la recaudaci6n tributaria,
reduciendo a la vez las distorsiones que introducia. En cuanto a las empresas puiblicas, estas eran
productoras ineficientes, que penosamente se sostenian gracias al apoyo fiscal amplio que
recibian. Muchas de ellas claramente eran insolventes.
7. El Programa de Reforma Financiera de las Provincias: El PREP form6 parte integral y
fue una herramienta mas del programa de reforma financiera de las Provincias que el Gobierno
Nacional ha impulsado continuamente durante la presente decada. El alcance, los objetivos
centrales y las intenciones de politica que estaban detras de este prograrna de gobiemo y,
consecuentemente del PREP, quedaron claramente especificados en la Carta de Politica de
Desarrollo ("Letter of Development Policy") de diciembre de 1994, enviada al Banco Mundial
para solicitar su asistencia, la que se materializ6 con el PREP. Este fue uno de los tres pilares en
que se sustentaba la estrategia de reforma financiera provincial del Gobierno Nacional. Los otros
dos fueron el Fondo para la Transformaci6n de los Sectores Puiblicos Provinciales (Decreto
678/93), creado en abril de 1993, a cargo del Ministerio del Interior, y el Pacto para el Empleo, la
Producci6n y el Crecimiento (el Pacto Fiscal), firmado en agosto de 1993 con varias de las
Provincias. En la practica, estos tres pilares se complementaron entre si. La Secretaria de
Asistencia para la Reforma Econ6mica Provincial (SAREP) del Ministerio del Interior se hizo
cargo del PREP, como antes del programa Provincias I, que provey6 de asistencia tecnica al
PREP.
8. El PREP aport6 los recursos financieros que le dieron un contenido practico al Fondo para la
Transformaci6n. Se debe recordar que, segun el marco constitucional que rige a Argentina, las
Provincias son entidades aut6nomas, de modo que los cambios estructurales que se buscaban
debian ser concensuados a traves de acuerdos especificos.  De hecho, el Fondo para la



44                                    Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
Transformaci6n y el Pacto Fiscal representaron dos acuerdos marco para encausar la reforma
financiera en las Provincias.
9. El Fondo para la Transformaci6n de los Sectores Publicos Provinciales. Los recursos del
Fondo estaban destinados a apoyar a las Provincias dispuestas a la instrumentaci6n de un
programa de transformaci6n integral de su sector publico, el que debia incluir medidas y
encuadrarse dentro de las pautas que el mismo Decreto 678/93 delineaba. Los cr6ditos de libre
disponibilidad ofrecidos a las Provincias eran a un plazo de hasta 5 afios, con amortizaci6n
mensual y un plazo de gracia de hasta 6 meses. La tasa de interes se fij6 inicialmente en un 12%
anual. La SAREP representaba al Gobierno Nacional en los convenios con las Provincias y el
seguimiento diario correspondia a la Subunidad de Coordinaci6n, Asistencia Tecnica y
Seguimiento (SUCATS) de la Unidad Ejecutora Central (UEC), dependiente de la SAREP. El
seguimiento y control de las metas fiscales en los convenios se coordinaban con la Secretaria de
Hacienda.
10. Previo a cualquier desembolso, los convenios debian ser sancionados por ley de la Provincia
prestataria, quedando los fondos garantizados con la coparticipaci6n federal. El Fondo se
realiment6 con el servicio de los creditos colocados, lo que posibilit6 su extensi6n en el tiempo, y
de hecho continuia operando. En cuanto a su condicionalidad, el Fondo para la Transformaci6n
pretendia corregir los desequilibrios fiscales provinciales, a traves de mejoras en la movilizaci6n
de recursos locales, rnayor eficiencia en las erogaciones y reducciones en el gasto corriente.
Asimismo, exigia un programa para la privatizaci6n de empresas y bancos puiblicos provinciales.
El Fondo para la Transformaci6n tambien contemplo el financiamiento de retiros de agentes
piiblicos a traves del mecanismo de los Bonos para la Creaci6n del Empleo en los Sectores
Privados Provinciales (BOCEP).
11. El Pacto Fiscal. El Pacto Fiscal llamnaba a las Provincias a reformar sus estructuras
impositivas, reduciendo sus impuestos distorsionantes que gravaban al sector productivo, a la vez
que promoviendo f6rnulas para incrementar los ingresos tributarios locales. A cambio, el
Gobierno Nacional se comprometia a aumentar los ingresos minimos provinciales provenientes
de la coparticipaci6n federal; a posponer el servicio, y posiblemente condonar, algunas de las
deudas provinciales con el Gobierno Nacional, y a aceptar la trasferencia al Sistema Nacional de
Previsi6n Social de las Cajas de Jubilaciones Provinciales. Asimismo, el Gobiemno Nacional
queria que los tributos coparticipados, cuando excedieran un monto acordado, se usaran para
cancelar deudas anteriores a agosto de 1992 o para financiar inversiones de capital o programas
de reforma. Se buscaba tambien intensificar la fiscalizacion y el control tributario, uniformando
los sistemas impositivos provinciales segiin pautas de la DGI. Ademas, abogaba por la
desregulaci6n de las actividades profesionales y de transporte; la derogaci6n de las restricciones
sobre la oferta de bienes y servicios, y la adhesi6n a la politica federal en materia de
medicamentos y alimentos.
12. En este contexto, el PREP con su prestamo de rapido desembolso por US$300 millones,
venia a asegurar el financiamiento para apoyar el proceso de reforma financiera y fiscal
provincial. El PREP realzaba tambi6n el contenido de las propuestas incluidas en el Pacto Fiscal
y el Fondo para la Transfornaci6n, dAndole mayor fuerza y respaldo a la condicionalidad
acordada con las Provincias. Ademas, se aprovechaba la sinergia resultante del reforzamiento
institucional logrado bajo los programas Provincias I y II.
13. Las Principales Caracteristicas y los Objetivos del PREP: Con el PREP, el Gobierno
Nacional buscaba Ilegar a acuerdos especificos sobre cambios de fondo con un subgrupo de los
gobiernos provinciales, entre aquellos mAs comprometidos con un proceso de reforma financiera



45                                    Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
integral. Al enviar la Carta de Politica al Banco Mundial, el Gobierno Nacional estaba en
condiciones de especificar los objetivos y una tematica claramente definida para el PREP. El
Gobiemo requeria encontrar a lo menos cuatro Provincias que pudieran cumplir con la
condicionalidad acordada para los dos primeros tramos y dos grupos distintos, de cuatro
Provincias cada uno, para el tercero. La condicionalidad del primer tramo debia cumplirse antes
de la presentaci6n del PREP al Directorio del Banco Mundial, por lo que el PREP tuvo una alta
dosis de condicionalidad previa.
14. Tres de los objetivos que se especificaron en la Carta de Politica perseguian mantener la
continuidad de politicas ya en aplicaci6n por el Gobierno Nacional. Estos objetivos eran: (a) la
mantenci6n de la estabilidad macroecon6mica; (b) limitar transferencias discrecionales
adicionales de apoyo fiscal; (c) la mantenci6n del programa normativo que igualaba el
tratamiento de los bancos puiblicos provinciales y los bancos privados.
15. El Gobierno Nacional tambien buscaba un equilibrio en las cuentas fiscales consolidadas y la
estandarizaci6n de la informaci6n estadistica presupuestaria de las Provincias. Hoy todos estos
informes son peri6dica y oportunamente publicados.  Adicionalmente, el Gobierno se
comprometi6 a aumentar la asistencia tecnica a las Provincias, a focalizar los programas de
asistencia social y a conceder anticipos, a traves del Fondo para la Transformaci6n, para paliar el
impacto de las reforrnas y ajustes.
16. El PREP se esperaba estuviese completamente desembolsado en menos de tres ainos y estaba
en principio abierto a todas las Provincias y a la Municipalidad de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires. Si
bien el PREP era un programa de caracter integral, estaba acotado en el tiempo y en el
financiamiento de que disponia, por lo que no pretendia agotar el tema de la reforma de las
finanzas provinciales. Sus dos objetivos centrales a nivel de las Provincias fueron: a) un
mejoramiento de la eficiencia en el gasto piublico, por medio del reforzamiento del proceso
presupuestario, la reducci6n del sector puiblico, la reforma administrativa y tributaria y el
mejoramiento de los mecanismos de transferencias; y b) una reducci6n del papel de los bancos
provinciales, a traves de su privatizaci6n o, en caso contrario, procediendo a su liquidaci6n. Los
compromisos adquiridos por el Gobierno Nacional quedaron detallados en la Matriz de Politicas
que se acord6 con el Banco Mundial.
17. Los convenios firmados entre el Gobierno Nacional y las Provincias. El apoyo financiero y
tecnico que el Gobierno Nacional ofreci6 a las Provincias con voluntad de reformar, fue a cambio
del compromiso de que estas tomasen medidas y acciones especificas que, entre otras cosas,
sirvieran para satisfacer la condicionalidad que el Gobierno Nacional habia asumido con el Banco
Mundial. Estos convenios que permitian a las Provincias el acceso al financiamiento del Fondo
para la Transformaci6n debian ser ratificados por las Legislaturas provinciales. Cada Provincia
debia tambien aprobar por ley el regimen de retiro voluntario a traves del BOCEP. Para acceder a
estos convenios con la SAREP, las Provincias debian previamente cumplir con una lista
importante de condiciones. En la practica, la pesada condicionalidad inicial de los convenios
limito el universo de aspirantes al financiamiento de dicho Fondo (doce Provincias hasta fines de
1998).
18. Habia otras dos diferencias de peso entre los terminos y condiciones del PREP y los de los
convenios entre las Provincias y la SAREP. Primero, las tasas de interes del financiamiento
ofrecido a las Provincias fueron menos atractivas que las del prestamo del Banco Mundial a la
Repuiblica.  Segundo, los plazos convenidos con las Provincias para cumplir con las
condicionalidad del primer, segundo y tercer tramos se fijaron en 90, 270 y 540 dias,
respectivamente, lo cual fue muy demandante.  El financiamiento del Fondo para la



46                                    Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
Transformaci6n no flue un gran incentivo para las Provincias mas grandes, por lo que participaron
mas bien Provincias con economias de menor tamailo relativo.
19. Evaluacion del lIogro de los Objetivos bajo el PREP: La firma de convenios exhaustivos
tuvo implicancias imiportantes para la profundidad del proceso de cambio y su velocidad. El
programa de reformas se aplico a un universo mas amplio de Provincias que el minimo de ocho
que en teoria se necesitaba para cumplir con el compromiso adquirido con el Banco Mundial. El
programa de reforma de las Provincias contin(ua y el Fondo para la Transformaci6n y la UEC
siguen proveyendo apoyo financiero y tecnico a las Provincias comprometidas con la
transformaci6n.  Fueron tambi6n meritos del programa y de su disefio que los cambios
estructurales logrados sobrepasaran en muchos casos los requerimientos de la Matriz de Politicas
y que se implementaran con mayor celeridad que la originalmente proyectada. La autorizaci6n
del tercer tramo del PREP tuvo lugar menos de dos ainos despuds de que este entrara en
efectividad.
20. La lista de acciones tomadas bajo el PREP fue considerable si se evalua el proceso de cambio
desde la perspectiva del universo de Provincias que firmaron convenios con la SAREP, siendo
justificado calificar el cambio alcanzado bajo el PREP como altamente satisfactorio. S6lo una de
las condiciones en la Matriz de Politicas, la de ejecutar un presupuesto fiscal con un resultado
operativo primario en equilibrio en 1995 y anos posteriores precedentes al tercer desembolso, no
se cumpli6. Pero en este caso se puede argumentar fuerza mayor, producto del deterioro fiscal
generalizado, secuela de la fuerte crisis econ6mica y financiera que azot6 al pais y a toda
America Latina desde fines de 1994 y durante 1995.
21. Sin duda, la reforma a nivel provincial fue mucho mAs allA del PREP pero, entre las medidas
y acciones tomadas durante el periodo 1995-97, resaltan en particular aquellas obradas por las
Provincias del PREP rnonitoreadas por la SUCATS. En cuanto a los objetivos globales, por los
que debia velar principalmente el Gobierno Nacional, 6stos se cumplieron razonablemente, no
obstante la crisis comentada en el parrafo anterior. Pese a la crisis, el proceso integral de reforina
fiscal y financiera siguli6 adelante en las Provincias, lograndose en forma altamente satisfactoria
los objetivos perseguiidos al nivel de las diez Provincias consideradas para evaluar el
cumplimiento de la corndicionalidad del PREP.
22. Previo a la declaraci6n de efectividad del PREP en marzo de 1995, las cuatro Provincias que
se consideraron para evaluar la condicionalidad previa exigida (Catamarca, Chaco, Entre Rios y
Misiones) habian: a) aprobado legislacion adhiriendose al Pacto Fiscal; b) formulado sistemas
para monitorear a grandes contribuyentes; c) formulado planes de reducci6n de personal; d)
formulado sistemas de contabilidad y presupuestarios mejorados; e) aprobado legislaci6n para
privatizar o concesionar ocho empresas puiblicas; y f) aprobado legislaci6n para la privatizaci6n
de cuatro bancos provirnciales.
Objetivos Perseguidos a Nivel del Gobierno Nacional:
23. Estabilidad macroecon6mica: Crucial para la consecuci6n de este objetivo era mantener la
estabilidad de precios, la preservaci6n del equilibrio fiscal y la operaci6n de una economia con
mercados no sujetos a restricciones, competitivos y propiamente regulados, en el caso de los
servicios publicos. BAsicarnente, se requeria para ello continuar adelante con el programa de
reforma estructural que el Gobierno habia seguido desde su inicio. Ello ocurri6 efectivamente
asi. Ademas de los programas de reforma apoyados por el Banco Mundial, Argentina seguia un
austero programa de ajuste macroecon6mico con el Fondo Monetario Internacional, el que se
reformul6 para adecuarlo a la nueva y mas precaria situaci6n macroecon6mica desatada por el



47                                    Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
"Efecto Tequila". La crisis se tom6 como un desafio, procediendose a acentuar auin mas el
proceso de reforma estructural. En todo esto, la reforma a nivel provincial jug6 un papel
importante, contribuyendo substancialmente a la restauraci6n del equilibrio macroeconomico y al
retorno del crecimiento econ6mico.
24. Reducci6n de los incentivos para el gasto ineficiente de las Provincias y apoyo de sus
reformas financieras: Se siguio una estrategia con cuatro caminos de acci6n. Primero, se
transfiri6 al Fondo para la Transformacion los recursos provenientes del PREP, para apoyar a las
Provincias dispuestas a implementar reformas.  Es significativo que el financiamiento
proporcionado por el Fondo fue superior a los US$300 millones aportados por el PREP, como
resultado de la capitalizaci6n de intereses y del calendario de repago mas corto de los prestamos a
las Provincias. Segundo, se Ilevaron a cabo oportunamente por el SIGEN auditorias de los
registros y cuentas de los gastos realizados por las Provincias con fondos del FONAVI y FEDEI,
para eliminar el uso indiscriminado de estas transferencias que representaban alrededor de un
65% de las transferencias discrecionales recibidas del Gobierno Central. Tercero, la Secretaria de
Hacienda de la Nacion confeccion6 informes estandarizados de las ejecuciones presupuestarias
para las 23 Provincias y la Ciudad de Buenos Aires, siguiendo los principios contenidos en la Ley
N 24.156 de la Naci6n, de modo de tener un seguimiento de las situaci6n fiscal provincial.
Finalmente, la SUCATS hizo un seguimiento detallado de cada obligaci6n asumida bajo los
convenios, a la vez que la SAREP tom6 acciones y medidas necesarias para hacer valer sus
derechos bajo dichos convenios.
25. Con posterioridad al desembolso del tercer tramo del PREP, la SUCATS se vio en la
necesidad de flexibilizar los terminos, plazos y condiciones de los convenios firmados con las
Provincias. Ello se debi6 en parte a las secuelas de la crisis financiera, a dificultades en los
procesos de privatizaci6n y a un relajamiento en el grado de voluntad politica para lievar a
termino final los compromisos adquiridos. Tarnbidn influy6 fuertemente lo ajustado de los plazos
dados a las Provincias para completar las reformas acordadas, que provoc6 vencimientos de
plazos en el caso de ocho convenios. Asimismo, se veia la necesidad de adecuar las tasas de
interes y los plazos de los prestamos concedidos por el Fondo para la Transformaci6n a las
condiciones de mercado, lo que deriv6 en bajas en las tasas de inter6s para nuevos desembolsos y
una extensi6n en los plazos de amortizacion del saldo adeudado, a 96 o 120 meses, ligado al
grado de avance de cada Provincia. En setiembre de 1997 se negociaron actas complementarias
con siete Provincias para el desembolso de lo ya comprometido y no desembolsado, mas un
aumento del monto del convenio original para el caso de TucumAn. Posteriormente, en marzo de
1998, se firm6 un protocolo adicional de ampliaci6n del monto original con Rio Negro. El
enfasis de este renovado esfuerzo se puso en cuatro temas: el equilibrio fiscal, el incremento de la
recaudacion tributaria, la disminuci6n de personal y la privatizaci6n de empresas y el regimen de
retiro del personal de estas. El nuevo intento se estructur6 en dos tramos de condicionalidad y el
plazo para completar las reformas se fij6 a fines de 1998. Sin embargo, a dicha fecha quedaban
todavia varias acciones pendientes de ejecuci6n.
26. Aumentar los incentivos para la privatizaci6n/liquidaci6n de los bancos publicos provinciales,
evitando un tratamiento especial por parte del BCRA: Desde bastante antes de la aprobaci6n del
PREP, el BCRA habia estado dando a los bancos provinciales el mismo trato que al resto de los
bancos que operaban en el pais. Se les habia limitado substancialmente el acceso a la ventanilla
del redescuento y debian adherir a la normativa de la Superintendencia de Bancos, las que se
habian vuelto mis restrictivas, estando forzados a cumplir con las reglas de encaje, tasas maximas
de interes y de clasificaci6n de cartera de credito y su provisionamiento. Ademas, la capacidad
reguladora y supervisora de la Superintendencia de Bancos habia mejorado. Para cerrar el



48                                    Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
circulo, se comprob6 con auditorias externas en los quince meses previos al segundo y tercer
tramo del PREP que ]los bancos adherian a la normativa bancaria vigente.
Objetivos Perseguidos a Nivel de los Gobierno Provinciales:
27. Mejorar la movilizaci6n de recursos, a traves un mejoramiento en la administraci6n tributaria:
Los gobiemos provinciales debieron implementar sistemas satisfactorios de monitoreo de los
grandes contribuyentes a traves de sus Direcciones Generales de Renta. En conexi6n con el
segundo tramo del PREP, la SUCATS comprob6 que los sistemas de monitoreo del llamado
"Primer Grupo de P'rovincias", esto es, Corrientes, Chaco, Entre Rios y Misiones, cubrian
facilmente el 50% de sus grandes contribuyentes, el minimo requerido bajo el PREP. Para el
tercer tramo del PREP, las cuatro Provincias del "Segundo Grupo de Provincias", esto es,
Corrientes, Entre Rios, Misiones y Tucuman, las mas avanzadas en sus programas de reformas a
ese entonces, acredil:aron que monitoreaban con holgura al menos el 75% de sus grandes
contribuyentes. Asimlismo, la SUCATS comprob6 que el "Tercer Grupo de Provincias", esto es,
Catamarca, Salta, San Juan y Santiago del Estero, habian formulado satisfactoriamente sus
sistemas de monitoreo de grandes contribuyentes. En cuanto a si estos sistemas fueron efectivos
en subir la recaudaci6n tributaria, la evidencia disponible asi lo sugiere. Cifras elaboradas por la
Divisi6n de Asuntos .Fiscales del Ministerio del Interior muestran que los ingresos por recursos
tributarios provinciales crecieron fuertemente entre 1992 y 1997. Ciertamente una variedad de
factores contribuyeron a dicho aumento. Sin embargo, es sugestivo que las Provincias que
participaron en el PREFiP superaron significativamente los incrementos registrados por el resto de
las Provincias durante dicho periodo (52,4% versus 44,9%, respectivamente).
28. Mejorar la movilizaci6n de recursos, adecuando las estructuras impositivas provinciales a lo
acordado en el Pactco Fiscal: Principalmente debido al deterioro de las rentas provinciales
causado por la crisis financiera precipitada por el "Efecto Tequila", el Gobiemo Nacional decidi6
extender hasta fines de 1998 el plazo final para que las Provincias completaran la reforma
tributaria acordada en el Pacto Fiscal. Bajo este nuevo calendario flexibilizado, las Provincias del
Segundo Grupo cumplieron en forma substancial con las reformas tributarias incluidas en el
Pacto, como lo requeria la condicionalidad del tercer tramo del PREP. Las Legislaturas del
Tercer Grupo de Provincias, a su vez, sancion6 oportunamente el Pacto Fiscal, con lo que se
termin6 de cumplir con dicha condicionalidad. Cifras a 1997 muestran que las desgravaciones
pendientes representatban un 15% del total de la recaudaci6n tributaria de origen provincial a esa
fecha, indicando claro progreso, pero con camino por recorrerse. Se habian eliminado una serie
de impuestos, pero mayor progreso se requeria en la desgravacion del impuesto de sellos y los
que afectaban a la n6m.ina salarial y los ingresos brutos.
29. Mejorar la eficiencia en el gasto, a trav6s de la reduccion en el nuimero de empleados puiblicos
provinciales: Se utilizaron varios caminos para llegar a las reducciones acordadas, que se median
en relaci6n a fines de 1992. El mecanismo del BOCEP jug6 un papel interesante, congelandose
tambien temporalmente las nuevas contrataciones y mejorandose los sistemas de gesti6n y control
de personal. Asimismo, se privatizaron empresas y se contrataron proveedores privados para una
serie de servicios. La meta final especifica era de una reducci6n acumulada de 20.000 cargos, a
cumplirse previamente al tercer tramo del PREP. Se proyectaba que implicaria una reducci6n
aproximada al 10% de las plantas de personal en las cuatro Provincias del Segundo Grupo. La
reducci6n efectiva en estas a principios de 1997 era de 21.063 puestos de trabajo, los que
sumados a las reduccicines del resto de las Provincias del PREP se llego a una cifra agregada de
55.018 puestos eliminados en relacion a diciembre de 1992. Los beneficios presupuestarios de
dichas reducciones son substantivos, pero se reflejaran plenamente s6lo una vez que se amortice
el financiamiento utilizado para pagar las compensaciones por retiros voluntarios. No obstante, el



49                                   Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
gasto en personal de las Provincias del PREP baj6 de 56,9% del total de las erogaciones en 1992
al 50,5% en 1997.
30. Mejorar la eficiencia en el gasto, mediante el fortalecimiento de los sistemas de gesti6n,
informaci6n y control de las Provincias: Se siguieron los principios establecidos en la Ley N
24.156, que fue el pilar en que se ha apoyado desde 1992 la modernizaci6n de la administraci6n
financiera y los sistemas de control del sector puiblico nacional. Con la asistencia de la SUCATS,
los tres Grupos de Provincias formularon proyectos de ley satisfactorios. Al momento de evaluar
la condicionalidad del tercer tramo del PREP, todas las Provincias del Segundo Grupo ya habian
sometido a sus respectivas Legislaturas los proyectos de ley que se habian preparado. Asimismo,
algunas de ellas, como Corrientes y Entre Rios, estaban activamente implementando sus nuevos
sistemas de gesti6n financiera y control.
31. Mejorar la eficiencia en el gasto, mediante la reducci6n del tamafio de los sectores publicos
provinciales y a travis de mayor eficiencia en las transferencias a realizar: Se tomaron dos tipos
de acciones concretas. La primera fue la privatizaci6n, concesi6n o, en su defecto, liquidaci6n de
empresas puiblicas. Al respecto, el Segundo Grupo de Provincias enajen6 al sector privado o
liquid6 un numero mayor de empresas que las requeridas para cumplir con la condicionalidad del
tercer tramo. En efecto, el proceso privatizador fue mucho mas lejos de lo requerido por la
condicionalidad del PREP, ya que a marzo de 1998, las diez Provincias del PREP habian
privatizado, concesionado o liquidado cuarenta empresas no financieras. A esa fecha, quedaban
todavia pendientes otras catorce empresas piublicas. La segunda acci6n requeria la presentaci6n a
las Legislaturas provinciales de proyectos de ley para normar la coparticipaci6n de ingresos con
los municipios, de manera que al menos el 30% de las transferencias se les hiciesen en funci6n de
indicadores de buen desempefno fiscal. El punto era importante, ya que las transferencias de los
gobiernos provinciales a las municipalidades sumaron cerca de US$3.100 millones en 1994. De
tal forma, era necesario tener una buena base legal para apoyar las reformas que se requerian a
nivel municipal.  En el contexto del PREP, el Segundo Grupo de Provincias remiti6
efectivamente proyectos de ley a sus Legislaturas concordantes con el objetivo buscado.
32. Mejorar la eficiencia en el gasto, a traves de un mejor desempefio fiscal. Se requeria la
ejecuci6n en 1995 y anios siguientes de un presupuesto fiscal no deficitario en cada una de las
Provincias del Segundo Grupo. La meta de un equilibrio fiscal sustentable no era facil de
obtener, ya que en 1994, salvo Entre Rios, las otras tres Provincias del Segundo Grupo-
Corrientes, Misiones y Tucuman-habian tenido un resultado operativo primario negativo. El
deterioro econ6mico en 1995 afect6 considerablemente los resultados fiscales a nivel de todas las
jurisdicciones provinciales, ya que salvo la Ciudad de Buenos Aires, todas las Provincias
presentaron un resultado operativo primario deficitario ese afio. La situaci6n enfrentada no dej6
espacio alguno para redefinir el Segundo Grupo de Provincias. Ademas, cuando se realiz6 la
evaluaci6n de la condicionalidad asociada al tercer tramo del PREP en 1996, el balance fiscal de
1995 estaba cerrado. Una dispensa del Banco Mundial era la uinica opci6n, si se queria seguir
adelante con los desembolsos programados del PREP. Esta efectivamente se otorg6, quedando
disponible el tercer tramo en febrero de 1997. La situaci6n fiscal de las Provincias mejor6
substancialmente en 1996, pero Corrientes, Misiones y Tucuman continuaron mostrando
pequefnos deficits. En resumen, la informaci6n disponible sugiere que, si bien hubo avance, la
consolidaci6n fiscal en las Provincias del PREP, que son de menor desarrollo relativo, es un
proceso de largo aliento, que va mucho mas alla de un programa de rapido desembolso. La
soluci6n de fondo del tema fiscal apunta en la direcci6n de lograr un rapido y sostenido
crecimiento econ6mico en dichas Provincias, cuyas bases se han ido sentando con el programa de
reforma financiera provincial del Gobierno Nacional.



50                                   Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
33. Reducir el tamano del sector bancario puiblico de las Provincias: Para terminar con la mas
importante fuente de distorsi6n de recursos financieros provinciales, el Gobierno Nacional habia
empezado a implementar un programa, que incluia al PREP, destinado a lograr la privatizaci6n o,
en su defecto, la Iiquidaci6n de los bancos provinciales. En la practica, se coordinaron los
esfuerzos para atacar el tema de diferentes Angulos e impedir que las Provincias fueran premiadas
mas de una vez por el mismo esfuerzo. El exito alcanzado facilmente super6 la condicionalidad
del PREP, producie:ndose diez privatizaciones y una liquidaci6n en las Provincias del PREP.
Qued6 pendiente s6lOD el Banco de la Provincia de Catamarca.
34. Evaluaci6n del Prestatario en la Ejecuci6n del PREP: El Prestatario en el caso del PREP
fue la Republica Argentina, representada por el Gobiemo Nacional. El PREP fue uno mAs en una
serie de programas de reforma durante la Administraci6n del Presidente Menem, impresionando
la profundidad y el alcance de lo logrado hasta la fecha. En t6rminos generales, la actuaci6n del
Gobierno Nacional, como promotor y catalizador del cambio en la gesti6n fiscal y financiera
provincial, fue altamente satisfactorio. Claramente el mayor problema encontrado en la ejecucion
del PREP fue la inesperada fuerza y virulencia de la crisis financiera que afecto a la economia
argentina en 1995. No obstante, el hecho que, salvo la meta fiscal, se haya cumplido a
satisfacci6n con el resto de la condicionalidad habla bien de la ejecuci6n del PREP, tanto a nivel
del Gobiemo Nacional como de los gobiernos provinciales que participaron en el programa.
35. Cuando la SAREP comenz6 la ejecuci6n del PREP, ya se habia recorrido un buen trecho en
el esfuerzo por reformar las finanzas provinciales. Fue muy util la existencia previa de las
Unidades Ejecutoras Provinciales, creadas bajo el Provincias I, y la temprana creaci6n de la
SUCATS. Todo lo anterior facilit6 la implementaci6n simultanea de la reforma en varias
Provincias. La organizaci6n elegida cumpli6 ampliamente con su objetivo, aprovechandose las
economias de escala creadas por la existencia de la UEC. En resumen, el desempefno y
participaci6n de la UEC-y la SUCATS en particular-en la ejecuci6n del PREP fueron
altamente satisfactorios. Sin embargo, se debe enfatizar que la necesidad de mantener la voluntad
politica en las altas esferas de los gobiemos provinciales, para proseguir y mantener el ritmo de la
reforma financiera y fiscal.
36, Evaluaci6n del Banco Mundial en la Ejecucidn del PREP: El PREP fue la primera
operaci6n de reforma estructural del Banco Mundial a nivel de entidades subnacionales en el
mundo. El principal riesgo que se percibia era que eventualmente no se materializara el
compromiso politico o fallara la capacidad institucional de los gobiemos provinciales para
implementar las reformas acordadas. Se redujo mucho este riesgo con la fuerte condicionalidad
previa. Tambien, el Banco Mundial habia participado activamente en el resto de la reforma
estructural emprendida por el Gobierno Nacional, lo que facilit6 su papel en la ejecuci6n del
PREP. Asimismo, el PREP capitaliz6 el enfasis que se habia puesto previamente en la asistencia
tecnica y el desarrollo institucional en las Provincias. El papel informal de juez imparcial que
jug6 el Banco Mundial durante la ejecuci6n del PREP impuso en ocasiones la necesaria disciplina
al proceso de implementaci6n. Por si sola, la SUCATS tal vez no habria tenido la misma fuerza
para exigir los compromisos adquiridos por las Provincias. El PREP sufri6 a veces la presencia
de otros programas de apoyo de organismos multilaterales de creditos, como fue el caso del
prestamo del Banco Mundial a la Provincia de San Juan, que tendi6 a quitarle fuerza a la
condicionalidad acorclada bajo el PREP. De cualquier modo, desde la perspectiva de la UEC, la
evaluaci6n del Banco Mundial en la ejecuci6n del PREP result6 satisfactoria
37. Apreciaci6n Global de los Resultados del PREP y su Sostenibilidad: El programa de
reforma financiera de las Provincias ciertamente puede contar entre sus meritos el cambio
sustantivo en que 6stas Ilevan hoy sus gestiones financieras. Ain quedando camino por recorrer,



51                                  Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
con un grupo significativo de Provincias rezagadas, hoy existe un cambio de fondo en la forma
que se toman las decisiones financieras a nivel provincial, basadas en informaci6n de mucho
mejor calidad y de una oportunidad hasta hace poco desconocida. El PREP se benefici6 de
previos avances, de igual formna que nuevos programas provinciales ciertamente se beneficiaran
de los cambios introducidos por el PREP. La gran mayoria de las medidas y acciones concretas
tomadas en el contexto de la Matriz de Politicas son de muy dificil reversi6n. Obviamente,
podria haber retrocesos, pero los logros alcanzados en el campo tributario, la eficiencia de las
transferencias, los sistemas de gesti6n, informaci6n y control, asi como la privatizaci6n de
empresas y bancos piublicos provinciales, dificilmente se revertiran, simplemente porque han
demostrado su conveniencia econ6mica y financiera para las Provincias.
38. Tal vez lo que ayuda a la sostenibilidad del PREP, son acciones y medidas tomadas en el
contexto de un programa de concepci6n integral. No obstante, el PREP fue diseniado con una
cobertura provincial parcial, que le dio un caracter mas bien de programa piloto. Ademas, el
PREP fue de rApido desembolso, mientras que los programas de reforma de las Provincias son de
mas larga duraci6n, continuando muchos en ejecuci6n. Las actuales dificultades financieras han
servido para renovar la voluntad para seguir adelante y completar las reformas de las finanzas
provinciales ya iniciadas. Ello le imprime una renovada urgencia a la necesidad de formular
nuevos programas de apoyo a la reforma financiera provincial. El apoyo del Banco Mundial
continiia siendo relevante, no solo como una fuente de incentivo a traves de su financiamiento de
largo plazo, sino que ademas como factor catalizador del esfuerzo de reforma y elemento de
disciplina adicional frente a las Provincias y el mismo Gobiemo Nacional. En resumen, el PREP
fue un importante pilar en la estrategia de reforma financiera y fiscal de las Provincias,
alcanzando la mayoria de sus objetivos, con acciones y medidas tomadas o implementadas con
gran rapidez. De tal forma, el resultado de la ejecuci6n del PREP puede ser catalogada como
globalmente satisfactoria a altamente satisfactoria.
39. Principales Lecciones Derivadas de la Ejecuci6n del PREP: Se destacan tres lecciones
que podrian ser uitiles al momento de formular o disefiar nuevos programas:
40. Las reformas estructurales en las Provincias requieren de un compromiso politico y
consensos a todo nivel. Es dificil no sobreenfatizar la necesidad de que exista la voluntad y el
compromiso politico como elemento imprescindible para Ilevar a cabo reformas estructurales.
Con el sistema federal vigente en Argentina, la estructuraci6n de acuerdos amplios, como el
alcanzado con el Pacto Fiscal, son elementos politicos centrales para intentar reformas integrales
de la gesti6n financiera y fiscal de las Provincias. Tambien se requiere que el Gobierno Nacional
sirva de ejemplo, como modelo de voluntad politica y de eficiencia en la ejecuci6n, de modo que
exista la autoridad moral para promover el cambio en las Provincias. Pero se necesita algo mAs:
la promoci6n activa y efectiva de las reformas buscadas, con unidades ejecutoras capaces de
articular el mensaje del cambio. Asimismo, los programas de reforma estructural deben
incorporar explicitamente los posibles temas sociales que pueden surgir con el ajuste.
41. Los programas de ajuste requieren de una adecuada estructuraci6n para una efectiva y
eficiente ejecuci6n. La experiencia del PREP fue buena en este respecto, ya que la UEC-y la
SUCATS, en particular-jug6 un papel importante como coordinador, administrador y
contraparte diaria para las unidades provinciales y el Banco Mundial.
42. Existen ventajas comparativas para la UEC en la ejecuci6n de programas de reformas
de caracter integral y multiprovincial. El PREP es un buen ejemplo del tipo de
programas que se acomoda a las caracteristicas de una unidad central como la UEC.
Claramente, en programas como el PREP se aprovechan las economias de escala que



52                                 Annex A:
Borrower's Contribution
surgen de aplicar una tematica comun a todas las Provincias que participan. Asimismo,
se facilita y enriquece la asistencia tecnica y la capacitaci6n, que inevitablemente se debe
ofrecer paralelamente con programas de ajuste-ofrecido a traves del Provincias I y II, en
el caso del PREP--. Asimismo, programas como el PREP son ideales para la aplicaci6n
de estandares cornunes y fitiles para un mayor efecto demostraci6n, al saberse las
Provincias participes de un mismo programa de cambio.



53
Ayuda Memoria
Provincial Reform Loan (PRL)
Supervision Mission
September 25-26, 1997
A supervision mission composed of Mr. David Vetter (mission leader) and Mr.
Raul Benitez met with Dr. Rodolfo Vacchiano (General Coordinator of the Central
Executing Unit - UEC) and Dr. Walter Tallone Rosso (Executive Coordinator of the
PRL), and many other UEC staff.
The mission commended PRL's executing unit on the improvements in the
administration of the Transformation Fund and noted that it would give the highest rating
for all aspects of project supervision in its report to Bank management.
The following agreements were reached between the mission and the UEC.
Every effort should be made to use the existing projects (including Provinces I
and II) to maximize provincial reform. This should include providing incentives for
participation PRL-II, as well as assistance in initiating reforms that would be contnued
under these new reform loans. Thus, in integraiing new provinces such as Chubut into
the PRL, emphasis should be on providing added incentives for reform and participation
in PRL-lI. In this regard, the UEC agreed to consult with the task leader of PRL-II (Ms.
Mila Freire) when deciding on the integration of new provinces. With regard to
Chubut's Bank, the mission agreed that the final decision on the acceptability of proposed
options would be with the task leader of the Provincial Bank Privatization Loan (Mr.
Stefan Alber).
The greater emphasis on the strategic subprojects in the restructured PRL
conditionality (revenue administration, financial management and budgeting, and
personnel administration) provides increased incentives to implement these difficult and
time consuming institutional development subprojects (being financed by Provinces I and
II). To maintain these incentives, no province that had not totally complied with these
conditions related to the strategic subprojects on Tranche A should be eligible for even
partial disbursement of Tranche B.
The frequency of joint PRIJ Provinces I and II supervision missions to the
provinces should be increased to encourage and assist project implementation, especially
of these priority subprojects. The recently itegrated managemint of the Provincial
Development and Reform Projects should facilitate this. These missions should seek to
build and energize the provincial teams implementing these subprojects, and also improve
communication about these subprojects within the provincial governments.
The mission fully supported the idea of the UEC contracting one project
-completion report for both PRL and Provinces I. This study would focus on analysis of
N. k



54
the impact of these projects using both quantitative indicators and qualitative analysis. It
would also seek to extract the lessons of experience that might be applied in Argentina or
other countries. The role of Provinces I in fiancing institutional development and
preparation of other Bank lending to the proces should receive special attention.
The mission thanked the staff o   and the PRL executing unit for their kind
and efficient help.
j%/    Rodolfo Vacchiano
General Coordinator -
Central Executing Unit (UEC)
Ministerio del Interior
Walter Tallone Rosso
Executive Coordinator oFRP
Ministerio del Interior
David Michael Vetter
World Bank
Friday, September 26, 1997



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29348
\RU<4Sr to5Es6ti}}8ar}>gRk 70o  $               ~60                                                50
m0s6giigr0&8 2        BOLIVIA                                                                                                       20
tliases6egni}Rog   >, <t    '          '       PARAGUAY 
I     Sa 41ao A     AR 
)   *\ i ><35aS;lvador  2_+wpgk ->                            <-B  R  A    Z  I L
4      t         Z          s            E        % ~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Formiosa /'                                  l         . 
f f i~~~~~~~~~~~AT                                ResisteRIOj\r~~Bs   NciA .................   Psac             i
W           SAN   \                sC6rdoba  ,}~~~~Santiaodltaq 0 CorrientesM8}2540S i
l{~~~~TIOlJA                                U     S At N'2 TA
8ge2Lj6i~ ~ ~       A@ \      N D!"    F     ENOS
ff~~~~ r  <,                        AP                   IRS             i         ')            3 ' ;                    'j   t,'
San~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI 1R998



