/,L   JdfS A -- ,LZ)
Document -of
The World Bank
FOR OFICIAL USE ONLY
Rqput No  P-6414-AR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTiWE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED PROVINCIAL
REFORM LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT OT US$300 MILLION
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
DECEMBER 30, 1994
Public Sector Modernization and
Private Sector Development Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be sed by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not othenvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUlRRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Argentine Peso (Arg$)
Arg$l = US$1
ACRONYMS ANID ABBREVIATIONS
ATN         -     Treasury Grants
(Aportes del Tesoro Nacional)
BCRA        -     Central Bank
(Banco Central de la Republica Argentina)
BNA         -     National Bank of Argentina
(Banco de la Nacion Argentina)
DDSR        -     Debt and Debt Service Reduction
DGI         -     National Tax Agency
(Direccion General de Impuestos)
EFF         -     Extended Fund Facility
FDR         -     Regional Development Fund
(Fondo Regional de Desarrollo)
FEDET       -     Electricity Development Fund
(Fondo Especial de Desarrollo Elec.rico del Interior)
FONAVI    -       National Housing Fund
(Fondo Nacional de Viienda)
FSAL        -     Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
FY          -     Fiscal Year
GAIT        -     General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
IBRD        -     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDB         -     Inter-American Development Bank
IEC         -     International Economics Department
IFC         -     International Finance Corporation
IMF         -     International Monetary Fund
MERCOSUR -        Southern Cone Trade Bloc
(Mercado del Cono Sur)
PERAL       -     Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
PERAL II   -      Second Public Enterprise Reform Adjustment Loan
PSRL        -     Public Sector Reform Adjustment Loan
PSRTAL      -     Public Sector Reform Technical Assistance Loan
SAREP       -     Secretariat for the Economic Reform of the Provinces
(Secretaria de Asistencia para la Reforna Economica Provincial)
SIGEN       -     Internal Government Auditor
(Sindicatura General de la Nacion)
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditure
YPF         -     YPF Oil Company
(Yacimientos Petroliferos Fiscales)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:          The Argentine Repubiuc.
Beneficia:         Not applicable.
Poverty
Not applicable.
Commitment Fee:  0.75% on undisbursed loan balances, beginning EO days
after signing.
Amount:            US$300 million equivalent.
U=lms:             Repayable in 15 years, at the standard variable rate, with
a five-year grace period and level repayments.
Economk Rate of
Return:             Not applicable.
This document has a resicted ditribtn and may be ud bycients on in th pebmmn  of he
ld ut  Its contet    n otoerwbe dsd v thwut WorldBak authato



ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
TABLE OFCONTEWTS
I. THfE ECON~OM~fY'            . .   . . .        .      .        .       .     . I
Historical Persecve      ...................................... 1
Recent Ecnomic Perforanme           ,                *                      2
Mlacroeconomiic Ptrospects .                                      ......   4
External Environment                           .                             5
Risks                                   .                                    6
II. ISSUESINPROVINCLLFINANCE.                                                      7
Background ..                                                                7
R-evenues ..                                                                 8
Expenditures..                                                              9
Provincial Banks and Deficit Financing    ..11
Il. THE PROGRAM TO REFORM PROVINCIAL FINANCES . .13
improving Revenue Mobilization        ..15
Improving Expenditure Efficiency .1.7....                                   17
Reducing the Size of the Provincial Public Banking Secto     . .19
Cunrent Status of the Program in Partcipatng Provinces    ..20
IV. TIE PROPOSED LOAN... .  21
Objectives                       ... 21
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Str.te.y                               .22
Experience with Adjustment Operations in Argentina    .    .22
Coordination with Multilateal Institutions  ..                             23
Loan Conditions            ..................... 23
Impact, Benefits and Risks          ..27
V. RECOMMENDATION .28
This Report is based on the findings of the Appraisal Mission of July 1994. Missian members included Mesrs.
M. Hagerstrom (Mission Leader and Task Manager), J. Morisset (Eoomist), C. Fort (Financil Analyst), and
0. Reid (Fiscal Economist). Messrs. P. Levy (rdcipal Economist) and S. Alber (Principa Finoa} Analyst),
and Ms. F. Pena (Resident Mission) contributed to the report Mr. G. Carter and Ms. A. Blackdmrst processed
the report. Mr. G. Nankani (Director), Mr. 0. Grimes (Proect Advisor) and Ms. Bernard (Division Chief) have
endorsed the project.



Table of Contents (Contsd)
Page, No-
-ANNEXES
I     Macroeconomic Indicators  .               ..                .....  29
Ir  Basic Data on the Provinces .^ ...    30
III    Status of Bank Group Operations -                             .... .....  32
IV    Statement of IFC Investments -....... . -.. . ....                  .33
V   Letter of Development Policy                 . ..                                35
VI PlicyMatri.........P.... . ..  -                                                  43
VJITI...... . Transformaation Fun...                                .nd              45
VIII  Federal Transfers to Provinces    S       1.......            .     ...
IX  Reforming Provincial Tax Systems                         .... .57
X   Public Employment in the Provinces               ....60
XI    The Current Situation of Pro.vincialBanls.      ...                            67................  67



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAFL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTI DRECTORS ON A
PROIOSED PROVINCAL REFORM LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$300 MILLION
TO THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Provincial Reform Loan to the Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$300 million to
support fiscal reforms in the provinces. The loan would be at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate, with a five-year grace period and level repayments, and would have a maturity of
15 years.
L. THE ECONOMY
Historical Perspective
2.    By the early part of this century, Argentina had become one of the most developed
countries in the world. However, after the Great Depression, reliance on statist and inward-
looking growth. strategies resulted in massive public sector deficits, accelerating inflation, and
economic stagnation. Pervasive growth of the state eventually brought public expenditures to
over 50 percent of GDP. Although industrial promotion programs were iritially popular among
the growing pool of urban workers, they ultimately led to an onerous taxation of agriculture,
Argentina's prime source of wealth, and contributed to major misallocations of resources. The
debt crisis of the early 1980s led the Government to resort to money creation to meet its
financial responsibilities. To avoid a growing inflation tax, Argentines withdrew their resources
from the financial system, saving and investing abroad at record levels. Economic stagnation
ensued. By the end of the 1980s, labor productivity had faUen, social services and basic
infrastructure had deteriorated, and poverty had become a serious and growing problem.
3.    When the Menem Administration took office in July 1989, Argentina was gripped by
recession and monthly inflation of up to 200 percent. To eliminate the fiscal deficits that were
fueling the inflationary spiral, in 1991 the Administration began implementing a series of
profound structural reforms remarkable both for their scope and the speed with which they were
implemented. During 1991-93, fedeal employment was reduced by over 103,000 (about
15 percent), with another 284,000 positions transferred to the provinces; costly subsidies were
suspended; and nearly all public enteiprises at the national level were privatzed. The base of
the value-added tax was expanded, inefficient taxes on exports and financial intermediation were
removed, and tax administration was modemnized.  To strengthin incentives for private
investment, trade liberalization and deregulation of markets for goods and services were
accelerated. Primary responsibility for future price stability was shifted to the monetary
authority. At end-1989, the Centrad Bank's (BCRA) quasi-fiscal deficit was eliminated through
the forced conversion of short-term, high-interest deposits into long-term dollar bonds. The
April 1991 Convertibility Law fixed the exchange rate at the equivalent of one peso to the US



-2-
dollar, deindexed contracts, facilitated a dual currency system, and required the monetary base
to be fully backed by international reserves. The Bank has played an important supportive role
in the reform effort through close economic dialogue based on extensive economic and sector
work, and a series of adjustment operations in public and financial sector reform, privatization,
and debt and debt service relief.
Recent Economic Performance
4.    Argentina's current macroeconomic program has brought price stability and economic
growth unknown for several decades. Following growth rates of 8.9 and 8.7 percent in 1991
and 1992, respectively, GDP grew by 6 percent i, 1993 and is expected to reach 5-6 percent
for the whole of 1994. As a result of the economic recovery, poverty levels have declined
significantly since 1990. Nevertheless, economic restructuring in the framework of a rigid labor
market has resulted in increased unemployment: over 12 percent of the labor force by late 1994.
Stability and declining interest rates have contributed to the recovery of investment, albeit from
a low base. Inflation has decelerated, from a monthly 200 percent in July 1989 to an annual rate
of 7.5 percent in 1993, and is expected to be less than 4 percent for 1994. The Argentine peso
appreciated in real terms by about 23 percent from the beginning of the Convertibility Law
regime to August 1994. However, after adjusting for tax reductions and other reforms, losses
to export competitiveness may be approximately one-third of that.
5.    The fiscal performance of the Federal Government was broadly satisfactory in the first
two years of the IM's Extended Fund Facility (EFF), which expires in March 1995. EFF
targets were exceeded in 1992 and performance under the EFF agreement remained broadly
satisfactory in 1993, when the primary fiscal surplus reached 2.7 percent of GDP. In early
1994, the Government, in agreement with the IMF, indicated that it would not draw down the
final two EFF tranches, as its access to the international financial markets had improved. Third-
quarter 1994 fiscal performance, however, deteriorated due to lower than expected revenues
while expenditures continued to increase. The social security system accounts, in particular,
deteriorated with the transition costs of introducing the new optional private pension system, a
reduction in employer's wage taxes, and the absorption of three financially-troubled provincial
social security systems. The Government has initiated a program of remedial measures to
increase tax collections and further reduce spending. With these measures the Government
expects to bring the fiscal accounts close to equilibrium by the end of 1994 and to achieve a
fiscal balance in 1995. The IMF's assessment is that on the basis of the measures adopted and
proposed, there are good prospects that Argentina will further consolidate its macroeconomic
policy achievements in 1995. While the overall fiscal accounts should be approximately
balanced in the short term, the allocative efficiency of provincial finances is poor. Mounting
pressure to increase the provincial share of co-participated revenues or to provide bailouts could
put pressure on the fiscal balance in the medium term. Addressing the poor fiscal performance
of the provinces is the number one priority of the Federal Government, and would be supported
by the proposed program. For the Loan, the Government of Argentina has committed to
achieving a cash equilibriun in the public finances for the 1995-97 period, and would
implement policies and progms in accordance with the Law of Convertibility and Central



3 -
Bank Law, as detailed in the Letter of Development Policy (Annex V)t which has been
developed In close cooperation with the JMF.
6.   In 1993, the trade defiit rea hed US$3.7 billion, about 40 percent higher than one year
earlier, although the rate of increse in imports decelerated compared to the previous two years,
and exports grew at 7.1 percent, after a slight decline in 1992. Doing the first three quarters
of 1994, the deficit in the trade balance reached US$4.3 bil}^lio However, following three years
of anemic performance, export performance has been improving. During the first three quarters
of 1994 exports increased by 15.3 percent as a -result of growing -industrial exports, better
international prices for grains, and improved economic conditions in Brazil.' At the same time,
however,, imports continued to grow at the fast pace of 33.7 percent.  of capital goods
are leading the expansion in 1994, indicative of the acceleration in investment and the
restructuring of the economy. Financing this deficit has not been diffictlt, given Argentina's
improved access to international financial markets, but the situation with regard to future capital
inflows warrants close monitoring.
7.    With the increased accumulation of international reserves, and the reduction in bank
reserve requirements earlier in 1993, monetary aggregates expanded at a fast pace. Bank credit
grew at an even faster rate, reflecting the sub-par, but fast improving, monetization of the
economy. Interest rates on peso deposits have declined from 25 percent in December 1992 to
8.3 percent by August 1994. Interest re spreads, although also declining, remained high,
reaching 13 percent, indicative of the continued segmentation and shallowness of the financial
system. Continued capital inflows have sustained the growth in aggregate demand. Liquid
international reserves at mid-October 1994 stood at US$14.8 billion, a significant net increase
since the end of 1992. Nonetheless, the general instability in world financial markets, which
started in the first quarter of 1994 and was aggrvated by regional events in December 1994,
has had a negative impact on A2gentina's financial markets. As a result, reserve accumulation
and credit expansion deceletated substantially during 1994.
8.    The extemal debt agreement with commercial creditors, concluded in April 1993, ended
the accumulation of arrears, regularied existing arrars, reduced interest obligations from a
projected US$2-3 billion to US$1.4-1.6 billion in the initial years following the agreement, and
limited international interest obligations as intemnational rates rebounded.  Debt-equity
conversions in 1990-92 recuced public debt by about US$14 billion. The successful privatization
of the state-owned oil company (YPF) in July 1993 also enabled the Government to partially
cancel domestic obligations to pensioners by US$2.7 billion and to oil-producing provinces by
US$1.2 billion.
9.   In August 1994, Argentina reached an accord with its MERCOSUR partners to establish
by January 1, 1995, common extenal tariffs (with some significant exceptions), moving closer
to the establishment of a regional common market, which should provide an impetus for growth.
Since Argentina's trade in MERCOSUR is primarily with Brazil, its best prospects are closely
tied to the stabilization of the Brazilian economy (which accounts for 20 percent of Argentina's



-4-
total trade) and resumption of sustainable economic growth. Argentina also announced a desire
to eliminate its statistical import tax (cufrently at 10 percent).
Uacroeconomic Prospects
10. The Government's central macroeconomic objective is to achieve robust long-term
growth, while expanding employment and holding inflation to international levels. The
Argentine econonmy could grow at a medium-tenn rate of about 4-5 percent annually (see Annex
I), assuming that domestic inflation continues at inional levels and efforts to expand the
country's export base are successful. Continued private capital inflows will be needed to ensure
a smooth transition to a sustainable balance of payments. In this regard, recent developments
in intemational financial markets have underscored Argentina's vulnerability to extemal shlocks
and the critical importance of enhancing its export performance. Improved competitiveness
through economic restructuring, growing investment, and slower increases in domestic
consumption would help switch resources from non-tradeables to tradeables. Deceleration in the
growth of domestic consumption will reflect both the slowdown in exogenous capital inflows
associated with the privatization program, and the attainment of a new, higher and sustainable
level of income resulting from structural adjustments. Slower growth in the domestic market
would shift niore production towards exports, aided by deregulation and other measures to
enhance productivity in the tradeable sector, and changes in relative prices. The private sector
would be the leading expansionary force, while public investment would grow from its depressed
levels, but be concentrated in fewer activities.
I1.  Macro consistency would require that gross national savings increase from 14.9 percent
of GDP in 1993 to 17 percent in the 1994-97 period. Such an increase should not be difficult
to obtain. Public savings have been significant during the initial phase of recovery, but private
national savings are expected to increase as continued macroeconomic stability and the deepening
of Argentina's financial system encourages residents to hold financial assets domesticaly rather
than abroad. In 1993 alone, national savings increased by about 2 percent of GDP due to higher
private sector savings, and further gains are being made in 1994. More particularly, future
contnbutions to the new capitalized pension fund system are unrdly to be offset by reduced
savings in other instruments, because of a likey reduction in evasion given the closer link
between expected benefits and contributions. Furthermore, the ongoing deepening of the capital
markets, resulting from the new pension fund system, could further contribute to the increase
in private savings. Another reason suggesting a future increase in savings is that the low savings
rates in the 1991-93 period reflected a one-time consumption adjustment to higher levels of
income. Consumption growth rates attenuated in 1993, and future consumption trends could
moderate even more.
12.  The consolidated public sector accounts are projected to be basically balanced during the
1995-97 period. This is consistent with macroeconomic objectives and projected net financing
needs of the public sector. A target of achieving a primary surplus that meets or exceeds
interest obligations of the Federal Government is desirable in order to: (i) help strengthen
national savings and private investment; (ii) moderate the gross financing requirements of the



Federal vovernment with its substantial debt amortization refinancing needs, reflecting
limitations in accessing forign savings; and (ii) help sustain the fixed exchange rate regime
with the only effective macroeconomic policy instrument (fiscal policy) available to the
Goverment in the context of the Convertibility Plan. This fisc target is more moderate than
the 1.6 percent to GDP overall surplus of 1993, due to: (a) the substantial completion of the
privatization progam  by end-1994; (b) the fiscalost of the transition to a capitalized pension
system, and (c) higher capital expditures. Moreover, increaing transfers to the provinc  and
the elimination of seval distortionary taxes as well as tariffs within MERCOSUR are expected
to reduce Federal Government revenues. In contrast, provincial finances are expected to
improve over the 1995-97 period, as a result of the new revenue-shaiing agreement and reforms
that would reduce or stabilize personnel expendite.
13.  The adjustment process has progressively shifted the needs of external financing from the
public to the private sector. Therefore, financing the balance of payments will be mainly a
function of desired savings and investment levels in the private sector. Improved international
financing of private investment, the renewed ability to roll over maturing intenational
obligations, and growing foreign direct investment, should moderate the impact of the expected
slowdown in privatization proceeds from abroad observed during the past three years. The
World Bank and IDB will increase their exposure in Argentina, but not substantially so after the
mid-1990s. The IMF's exposure will decline after the expiration of the EFF. Foreign direct
investment should remain relatively stable in the 1994-97 period, with the share deriving from
privatzations declining significantly. Over the 1995-98 period, private capital inflows, including
trade credits and foreign direct investment, would average about US$11 billion per annum to
finance the projected current account deficit With consistent macroeconomic policies, a stable
extemal environment (both international and regional, as became amply evident during 1994),
and the continuous financial assistance of multilateral organizations, Argentina's external
financing requirements for sustainable growth are likely to be met.
External Enviromnent
14. Three interrelated aspects of the external environment affect Argentina's macroeconomic
prospects: (i) the growth of the world economy; (ii) developments under international and
regional trade agreements, and Argentina's terns of trade; and (iii) the cost of international
capital. World economic growth is expected to recover from the stagnation of 1991-93 at a
moderate pace of 2.4 percent in 1994, and then average 3 percent for the 1993-2002 period (IEC
projections). Consequently, the demand for Argentina's exports should strengthen and facilitate
the financing of sustainable economic growth. With respect to international and regional trde
agreements, prospect for higher global economic growth have been strengthened with the
conclusion of the Uruguay round of GATr negotiations. The regional common market with
Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay-the MERCOSUR area-should also provide an impetus for
growth. Finally, Argentina's terms-of-trade, near their lowest level in this century, are projected
to gradually increase in the next few years.



-6 -
15. The narrow base of Argentine exports brings foreign debt service to 50 percent of goods
and services exports, and makes Argentina quite susceptible to international interest rate
fluctuadons. Each percentage point change in international intest rates would produce a
change of about US$600 million in international interest payments (average for the 1994-96
period), t-he equivalent of 2.8 percent of the period's aveage estimated exports of goods and
services, or 3.2 percent of international reserves. Private debt-service requirements, however,
may be somewhat overestimated since at least some part of recent significant capital inflows is
repatriated Argentine caital (for which no accurate data are available) that would not have the
debt servicing characteristics of othe forms of capital inflows. The DDSR agreement, which
limits interest rate increses on a substantial (US$13.6 billion) portion of Argentina's external
debt, softens the direct impact of higher international interest rates. The indirect impact of
higher international interest rates on capital inflows could be mitigated through the automatic
adjustment features of the Convertibility Plan, as well as by domestic economic policies.
Risks
16.   Several risks, both external and domestic, could alter Argentina's economic horizon.
On the external front, higher than expected international interest rates could slow the inflow of
foreign capital, which would raise domestic interest rates and moderate economic growth. A
moderate, extemally induced slowdown in capital inflows may be absorbed by the economy,
as was the case in early 1994, but a reversal in capital inflows could result in a sharp economic
contraction. This would strain a still weak financial system and public finances, as well as the
Government's political will to accept a rising rate of unemployment and the economic hardship
required to sustain the current economic model.
17. Secondly, even in the absence of an external shock, improving the competitiveness of
Argentine exports is essential in the context of a fixed exchange rate regime. Given the
appreciation of the peso in 1991-93, if current efforts to increase productivity through lower
taxation and factor market improvements fail to raise exports sufficiently, then improved longer-
term economic growth prospwects may require an effective realignment of prices between
tradeables and non-tradeables. However this policy carries its own inflationary risks in a highly
dollarized economy. Although domestic inflation has converged to intenational inflation, the
further deterioration in the trade deficit has highlighted the risk of a slow recovery in exports
on the sustainability of the current economic program.
18. Finally, unforeseen political developments and the deterioration of provincial finances
could threaten the sustainabiity of the current fiscal equilibrium. In such an event, high capital
mobility could produce a sharp decline in intemnational reserves, severely testing the
convertibility program, as the temptation to engage in a more expansionary monetary policy
would be strong. However, memories of the 1989-90 hyperinflation and the economic chaos
of the preceding years make it unwlily that populist policies would easily undermine the
hard-won gains in fiscal discipline. Provincial election results, even in areas of traditional



-7-
opposition to the ruling party, suggest widespread acceptance of the basic tenets of the
Government's economic program, which bodes well for its future sustainability.
H. ISSUES IN PROVINCIAL FINANCE
Background
19.   The Argentine Republic comprises 23 provinces that vay widely in population, physical
endowment, and institutional capacity. Thrughout the 1980s, deficits generated by provincial
governments were major contributors to the chronic instability of the Argentine publc sector.Y'
Fiscal adjustment, essential to the recovery of the economy, occurred at the federal level. While
consolidated public finances improved from a deficit of 2.5 percent of GDP in 1990 to a surplus
of 1.7 percent in 1993, the operational primary deficit (overall fiscal balance less net interest
payments and capital revenues) of the provinces was reduced from 1.6 percent of GDP in 1990
to 0.3 percent in 1992 due largely to windfall transfers from improved federal tax collection.
However, the provincial deficit is estimated to have risen again to 0.8 percent in 1993, or about
US$2 billion, mainly because of the continued inability of provincial governments to contain
current expenditures and to increa   sufficiently their own-source tax revenuesY   The
provincial deficit has been only partially financed, contributing to an unstable economic and
social situation in many of the northern provinces.  Fiscal difficulties led to violent
demonstrations in several provinces during 1993, which caused Federal authorities to intervene
in one province to restore order.
20.   At the samne time that provincial governments have lagged in maldng necessary fiscal
adjustments, their role within the economy has grown as a result of decention and the
privatization of many federal functions. In 1993, provincial governments (including the
Municipality of Buenos Aires) accounted for half of public expenditure for goods and services
and employed more than 1 million people (about 40 percent greater than federal employment).
Provinces are now the major providers of core public services in health, education, security,
water and sanitation, electricity, and other infrasucture. Provinces also have their own banks
and a large variety of public enterprises.
21.   Yet, most provincial governments are-ill pred to fulfill their ineasingly important
role, with potential negative implications for economic growth and poverty reduction. The
1/    Basic social and fiscal data on the provinces are found in Annex R. A more detailed review of provincial public
finances during the 1980s and early 1990s may be found in Areentina - Public Finance Review: From
Insolvency to Growth (IBRD Report No. 10827-AR, February 11, 1993).
2/    Because of the variety of accounting procedures used by provincial governments, in particular the varying
treatment of capital revenues and financing, and the recent large level of exceptional flows, the operational
primary balance provides a better indicator of provincial fiscal performance than the primary balance. Reliable
data on 1994 fiscal performance will not be avilable until the 2nd quarter of 1995.



--
Argentine federal system provides a poor match between responsibilities and finncig. Federal
transfers provide litde mcenive for efficient spending and provincial taxes ae poorly collected
and generally distortive. Provincial budgeting mechanisms are lacking, ad inadequate
administrative controls have contributed to substantial overstaffing. Provincial public enterprises
are largely inefficient and rely on high tariffs, trnsfen from prvincial treasudes, or soft loans
from provincial public banks, a increaing number of which have become insolvent.
Revenues
22.   Provincial revenues, which amounted to US$25.2 billion in 1993, are characterized by
low revenue mobilization from provincial sources and a correspondingly high dependence on
revenue transfers fom the Federal Government. Federal transfers financed on average 60
percent of total provincial spending, ranging from a high of 92 percent of total expenditures in
La Rioja to a low of 50 percent of spending in the Province of Buenos Aires in 1992. Transfers
include co-participated funds (71 percent), discretionary grants (11 percent), royalties (4 percent)
and other transfers (14 percent). '
23.   Coeawiipated lniners. Revenue-sharing in Argentina dates back to the mid-1930s,
and is currently governed by the Federal Revenue Sharing law of 1988 (see Annex VII).
These transfers represent 56.7 percent of the sum of the most important taxes collected by the
Federal Government, such as the VAT, income and asset taxes, and excise and fuel taxes.
Secondary dist ibution among provinces, codified by the Revenue Sharing Law, is based on a
senes of bilateral agreements reached during the mid-1980s which largely based the level of
transfers on the size of the provincial public sector. Current fixed shares among provinces tend
to favor sparsely-populated ones, underdeveloped provinces at the expense of the more
developed, densely- populated with a higher number of the nation's households having
unsatisfied basic needs. High levels of co-participated transfers have allowed many lesser
developed provinces to sustain income levels by providing public employment in the face of
stagnating local economies.
24.   Discretionary Grants. These transfers amount to US$1.6 billion in 1992, or about 6
percent of total provincial revenues, and have been particularly insidious in rewarding poor fiscal
performers among the provinces and distortng resource atlocation. Such transfers include those
to finance the provincial deficits and the Housing Fund (FONAVI). FONAVI is the most
important, representing about 20 percent of non-coparicipated transfers in 1993. It was
established to finance housing projects in the provinces, but its average loan recovery rate is
only 3 percent. Thus, nominally reimbursable, FONAVI has been a de facto grant.
25.   Revenue from Provinciat Sources. Local revenues fluctuated markedly dunng the last
decade due to changing macroeconomic conditions. The recent economic recovery has fueled
an increase in these revenues from 2.7 percent of GDP in 1990 to 3.6 percent of GDP in 1992
3/    The latter includes mostly transfers earmarked for specifi¢ investments. Details on the mgor  frs are found
in Annex Vm.



-9-
and 3.4 percent in 1993. These revenues are derived principally from the taxes, which
produce low yields due to cumbersome administrative procedures and inadequate collection
efforts. The tumnover sales tax is the most importat source of own revenue, averaging 50
percent of the total. The cascading naue of this tax has negative consequences for resource
allocation, favors vertical integraton, and adversely affects eports and local industies. The
real estate tax averages 25 percent of total own source revenues. Its progressive rate structure
taxes larger and more valuable properties at a higher rate, and is generally ,Ased on outdated
and incorplete property informitton. This results in excessive rates in some provinces.
Finally, the stamp tax imposed on financial transactions is based on the money value of contracts
and reprents about 10 percent of revenues. While relatively easy to collect, it is duplicative
and distortionary. The remaining revenues are collected through a variety of other taxes.
26.  In addition to the poor structure of provincial taxation, weak tax admiistration has
contributed to low provincial tax yields and high tax evasion due to inadequate staffing,
operating budgets, and outdated collection and monitoring systems. For example, a recent study
of the tax agency in a major province revealed that the ratio of administrative personnel to tax
auditors in the province was over 50 percent greater than ratios calculated for Chile and the
United States, while the number of inhabitants per tax auditor in the provinces was twice as high
as in these countries. Budget crises frequently interrupt ongoing tax audits, contributing to the
perception by taxpayers of a low probability of being caught for evasion or underpayment.
Finally, the lack of modem equipment and systems means that returns submitted by even the
largest taxpayers are not properly monitored.
Expenditures
27.  Since the early 1980s, the level of provincial expenditures has exhibited a strong
upswing, up by over 71 percent between 1983 and 1992, with growing concentration in
employment expenditues at the expense of investment outlays. When total provincial revenues
declined by more than US$2 billion between 1981 and 1990, provincial administrations
reWonded by cutting capital expenditures in half, while maintaining curmt expenditures roughly
constant. Since 1990, greater co-participated revenues have been used almost exclusively to
finance increased public employment and salaries at both the provincial and municipal levels of
government. More recently, in 1993, a large influx of capital revenues, mainly from the
proceeds of YPF privatization, were also used in the oil-rich provinces of the south to increase
wage expenditures. This pattern of provincial spending resulted partially from the lack of
provincial budgeting capacity and administrative controls, as well as from explicit policies in
some provinces in the late 1980s to increase public wages and employment in response to
stagnant local economies and a decline in real wages.
28.   Current Expendtures.  The -realocation of provincial spending towards current
expenditures occurred as a result of growing spending on public employment throughout the
1980s, and more recently due to higher public sector wages. Between 1983 and 1990 public
employment grew by 49 percent, twice the increase in population, but declined slightly
afterwards. Average public sector salaries declined by 20 percent in real terms during the



- 10-
1980s, but major increases during 1990-1992 have lifted them to about 15 percent above their
level in 1983. The wage bill currently rprents more than 70 percent of total provincial
spending, not including provincial transfers that support staff in publc enterprises and municipal
governments. Ile expansion of the work force, combined with declines in spending for goods
and services and investment, has undermined the capacity of local govemments to administer
public services efficiently. This has been manifested by a concentration of employees in lower
salaried positions, the disappearance of managerial positions, and an inefficient distribution of
personnel resulting in shortages of staff in critical areas -and over-staffing of administrative
activities.
29.  In particular, public education has been used extensively to provide jobs, and in most
provinces accounts for more than 40 percent of total public employment. Notwithstanding a
constant number of students and a boom in private education, the number of hours paid to
teachers in public primary schools has increased sub4tantially since they were decentralized from
the federal level in 1978 (in one major province by as much as 50 percent between 1983 and
1989). With inadequate administrative controls, nontenured positions for teachers tripled dunrng
the past decade, as did leaves of absence. As a result, the average number of students per
teacher in the provinces is 11 versus 19 in Chile and 22 in Spain.' Such apparent coverage,
however, has not improved the quality of education, as reflected by recent surveys. Given the
high absenteeism in the sector and a lack of available substitute teachers, student/teacher ratios
in the classroom are much higher in prace and the increased wage bill has reduced funds
available for materials and facilities. These same problems of quality and inefficiency are found
in the formerly federally-run secondary school system, recently decentralized to the provinces
under the 1991 Law for the Transfer of Services. Public health services in the provinces are
plagued by many of these same problems, including inappropriate staffing, lax enforcement of
personnel policies, lack of sufficient medical materials, and poor maintenance of facilities, as
are the fonnerly federally-run public hospitals (decentralized under the same law).
30.   CapUal Rpe di*wes.  The increase in public employment in the wake of falling
revenues during most of the 1980s was facilitated by reductions in provincial public investment
which declined by 60 percent on a per capita basis between 1981 and 1990, when it represented
19 percent of provincial spending. However, even with the increase in overall provincial
revenues based on higher co-participated transfers since 1990, capital expenditures continued to
decline in 1992-93 to 15 percent of provincial spending. Moreover, this decline was not
accompanied by increased efficiency in public investment; most provinces lack investment
programs and evaluation processes and capital spending in the provinces has become increasingly
dependent on earmarked transfers from the Federal Govemment. The share of pwvincial
investment financed by such transfers grew from 35 percent in 1983 to an average of 53 percent
in 1990-92.
4/    Private education in most provinces does not provide a meaningfull comparison regarding efficiency and quality,
since it is heavily regulated and subsidized by the government.



- 1} -
31.   Trasfets Fron the Proinces. Next to expeditures for public employment, tansfers
including those to municipal governments, public employee pension systems and public
enterprises, are the most important element in pwvincial budgets. They curently account for
over 27 percent of total expendires, resulting from major increases in the financing of
municipal governments, as well as from the need to cover losses of public enterprises and
pension systems.
32.  Revenue-sharing btween povinciad and muicipal gt mirrors many of the
problems of federl ftansfers to the provinces, with automatic revenue-sharing agreements and
politically allocated dis ey transfers. While laws govening such transfers differ among
provinces, they generally reward poor fiscal pformance and do not provide incentives for
municipal tax efforts Between 198 and 1990 provincial transfers remained at about US$3.7
billion, but the share of transfers to the municipalities increased from 23 percent to 42 percent.
This increase can be attributed to the expanding employment roles of the municipalities and a
deterioration in their own tax effort. More recently, municipal transfers have continued to'jump,
because of the surge in federal transfers to the provinces (from US$1.6 billion in 1990 to
US$2.9 bi}lion in 1993) without cozresponding increases in spending responibilities.
33.  Provincial pension systems for public employees generally are in a precanous financial
situation, and suffer from a number of structural problems. Transfers to finance the deficits
were approximately US$1.1 billion in 1993. As a general rule, pension benefits in the provinces
are much higher than in the national system, as pensions can be drawn earlier, minimum years
of contribution are fewer, and pensions are fixed at 82 percent of wages. In some cases the
minimum provincial pension is 60 percent higher than is the case for the national system.
34. Provincial governments own a wide range of public enterprises and decentralized
agencies, yet have poor informaion about their financial performance. Data on transfers
generally understate the impact of the provincial enterprises on provincial finances. For
example, according to the data, total provincial transfers to their enterprises appear to have
declined from US$309 million in 1988 to US$132 million in 1993; however, in some provinces
public enterprises enter provincial budgets under central administration expenditures and do not
appear as transfers. Public enterprises also are able to finance their deficits with loans from
provincial banks. In August 1993, outstanding provincial bank loans to provincial enterprises
totaled about US$1.3 billion. In additon, enterprises are able to charge higher tariffs to improve
their cash flow, which results in higher costs for local industries.
Provincial Bank and Dect Finaing
35.   Provincial public banks have been a chief contributor to Argentina's mnacroeconomic
instability. Throughout the 1980s, these banks expanded their activity, which was concentrated
in providing credit to their own governments, by resorting to rediscounts from the Central Bank
(BCRA) and transfers from the public sector. Between 1985 and 1991, real credit to the public
sector through the banks inceased by 200 percent, while total real credit to the private sector
fell. In most provices these banks have been a major source of deficit finance for provincial



- 12 -
governments--in 1990 for example, they provided more than 60 percent of the credit needs of
provincial governments. In late 1990, BCRA was forced to lend massive amounts of new
rediscounts to prevent the collapse of sevemal provincial banks due to poor loan recovery and
massive over-staffing.
36. There are 25 provincial banks, with about 700 branches and 24,000 employees. They
accounted for 29 percent (US$15 billion) of total loans of the financial system and 25 percent
(US$10 billion) of total deposits in 1993. -The structure of their potfolios reflects their close
relationship with the non-fincial public sector, which received 36 percent of their total loans
as of mid-1993. Further reflect  the interdependence -.Ath prvincial governments, deposits
from the public sector were higher than private deposts in 15 of the banks. Provincial banks
also perform a number of services for which they are not remunerated. They manage the
accounts of the provincial govemments, collect taxes, provide various administrative services
for provincial governments, and serve a number of developmental functions such as maintaining
staff and branches to service populations in hard-to-reach places. In exchange, they receive a
number of privileges from provincial governments, such as monopolies on financial transactions,
public deposits, tax exemptions, and provincial government guarantees on all transactions and
deposits.
37. While the financial performance of provincial banks has improved,I key financial
indicators (as of December 1993) demonstrate that as a group, in terms of asset quality and
earnings performance, provincial banks peormed well below the banking system as a whole.
There is wide variation in the financial performance, with over half the banks showing poor loan
quality and low eamings performance (See Annex XI). Because of financial pressures, four-
fifths of all provincial banks have been considering privatization. By mid-1994, six banks have
incorporated private capital.
38. Apart from recourse to their own banks, provincial governments also have sought to
cover budget gaps by incurng arrears in salaries, not paying suppliers on time and securing
loans from domestic and foreign banks. Debt accumulated by provincial govemments was
estimated at US$12 billion in 1990. While there are no recent official statistics on the debt
accumulated by the provinces, Federal Government estimates are at about 4 percent of GDP in
1993. Lack of data partialy reflects the fact that provincial governments have few incentives
to consolidate their debt because their capacity to borrow does not depend on their debt situation
but on their ability to use future co-participated revenues as a guarantee. During 1992 and 1993,
many provincial governments in fiscal distress borrowed at very short-term and high interest
rates using guarantees of co-participated revenues. In some cases, provinces sought to
restructure existing debt with employees, suppliers and pensioners by issuing bonds.



- 13-
M. THE PROGRAM TO RFRM PROVINCIAL FINANCES
39. Argentina has a federal system of government witk three levels: federal, provincial and
municpal. Until the adption of the Federal Constitution of 1853, provinces were sovereign in
their own right, and Argentina's 23 provinces remain autonomous entities governed by their own
constitutions. Thus, the Federal Government's ability to effect reforms in provincial public
finances is constrained by a lack of direct jurisdiction. Still, since- the Convertibility Plan was
initiated in 1991, -the Federal Government has launched a concerted effort to promote fisc
adjustment in the provinces by regulazing the taser of co-participated -federal revenues;
reducing discretionary trasfers that, historically have rewarded poor fiscal performers;
transferring responsibility for the provision of most social sevices in hea  and education to the
provinces; reforming and assuming responsibility for provincida  soci  security systems;
improving local esource mobilization (see Annex IX); modernig and downsizing provincial
public administration; eliminating Central Bank rediscounts; and promoting the privatization of
provincial banks (the evolution of fiscal federalism is summaized in Box 1, along with issues
to be addressed under the Program).
/
40.   This reform progran is based on measures successfuly implemented at the fedeal level.
However, provincial fiscal adjustment is unlikely to be implemented on the scale or pace of
Federal Government fiscal adjustment, which was initiated during a crisis dictated by the
insolvency of a state with no viable options. The reforms received significant political support
and were financed by international lending and receipts from privatization. Downsizing the
federal work force was facilitated by the recovery of economic activity in Greater Buenos Aires
and the decentralization of education and health services to the provinces. In contrast, the
environment and incentives for provincial fiscal reform are less strong. Many provinces lack
dynamic private sectors to immediately absorb redundant public employees. Moreover,
provincial governments cannot readily decentralize services to the -largely unprepared
municipalities.
41. An institutional framework for promoting adjustment at the provincial level was
established under the Bank-financed Provncid Development Loan (Ln. 3280-AR), Prownces l.
With the encouragement of the Ministry of Interior, which is responsible for federal/provincial
relations, the provinces have begun to implement technical assistance and investnent sub-projects
designed to achieve a balance in current expenditures. Eligibility for access to investment funds
under Prownces I requires that provinces have sufficient surplus in their current balance to cover
required operation and maintenance of new invesutents. The Secretriat for the Economic
Reform of the Provinces (SAREP) was established within the Ministry to oversee this process.



- 14-
BOX 1: FISCAL FEDERAL1SM IN ARGENTINA
MAim Ifislora EmOte
*  1935. Revenue-sanglntroducedS whon, falced wihb decllainirene fom taif and duties, thie military wtufied  oadmetc taxes
and took over hir collection. F   aignificanthnges over nesx 40 yeos.-
*     Lt197. Fedea Governmnt trnsfe'd nsponsbihty to dh provine for pdray educatio,        public bhalt services ad the
distbtion of wa   nd eletriclty. Financing defived fom exceptional Federa trnsfe and borowi  from provincial public banks
(dawing on borow n    the 8Centl Ilank.           
* Federal Rev_ Sban  Law ef 1988 codified exceptoa transfe by increai  codaicipated transfr to the prvinces, an baed
provinca shates, many on si of publie aeto,r.
Memo" Ta    Since te C           omyrt   n
* 1991. Followg ballout of prviial banb, Central Bank begis to limit disounts and reduce privilee.
* 191-92. Windfall increases in co-paticipated tounsfr to the provine, due to greater economic activity and Fdeal tax colection
effors. To absotb this windfll, the 1991 Law for the Tranfer of Sevies decenaed secondary educatioa and fedeal hospitals.
* Augst 1992. Under the Feda Pact, provinces agreed to allow a ponion of teir primary share to be diverted temnoraiy to finance
the transition coss national social security reform. Minimum levels of revenues guar ed by Federal Government.
* Aprl 1993. Transformation FVud eabiswhed t prop    stuctural adjustmient iahe provinces.
* August 1993. Ihe FIcal Pact calls for reforms in provincial tax systm to reduce distonive effects and increase r4venues. In return,
Federal Govenmen sets a ceing oan co-patticipated transfer, with any excess to be devoted to financing fiscal adjum   m easures,
and offers to take ovcr responsibty for funding provincial social security systems.
Addiea Wedos__mto beAddrme    dePn
* Provinci taxes are dtrtive and admdnitation i weak; Program to suppoin implementtio of the Auupat 1993 Fiscal Pact measures.
* Provincial public sewtor has yet to reduce invovemnt in the economy and to undetak administrative reforms. The Program would
support the privatiztion of pubc enterprises, iovem  in admi e         controls and downdin through the Transformation Fund.
* Fmancially weak provincial bns pose increasing fiscal lability for provines. The Program would support privatization and continued
application of regulations and their supervision by thde Suerintendencyof Ranks.
* Co-paicipation fiamrs sparsely populated provinces with lrg public sectors, and provides hutt, ientive for accountability and
improvod fiscal perfomance. Absence at the present time of political suppot makes it impossiblo to change the system. The Program
would support tightening dicretionay tra s and improving incentives governing provincial transfces to municipalites.
42.       Finally, to promote structural adjustment in the provinces, in April 1993 the Federal
Govemnment established a Transformation Fund (Decree 678/93) endowed with the proceeds
from the privatization of several federal financial institutions. SAREP, which would administer
the Fund, is targeting measures in: (a) improvements in local resource mobilization;
(b) improvements in the efficiency of expenditures; and (c) reduction in the size of the provincial
banlkng sector. The participating provinces would agree with SAREP on the measures to be
taken, their needs for technical and financial support from the Federal Government, and the
terms for repayment. However, the privatizations have failed to yield the expected receipts.
To date, no funds have been received and the Fund has yet to become operational. Therefore,
to accelerate the process of fiscal adjustment in the provinces, the Fund will require financial
resources to meet the financing needs of the provinces for downsizing and restructuring of public



- 15 -
enterprises and banks for pnvatation. The Federal Government would be required to
trasfer to the Trasfonntlon Fund the counterpart funds generated by the Loan and to
maintain a proJect coordinating unit satisfactory to the Bank for administering the Fund,
which would provide provinces with assistance and monitor progress. Evidence -that the
Borrower is complying with Its agreements and enforcing its rights under the
Trnsformation Fund Agreements (see Annex VII} would be required as a condition for
release of the second and third trnches.
Improving Revenie Mobilization
43.   Federa Thrasfers. Comprehensive reform of the federal transfer system would have
the greatest potential for increing incentives to improve local resource mobilization, as well
as enhance the efficiency of provincial expenditure  .iowever, consensus with provincial
governments on fundamental changes to this system has not been achieved. The smaller
provinces, who benefit from the current regime of secondary distribution, have significant power
under the federalist political system to maintain the status quo. Many of the larger provinces
that might benefit from a system based more on the demand for public semces have rejected
the notion of providing the Federal Govenmment with greater leverage over their internal affairs,
which a performance and needs-based system might entail. The combined efforts of both smal
and large provinces have been focused almost exclusively on increasing the primary share of
revenues. The Bank has an active dialogue with the Federal Government on the potential
benefits of various reforms to revenue-sharing.  However, it appears that the Federal
Government is not in the position to implement major reforms of co-participated transfers at this
time. Given the political constraints, more may actually be achieved by providing incentives for
provincial fiscal adjustment through smaller, incremental measures; namely, to reduce windfalls
in co-participated transfers, to minimdze discretionary grants and to limit financing of
current account deficits by provcial governments.
44.   This strategy was initiated in August 1992, when the Federal Govemment reached an
agreement (Pacto edral? with the provinces whereby 15 percent of co-participated funds would
be diverted to finance the transition costs of national social security reform. in return, federal
authorities agreed to compensate the provinces parially by guaranteeing a minimum of US$725
million per month in co-participated transfers. During the first year of the Pacto ederal, the
Federal Government transfenred about US$900 million (0.4 percent of GDP) of its primary share
to the provinces to reach the floor, to be repaid by the provinces when their share exceeds the
floor.
45.   Further modifications were reached under the P c Eisc  Fical Pat) of August 1993,
which has been signed by all but one governor and, in recent months, has been ratified by most
provincial legislatures. The Pact calls for reforms in provincial tax systems to replace
distortionary taxes (para. 49). In return the Federal Govemment has agreed to increase monthly
co-participated transfers to US$745 million (but set a ceiling of US$800 million), forego the debt
accumulated by the provinces under the August 1992 agreement, gradually eliminate the federal



- 16-
asset tax, and take over rsponsibility for goverment employee pension systems from willing
provinces.1'
46.    The Fedea  Government has also begun to limit the level of discretionary grants and
to bring under control the indisciminate use of such grts by provincial governments. For
example, Teuy  Grants (ATN, reesenting almost 20 pement of discretionary grnts, will
be increasingly conditioned on specific fiscal reforms, and in some cases will be repayable. The
total amount of ATN has been set at 1 -percent of co-parcipated transfers. The Government
Internal Auditors (SIGEN) will directly audit the use of funds (FONAVI and FEDEI),
representing another 65 percent of discrtonary grants, to ensure that they are used properly.
To maintain incentives for fiscal adjustment by limiting the diversion of investment funds to
finance cunrent expenditures, as a Second and Third Tranche condition, the Bank would
require evidence that the Federal Government is auditing provincial expenditures from
FONAVI and FEDEI.
47.   Finally, the Federal Government has moved to shut off provincial access to private sector
borrowing to support current expenditures. Domestic banks have had to obtain BCRA
authonzation before lending to the non-financial provincial public sector, since the mid-1980s.
In November 1993, the Government also began requmng authorization for provicial banks to
borrow abroad, in order to head off further loans ftom foreign banks backed by co-participated
revenues. While domestic banks reportedly contnue to provide loans to provincial banks (which
then on-lend to their provincial governments) using co-participation guarantees, improved
supervision by the Superintendency of Banks and recently enacted regulations to tighten loan
classification and loss provisions should significantly reduce this activity.
48.   Some succes has already been achieved in tightening federal tansfers. ITe recent pacts
have reduced the amount of co-participated transfers: a 4 percent decline in real terms in 1993,
following a real increase of 80 percent between 1990 and 1992. Provinces were given additional
responsibility with the decentralization of secondary schools and federal hospitals (see para. 29),
which will absorb much of the initial windfall. Discretionary transfers, which have not
increased in real terms since 1991, have fallen from 21 percent of total transfers in 1990 to the
current level of 11 percent, and should continue to decline as a source of provincial financing.
Despite these measures, for some provinces pressure to adjust was momentarily relieved in 1993
and early 1994 due to large exceptional transfers by the Federal Government from the
privatization of YPF (US$2.5 billion) and debt consolidation (US$1.2 billion). However, outside
of the nine oil-rich provinces, who received more than 75 percent of these transfers as
compensation for their shares in YPF and to cover royalties owed to them by the Federal
Govemment, pressure to adjust remains strong for the 14 provinces in the north and northeast.
5/ As a follow-up to increase the incentives for the provinces, in December 1993 the Fedeml Government nnounced
that employer wage taxes would be reduced in those provinces carrying out the proposed tax reforms.



- 17 -
49.   Provinac  Taxes. A second component of the strategy would be to inc   the
institutional capacity of the provinces to colect taxes, coupled with changes In the structure
of proviil taxtion so as to attempt to brng taxing and spending responsibilities more m
line. The August 1993 Pacto Fiscal seeks to eliminate the stamp tax, transform the cascading
turnover tax into a retail sales tax to remove the negative effect on output, and promote the use
of provincial property taxes. Successful implementation will depend largely on the capacity of
provincial governments to improve tax administation. As a consequence of the Provnces I
loan, many provinces have begun upgrading property cadastres. However, to ensure the-success
of the Pact in improving local resource mobilization, support wil also be needed for mote
fundamental reforms in tax administron, mcluding incentives for collection and automation
of information systems with assistance from the National Tax Agency (DGI) of the Sectetary of
Public Revenues, which has recently cr-ated a provnncial support unit and seconded staff to the
provinces (Annex X). As a result of tightening federal transfers, provinces have begun to focus
on increasing the collection of provincial taxes, which increased by over 50 percent in real terms
between 1991 and 1993. As a Second and Third Tranche condition, participating provinces
would be required to adhere to their agreed tinetables for substantially implementing the
tax reform measures, and to adopt the DGI program for monitoring, Inspecting and
auditing the nation's largest taxpayers. Technology developed for DGI is being transferred
to the provinces with support from the Bank-financed Second Tax Adminstration Loan
(Ln. 3460-AR).
Improving Expenditure Efficiency
50. Cuarrent Expenditures. Provincial efforts at administrative reforms and reducing
redundant public employment have been limited by inadequate programs, limited financing and
concern by provincial authorities about the lack of alternative employment opportunities. While
several provinces have already attempted employment reduction programs, these have generally
not been based on a prior diagnosis and strategy for administrative reform, nor are adequate
controls in place to ensure that such reductions can be sustained over time. In most provinces,
important adjustments include: (i) reductions in labor force; (ii) reform of leave policies and
mechanisms for leave verification; and (iii) mechanisms for provincial agencies to improve
accountability in human resource management (Annex X).
51.   Reductions in the level of public employment would include identifying and removing
"ghost" employees from the public rolls, privatization and contracting out of ancillary services,
targeted hiring freezes, and employment separation incentive programs. Reforms of leave
policies and mechanisms for- proper enforcement will also contribute to a reduction in the size
of the public work force by greatly reducing the need for retaining large numbers of substitute
workers. In response to concems expressed by provincial governments about the lack of viable
job alternatives for displaced public workers, the Government has initiated an incentive scheme
to private firms employing such workers, to which it has pledged US$50 million. As a
condition for Second and Third Tranche release, the participating provinces would have
to reduce redundant public employment by a total of 20,000 (10,000 per tranche).



-18-
52.   To improve accountability, the Federal Government plans to support tihe transfer to the
provinces of financial management and personnel control systems introduced at the federal level
under the Bank-financed Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL, Ln. 3394-AR) and its companion
technical assistance loan (PSRTAL, Ln. 3362-AR). As a Second Tranche condition, the
partidpatig provces would draft legslation to reform provhicial finncial management
procedures and reporting In lHne with the Federal law of Fiancial Management (No.
24,156). For the Third Tranche they would submit such legislation for approval. Specific
sectoral reforms needed to boost.quality and efficiency in social sector spending would be
supported by a series of Bank and IDB projects in the areas of public health and education, as
wel as infastructure construction and maintenance.
53.   Capita-lpemlusur. -Provinces will be encouraged to participate in the -newly created
National System for Public Investment (SNIP), which is being considered for support by a
proposed Bank operation. Through SNIP, provinces would receive training and technical
assistance in project evaluation. This capacity would also be strengthened through ongoing and
other planned Bank lending to the provinces for water supply and sewerage, road construction
and maintenance, irrigation, and public health and education. Meanwhile, the Bank is
encouraging investments to be properly evaluated as to their impact on the fiscal balance by
channeling them through the executing units created under ProWinces I. As noted, the Federal
Government has decentralized the administration of FONAVI to the provinces in an effort to
provide provinces with an incentive to improve local accountability.
54.   Provincial Thrnsfers. The Federal Government lacks legal jurisdiction to intervene to
improve provincial-municIpal financl relations. However, provincial governments are now
seeking ways to manage the growing transfers to their municipalities. The greatest progress has
been made by the Province of Mendoza: in 1990, it implemented a law that related the level of
transfers to actual needs and fiscal performance, including the level of local resource
mobilization. Several other provincial governments have begun to eiscuss possible reforms, but
the negotiations with municipalities are likely to take time and may involve further shifts in
responsibility between provincial and municipal governments. Selective support for improving
the fiscal performance of the municipalities would be provided under a proposed FY95
Municipal Development Loan 11. As a condition for Second Tranche release, participating
provinces would be required to draft new legislation on revenue-sharing with municipalities,
incorporating Incentive rules that base at least 30 percent of transfers directly on rfcal
performance A lTird Tranche condition would require that such legislation be submitted
to provincial legislatures .
55. Under the Pacto Fiscal, the Federal Government has agreed to assume responsibility for
the provincial pension systems and to harmonize them with the new national social security
system. These transfers could potentially relieve provincial finances considerably, since the
deficit of the provincial pension systems accounted for about 50 percent of the total public deficit
in 1992. However, in the majority of provinces such a transfer would imply scaling back
generous benefits and gaining legislative approval. In recognition of the considerable political
costs associated with this measure, the Pacto Fiscal allows provinces to maintain the current



- 19-
level of benefits by funding the difference in benefits after the transfer. Provinces with systems
in good financial shape not supported by budgetary transfers would be even more reluctant to
implement this measure. Initial studies of prvincial systems are being supported by the IDB.
However, given the current political uncertainty regarding the transfer of these systems and the
desire -not to incea  the risks of undermining the overa adjustment program, such transfers
are not required for provinces to particpae in the pro . This is consistent with the strategy
of the Federal Government when it began its own refom program.
56.   The program also suppor the prlvatlZation of public enterpries in the provinces, but
the financial benefits from these efforts are unlikely to be as great or immediate as for the
federal privatization program. In some instances, proceeds from sales might not cover the costs
of employee layoffs or liquidation may not cover existing debts, and financing for the
Transformation Fund would be required. Apart from the fiscal benefit, the long-term benefits
of privatization lie in reducing the cost and expanding the availability of the services provided.
Privatizations and concessions would be patterned on those implemented at the federal level and
in several provinces, which the Bank has supported though Water Supply I (Ln. 2641-AR) and
Power Distrbion (SEGBA V, Ln. 2854-AR). Several future privatizations/concessions would
be supported through technical assistance under SEGBA Vand Water Supply 1 (Ln. 3281-AR).
As a condition for Second Tranche release, participating provinces would offer at least eight
public enterprises for sale/concession or egaly declre them in Jiquidation. Environmental
audits or evaluations satisfactory to the Bank would be required for public enterpries
involved in manufacturing, extractive and power-generating activities. As a Third Tranche
condition eight public enterprise will be privatized/concessioned or be In the process of
liquidation. All actions recommended In any environmental audit as necessary to correct
environmental damage resultig from past operational practices from such enterprises
would also have to be taken.
Reducing the Size of the Provincial Public Banking Sector
57.   Since 1991, and in line with the new Central Bank Charter, provincial banks have been
denied access to Central Bank rediscounts except for liquidity purposes. Also, provincial banks
have adhered to tighter regulations of the Superintendency of Banks on lending to the public
sector, repayments to the Central Bank (about US$400 million was recovered), reserve
requirements, maximum lending rates and loan classification and provisioning. Provincial banks
are now treated on a footing equal to that of all other banks. Furthermore, the Superintendency
has improved its supervisory capacity and has been stepping up supervision. Given this tighter
regulatory and supervisory framework, provincil banks have begun to downsize (between 1991
and 1993, the number of branches and employees have decreased by 13 percent) and about six
provincial banks have incorporated private capital. Another 14 banks are considering
privatization, which is the cleaest indication yet that provincial governments are heeding the
Superintendency's oversight and are not willing to burden their budgets by injecting new capital
into their weak provincial banks.



-20-
58.   As provincial bank perfornance is well below that of Argentina's banling system-- and
given that a major failure would create political pressure for a Central Bank bailout-it is
imperative that p¢ivatization of prvincia banks be accelerated and effectve Supeintendency
regulation and supervision continue. As a condition for the release of a}l tranches, the
Central Bank would maintain regulatlos tt tra provfnca banks as equal to al other
banks; as a conditon for Second and Tid Truche release provinal bans would be
inspected or audited during the 15 months prior to tranche releases. As a condition for
Second Tranche release, at least four banks would have to be offerd for sale or be legaty
declared In liquidation.  ird Trauche rdea  would requir that four bak have been
privatized or are under liquidation.
Current Status of the Program In Particpating Provines
59.   To date, the fiscal reform effort in the provinces has been isolated and largely haphazard.
Privatizations, for example, have been generated mostly by the financial failure of specific public
enterprises rather than as part of a broader redefinition of the role of the state. Broader efforts
have yet to be initiated in the provinces, save for those under politically and financially costly
direct federal intervention (para. 20). Under the program, however, provinces would develop
and implement comprehensive programs of structural adjustment. Since the operation was
identified in August 1992, the Bank has been worldng closely with SAREP to assist provincial
governments in formulating and implementing reforms. SAREP has made diagnostic studies of
seven provinces, assisted them in formulating action programs and initiadng activities. Four of
these provinces (Entre Rios, Misiones, Catmaca and Chaco), have:
wapproved legislation adhering to the tax reform measures of the Pacto Fiscal
(pam. 49);
-    formulated systems to monitor, inpec and audit the largest taxpayers (para. 49);
*     formulated plans for reducing redundant public employment (para. 51);
*    formulated an improved accounting and budgeting systems compatible with that
of the Federal Government (par. 52);
*    approved legislation for privatization/concession of eight provincial public
enterprises (para. 56); and
*    approved legislation for privatization of four provincial banks (pam. 58).
To help ensure continuity of the program, as a Third Trnche condition, as least four
additional provinces would be reuired to take these same measures.
60. Furthermore, several of these provinces have already initiated reforms. Progress has
been greatest in Entre Rios, which prepared a reform program in November 1992, following the



-21 -
first Bank identification mission. It has already taken significant steps by privatizing the public
slaughterhouse (whose liabilities it had to assume), as well as the provincial bank. It has also
reduced public sector employment by 2,000. Misiones, faced with an operational primary deficit
equivalent to 18 percent of current expenditures in 1993, has been even more energetic in the
past six months in its efforts to sell off several public enterprises (privation of the provincial
bank has been initiated) and reduce public employment by 1,060 people. Chaco has made use
of the federal severance payment program to reduce public employment, and has also privatized
its bank. This -first group of provinces.represent a cross-section of the types of provinces most
likely to participate in the program. For this reason, overall program targets for downsizing and
privatization have- been set based on the proposals of these four. The target to reduce state
workers by 20,000 employees rersent about 10 pect of public employment in these
provinces; also the privatization of eight public enterprises would reduce their number by more
than half. Several other provinces, including Santa Fe and Tucuman, and the Municipality of
Buenos Aires, have been working with SAREP to gain access to the Transformation Fund. To
accelerate the process of fiscal adjustment in the provinces, under the Loan at least four
provinces would implement reform programs satisfactory to the Bank. At least four
provinces would be expected, as a Third Tranche condition, to achieve an operational
primary balance, excluding pesion transfers, for their 1995 fIscal year and any other later
riscal year preceding tranche release and have submitted, for the approval of the respective
legislative branches of any such province, a balanced budget for their 1996 fiscal year and
any other later fscal including the year of the release of the tranche.
61.  To help monitor progress in improving the fiscal performance of the provinces in general,
as well as to ensure a consistent and timely set of data required for federal and provincial policy-
making, as Second and Third Tranche conditions the Federal Govenment would provide
the Bank with stan    d budgetary reports on all provinces, including both current and
capita expenditures and their flnandng, for the prior calendar year in accordance with the
principles of the Federal Law of Fnancial Management (No. 24,156).
IV. THE PROPOSED LOAN
Objectives
62.   The proposed loan would support the Federal Govemment's effort to promote the reform
of provincial finances. Its purpose is to deepen the fiscal reforms underlying macroeconomic
stability and enhance the capacity of the provincial governments to fulfill their increasingly
important role as providers of public goods and services. It would support an overall
environment of incentives for retuctuing provincial public finances by increasing provincial
accountability in the use of federal transfers and eliminating specal treatment of provincial
banks, and would also accelerate reforms in eight of the 23 provincial governments with
financial and technical assistance to improve the structure and administration of taxation;
establish budgetary and administrative controls; reduce redundant public employment; improve
the efficiency of transfers to the municipalities; privatize services now perforned by public



-22 -
enterprises; and reduce the potential for deficit spending and inflationay financing by privatizing
provincial banks.
Rationale for Bank Involvement and Strategy
63.   The Bank has been, and will- remain, a strong supporter of the ambitious Argentine
reform program. The country assistance strategy, as discussed by the Board on March 1, 1994,
is to help: (i) consolidate macroeconomic reforms; (ii) strengthen greatly weakened public
institutions, with increasing attention to those responsible for social service delivery; (iii) rebuild
Argentina's deteriorated infratructure base; and (iv) foster private sector development, in
parcular financial intermediation and capital market development. Extending the adjustment
process to the provinces is a central element of this strategy, as provincial governments account
for almost 40 percent of total public expenditure, are now responsible for many core public
services in education, health and infrastructure, and support public banks that segment the credit
market and finance fiscal deficits.
64. Bank strategy for the reform of provincial and municipal governments seeks to:
(i) stabilize public finances and begin reforming provincial administrations, while providing for
urgent investments which improve the fiscal balance and are linlked to sectoral reforms. Our
main vehicles are the ongoing Prvoncial Development Project and Mucipal Development
Project and proposed Provincial Reform Loan (PRL) and follow-on Provincial and Munudpal
Development loans; and (ii) improve the efficiency of delivering public goods and services
through a series of proposed sector operations in secondary education, public health, provincial
roads, water supply, agricultural services and infrastructure, and municipal development in
provinces largely selected for teir reforming efforts. ProWnces I and H are umbre}la operations
covering all provinces and providing, at a minimum, support for institutional strengthening. The
PRL and most future sector operations will be targeted to support those provinces willing and
able to implement major structural reforms.
Experience wth Adjustment Operations in Argentina
65. ' Argentina's record in complying with conditionalities under Bank adjustment loans has
been excellent during the past few years. The Bank has extended US$1.3 billion in four such
operations since 1991 (not including the free-standing FY93 Debt and Debt Service Reducion
Loan, Ln. 3555-AR), as well as US$72.5 million in four complementary technical assistance
projects (see Annex III). The three completed adjustment operations, Public Sector Reform Loan
(PSRL, Ln. 3394-AR), Public Enterprise ]Wormj (PERAL, Ln. 3291-AR) and the Financial
Sector Adjustnent Loan (FSAL, Ln. 3558-AR), met a}l major objectives in a timely manner.
PERAL 11 (Ln. 3556-AR), directed at privatization of defense-related industries, has met its
objectives, although the privatization of ceain enteprises required additional time to be fully
completed. Board approval of a waiver of part of one condition for second tranche release has
been requested for December 30, 1994. The Government was unable to sell one of the 22
public enterprises addressed by the loan, but otherwise fully achieved the project's objectives,
including conversion of defense industries to commercial enterprises, passage of laws for



- 23 -
competition policy and consumer protection, and reduction in the fiscal drain of about US$500
million annually.
66.. This additional adjustment operation in Argentina would extend reform efforts to the
provincial level, where the precariousness of the fiscal situation remains the Achilles heel of the
Government's overall adjustment effort (paras. 5, 12, and 18). The operation is justified on the
basis of: (i) the high actual and projected levels of the current account deficit (paras. 6 and 13);
(it) the volatility of capital flows financing such deficits, which are un}ilely to be sustained at
the scale seen in the last few years (paras. 6, 7 and 13); (ii) the fact that the level of reserves
is not excessive, given that the monetary base is backed by international reserves under the
Convertibility Program, ithat such reserves have contributed to the remonetization of the
economy, and that declines in reserves would have an immediate real negative impact on
economic activity; and (iv) the ongoing ambitious structural reforms, which, although apparently
quite successful, are still relatively new and fragile.
Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
67.  The Bank has worked closely with the IlM  in the design and supervision of adjustment
operations in Argentina, in formulating country strategy, and in economic ar, !ctor work. The
IMF shares our concerns regarding the need to bring provincial public finaa.. s under control
because of the potential risks to fiscal stability. The macroeconomic program described in the
Letter of Development Policy (Annex V) required for this adjustment operation has been
developed in close cooperation with the MO (para. 5). The Bank has also maintained a close
working relationship with the IDB in a variety of fields, including adjustment and provincial
finances (IDB co-financed both PSRL and Provinces I). More recently, the IDB financed a
Provincial Sector Investment Operation and is considering a sector adjustment operation to
promote policy reforms in primary education in the provinces and a second municipal
development loan to complement a proposed second operation by the Bank. Future lending by
both the Bank and the IDB would continue to be closely coordinated, and a more formal
understanding would be reached regarding areas in which the respective institutions would take
the lead.
Loan Conditions
68.  The proposed operation would be a quick-disbursing loan of US$300 million. The
Federal Government of Argentina would be the borrower, and implementation would be shared
by the Federal Ministries of Economy and Interior. The Muinistry of Interior, through SAREP,
would coordinate and monitor activities by participating provinces. It is proposed that the loan
be disbursed in three tranches of US$100 million each. It is estimated that the first tranche
would be disbursed before end FY95, the second before end FY96, and the third before end
FY97.



- 24 -
69.  As detailed in the Policy Matrix (Annex VI), conditionality for the Federal Government
for the release of each tranche would entail adhering to ongoing policies and would comprise:
(a)   maintaining sound macroeconomic policies that are consistent with the program
and comply with the policy objectives and programs described in the Leter of
Development Pocy (paams. 5 and 12, and Annex V); and
(b)   maintaining BCRA regulations that establish provincial public banks on the
same footing as other banks, and that provincial banks be Inspected or
audited during the 15 months prior to Second and Third Tranche release
(par. 58).
The Government has also undertaken to capitalize the Transformation Fund with the
counUpart funds generated by the Loan and maintain a project coordinating unit satisfactory to
the Bank for administering the Transformation Fund, providing provinces with assistance and
monitoring the progress of their programs (para. 42).
70.   Additional Fedeal Govrnment conditionality for the release of Second and Third
tranches would include:
(a)   satisfactory evidence to the Bank that provincial expenditures under FONAVI
and FEDEI are being audited by the Federal Government (para. 46);
0)   providing the Bank with standardized budgetary reports for aU provinces,
including both current and capital expenditures and their financing, in line with
the Federal Law of Financial Management (No. 24.156) for the prior calendar
year (para. 52); and
(c)   evidence that the Borrower is complying with its agreements and enforcing its
rights under the Transformation Fund Agreements (para. 42).
71.  The Federal Government would also provide technical assistance to the provinces in
improving fiancial management, investment planing and tax administtion, and would
help mitigate the possible social cost of particular reforms by targeting social assitance
programs accordingly.
72.  For the Provinces, the Loan would support reforms in three areas:
(a)  improving local resource mobilization by adopting measures proposed under the
EPat Ei-sCl on tax reform and reforming tax administration;
0b)  improving the effiency of public expenditures by strengthening budget and
organization, administrative reform, staff reductions, privatization and improving
transfer mechanisms; and



-25 -
(c)   reducing the size of the provinchl pubLic banking sector by privadzing
provincial public banks.
73.   The Loan would require full implementation of activities in these three areas by at least
four provinces and at least four additional provinces to take concrete steps to implement similar
programs (paa. 60-61). Second Tranche release would require that at least four provinces:
*    .adhere to thir respective timetables *o achieve Pacto Fiscal tax reforms (para.
49);
*     monitor at least 50 percent of largest taxpayers (para. 49);
*     achieve a reduction of 10,000 public set  staff positions from the 1992 level
(Para. 51);
*     draft legislation to reform provincial financial management in line with Federal
law No. 24.156 (para. 52);
*     offer eight public enterprises for sale or concessions or legally declre them in
iquidation with evironmental audits or reports satisfactory to the Bank for
enterprises involved in manufacturing, extactive and power-generating activities
(paras. 56);
e     draft legislation on revenue-sharing with municipalities, incorporating incentive
rules that base at least 30 percent of transfers on fiscal performance (para. 54);
and
*     offer four banks for sale or liquidation (para. 58).
74.   Third Tranche conditionality would require that at least four provinces:
*     implement the Pacto Fiscal tax reform measures satisfactory to the Bank (para.
49);
*     monitor at least 75 percent of lagest taxpayers (pan. 49);
*     submit legislation to reforn provincial financial management in line with Pederal
Law No. 24.156 (para. 52);
-- * -reduce public sector staff positions by an additional 10,000 from 1992 levels
(pams. 51);
*     submit legislation on revenue-sharing with municipalities incorporating incentive
rules that base at least 30 percent of transfers on fiscal performance (pa. 54);



-26 -
*    privtize/concession or liquidae eight provincial public entpises, and undertake
all actions recommended in the environmental audits referred to above (para. 73)
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank;-
*    privatize (at least 51 percent of shares) or liquidate four provinal banks (paa.
58); and,
*    achieve an operational prmary surplus (excluding social security transfers) in
each such proince's budget for their 1995 fiscal year and any other lat fiscal
year preceding the reIease of the tranche and submit, for approval of the
respective legislative branches of each such province, a balanced budget for their
1996 fiscal year and any other later fiscal year including the year of the release
of the tranche (para. 60).
75.  Third Tranche release would also require that four additional provinces would:
-    approve legislation adhering to the tax reform measures of the Pacto Fiscal (para.
49);
*     formulate systems to monitor the largest taxpayers by adopting the current
program of the Federal Secretary of Public Revenues (para. 49);
--   formulate plans for reducing redundant public sector staff positions (para. 51);
a    formulate an improved accounting and budgeting system compatible with that of
the Federal Government (para. 52);
a    approve lgislation for privatization/concession of eight provincial public
enterprises (pam. 56); and
*     approve legislation for pnvatization of four provincial banks (para. 58).
76.   Disbursement, Procuremen4 Records and Audling. Loan proceeds would be used to
finance the CIF cost of general imports, except those on a standard negative list. Retroactive
financng would be permitted for eligible imports within four months of Loan signing up to a
maximum of US$60 million. Retroacdve financing is justified given the significant upfront
measures required by the loan and the need to maintain momentum in the fiscal adjustment of
the participating provinces. BCRA wi}l submit disbursement applications to the Bank and will
maintain separate records and accounts for all tnsactions under the loan. Disbursement
requests will be based on customs certificates, a procedure which was reviewed by Bank staff
and found to be satisfactory. Withdrawal applications against customs certificates for contracts
above US$10,000, but below US$5.0 million, would be made against Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs). Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$5
million or more would be awarded through simplified intenational competitive bidding in



-27 -
accordance with Bank guidelines. Contracts below this amount would be awarded using
procedures acceptable to the Bank. An audit report by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank would be contracted within 30 days and submitted to the Bank within 90 days after
disbursement of each tranche. Audit reports would give an opinion with respect to SOEs
prepared by the Central Bank. Receipt of a satisfactory audit report of a prior tranche would
be a condition of subsequent tranche release. The loan closing date would be June 30, 1998.
hnpact, Benerits and Risks
77.  Soc;il Imac. Argentina's poor suffered disproportionately fom the country's past
economic disarray. The proportion of Argentines living in poverty doubled from 1980 to 1989,
as bursts of hyperinflation eroded the real wages of the poor. At the same time, social services
failed to cushion the fall of many Argentines into poverty; few programs were targeted to the
poor and fiscal austerity, weak administration and inadequate budgetary programming
contributed to their deterioration throughout the 1980s. However, the poverty situation in
Argentina has improved dramatically with economic growth and price stability. According to
the Bank's ongoing poverty assessment analysis, in Metropolitan Buenos Aires, where more than
one-third of the population resides and the data are better, the poverty rate was estimated to be
about 17.6 percent in May 1993. This represents a remarkable improvement from 1989, when
almost half of the population reported incomes below the poverty level. By extending structural
reforms to the provinces, the program would help to consolidate recent gains in economic
growth and pnce stablity, as well as help prepare provincial governments to more effectively
deliver needed social services. Recent outbreaks of violence indicate that the social implications
of inaction could be costly for provincial governments, leading them into a deeper fiscal crisis
recourse would be federal bailouts or draconian measures.
78.    Nevertheless, to be successfil, the program to has to be sensitive to the particular
situation faced by many of the participating provinces. Poverty incidence varies by region with
the highest rates (40 percent) reported in the northern provinces, where poor data preclude
definitive conclusions. The ability of local economies immediately to absorb redundant labor
is limited, and downsizing strategies should therefore recognize the needs for transitional support
for redundant workers. A proposed Social Development Project would support an upgrading of
federal-level poverty data collection and monitoring in order to improve targetng of federal
programs and improve coordination with subnational governments. The Maternal and Child
Health and Nutridon Loan (FY93, US$100 million) is already underway to improve the delivery
of social services to vulnerable groups in those provinces likely to participate in the program
with important concentrations of poor families. To the extent possible, the Bank would also seek
to reward the more active reformers under its various provincial investment prqects.
79.   Envimrnmental Aspects.  The progamm is not expet  to have any significant
environmental impact. Privatization of public utilities would follow the same regulatory
guidelines and framework as under ongoing Bank operations. Environmental audits would be
required for privatizing public enterprises involved in manufacturing, extractive and power-
generating activities (para. 74). Ongoing provincial government environmental programs have



-28 -
not been targeted for budget cuts or downsizing. Fuure Bank operations in agriculture, roads
and water supply would seek to support provincial efforts in environmental protection and
natural resource management. The IDB is expected to extend to the provinces its current
activities to strengthen the institutional capacity of federal environmental agencies.
80. Expected Renefits. The program is expected to deepen the overall commitment to
adjustment, thereby reducing risks of future setbacks at both federal and provincial levels, and
to begin the process of adjustnent in the municipal governments. Specifically, implementation
of the proposed measres would improve the fiscal balance of the provincial governments,
thereby reducing threats to macroeconomic stability. Annual fiscal gains for a typical province
would be equivalent to 10-12 percent of current expenditures, and the overall improvement
would represent 40-45 percent of the operational pnmary deficit of the provinces in 1993.
Benefits, which should be significant, from efficiency or allocative gains to public spending, and
from the possible transferring of pension systems, as well as those from economic activity
associated with a less distortive tax structure and lower utility costs, have not been quantified.
This estimate does not include benefits expected from maintaining overall incentives for reform
or from the demonstration effect on those provinces not participating directly in the program.
81.  Risks. The main risks to this operation involve the political commitment and institutional
capacity of the provincial governments to implement the reforms. For this reason, the
participating provinces have already had the legal framework for proposal reforms approved by
their legislatures. Subsequent actions required of the executive branch of the provincial
governments should be well underway before the next scheduled provincial elections in October
1995. Regarding institutional capacity, the Bank has been working closely with the Ministry of
Interior and the provinces, both in implementation of Provinces I and in the formulation of
reform programs for the proposed operation. The provinces would also be able to rely on the
increased institutional capacity of the Federal Government to provide technical assistance in
budgetary systems and administrative controls, tax administration, and privaization.
V. RECODMMNDATION
82.   I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles of Agreement of the
Bank and would be consistent with the approved guidelines for Bank support. I recommend that
the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 30, 1994



- 29 -
ANNEX I
ARGENnTIA - Macroeconomic  Indicators
(In percent unless otherwise specified)
_~~ ~ ~~~~~ 'u                          .t.o        1085      'ga         iou       tog      tog       2000      200'      60°02     20
tupro-                           e6         8.0        A. A*                 4*        4.3       4j       47        4          1
Oto-ll of u , Om ow,w.*                2la        3.          3                    .1       2.3       "         yW 3     2*         2.1       8
o? (USc  O.D.O                        2".4      20.1      28.        SIt           .      W.1                 10.1     440S        4.1-     O1
% Saw. 015GX
-681 IAo,rnoM                         16*      SU         20.6    -    * n-.    21.1      v.3       2t*       1*.A .412" 0v            -    W..
Ptot                                 1 6.0    184        16.        107        18*       10*       1.1      t6        10.3      10.        16
PV*&6 ( omt0.                        24        2.1 t       .1        12         23        2.4      2.        2.7       2 9                 2
Nalomt sto1 -                                             16.8      'I         ,17J       17.       16"      1"        16.       tO.?       a10
,ttv6,.  t11       10S       18* -      1"         "A.6      ISO       tu       167       16        1*         1174
PuSUe(oomo&a8)                       32        0.6        0.3        1.         1 tJ      1J      2*A        LIT       V         2        -
Ptwogn soofp                          3.        4.1        4          AA         3          *                   I s  1            2.7       2a
bOAO (legopo                            2.3       as8        6*        8          6.3       Ai        $.        8        6.1        4*        4
F8dr1 PUbfs ft (W0h R21&V.ft4    aGOW)
TQWCl w,.nAouM                         12.5      120       2ts         12.6       12A       1T       11U       12.A      1         IZA       12
T7.1CUnot ad    dbem.1                 12.1      12         12., 1*             . "A        12.       2s       1.4       I2"      12         12*
IflmtgatEgadjet                        1* 1t      2        la          la        t.        1.2       1.        1a        1.1       1.        0.7
8SO" I8.wu  SeW01P                      is        U        *0.6        L.e06                 .        0.        a06s      .         0.6       0.6
p8Non-keSew"                            6                   0.1        0.1                  0         0                  0.0G0                0*
Pub2e5.wu'p                             U         as2       0.2                   Oa2        LT       GA3       OA       0*        0*         1.1
CA  SReeaM 1.0                                    0e 0.                a*         as        0*        0*        0
0owI sbw4w.                             1.0       0.7       0.7        0e7        0e                  0.7       0.                  GA 6 
N0Mn._A Pug" saw                        I.S      (0.)       o0         (4         (01       0*        0D        0.1      0.1        0.e       as
= -F. Swat.                            0e.1      0.11       02         Oa         0a        6*        0        02        0*         00       0e
ovwaSaIm                                1         0s        0.0    e     2        0.t       0         a         0s                  ea        0
Pt.  uw w                              &3        1.1       1.1        la         IA        IA        IA        t*        1*        1.        1*
PfIm.'ySwpIu. (M N)                  4.64      6.5       0*63       1.72       4.62       4667     5.182     am6       SAN6      saw       4*72
Ooe,a,oaa1 Ptun.IgijSa 0306 U)       443      2M7        2S6        2.1 24     4*6       47        &6I3     60 $      6.S8      6e         4*
t"1.,1 fzP.ad1.toe (U3314)  9*6       616       SASS       SAN        4.740      4*L2     4*1       AM        476       AM        66
0p.'1a PwL two"a Oovas Raft W        14*        6*        04.        62.         ax       101.     107       105.     112.1      11.       a"
_   el 3INPUtOD0                        tl        62        ?A         7.         77        to                  u        BA         8.1  
LVP"NFSn"1t&Wow                         ts       142    *"             AS         4A        4                   47        42  4SU ",
_br4w%Q1elP &C 91w                                961      IL          2.X     96           9.                            2    &t             92 &
Tf"ag4.st W" 10U4                    PAMf PA=           (L s                   (4    C=1  MA4   ax*   (tlW  (V                               7
OaMtAftomSaam UPM&Q                  P(R    (¶13            7( 3                             1      2  (MM       2) (2          (i3 (1                 . .1.-
Ca3001AsuWBansewrJUSSA               am        12.102    12m        1 4                             "An        *       u6        1t         12i,2
Pub18                                21m7      2A41       1.712      1.6         21        74*       018      43        1n        28         850
P1081                                a"5    A00m        11*17      10*68      12.04      lain      12 12    1243O     1same8*              12.43
nt.MAc.owg       IWCunWP               (2W3)     (4.1)      (lm4                                                                               PA .11
76O1.0.   US            916                    066      10626      11*8. * 12 l    127.6           1477    16417    160         1728       110*10
FI.1g    t lU(ll b)                 7W 5.17    6        t606      1 N         11"       I==       is¶m t  14t1*      1St16     14663    lam
0O0m..  oc t  Pub. sow  LA   t)    12A85      12a0      1A26      18210       14A,      1a"9    t16        121       ¶*tJ      1SU        1
TawF*dh..PUOSwVWt                     70*1     r1.0      71226      72w7       72*64         0      "17      71n       70A0      62A31      m6*1
Fiolgn Om                           win       WA0       "An        S9uSI      66.436      81    66*4        6.14      .W4       66Sam      s6
O1Uiwh LTPb.&Pa*.                  Rs"      8200    S662          6656       WA4       6U26      84*18     819       "W       86*0       SLIM
Oe_1 0et                            12U       127          12      1.73        146       is*       12       1a2m      11*10    1SU"        lo*i
Tal  VOVCuumGOp                        WS        2u        26         2.         3.          .       68.1      07.       67.1      2A4        M.
f'g^aat                               28u        6.       6s         62         $A         60.6A     so       2.        6A        as        62.
Fed4." Pbi s Swat                   =A          .u            I     s" l      17J        IU       1S.4      14.4      12*       12"       ISA
P*46 6stw                            7.6       ea       12A        14*        12         16*     1AD        au        1         21A       11.7
tJtmm 0.  (fd. pumSuut                I.                   4<                    4                   2s SA     *        2          2.4        2.e
PWntPD SNVW6630.                       47e       40.   # 2.           64          VA        S6       Su.       as        S7.2      Su   J
bIRD O6OnFS                           Ss        6          2J.        u    2. a            as        24 b_              la         1
MDlt0 VdL7P        GUw w04 W          6         6*         7A          *         7          .        7.UA     72,       7D        6.         7.3
P't. 0reLOSMLt rPm Pw#. Yw. u           *      30 2S.1                66        20.3      as        Su        an      t1J          "*        O
3kw. 41280 P656000(3)                 6.6       62        S6*           S                  4.       4*        4*        6.        3.8        Ss*
M1bs lnd PI
Ogf"*soalMIa.auWim mwidu  42)f           *        as        Si         1          2.                  2         2A       24          A        2
Cm     h kdaWft hi7                               4          X         tA         3          as       as        2.A      2aA        .4        tF
PA4M356W14 Nte.a   4106.10        *         4     .A       4&1        46.t       4&S       ftg       46.       46.1     4tLt  46              4.1
LUMVU                                    .        4*         .         6.1        e.a*8*                        6          *         *        6
,1ICu,.m0D9    _*                                 6 O6.6               a.a        6.        'PA       7*        74        7*        7.2    __
.IbWugs. PuoisEamnm. &m       o
51 GOtw   a    Pmn av6Swo10jOAftamsogW.1  aftaPapW. Om.Pubeeato.
Sit6I'. Ctem 01W0I4UWM16                                                                                                 .Ub.s880069
I1 TN. M Duo dsow  nOt bOW2VA. OM *WWW.AMbeagmWop ggaa   go.a ft im 302. ftV   bg 
fG   00osn&t mpenE*t.o"u*.j
ZTW am t cone   nDfot_*2Op i.        IIt Sl        wt        ¢dWl   t  . 
IV and of yew.
Princinal abbreviations
GNFS   -  Goods and non-financial services
XGNFS  -  Exports of goods and non financial services
PE         -  Public enterprises
'.LS    -  Multilateral
DS         -  Debt services



,30,                                  ANNEX 
TABLE 2: BASIC DATA ON THE PROVINCES
Seconday                  Deficit
Distnbution    Opertona   As Percea t
Households with  Co-participated    Primary    of Current
Unatisfied Basic   Taxes Legal  Deficit   Expenditur.
.pulation     Needs           Shares       (1993)      (9)
Prowinces  (Million)   32.6             2.0    -US$2,021
(Pler-ePt)    100.0         100.0          100.0       100.0
Advaned                69.1            S7.2           43.9        223
Fedla Capital          9.1             3.7             -          4.4            0
Buaos Aies             38.6            34.6           21.8       -0.4           -3
Cordoba                 8.5            7.4             8.9       16.8           16
Mendon                 4.3             3.5            4.2         4.7           10
Santa Fe                8.6            7.9            9.0        -3.2           -3
Low Demty               5.3             6.5            9.3        44.9
Chubut                  1.1             1.4            1.6        7.3           33
La Pampa               0.8             0.7             1.9       -1.4           -8
Neuquen                 1.2             1.7            1.7       24.7           70
Rio Negro               1.6             2.2           2.5        13.6           41
Santa Cmez             0.5             0.5             1.6       -3.9          -24
rierr del PFuo         0.2              0.0            -          4.6           40
Intermediate           11.8            14.5           19.2         8.8
Entre Rios              3.1            3.7             4.9        1.9            4
Salta                   2.7             3.8            3.8        2.7            8
San Juan                1.6             1.5            3.4        4.7           18
San LAds               0.9              1.0            2.3        0.3            3
TucuMn                  3.5             4.5            4.8       -0.7           -2
Undedeeoped            13.8            21.7           27.6        24.0
Carmaca                0.8              1.1           2.8         3.8           19
Chaco                  2.6             4.4            S.0         2.3            7
Corrieates             2.4             3.8            3.7        -0.1           -1
Fonmosa                 1.2             2.2            3.7        5.7           24
Jujuy                   1.6             2.4            2.9        3.0           13
a Rioja                 0.7             0.8            2.1        0.5            2
Midones                 2.4             3.6            3.3        4.9           18
S.del Esteo            2.1             3.4            4.1         3.9           14
Soume: Ministry of _cnomy and the World Bak
a/     Based on 1987 data, which is being updated in counecton with the Bank's Povet Aseme  for Argentina.
Strure of distribution among provinces is not expected to change significantly.
b/    Including the Municipality of Buenos Ais.



- 31 -                           X.ANNEX n
TABLE 2: BASIC DATA ON THE PROVINCES
Provincial Public AccounUt tn Miollns of Rea Paos (1j3)
1990   1991   1992    1993
Total Revenues                           14303  18217  23313   24760
Provincial Sources                        5468   6620   9177   10417
Tax Revenues                            4635   5763   7831    8734
Non-Tax Revenues                         833    857   1346    1683
Federal Sources                           8712  11591  14136   14342
Coparticipation Federal                 5895   9196  10669   10236
Royalties                             - 736    567    574       571
Fiscal Compensation Fund                 148    216      1S       1
Law 22916                                  0      0       5       0
Education Fund                             0      0       0     151
Technology Fund                            0      0       0       0
Social Security                          190     65    125      197
Road Fund                                155     75    241      267
Civil Works (Decree 2733)                 0       0       0     133
Others                                  -242   -176    986    1209
Discretionary Grants                    1830   1654   1522    1577
Non Reimbursable                        398    439    689      728
- Treasury Grants (ATN)                   85    138    229      289
- Electricity Fund (FEDEI)                 6     18      78     101
- Regional Development Fund (FDR)        160    125      25      91
-Others                                  146    158    358      247
Reimbursable                          1433   1215    833       849
- Housing Fund (FONAVI)                 1049    994    775      817
- AntiCipated Taxes                      351    195       0       0
- Others                                  33     26      58      32
Total Expenditures                        14795  16890  21214   23653
Wages                                   8987  10189  12710   14133
Goods and Services                      1768   1958   2471    2703
Interest                                 273    298    376      410
Tnsfers                                 3768   4445   5656    6408
- Municipalities                        1595   2211   2564    2915
- Public Enterprises                      0       0    141      132
- Pension System                         746    816    903    1132
- Private Schools                          0      0    411      570
- Others                                1426   1417   1637    1659
Public Savings                             -493   1327   2099    1107
Capital Revenues                            40    104    132    2455
Capital Expenditures                      2787   2733   2560    3537
Overall Balance                           -3239  -1302   -329       24
Memo:                            
Primary Surplus                          -2967  -1004      47      434
Operational Primary Surplus              -3007  -1107    -84   -2021



-32 -
ANNEX M1-
SATtS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Staeent of B1k Lou (as of Juoe 30, 19)
Amount 0.i.
Loan or Credit Number           Year      iborower             Pupose             cancel        Undisbured
(USS miion)
Fully disbured ons (40)                                                                4.625.0         0.0
2641                    1986    Argenina       Wa Supply                        44.8          t0.3
28S4                    1987    Argentina      Power Distribution               276.0         154.8
2920                    1988    Argenina       Muicipal Develpmen                120.0-       24.2
2984                    1989    Argenin        Social Sa:tor                     2S.0           I.t
3280                    1991    Argenina       Ptovuin   Deeopm_                200.0         161.8
3281                    1991    Argentina      Water Supply                      100,0        98.8
3292                    1991    Argettina      PEREL                             23.0          2.0
3297                    1991    Argentin       AgriQUtUra1 Servics               33.5          19.4
3362                    1991    Argendna       Pub. Sect. Reform T.A.            23.0          15.5
3416                    1992    YPP SotKedad   Hydrocsarbn Engr.                 28.0         16.0
3460                    1992    ArgpAina       Tax Administtion I                20.0          6.0
3520                    1993    Argentina      Yacywdrc H                       300.0         72.8
3521                    1993    Argentina      Flood Rehablhation                170.0       121.7
3556                    1993    Argentina      Pub. Entprinse Ref. NI           300.0        100.0
3558                    1993    Argentina      Fm. Sec. Adjustmetm              400.0        100.0
3611                    1993    ArgeAina       Road Maitnance & PAbAb.          340.0        300.1
3643                    1994    Argentina      Matemal & Child Health           100.0         93.5
3709"                   1994    Argentna       Capal Market                     500.0        500.0
3710                    1994    Argentina       Capital Madres TA                  8.5          8.5
TOTAL                                                                                          7,639.7
of which has been repad                                                                        2:305.5
TOTAL NOW OU7STANDING                                                                          5334.2
AMOUNT SOLD                                                                                      12.8
of which has been rmpaid                                                                          12.8
TOrAL NOW HELD BY BANK AND IDA                                                                 5,321.4
TOrAL UNDISBURSED                                                                                           1.806.5
1/ Not yet signed.
July 25, 1994



-33-                                        ANNEX  IV
ARGElltlNA
STATEHENT OF IFC tNVESTtENTS
As of Septeamer 30, 1994
(In 4illimns US DoltarS)
- orfginal Grosa Comitents - Held   Void    Ufdi
fiscal Yars                                                                tFC     IFC                    by      by      Inil
Comitted               Obliger                  Type of 8usiness           Loan   Equlty Partic totals  IfC    fartie Part
1960                of Acinder trntria          frcn and steet               2.94             .73   3.67
1960                e Papeler Rio Parn, S.A. Timber. pulp and pae            3.00       -           3.00
1961                a1 Fabriec Argmincis de     Automotive ad acaeusori'   1.23               .23   1.51
1962                at Pasut Petrequimic        Chilcals and petrochemic   3.03                     3.05
te65m/              a Celuts Argentina, S.A. Tiber, pulp W  paper            8.25            4.2S  12.50       -
1969                W  Aditoria& Ca  SociedA  General manufacturing  5-00 S           .60    .40   7.00
1969/75          ,af  etmir  Sierca, S.A.t.C. Iron and stel                 14.75           U2.S   17.00
197n                 talera  Avwl_anee. 8...  Cemt ad construction a   5.50             -           5.51
1977/84/86/894         Altpergatas s.3.1.0.     Tottiles                    62.93    5.00  42.50  110.43  35.92
197785              a, soys S.A.                Food ua  agribusiness       21.00                  21.00
1971/81/8h/w93194      Jtj' Ninetti &A.         Cement and c    tructions  44.00       -   67.50  1`1140   12.05   12.1
19M//86185          a, Pasa*h S.A.              Timber, pulp adpper         25.65   4.25   3.00  32.90
1979/8287/92        a/ ipoko Industries         Chemicaa endW petrocmic  21.00    1.15   9.00  31.15
1979/83/8           a/ Atlpese S.A.              Foode nd agribusirsse        5.20    1.61          6.1        -
1984                   Pftrquimica Cuwo         Chbicals and petrhciemfo  21.00   4.00  21.J9  4".09   5.28    e.26
1986                a/ Ataor S.A.l.             Chemicals and petrocheic   7.00    1.00         -   8.00
1986                   Cattorini Hnos. S.A.     General manufacturing           -               .   0.00    .24
1986                   Caerica Pilar S.A.C.I.  General manfecturing             .               -   0.00    .25
1986                   Conpdlla Sudamericfna s8T trAnstrial equipment and       -       .       *   0.00    .29
1986                   Otarlo La Mum Provinci Tilbr, pulp and paper            .       .       .   0.00    .13
1986                   Piedra Grand*            Mninng                          -                   0.00    .09
1986                   Roberts Participacines   Capital mrkets                  -     .05       .    .05     .05
1986                   S.A. de Invefsiones de   Capital markets                 .   2.00        -   2.00    .43
198689/91              Banco Roberts S.A.       Capitat markets             28.00       *       -  28.00       -
198                 a, S.A. Carovaglio y        Chemicals and petrochmfic  13.00        .       -  13.00
1980/90                Nidra Oil Development    Energy                      80.00       -  27.60 107.60   1.14
1987/90/91             Teminat 6 S.A.            Industrial services         12.50      -       -  12.50   s.71
1968                a1 Astra C.A.P.S.A.         Energy                       12.38              .  12.38
1988                a, trids S.A.P.I.C.         Energy                      20.63       .           20.63
1988                   Areor S.A.I.C.           Generat metufasuring         12.00                  1 12.00   2.00
1968                   Coaortex S.A.             Textiles                       .               -   0.00    .40
1988                   Corporsfdn  nerl de   Food nd agribusinss                    -               0.00    .20
1988                   etC Industrial Lner.    Textiles                         -       .       .   0.00    .08
1988                   Prodatos Pulps Noldtda, Timbe, pulp and pap             .-               -   0.00    .40
1988                   San Sebutlin              Food nd agribusiness               -           *   0.00    .40
1988                   Tevycom Fapece S.A.       Industrial equipunt and         .              .   0.00    .12
1988                   Vattey Evaporating        Fod ad agribusinres                                0.00    .20
1988                   Vandwfit, S.A.I.C.t.F. y Textiles f                                          0.00    .20
1988/89                Fince Flichnan, S.A.       enral mnufaeturing                 -               0.00    .49
1988/89/94             lanco Generl de Ibpocls Capital markets              35.00       .           35.00  15.00            3.
1989                a, Jfirote/Norillo/Olleros  Engy                                 6.62            6.62
1988/92                Bance Rfo de to Plat,   Capital mrkets               50.00                   50.00  35.00            7.
1988/93                g8ngs y Son SA.          GCrenel mafaeturing         63.00       *  s7.so 120.50  23.00  57.50
1988/93                Ln1ie Parand. S.A.         ene   manufaeturing           -       .            0.00   1.06
1989                a, Argentine Invertment      Financial services             *   2.00        .   2.00
1989                a/ Chihufdos Petroleum      Energy                          -   4.98            4.98
1989                   8anco Frances del Ito de Development firancing        1S.00      -           15.00  12.27
1989                   Carboclor industrias     Chemicats and petrochemic       -       .       -   0.00    .21
1989                   Cencosud, S.A.            tnadustriat services           -       -       .   0.00    .40
t989                   Comesi S.A..C.           General manufacturing           -               -   0.00    .84
1989                   Cotsis  General de        ffnaial services                     .10       -    .10    .10
1989                   Frachfa  nos. S.A,        Industrial services            -       .       .   0.00    .56
1989                   Industries Cufdicas      Chemials *nd petsrchemic        -       *           0.00    .33
1989                   Ints 5.A.                Textiles                        '       '           0.00    .84
1989                   N.A. 8ogano S.A.         Timber, pulp and papeV          '               -   0.00    .15
1989                   Naltee S A.              Chelmcals and petrochemic       *       *           0.00    .08
1989                   Parafina del Plats, S.A. Chemicals and petrochauic       -0.00    1.38
1969                   Pastorit Santiaguens s.a. Food and sgribusines           .       -           0.00    .43
t989                   S.A. Cenera Gecis        food and arfibuss               .               -   0.00   1.50
1989/92                Astra - Coeafif          Energy                      50.00       -  43.00  93.00  27.71   32.25
1989/93               eotland L Cla, S.A.       Tim                                     .           0.00    .40
1990                   Algodonera Santa Fe S.A. Textiles                                             0.00    .59
1t90                   Corparacien de           Financil services               -     .08             .08    .08
1990                   frigorffico Tabs, S.A.   Food and agribusiness                               0.00     .2t
990                   WVittor S.A.              Food an agribusiness            -                   0.00   1.S0
1990/95                Petroken Petroquimice    Chmeicals end petrochedme   40.00           11.00  51.00  37.50   6.25   IS.-
1991                   lanco de Cr6dito         Capitat markets             10.00       *       *  10.00   7.86
19t    -               G- GutforcdArgentfne S.A.   J xtiles                     *0.00 *53
199t                   Jul05 del Sur, S.A.       Food and agribusiness          -       .       *   0.00    .40
1991



-34-                                         ANNEX IV
STATIM!NT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
As-of September 30, 1994
(In Milltons US fSel ap,)
- originda Gr   COmtts - Held   leld   lWdil
ffseet Yum                                                                tIf     IFC                    by     by      tat
CoW""                  ca t 1fr                -TV  of lusines            Lown   Equity Parfc Trtals  IfC    ftetle ftrt
ThN, S.A.    -trcta   quwpmn  ad                       -                  * O        .39
1992                   Frigorifice RIepatmnes  Food and agribwiness        12.00   1.00   6.00   19.00  12.33   S.'7   2.c
192                    NMA     e Sied dOe l     Cols  qpitemxrkts      .             .8             .1*    .16
Oteaginos Gestt, S.A.   Fea nd agribusiness         20.00       *  15.00  35.0   20.08   u.n5
1992                   Potisur, S.M.            Chenicals and petreehemic           7.00 e         7.00   7.00
t992/95                Petrotera Argetina San  Energy                      15.J0  z7.00  35.00  77.40  41*00  35.00   #.!
1993                   Alto Peran S.A.          TIoer, pulp and pawr                               0.00   19.4?
199S                   Brudes S.A.P.l.C.        anerg                      350   S.00  60.00 110.00  50.0   48.00
t99S                   Cadlps S.A.              Eney                       15.00   S.00   20.00  40.W0   0.00  1$.00   9.;
99                     Capr  .A.I.C.I           Food and agribusines                              0.00    1.00
1993                   Epr4s S.A.               Indtriat servfes                                   0.00    1.3t1
1993                   terrappreo Papme.  Iodzatrfal equipmnt awd    13.00            -  20.00  33.00   13.Q0   20.00   C.e
1993S                   iterpeck, S.A.          Timber. pulp and pawr          .                   0.00   1.67
1993                   La Indwstriat Atlfunttela Food #nd agriblau'ia s                            0.00    .96        -
199t3                 WMaCtrte Poppa. S.A.      Food and agribusiness      12.00           12.00  24.00  1Z.00  12.00
1995                   Mendoza Refrese" s. .A.  general rnufacturing                               0.00    1.31
1993                   Nuevo Central Argentino   Industrial equipaent and   10.00   3.00  15.00  28.00  13.00
1993                   Surfectan S.A.           Chaeicals and petrocheuic                      *   0.00    .26
1993/94                Reline. Rio de t Platc  Food and agrlbjsineb a               3.00t          3.00   7.83        -
1994                   Cervec ria y Malteria    Food and agribusiness      15.00       *  15.00  30.00  15.00  15.00
1994                   CcqmaAia Geneal de       Energr                     25.00  15.00  40.t0  80.00  40.00  40.00
199                    Eqpres oistribuidra    Industrial services          45.00 °        125.00 173.00  45.00  128.00 128.
1994                  ftrnr  S.A.               Cement and constructicn m                          0.00    1.50
1994                   Naisa-Argmntfna, S.A.   Titber, pulp and paper      11.00                  11.00 *tO O.
1994                   The Argentine Ecuity     Ftnanafal cervices             *   4.00        *   4.00   4.00
1994                   Tacylec S..              Intirial ervices           20.00       .  45.00  65.00  20.00  45.00
19ff                   Aceitern Geneal O*ela  Food and agrIbusines         15.00  10.00   15.00  40.00  2.00          *  25.
19ff                   Copeni Elaboradors de  Food ad agribuinass          15.00            6 6.00  21O.  15.00       *  IS.
1995   _         ltatettone liarm    S.A. Food ad agribusines              40.00       -  35.00  75.00  40.010           40.
1995      -            Robtff AFIP Group        Ftnnciat servie                -   145            14.25  14.5             1.
Total gros eintnun   0                            1011.01  138.87   7.10 11906.98
Leu  wmcllatium, tmsinstions, repsymnt & sales 453.60   5.77 253.29 712.66
Totat co tns n  hed ct                             557.41  133.10 503.81 1194J2 690.51   6.81  265.
Pendin  camtet
s                                                               -  57.50  57.50
SGM                                                 33.00    7.00  77.00 122.00
Acfndu ifstria           Irn an  steel              15.00   10.00  20.00  45.08
rEe. oiatribuide*e       I strilt cvces                             8.00   8.00
UStINVEST                                               -  20.00        .20.00
KLEPFI/CALOERO                                       6.00       *           6.00
IANUELSAT                                           30.00   5.00       *  35.00
TRANSCOMOR                                          25.00       -  80.00 105.00
TUCIMAN                                                       .30            .30
Totat pending comitunts                            114.O0   42.30 243.50 398.80
Tot comtm nts h ld and pewdng commdtments          671.41  17S.40 746.31 1593.12
Totat amdeibursed c_mtnts                          101.73   26.58  137.60 26S.91
o/ Invtments uhich have baen fully cancelled, termiated, written-off, sotd, redemed, or repaid.
W/ Gros cemmtuouIs consist of approved and signed projects.
et Held cloitmre      ca  ast of disbursed rnd .Aiiibursed Itvestments.



35 -
- <=U;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. EX                   V
oy  ,~~44~  .
ARGENTINA
PROVINCL REFORM LOAN
LEhR OF DIEVELOPMENT POUCY
(dated December 21. 1994)
Mr. Lewis T. Preston
President
The Wortd Bank
Washington, D.C.
Doear Mr. Preston:
1.   This letter of Oevioipment Policy descrbes the economic reform progrn
of the Argentine Government as wail as specific steps to deopen fute the
reforms in the provincial public sector. To meet these objectives, the Governm
requests continued technical and financial assistance from the World Bsank for its
full Implementation. We would like to take this opportunity to also prsent the
maceconomic framework which complements the reform program.
L Mcoeonic Framework
2.   Price stability remains the centerpiece of the Govemment's ecomic
program in wahieving sustained groh and welfare improvement. Toward this end
, the Govemment has made import prore  since 1991. To eliminate fisea
deficits that were fueling inflation, the Govenment initiated profound structural
reioms. As a result, monthly pic Incrasaes dropped from over 30 pernt at the
beging of 1991 to intematonal rates in the seownd semester of 1993.
3.   By laying the bais for prie stbility, the Govemment has chartd an
agenda for the fture with the folowing objecies:
^   . the co-isotdatlon of stability through strict compliance with the Law N 2398
of March 27, 1991 ( Conve bflity Law), the preservaton of fiscal equlibrku
j ad the opeation of a ukt  economy with deregulated and unnrsictd
competitive markts, and reguaton by the state of non-competotive markets;
'./A'                                           .



- 36-
ANNLE2K V
QJudu  aRlt Ycnu 
~a4iX fuwi Y~~~o
a the strengthening of economic growth through increased levels of savings,
infestment and expons, and an intensification of trade, financial and
technological integration of the Argentine economy into world markets; and
* the achievement of higher levels of employment and a more equitable
ditbution of income, both at a personal and regional bass, trugh
consolidation of economic stability and growth, substantially incrased publi
inwestment in human resource development and social services, and
measures to promote regional development.
4.   Sustained economic recovery end improvementa in welfare will continue to
be achieved by undertaking lasting structural reforms in the public 3ector,
improvement in national savings, and polcy reforms that wouid keep on fosteting
private sector activity through gains in productivity, lower domestic taxes, and
factor market impements. To ensure that the private sector remains the 1eain
expansionary force in the economy, the Govemment Is committed to mainrtin
flexible and open markets free of domestic reguiations ad major esmal trace
barriers. and with a strong financial sor to improve intermediation.
(a) Open maket ecooWmy: The Govemment has eliminated substintial
controls on prices, wages, and Interest rates as well as a complex
network of subsidies;and impticil twas. The Goveniment is committed
to maintain such poliieas.
Addilonaiy. to faciltvr   -.ore ratlonal.a.tiosUon of resowcas in the
economy, and imp    inteationalompetiveness through the
roductin of production costs and Improvement of incentives for
productiv  investmen  the Govemment is committed to promot
stuctural reoms by intmducing and supporting legsla: (a)
liberatng lbor mkets: (b) streamlining bankruptcy legislati: (c)
reforming the health Insurance copeaives; and (d) e
reform of provincial finances, Including the reducon in ineffiien
(b) Trad  uberalw on: The Govermment has made rapid stds
towerd opening "  economy  bothin tems of flws of rade, cap,
an technology. Thkn into mat ent meures, by md 1W3 th
import tariff atncre has ben simpied and the average tarifat
(including the statical tax) was lowad to apprximatelgy 18 pwmt
Export taxe hwe bon neary eltind, and most qu
MreUstritinsan ohe pfoosdurns that slowed the entry of trad, capita
ane tecnolgy he ben. removed The Govenmet wil kep* the
economy open to i    t     i    tln by net             e
degree of effactive protecon In te ecnoy, and wil1 keep A.gewitne



-37-
ANNEX V
antidumping provisiom  in line with the respective GATT cod.
Moreover. the MERCOSUR treaty is now being implemented. Seve
regional tariff cuts hav already taken place. gnd it is the Govemmets
intention to seek. as specified in the Treaty of Asunci6n , the reduction
of all lntra.MERCOSUR tariffs to zero by Januay 1. 1995, whi
eliminating all other Intr-market trde barers.
(c) Fnancial Sector Rform: To acclert private sector investmen
improve ffnancal sector performance, and encourae efficiency In the
alloation process. major financial sector policy reforms have ben
initiated. Interest rats of pnvate banks have been detemmed freely
since 1987, public sector involvement in banking (including Contral
Bank reform) has been reduced, monetary emission was restricted and
capital market distortons have been removed. Capital adequacy
standards have been tightened. This confirns that no reversas will
occur vis-avis interest rate liberalizaton, reduction of directed cedit
eliminaton of forced investments, and regulations on "Sasle' capitd
ru!tem . rightning  of prudent   regldons  and  the
strengthening of bana supervision will strngen the sourdness ft
financial system. E4uaUly imporftnt Is the stengheng of capit
mwkots regulatory framework The continuing downzing of the public
banking sector will contrbute to aonnlc stability.
H. Public Sector Finances
TMe Federal Govemment
6.   The Govemmen has undetaken a maor effort to improve revenues
through the Imptementation of a much-broader and unfrnn VAT. The Govrnment
Is also committed to impove the efficiency of the tax adminstrafton by Improvn
substantially audits and contois. The increased relan  on more effcient ta2S
will continue allowing the Govmment to eliminae or reduce o onary tins
while observing the fiscal targets estabished in paagrphs 6 and 19. The
govement has submitted to Congress law  broadeni  the coverage of the
personal asets tax furher restrunng the pubic secor. timitn expendit   to
th socal securiy sytm. A  will prope reforms to improve the efficiency of
the famrny glowances system.
6.   In 1995 the public filnaes will continue to be adminiered under ft
critrion of fIscal balance th  has predomAtd since 1991. The 19IS budget
II6o                                q_,,  El



- 38 -
ANEX XV
was drawn up in the framework of a decline in the ratio of public expenditure to
GDP and a strong effort to educe tax evas:or. This budet also incorprates the
gvemment's intention to further rationalize the national administration, indudin
the privatization of nuclear power stations. The govemment also plans to etnd
te lowenng of employer sowial security cntributions to the services sector in
those provinces with have fully implamented the reforms atipulated in the Federi
Pact of 1903 and provded that revenues are sufficient. Over the 199S5199
period. the govemment Intends. If requited by cIrcumstances, to adopt further
exenditure restraints to achieve the basic principle of maintining cash equilibrium
in the public finances.
7.   The govemment's program for 1995 will continue and deepen stuctur
reforms. The Congres is presently considring importnt law which modify the
regulations on collective bagaining contracts and sasocied employment frisk,
thereby improving the flexdbility in the labor markt and reducing labor coats:
which govern the reoranafton of enterpnss In baunnptc proceedns aN
which cretat new medium and ong-term fnancial instument. The approval of
the social security Sodaifty Law, will reestablsh mnamum limit for ae
beneficiaries, eiiminate the automatic adjustnt of benefits, apply the provisions
of the convertibilty law to the detFmination of pensioners. and modify the
asociated leal proceedings. It will also allow t  establishment of a limi, that
will decine as the number of pensions under the fomwr scxial securitY sytem
diminishes, on ponston outlays, wich have been an irmottant caus of
maroeconomic instasility in recent years. These and ether refonms, together wth
the progrsive extension of instituiol c"es to all governmental
jurisdictons, will help to further stbangthf  the pfound  instictut
transforma   of our courtry.
8    The Govemmort is committed to hae poltcies and programs under
impleentaion which are fully consistent with the Convetibility Low NW 23.928. of
Mach 27, 1991. and the Central Bank Low N' 24.144, of Septmber 23, 1992
Consistent with the undorpinnings of the Convertibility Law. crdit expansion by
the Central Bank to fe public secor and he financial se8w will be limied In
acordance with the above mentioned Central Bank Law
mvl3dcial Muile FinanMs
11   9.   Throughot the 1980. deficits generatd by provncial ge n    rW
major contibutois to the chic inbiity of the Arentire plic sctr. Ovr the
ISt thyars, AN  gojutmert, essentia o t ovey of th  cony. has
oamud mainly at th fdea  le. At te me time thVt pMrVAt g
/  hhve o agged in makdng noma  fiscol k_uttS, their ote withintte economy



- 39 -
AM~EX V
has rown as the resuut of the decntralzatimc of many feera functuons, notaby
secoda  eOucon and public health. Provinces ae noW the major prvides of
core public sevicas in health. eduecan, security, water an  sattn,
bectriCity, and other tnfastructure. However, mst provinces, ae ill prepwad to
fUlfill their inoeasnrg. Imporat  role, wth neive inlIcations for fute
economic gowth ana meeting the needs of the poor.
10.  The Fedra GovWnmern has launched a conced efft to promot fscl
adustment In the prvines to reguane the tafer of co-participated federal
revenus, reduc unconditiona discretionry transf  that reward poor fscal
performer improve iccat resoue mobilifation, modenize and downa_z public
administrtion, improve the provision of social smeras in health and education,
assume responsibility for, and reform, provincial.aocial secrw systems, pnivatze
or close inefficient ublic eteprises, eliminat Central Bank rediscout
pmote privatztn cr closure of provinci banks, and more generally improve
the effiiency of ailooson of resources in the prvirnial public sector.
11.  To attain e  cbjectv, th Fedtal Gvemmenra sStegy for prvinl
reforms is based en (a) the Transformation Fund approved In April 1N3 (b)
te "Fiscal Pef signed on Augus 1993; and (c) t  proposed Provinia
Reorm Loan nna by the Word Bnk
12.  The        miaton Fund. In Apri 1M3, a Transomation Fund wa
establd to nace strucht adjustment meaures in the provinces, funded.
inter ails, by further       at the federal level. To have acces to the
Tranformation Fund, auting provinces must  er into an areenent with th
Misy of Intrior takin  measures aim   at:  (a) impoe sin l
resource mobilization  (b) ivement in th effciency of expens; and
(c) reduction in the sze of the proincial bankin sector.
t3.  Fhsa PaCL In August 993, the Federal Govenmt proposed a FI
Pat, which principally caUs for reforms In provincal tax systm  to rdc
produc  cos  ad inea.slocal tax revenu, consiste  with the earl
prposed Trasorataon Fund. In retum, th Federl Govemmet agrO  to
inrase mnmun                  trasfrs, postpno, and possibly foro,
crtain provic   debt obligations, and take over responsibility for fundng
provincial i  scri syems.
14.  The Fedea Govenment. In the contx of the 1993 "Fsa PSo. Is
seeing from prinu to.
sI) ubs_ue theWoW tax by.-a-        Ittax in orderto rede
the  _u|in  nwate of Ihe provnc1 bmvtL
, * ve *                  ^_~~~~0



- 40 -
(iH) elUfinate the hghly Uiston:onafy provincial stamp tax
(Ill)  fBducS property tae to 1.2 pect for rua pmroerat  1.35
prcont for seminuGal propeties. and 1.5 percent for urban propete.
The maximum fiscal vahe of proprties is fixed at 80 percent of ther
*maet value.
(hv) iminate provnctal lao, finandia. aN  e ry taes.
(v)  use co-parcipating transfers exceeding an agred amounL to
canI  debt obliuaions. finance inverstenta, or provincial adiutiment
proam that have baen approved by the natonal govemment.
(vi)  Intensify tax collecton and contl, with provinces adopt  a
uorm system of tax reporng and collction, as developed by the
notional OG.
(vi)   dute proeional ativiUtes, .e9iminate restrictions on
wholesa, and retal sales, deregulate further the transport s8c, ad
make compatUble federal and provnCial rgulations of the medicine ad
food markets.
I5.  in the contert c' the Fiscal Pact the Federal Govrmmont hs the
obligation to saot the transfer of provircial scxial 8e§uft  systems. and
hmarnize codributions and pnison with the nGwy appmved nationl social
seturty system. Additionally, the Federi Government will support the
ptivatzaon of public enterpris, anm reduce tee role of provincial banks thrugh
pivatlization of mangement ad ownership.
16.  The 10ovinclal eorm Lan. This loan suppots, enhances finang amd
builds upon the proposed aonm  of the *Fial Pact and those of Xt
sTransorralin FudW. In the contex of this lon the Govenment is seking frm
the provinces to
(1) Impove the effcnc of public expendius by s      h
budiget anm  orgenton. downsizng, administratve rfOm  end
improving transfer mecnisms: measures would include:
* -approving and mpbalaced budet for 1597 
recourse to addi  dlscr   y suppt
I.v.                                  f ..



- 41 -
eaa y aesa. 2as
* imptmenting imprved financial and budoeting systems compable
with that of th* Federal Govemment
* reducing staff andlmprwovng adminisative sytems;
* Improving systms for provincliaunlclpat transfers; ano.
* Privatizing, cnceuining or liuldagtng public enterprises
(il) Reducing the role of provincial banks by privatizing management
and ownership of provincial banks,or liquicaang. them.
17.  In the context of tth 0loan, the Federal Govemment is committee to ongoing
policies and would comprise:
(i)  maintaining son macroeconomic polices referred to in Section I
and 11 of this leter;
ii) limiting additlonal discemtionary transers for ficai suppor to Uto
ponces vth adjustment progams approved by th Ministries of
Economy an Intenorsatisfactry to the Bank; and
(ii) maintaning and onforcng regulaUon program to treat prvinca
public banks the sam  as private banks
18.  To support the implemation of the proposed reforms at the proWinca
leve, the Federal Govement is aditionally committed to provide tecnical
assistance to the adjustn  provins in Improving financial managemenwt
Invst  planning and tax   intaon, help to mitigate the possible social
costs of particular refoms by taring socidal assistance programs accrigy, as
wil as proWide upfront fnan=n thgh the Transformation Funw to supo
provincial rokm measur.
Conldated Publi Finans.
19.  To sustain low levels of nlaton, and the stability of the finanal syteWm,
Uw federal authorities are committed to seek a corsolidated (induding prvices)
sectorfiscal balnc, or better, ove th 19957 Peo
20.  To further stren   fiscl - aconabMty at the proviia le, th
Fedrl Govenment by end of 1906 wil seek.to standerz budet   eportn
4/ from all povincs, incldn both curnt and capitl e ipnditreeo dut
PA                         ..
1't.                            .7-



- 42 -
ANNEX V
&act yo cV ;    a5ie
flnanng, according to the principals contad in Law of Financiai Managemn
and Performce Control (Law N  24.156). &encardized provincial finanial
statoments when available will be made publicly available by the Fedrl
Govwnment, wich will also present on an annua basis the financial condion of
-the cowsolidaStd public sector.
Ill WORLDSANKSUP T
21.  The above presentation demonstrates the depth of the Govwnmfents
ovrll public sector reform program. The Govenmnents believes that financial
,IA assistance from the World Bank is aesential to implement structural reforms at the
Provincial level. Implementation of the proposd meaures would improve the
fsca balance of the provindal goverments and thereby reduce threat to
macroeconomitestability.
*    * <f 
Shcerely yor, .
Oommigo Felipe al
MmIsle 'f Economy
.z            .*.:j



PROVINCIL REFOItM LOAN
Volley matuis
AC flVflY                     O BJECTIVE                                           _  _   _  _   _  _   _  _   __                                      _  _  _   _  _   _  _   _
Seo TROO
ACCOMSIIED                         BY BOARtD                        cONDmomI               .             D_   .
1. FEDERAL GOVERNMT                                         __._,_._._.
A. Macroeconomic Stabilky            Maintan                 to broad comliancA with IMP     Maiatcaaof a momad               maiatence,e of a sout
m d¢croecoonmic        Untested Ned P F cility dunieg   macroeeeoomcc fm.wadk             mcacroonomawe,k                _m frak.ooe-nmwck
stbility to lWciitAte  the pet three yea.               ciAen wt poelicy obpective.      Content wi policy ojectiv_       o nu 4t policf  ojectes
hicthr fiscal refonma                                  a" prgrm. described i. th        ma  progrm  described la h        ad pormu dc$d;   in teo
id the                                                  Lor of DevePopmen Policy.        LAer of Deeopn Fad icy.          Ltter ODef  qtmat Polky.
D. Trnsfen to Ptovince               Reduee incenive. for    RElee ddiscison Isasesn                                           Pmovide fioaceI Opppoe to       Previdpflhial m1    -to
i.eflicit povien;il    too 21 .1  t ota t unen in                                        Province. imeming ;ad            pravie   b      pum     apslo
qsuig end help          1990 to AI % in 1993; cretaed                                    adpdten pro.   tbhthe Obtttp                     th
fimoprovineisl         Traafona dit Fud and                                              TnsfoanatioolFot. Ahdit         TanomatinoliPad. Ait
reform..               crnie*  surplus rveme                                             pncia     t""re lade             princial ,tiweara mer
.bacig resources to provina                                      FONAVI wit FSBEI. Provide        FoLAV i eS FIDeL tribe
.ndetking reform.                                                Dank with rtpoetoi en   geay     &A  with wpo an hadgias
performnce of al1 prOWvCc. .   pedokmneo,U prfince.w               4.
Comply    h sagrement an         Comply wits Caremet MOd
enfoe  its dt uder tbh           car    its tib ade tc
Tr.osfo.nation Fund Ag6-ment    Tr..fom  .iFd A$reemet.
C. Provincial Sanb                   [reCae iocentive for    Under FSAL, DCRA reduced        Melia OCRA regulstion, tht       Maiatain BCRA rwgplao uhat       Mitind B:A rguJi  that
privatitioktloanr      dicout ad esblie                 tr  provinil bank the ame  ts at provini ta  the _as as   treat provincial hashe the .
by liaiatg special    ru           to limt provini     otr bk.                           ohe bank. a   n et oraudit e,d                        r t
treatmnt by the        bnk furdin to public setor,                                       proviwncid books duringft        povincia  lt dr
Central bank (ICtSA.   aLndto cstlib geacrve                                            ftec monh. ior p   oint to tranche  fim month. prir  trache
requirt"mes lot public 4eposis.                                  relea,                            clwrelas.
It. PROVtiCIAL COVERN         M                              Four povinces ave dihed         At lest four pvincave met    At ls fr provincewave U t    At lea ur              m       i
refora programs.                colitionabeow.                   dke condition below.        -          met 6inOt asraeeowAioam
As least lWA r provine bhve
A. kpwv R       re Mobiization       I        ta                                             * P--Muadeve to   m              * System mucis   l kw            0  yss  moult., 75% of kSwge
Administaion.                                           lrges tpers.                     Of lr  taycro.                   4atcr,.
cag te useturo                                          * Lgilaiveapprovl of the         0 Abac to timtab  to acie        o Tax rdos -       b suaansly
ofprvel toxe in                                         Fiscal PatL                        ro.                                                               C
linc wi te Fisl 
. ~  ~    ~     at r_                                                                                       _ _  _ _  __  _ _  _ _  _   ____,___.___.___.



PROVDICWL REFORM LOAN
Polky Matrix
ACTIvI                   OJCIVE                ________ _    _________________. -ACTlONS-
ACCOMPL,.D                        BY BOARD                 SECOND TRANCOI CO.wh04    ThE  iRAN   . .aI Ou
U. Inyrove Eflicitwy    Reduce she number of                                    * Foaealak plan lfo downsizing.   * Achieve a reductionin 10.000 public    * Radeo public secr empc_yme
of Ependitum         public provi" cial empne...                                cspIl                                      positions f00 0*m          pocio. by n odsiou 10.00.
StKengthen at_nagement.                                 * Formulas. improved daonewn      * Draf kegiaaionto refon procia    * Submik egiannto rfm
infon       ad contro                                   and bue    sysm comp tiblo        financial manageent law in aan,daw    provincial finacal amanago bw in
,y2tac.                                                 Wth tbt of die ledc,l             wh die principles of Iedral Low No.     coane wh tc priocipkeof
(ovecnmet.                        24A56.                                Fea taw   , 24 .156.
Reduc  ec, of dib pubic                                * Approve legisiia W
ad impmn pc aiaiation/eoncemonof ih                                                 * Offer eight ateises for sde,         * Eight .cntepni  b.v# been
efficiecky ol tfcers                                    provincial pNbli c nserprisa.     concsion or liquidation, with         privud or enceasionoedor we
c"virooeoW  audits or rfpot      u         liquidaion. Remmemlation
usti *cty tso Ibc Ban k (o et  rds     wit a omen sa;it wwi;t c_
involved in mwanfscuunag .tctawd"ON
power.gceileating etvitic.
* Dmle kgistion on rcvef_ aboria     * Sbait eidaqion on 
witb thbe micipd          r.         ab  n with te           ie
inoenive tmks that ba  at la 30% of    moo    tingiaeedbc    tlat bow
tru,fer op fcl pedorwse          .       It" 30% of trae on an fau
Improve fi"l petforanc                                                                                                          * Excepte bnta budgetia 995
..4W oubseqet year. submit balne
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___        ____________ _              ____________                .__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _       _________________                     budget for  1996  and  ub.e_qne yM
C. Provincia flvatik   Redue size of proincial                .                   AproVC legislation (of          * Fout bath h    beeA offeod for      * Faeur ak, have ben privied of
public banig    or.... privatimzioe of lour provincial                                     al or legally declared fiqdd  t o e uadce liquidtio.
banks.  liquidation.                                                               .



"45                           ANNEX VII
TRANSFORMATION FUND
Decree 678/93
istablishmeut of the Fund for the Transformation of the Provincial Public Sectors.
Buenos Aires, April 7, 1993
WHEREAS:
Law No. 24,130, ratifying the Agreement between the National Government and the
Provincial Governments, signed on August 12, 1992, and
WHEREAS:
The seventh clause of the aforesaid Agreement establishes that the National Executive
Power will assign fifty per cent (50%) of the funds obtaned from the privatization of the
Caja Nacional de Ahorro y Seguros (National Savings and Insurance Bank), Casa de la
Moneda (Mint) and Banco Nacional de Desafrollo (National Development Bank) to the
Reform of the Provincial States.
The concern and decision of the Executive Power to give technical and fancial
assistance to the Provinces addressing the processes of their public sector transfomtion,
has been repeatedly stated.
The creation of a Fund has been considered necessary to concentrate and administer the
above mentioned resources as well as those generated by other sources to be also
destined to support the previously referred processes, in order to use them as loans to the
Provincial Governments.
The funancial assistance to the Provincial Governments requesting it must be subject to
the transformation of their public sector which must take into consideration several
measures and rules which are deemed unavoidable in achieving such transformation.
The Provinces must adopt decisions to guarantee the prepayment of the loans granted for
the aforementioned purpose, involving their co-participation in the resources from federal
taxes thus making it possible, through them, to restore to the Fund the resources to
extend the benefits in the course of time.
In order to achieve the objectives of a better follow-up and evaluation of the
transformation processes to be addressed by the Provincial States, it is considered
convenient to appoint the Secretaria de la Funci6n Publica (Secretariat of Public
Functions) in the Ministry of the Interior as the authority to enforce the plan, also



-46 -                          ANNEX VII
granting it the necessary faculties to re-schedule the goals and programs agreed with the
Provinces.
It is also essential to encourage the improvement of the provincial public accounts
through measures adopted in coordination with the National Govermment.
To that effect the Secretariat of Public Functions in the Ministry of the Interior must
coordinate with the Secretaria de Hacienda (Secretariat of Finance) in the Minstry of
Economy and Public Works -and Services everything regarding fiscal goals to be agreed
upon with the Provinces.
It is also considered necessary to authorize the Secretariat of Public Functions in the
Ministry of the Interior to issue, together with the Secretariat of Finance in the Ministry
of Economy and Public Works and Services, the rules to complement the present Decree.
This Decree is issued by virtue of the powers vested in paragraph I of Article 86 of the
National Constitution.
THEREFORE,
THE PRESIDENT OF THE ARGENTINE NATION DECREES:
Article I.- ON THE CREATION OF THE FUND. It is hereby created, within the
sphere of the Secretariat of Public Functions in the Ministry of the Interior, the FUND FOR
THE TRANSFORMATION OF THE PROVINCIAL PUBLIC SECTORS, which will be set up
with the funds detailed below:
a)    Fifty per cent (50%) of the proceeds from the privatization of Caja Nacional de
Ahorro y Seguros, Casa de la Moneda y Banco Nacional de Desarrollo, as established in the
seventh clause of the Agreement between the National Government and the Provincial
Governments signed on August 12, 1992 and confirmed by Law No. 24,130.
b)    Reimbursements made by the borrowers of the loans granted by the Fund --
Provinces, Municipalities, Banco de la Naci6n Argentina (Argentine Nations's Bank) Banco
Hipotecario National (National Mortgage Bank)-- and their accrued interests.
(c)   Contributions of the National Government for the functioning of the Bond Issue
for Job Creation in the Provincial Private Sectors (BOCEP), whose issuance is being authorized
under separate rule, and for the other operations anticipated in this decree.
d)    Loans that international lending agencies, Banco de la Nacifn Argentina and other
finance institutions may grant for the already stated purpose.
e)    Contributions made by each Provinces within the framework of the BOCEP



-47                            ANNEX V-
operation and used in the transfer of their own employees to the private enterprises.
Article 2.- ON THE ADMINISTRATION OF THE FUND. The administration of the
Fund wil} be carried out by the Secretariat of Public Functions in the Ministry of the Interior,
through the Undersecretariat for Assistance to the Provincial Public Sector Reform, who wi
gant loans to the Provincial Governments in the framework of a Program for the
Tansformation of the Provincial Public Sector, according to the conditions as established below,
and will fane through Banco de la Naci6n Argentina those enterprises creating jobs according
to the norms governing the BOCEPs.
Article 3.- ON THE AGREEMENT WITH THE MINISTRY OF THE INTERIOR. To
have access to the loan mentioned in the preceding article, the applying Province must enter into
an agreement with the Ministry of the Interior establishing the following:
a)    The Program for the Transformation of the Provincial Public Sector which wiUl
include as a minimum the following goals and courses of action:
i)   immediate measures aiming at the correction of the fiscal imbalances and
the elimination of their causes;
ii)   re-stffin  and improvement of personnel funtons, including human
resources hierarchization and the actions aiming at the private sector
absorption into useful employment of those elements left without a job;
iii)  the necessary reforms on tax legislation and management to rapidly
increase the provincial own tax receipts, and to provide a greater
rationality to the tax system in coordination with national policies on the
subject;
iv)   a listing of the medium and long term reform projects of the provincial
fmancial administration (budget, accounting, control, etc.);
v)   the tentative timetable of total or partial privatizations or concessions of
services and enterprises, including banks;
vi)   measures aimed at reducing court costs;
vii)  deregulation of productive and professional activities; and
viii) measures aimed at reorganizing and strengthening essential public services
such as health, education, social security, etc.
The Program may also include policies and measures involving Municipalities, in- which
case the Province will guarantee the fulfillment of the obligations they may assume.



~ 48 -                        ANNEX VII
b)    a Plan for Improvement of Fiscal Accounts with clearly defimed and quantified
goals through tbe evolution of the following indicators:
i)    public savings;
ii)   the ratio resuting from dividing Financial.Need by Total Ependiture,
acding to the results of expected budget execution;
ill)  the ratio of Current Provincial Resources divided by Federal Co.
participation;
iv)   the Current Expenses-Total Outlays ratio;
v)   the Total Oudays-Total Population ratio;
vi) regular staff of the Provincial Public Administration and Decentralized
Agencies per thousand inhabitants;
vii)  regular municipal staff per thousand inhabitants; and
viii)  the ratio resulting of Provincial Resources divided by Outlays fianced
with Resources from General Revenues.
The Province must guarantee the achievement of the objectives assigned to the
Municipalities.
c)    The assignment of resources originating in the Federal Taxes Co-participaion
System (Law No. 23,548 as amended) corresponding to the Province, to guarantee the
prepayment of the loan.
d)    Loan terms: maturity  dates, quotas, interests, penalties, timetable of
disbursements, etc.
e)    Mechanisms for program follow-up and control and the application of funds.
Article 4.- ON THE FUND RESERVE. Notwithstanding the preceding provision, the
Undersecretariat for Assisne to the Provincial Public Sector Reform of the Secretariat of
Public Functions in the Ministry of the Interior, will earmark for each Province a percentage of
the amount established in paragraph a) of Article I equal to its share in the federal tax
participation system. If no agreement is entered with a Province within a six-month period from
the effective date of the Fund, the amount earmarked for that Province will be made available
to handle the requests of other Provinces. The Province whose earmarked amount has expired,
may later become a loan beneficiary to the extent of the Fund possibilities.



-49-       --               -ANNEX V       .
Article S.- ON THE SCOPE OF FINANCING. The Fund may finance up to one
hundred per cent (100%) of the participation established in the preceding article or of the
Transformation Program cost, as it may correspond. Provinces which in the judgement of the
Secretariat of Public Functions in the Ministry of the Interior and tlio Secretariat of Finance in
the Ministry of Economy and Public Works and Services, may not be able to anticipate a
favorable evolution of some of the indicators and goals mentioned in Article 3 of this Decree,
may have acces to a fncing of up to sixty six per cent (66%) of said participation or of the
Transformation Program cost.
Article 6.- ON LOAN PERIOD AND INTEREST RATE. Loans will be granted for a
period of up to five (5) years, with monthly amortizations and a grace period of up to six (6)
months, and an interest rate equal to the one charged by Banco de la Naci6n Argentina for loans
ganted to enterprises under the BOCEP regime. In case of non-fulfillment interest penalty rates
will be charged at the same rate for loans. Banco de la Naci6n Argentina will automatically
withhold the necessary amounts from the federal tax participauon resources, to cancel debt
services.
Article 7.- ON NON-FULFILLMENT. Non-fulfillment on the part of a Province of the
agreed upon goals in the expected period of time, for causes chargeable to its Government, may
in the opinion of the Secretariat of Public Functions in the Ministry of the Interior cause as a
matter of law the immediate demand of the owed amounts, including interests as well as the
penalty interests, the Undersecretariat for the Assistance of the Provincial Public Sector Reform
of the Secretariat of Public Functions in the Ministry of the Interior being hereby empowered
to request that the federa tax participation funds corresponding to the Province be withheld until
total payment of the debt.
Article 8.- ON REPROGRAMMING. When the causes of non-fulfillment are not
attributable to the Provincial Government, the Secretariat of Public Functions in the Ministry of
the Interior, through the Undersecretariat for the Assistance of the Provincial Public Sector
Reform, may agree with the Provincial Government on a rescheduling of dates and goals.
Article 9.- ON CHANGES TO THE AGREEMENT. A change of dates and goals may
also be agreed upon when in the opinion of the Secretariat of Public Functions in the Ministry
of the Interior there are serious and reliable efforts on the part of the Provincial Government to
adjust itself to the Program. In such cases the approval of the Ministry of the Interior will be
required and a charge will be made equivalent to half the interest rate agreed upon in the original
contract.



-50-                           ANNEX VII
Article 10.- ON THE FOLLOW-UP SYSTEM. The Undersecretariat for the
Assistance of the Provincial Public Sector Reform of the Secretariat of Public Functions in the
Ministry of the Interior, will establish the system to follow-up and control the fulfillment of the
Program's expected goals and the application of the funds. The Undersecretariat of Fiscal and
Economic Relations with the Provinces in the Ministry of Economy and Public Works and
Services will do the same with the Plan to Improve the Fiscal Accounts anticipated in paraph
b) of Article 3 of this Decree.
The provisiout of the information required from the borrowing Provinces is an absolute
obligation and the reluctance or delay in satisfying it will be cause for cancellation of the loan
contract with application of the corresponding rules regarding non-fulfIllment of dates and goals.
Article 11.- ON LEGISLATIVE RATIFICATION. No disbursement of the agreed loan
will be made until the borrowing Province will authoritatively inform about the approval of the
provincial law ratifying the agreement entered into with the Ministry of the Interior.
Article 12.- ON ADVANCE OF FUNDS. During the processing of the loan agreement
the Secretariat of Public Functions in the Ministry of the Interior may grant an advance of up
to one per cent (1%) of the requested amount, in order to take care of the needs in the
preparation of the Provincial Public Sector Tansformation Program. The Province may also
have the direct technical assistance of the Undersecretariat for Assistance of the Provincial
Public Sector Reform of the Secretariat of Public Functions in the Ministry of the Interior that
may be needed for such purpose.
Article 13.- ON ADVANCE REIMBURSEMENT. Should the loan agreement not be
signed, the applying Province must immediately reimburse the advanced amount.
Article 14.- ON THE FINANCIAL AGENT. Banco de la Naci6n Argentina will be the
agent and financial advisor of the Fund without any compensation for the operations it may carry
out. Funds will remain deposited in the aforesaid institution and the demand of a minimum cash
amount on them will not be required. The Secretariat of Public Functions in the Ministry of the
Interior will enter into the necessary agreements with Banco de la Naci6n Argentina for the
above stated purposes.
Article IS. COMPLEMENTARY RULES. The Secretariat of Public Functions in the
Ministry of the Interior and the Secretariat of Finance in the Ministry of Economy and Public
Works and Services will jointly issue the complementary rules that may be required in the
application of this Decree.
Article 16.- Let it be known and published, deliver it to the National Directorate of the
Official Register and have it filed.- MENEM.- Gustavo 0. B6liz.- Domingo F. Cavallo.



-51 -                           ANNEX Vm
FEDERAL TRANSFERS TO PROVINCES
AUTOMATIC TRANSFERS
1. FEDERAL COPARTICPATION
Originating Legislatin: Law 23.548/88; Law 23966/91 (Resouces added to copartiipation)i.
Type of Transfer: Non-reimbursable proviial resource.
Source of Funds: Law 23.548: The pool of finds collected from coparticipated national taxes, of which
54.66% correspond to the provinces, 42.34% to the Nation, and 2% to restoring the relative level of
Buenos Aires (1.5701), Chubut, Neuquen and Santa Cruz (0.1433 each) (primary coparticipation). The
remaning 1% is allocated to the ATN.
Law 23.966: 89% of the funds generated by the reform of the Walue-added tax established by this law,
and 30% of the provincial share of the tax on liquid fuels and natural gas is assigned to the pool of
copartcipated funds. (see details of the percentages in the Highway Coparticipation Pool of Funds).
Administrating Agency: The National Treasury.
Method of Allocation: The Treasury automatically allocates the funds to each of the provinces according
to the legal perentages (secondary coparticipation) as follows:
Buenos Aires 19.93; Catmarca 2.86; Cordoba 9.22; Corrientes 3.86; Chaco 5.18; Chubut 1.38; Entre
Rios 5.07; Formosa 3.78; Jujuy 2.95; La Pampa 1.95; La Rioja 2.15; Mendoza 4.33; Misiones 3.43;
Neuquen 1.54; Rio Negro 2.62; Salta 3.98; San Juan 3.51; San Luis 2.37; Santa Cruz 1.38; Santa Fe
9.28; Santiago del Estero 4.29; Tucuman 4.94.
2. FUND FOR TEMPORARY PROVINCIAL DISEQUILIBRIUM (FDP).
Originating legislation: Law 23.562/88
Type of Transfer: Non-reimbursable provincial resource.
Source of Funds: 8% tax on cigarette sales, 2.2% tax on bank CD's, 7.5 o/oo on the transfer of
government bonds.
Administrating Agency: The National Treasury.
Method of Allocation: Automatic distribution of the percentages established by law as follows:



-52 -                            ANNEX Vm
Catamarca 3.29; Corrientes 2.19; Chaco 6.85; Chubut 0.49; Jujuy 10.97; La Rioja 8.23; Misiones 1.21;
Neuquen 0.77; Salta 26.83; San Juan 6.25; San Luis 0.93; Sana Cruz 0.49; Santiago del Estero 2.3;
Tucuman 27.71.
Purpose of Transfer: To finance temporary fiscal disequilibrium.
Budgetary Allocation: For the fiscal years following the year of creation of the pool of fiuds, (1988)
a budgetary allocation equal to the revenues in the first fiscal year is ensured; if revenues exceed this
amount, they are trnferred to the ATN.
3. FUND FOR PROVINCIAL DISEQUILMIRIUM. 1
Type of Transfer: Non-reimbursable provincial resource.
Source of Funds:  US$ 44 million dollars per month from the revenues coUected for federal
coparticipation through the end of 1993.
Administrting Agency: The National Treasury.
Method of Allocation: The Treasury will automaticaly transfer fixed legal amounts as follows:
Santa Cruz, Tierra del Fuego. Chubut: US$ 3 million each per month.
Rio Negro, La Pampa, Neuquen, Salta: US$ 2.5 million each per month.
Catamarca, Formosa, Jujuy, La Rioja, San Juan, Santiago del Estero, Tucuman, Misiones, Mendoza, San
Luis: US$ 2.2 million each per month.
Entre Rios: US$ 1.8 million each per month.
Cordoba, Santa Fe: US$ .5 million each per month.
Buenos Aires: Excluded.
Purpose of Transfer: To finance provincial disequilibrium.
4. HIGHWAY COPARTICIPATION FUNDS (FCV).
Originating Legislation: Decree-law 505/58. The regulations currenly in force correspond to Law
23.966/91.
Type of Transfer: Non-reimbursable provincial resource.
Source of Funds: The fuid receives 60% of the tax on the transfer of liquid fuels and the tax on
distributed natural gas corresponding to the provinces. The percentages on these taxes allocated to the
provinces is 13% of the total up to June 30, 1992, 17% up to December 31, 1992, 20% until June 30,
1993, 24% until December 31, 1995, and 29% as from that date.
.1/   This fund is part of the Pacto Federal which will be signed into law before Sept. 1. 1992. TMe charestics of the
fund may be modified sligbily before that time,



-53 -                            ANNEX VmI
Administrating Agency: Provincial Highway Agencies.
Method of AUocation: The Highway Coparticipation percentages set by the Federal Highway Council
are automatically distributed (Decree-law 505158. article 23).
Purpose of Transfer: Investment in highway maintenance and construction.
Budgetary Allocation: The Treasury Secretariat periodically: credits th-e accounts of each provincial
highway agency with the legal percentage of the corresponding revenues.
5. SPECIAL FUND FOR THE SOCIAL SECURITY SYSTM
Originating Legislation: Law 23.549/88. Law 23.966/91.
Type of Transfer: Non-reimbursable provincial resource.
Source of Funds: Law 23.549. 24% tax on petrol and 17% on gas-oil; 17% tax on natural gas billings
(network distributed) and 24% on telephone pulses (repealed). 90% of these revenues are ear-marked for
this pool of funds, 10% to the provincial Social Security pool of funds; 90% of the Municipal Social
Serity finds are financed with the resources of this pool, and 10% by the Provincial Social Security
administrations.
Law 23.966. Amendment of Law 23.349 on the Value Added Tax, to replace article 7, increasing the
VAT rate to 18%. As per this law, 11% of the tax revenues are allocated, 90% to this pool o funds,
and the remaining 10% distributed among provincial and municipal Social Security administraons.
Administrating Agency: Subsectary of Social Security.
Method of Allocation: The amount to be allocated to the provincial and municipal Social Security
agencies is determined pro-rata, on the basis of the number of beneficiaries in each agency as of
December 30, 1987 (Law 23.549) and May 31, 1991 (Law 23.966); in both cases, the reference date
precedes the respective law with the aim of avoiding fictitious increases in the number of beneficiaries
in order to receive more funds.
Purpose of TraWfer: Financing of the Social Security systenm
Budgetary Allocation: The Treasury credits the corresponding percentages of the tax revenues to the
account of the Subsecretary for Social Security, which in turn distributes the resources according to the
procedure described above.
6. EDUCATION FUND
Originating Legislation: Law 23.906/91 (amending law 23.905)
Type of Transfer: Non-reimbursable provincial resource.



-54 -                           ANNEX VIMI
Source of Funds: 80% of the revenues from the tax on foreign exchange transactions and 50% of the
revenues from the tax on assets (both enacted as per law 23.905) are devoted to culture and education,
science and technology. The distribution of this amount, established by law, is allocated 35% to the
Nation and 65% to the Provinces.
Administrating Agency: Federal Culture and Education Council.
Method of Aliocation:  The Treasury Secretariat automatically credits each province with the
corresponding percentage of the total 65% allocated to the provinces. The distribution of resources among
the provinces is provisionally defined according to the percentages in the Federal Coparticipation Regime.
The Federal Council-should regulate final distribution that will correspond to each province.
Purpose of Transfer: A4ditional finaning for Culture and Educadon, Science and Technology.
Budgetary Allocation: Automatic distribution from the Treasury to the provinces.
7. FUND FOR THE PROMOTION AND DEVELOPMENT OF INNOVATION.
Originating Legislation: Law 23.877/90; Law 23.906/91 (assigning additional resources).
Type of Transfer: Non-reimbursable provincial resource.
Source of Funds:  Law 23.877. The pool of funds receives contributions from the National
Administraton - via the budget - contbutions agreements with International Agencies; contributions or
grants from official or private agencies, contributions from public or private corporations (with an interest
in the projects being financed).
Law 23.906. 20% of the revenues from the tax on foreign exchange transactions (set-up by this law).
Administrating Agency. Science and Technology Secretariat (for the percentage of resources
corresponding to the Nation) with the advice of the Consulting Council for the Promotion and
Development of Innovation and Provincial Science and Technology Agencies (for the percentage
corresponding to the provinces).
Method of Allocation: Automatic distribution between the Nation (25%) and the provinces (75%) and
among the provinces according to the legal percentages as follows:
Buenos Aires 17.0; Capital Federal 15.5; Catamarca 2.5; Cordoba 6.5; Corrientes 4.0; Chaco 3.5;
Chubut 2.5; Entre Rios 4.5; Formosa 2.5; lujuy 3.5; La Pampa 2.5; La Rioja 2.5; Mendoza 4.5;
Misiones 2.5; Neuquen 3.0; Rio Negro 3.0; Salta 4.5 San Juan 3.5 San Luis 2.5; Santa Cruz 2.5; Santa
Fe 6.5; Santiago del Estero 3.5; Tierra del Fuego 2.5; Tucuman 4.5.
Purpose of Transfer: Promotion and development of Research and Development, transfer of technology
and technical assistance and execution of related projects.
Budgetary Allocation: the Treasury manages the resources transferred by the Nation to the Science and
Technology agencies.



- 55 -                           ANNEX VIII
DISCRETIONARY TRANSFERS
g. NATIONAL TREASURY SUPPORT TO THE PROVINCES (ATN).
Origiting Legislation: Law 23.548188 Law 23.562/88 ( Additional Fmancing).
Type of Transfer: Reimbursable (guaranteed with coparticipated taxes) or non-reimbursable tranft
depending on decision of the Ministry of Interior.
Source of Funds: Law 23.548: 1% of the pool of revenues collected for federal copticipation. Law
23.562: The surplus of revenues collected to finance the F)P (ie, the surplus of fiuds collectd over the
level established in the first year of the creation of the fund).
Admnistrating Agency: Ministry of the Interior.
Method of Allocation: Discretionary allocation by the Ministry of interior.
Pupose of Transfer: To financial fiscal disequilibrium in the provinces.
Budget Allocation: The Treasury allocates the established legal percege to the pool of funds account,
under the jurisdiction of the administrating agency.
9. REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT FUND (FDR).
Originating Legislation: Law 20.221, Article 16.
Type of Transfer: Reimbursable or non-reimbursable provincial resource as detrmined by the Ministry
of Interior.
Source of Funds: Budgetary allocation of resources that are earmarked for the continuation and
completion of works under way.
Adminhstrating Agency: Ministry of the Interior.
Method of Allocation: Discretionary allocation by the Ministry of Interior, on the basis of self-defined
priorities (regional works, border works, promotion of less developed provinces). There are no fixed
limits or quotas per province and 1% of the fund's resources may be alloated to administrative expenses
(hiring of consultants and consulting firms, travel expenses, advertising and publication eqxenses).
Purpose of Transfer: To finance the completion of provincial public works in progress.
Budgetary Allocation: The resources are managed by the General Administrative Directorate of the
Ministry of the Interior. Unutilized balances from one fiscal year may be carried-over to the following.



-56-                            ANNEX Vm
Originating legislation: Law 23.966191 (regulates the current financing of the pooi of funds). Law
21.581 (legislation for the set-up of the pool of funds).
Type of Transfer: Lam. In pracdce the recovery of funds has averaged les than 3 percent either due
to the lack of inflation adjustment or outright default by the provinces, so in practice the fund has been
transformed into a non-reimbursable provincial resource. Work is currently under way to establish a
mechanism for the effective recovery of the resources and their subsequent turnover.
Sowue of Funds: Law 23.966: receives a percentage of the tax on the transfer of Uquid uels and the
tax on non-industrial gas distribution. The percentage of these taxes ear-marked for the pool of funds is:
40% undl June 6, 1992; 41% during the second semester of 1992, and as of January 1, 1993, 42% of
the total revenue collected from those taxes.
Administrating Agency: Subsecretary of Housing and Environmenal Regulations, and Federal Housing
Council, with provincial representatives.
Method of Allocation: Automatic distribution should be managed by the administrating unit. Prior to
the aforementioned Law, the Housing Under Secretariat defined the criteria for the allocation of the
resources according to technical priorities, without quotas per province.
Purpose of Transfer: To finance low cost housing.
Budgetary Allocation: Law 23.966 provides that the funds allocated to the FONAVI account may not
be less than 75,000,000 dollars per month. If revenues do meet the minimm. required under law the
National Treasury must make up the difference.
It. SPECIAL FUND FOR PROVINCIAL ELECTRICAL DEVELOPMENT
Originating Legislation: Law 23.966191, determines the resources to be allocated to the pool of funds.
Type of Transfer: Non-reimbursable provincial resource.
Source of Funds: 10% of the percentage allocated to the provinces on the liquid fuel transfer tax and
on distributed natural gas tax (according to the timetable defined above).
Adninistrating Agency: Federal Electric Energy Council (Law 15336).
Method of Allocation: Automatic distribution by the administrating agency according to percentages in
force. Percentages may be changed with appropriate regulations issued by the administrating agency.
Purpose of Transfer: Investment in electric grid maintenance and expansion.
Budgetary Allocation: The Treasury credits the funds to the administatig agency which in turn
distributes thiem according to the established coefficients.



-57                          ANNEX IX
REFORMING PROVICIAL TAX SYSTEMS
Background
1.   In 1993, provincial governments drew revenues from the shig agreement with
the nadon adminison (about 41 percent of total provncial revenues), discretionary
gants and earmarked funds from the national administration (17 percent), and provincial
taxes (42 percent). The improved collection of national taxes has generated an unprece-
dented increase in federal-source revenues from 2.9 percent of GDP in 1990 to 4.8
percent of GDP in 1992. During the same period, receipts from local sources taxes rose
by 0.9 percent of GDP, pincipaly by the result of more stable macreconomic
conditions. Tax revenues from provincial sources are deived from a tumover tax (about
60 percent of total provncial tax renues) and from taxes on real estate, stamps and
automobiles. The share of local taxes differed enormously across provinces. In the
province of Buenos Aires, local taxes amounted to more than half of total current
revenues, but they represent only 8 percent in the province of La Rioja.
Recent Tax Reforms
2.    Over the past two years, the Federal Government has attempted to reform the
coparticipated regime and provincial tax system. First, in August 1992, the Pacto
Federal limited coparticipated revenue transfers to the provinces by asigning 15 percent
of coparticipated evenues to the national social secunty system. In retmu, the national
govemments guaranteed US$725 million per month to the provinces, created a small
emergency funds for the provinces (US$45 million per month), and assigned 14 percent
of the income tax to the provinces. Second, in August 1993, the Pacto Fiscal, which
extended the Pacto Federal until end-1995 with slight modifications (including an increase
in coparticipated transfers), proposed the transfer of provincial social security systems
to the national level and several reforms of the provincial tax system, including by mid-
1995:
(i)  Substituting the tunover tax by a consumption tax in order to reduce the
cascading nature of the provincial tunover tax (Ingresos brutos).
(ii) Eliminating the highly distortionary provincial stamp tax.
(iii) Reducing property taxes to 1.2 percent for rural properties, 1.35 percent for
semi-rural properties, and 1.5 percent for urban properties. The maximum
fiscal value of properties is fixed at 80 percent of the market value.
(iv) Eliminating prvincial labor and energy taxes.



- 58 -                       ANNEX IX
3.   Initially, the reaction from provincial governments to the Pacto Fiscal was mixed,
but the announcement in December 1993 that payroll taxes will be reduced in
participating provinces increased the pressure for unsigned provinces to join the Pacto
Fiscal. As of February 1994, 22 out of 23 provinces have signed the Pacto Fiscal, and
14 provincial congresses have ratified it.- Actual implementation of the Pacto Fiscal will
still require numerous legal changes in the provinces.
4.    At this stage, the most important shortcoming appeas to be the absence of a
precise strategy for the replacement of the tumover tax by a sales tax, which has led to
a confised situation in the provinces. The rates as well as the coverage of the tuNover
tax and rates now differ considerably across provinces.- As a result, the federal
authorities plan to send to Congress in June 1994 a new law defining both the coverage
and the rates of the new provincial sales tax.
5.    Fial Impact. Estimates suggest that the net overall impact of the Pacto Fiscal
on provincial finances should be positive-about 0.4 percent of GDP or US$900 million
on an annual basis--but negative for the Federal Government-about 0.9 percent of GDP
or US$2,200 milion. Generally, the major benefit for provincial governments would
derive from the transfer of the provincial social security systems, equivalent to an annual
fiscal gain of about 0.4 percent of GDP, and from the increase in  icipated transfers
to the provinces (about 0.3 percent of GDP). These gains would more than compensate
for the fiscal cost of the elimination of several provincial taxes (about 0.3 percent of
GDP).
6.    The Government anticipates that the replacement of the existing turnover tax by
a sales tax will be neutal on provincial finances since it would be gradually implemented
until mid-1995 and partially compensated by limited increases in tax rates and
improvements in local tax administration. In fact, most provinces plan to offset the
exemption of agriculturl and industrial activities by delaying at the maximum the
exemption on wholesales and by increasing their tax rates on retail sales and services as
recently observed in the provinces of Mendoza (to 5 percent from 2.5 percent), the
province of Buenos Aires (to 3.5 percent) and the province of Cordoba (to 4.5 percent).
Tax Administration
7.    Generally, provincial tax administrations are inefficient as reflected in low
taxpayer compliance, inadequate collection mamgement systems, low auditing capacity,
and inappropiate personnel policies.
8.    TaIyr= Copiance. The primary functions of tax administration-facilitating
and monitoring taxpayer compliance and preventing taxpayer non-compliance-are
operating very inefficiently in the provinces. Experience gained from recent reforms in
federal tax administration indicates that tax penalties must be increased through the
reactivation of existing and new legal capacities to enforce compliance. Equally



-59-                         ANEix
important, the burden of evidence required before the authorities would proceed with
penalties has to be reduced, and tax administration must be granted the authority to close
temporarily the premises of enterprises that fail to register. Taxpayer compliance can
also be increased by the simplification of tax forms. Finally, the publication in
newspapers of defaulting taxpayers would also produce a deteing effect.
9.    Collection Management. Tax rosters have deteriorated, and data are collected
with a high percentage of errr. New computer systems are required to improve
collection management. The Provincial Development Loan is supporting recent efforts
by some provinces to implement computer systems for the control of return processing
and to revise cadastres. During the transition stage, tax authorities should attempt to
compensate for the absence of automated systems for collection and taxpayer auditing
through local initiatives. For example, the lottery based on VAT receipts was a notable
success, at the national level.
10.   Audit. The low yield and high cost of taxpayers inspections and audits are a
prominent feature of local tax administrations. An extensive audit of taxpayers should
be launched to provide information about potential taxpayers. Moreover, the presence
of tax inspectors may have a deferent effect on tax evasion (this can be made jointly with
the local DOI inspectors).
11.  Ernel Policy. Existing union contracts demand a flat compensation curve,
as well as ensuring job security, which make it difficult for management to improve the
quality of the work force. Qualified staff are difficult to attract and retain, morale is
low, and staff usually hold more than one job to compensate for low wages. The
collective work agreement needs to be modified, and in some provinces (e.g. Entre
Rios), the law has been sent to Congress. New agreements should eliminate existing job
security and modify the excessively generous leave policy, but also establish incentive
policies including promotion procedures to increase productivity. Finally, a training
program jointly with the DGI may be important as well.
Proposed Refonns
12.   Reorganization of the provincial tax system would include two lines of action.
The first would be, in line with the Fiscal Pact, to reduce and simplify the structure of
taxes and guarantee that the tax burden will be shared fairly among taxpayers. The
second action would be to fortify provincial tax-collecting agencies through the
reformulation of the administrative, information and control systems as well as
improvement of the staff. This effort would include: (i) rebuilding tax rolls;
(ii) improving inspection and the audit system; (iii) reorganizing internal management;
(iv) increasing incentives for tax inspectors; and (v) modernizing the legal system to
reduce tax evasion.



a 60 -                          ANNEXX
PUBLIC EMPLOYNENT IN TIHE PROVINCES
A. Overall Situation
1.   The provincial wage bill constitutes a heavy burden on provinwi truries (about 55
percent of total provincial expenditures), with a highly inefficient distribution of personnel
resulting in shortages of stff in cntical areas and overstaffing of administive activites. The
concentration of prvncial public expenditure on wages has occurred at the expense of much-.
needed outlays for investment and maintenance, which reached their lowest levels in provincial
budgets in 1992. The unprecedented epanson of personnel exnditures in provincial budgets
between 1983 and 1992 (an increase of 80 percent) occurred first as a result of growing public
employment and more recently as a result of higher public sector wages (see Figure 1).
2.    Public Emp1vmenl. Throughout the 1980s, unstable macroecoomic conditions forced
the authorities to act as the employer of last resort in many poor provinces, resulting in a total
increase in overall public employment by over 47 percent, ranging from 28 percent in the
Province of Catawmaca to above 100 percent in Rio Negro and Neuquen (Table 1). In 1992, the
level of employment declined slightly, however, as the result of downsizing programs in some
provinces. Compared to 1991, public employment was reduced by nearly 9 percent in the
Province of Santa Cruz, by 7 percent in Formosa, and by 3.5 percent in Entre Rios. In contrast,
employment continued to expand in Tucuman (5.4 percent) and Santa Fe (1.3 percent).
3.   In 1992, about 3.3 percent of the population in the provinces or 9 percent of employed
persons were provincial public employees, compared to 2.6 and 7.3, respectively, in 1983.
These figures vary across provinces. In the provinces of La Rioja, Catamarca, Corrientes,
Fonmosa, Neuquen, Santa Cruz, and rra del Fuego about onefifth of employed workers were
public workers.
4.   The importance of the public sector in provincial economies reflects the major obstacle
to downsizing; the private sector lacks the capacity to absorb the excess of provincial public
employees. This incapacity is accentuated by the productive crisis and reladvely high
unemployment rates in some provinces, speciSically in Chubut (14.8 percent), Neuquen (11.9
percent) and Tucuman (14.2 percent).
5.      vncal Public Wage. As depicted in the attached figure, provincial public real wages
continuously declined throughout the 1980s, reaching their lowest level in 1989. This decrease
coincided with the trend observed at the national level and was pnncipally the consequence of
unstable inflation and increasing public deficits which prevented governments from fully
adjusting public wages. However, since 1990 provincial public real wages have recovered,
attaining in 1992 their highest level since 1984. This recovery was generalized in most
provinces and was financed by the surge in co-participated transfers from the Federal
Government.



--6X-       =-XXANNEXX
6. The recovery of provincial public wages has occur at a much quicker pace than in the
national administration, a 44 percent and a 12 percent increase, respectively. Purthermore,
while the wage increase in the national adn on can be explned by improved labor
productivity and changes in the ornational structure in favor of higher skldled positions,
higher real wages in the prvinc  have not been accompanied by similar efforts.
7.    In 1992, the annual real wage of provincial public employees aveaged Arg$11,200 (in
pesos of January of 1994)', about 24 peret higher than that of national administradon
employees.  his diffe  in remunerations is accentuated by the lower living cost in provinces
outside Buenos Aires, and by much more generous pension benefits. Large differences also
emerge across provinces. Public employees in Tiera del Fuego, representing about 17 percent
of the labor force in this province, received on average Arg$26,000 per year, while in the
Province of Jujuy the average salary was only Arg$8,700.
8.    The increase in average provincial remunerations has occurred in the absence of control
or reorganization programs. As a result, in most provinces, the recent gains have been used to
reward some specific interest groups, without reference to productivity increases or core
objectives. By 1993, the provincial governments had limited capacity to attract qualified
managers and technicians, has limited staff capacity to perform on-going programmatic
functions, and could not adequately monitor policies for compliance and effect. Morale was
low, and the average civil servant worked only a few hours a day because of the need for part-
time work elsewhere and lack of supervisory control. The high degree of absenteeism is most
visible within the education sector; yet controls do not appear to be any more carefully applied
in other sectors.2
B. Recmded Measures
9.    Redtions in force are necessary both to assure fiscal stability and to create the
opportunity to improve the salaries of the remaining provincial employees. Such improved
salaries will be needed both to attrat qualified and motivated employees for key positions, and
to reduce the incentives for those employees who fail to meet minimum job performance
standards. Strengthened accowuabflity and controls are needed to ensure that provinces get
value for money from their resources; i.e., that those resources are not squandered on
unproductve workers or poorly managed agencies. Reducions in excessively liberal policies
1.    Excling imrs dd Fuego.
2.   In Sam Fe, faiy 15S% of educaon persond expndu  ar devotd to
tech substitutes - a figur n excess of the 59% figure considered more
by local autorities. Similar excesive Weliance on teacher
substites is apprt in Misios, Tocumn and Entre Rfos, according to
trdiansi stdis



ANNEX X
for paid leaves of absence are needed to ensure that the basic institutional and human resource
capacity to deliver services is not compromised by excesve and uncontrollable absenteeism.
Finally, more transparemtiancial and personnel managememtpracdces are needed so that both
citizens and elected officials can hold provincial agencies and tieir managers accountable for the
services they are responsible for delivering.
10.   Accordingly, the basic -eqired administrative and employment components of the
provincial reform progam should include the following elements:
(i) Detailed program for achieving pre-specifted reductions in force;
(-i) Reliable mechanism for monitoring and enforcing employment levels and
employee payment authorizations;
(iii) Simple mechanism for monitoring and enforcing policies limiting the use
of paid leaves of absence, especially in the education sector; and
(iv) Implementation of an integrated financial management system.
11.   While the need for reductions in force is widely recognized, the political difficulties of
maldng such reductions are more daunting at the provincial level than they have been at the
national level. A more personalized, less organizationally distanced managerial style is exercised
by many provincial chief executives, especially among the smaller provinces. This makes
governors and their chief executives perhaps more acutely and personally aware of the transiton
costs of forced employment separations, thereby tending to weaken their resolve to make the
painful transition to a leaner, more efficient public sector. Weak private sector demand for labor
in provinces increases the risk, and hence the costs, to be bome by provincial public employees
faced with the prospect of separation from their public positions.
12.   Because of the higher perceived twansition costs, employment adjustment programs for
provinces must be carefully designed. Accordingly, the planning of a stragy for reducing
public employment and the types of performance indicators to be monitored when undertaking
such a stategy should include the following elements:
(i)  Build and sell the reform program as a program to imprwe provincial
public services, rather than as a program to eliminate public employees.
(ii) Within the elements of the program aimed at reducing employment:
(a)   Never threaten to dismiss categories of workers  ather, threaten
dismissal only on a case-by-case basis.



- 63-         -ANNEXX
(b)   Construct a diverfied employmt reduction strategy-including
elements such as contractng out the provision of ancillary
services, privatization of revenugenerating activities, employment
separation incentive- programs, targeted hiring freeze, targeted
pressure upon non-perforing employees to take advantage of
employment separation incentives, ewc.
-  *  create (or strengthen) clearly specfied criteria and
procedures  for  case-by-case  reviews  of employee
compliance with minimum performance standards for each
specific position.
*     provide significant positive incentives (e.g., severance
packages of 20 to 24 months' salay) for public employees
to resign, and then strongly encourage workers failing to
meet minimum job performance standards to take
advantage of those incentive packages or face the prospect
of dismissal on a case-by-case basis.
*     impose a targeted hiring freeze-i.e., set an overall limit of
new hires as a fixed percentage of vacated slots (e.g., 35
percent), and combine this with a 100 percent freeze on all
but specifically identified key (high productivity) positions,
to which hiring is limited only by the overall limit.
'     take advantage of normal turnover to achieve some fraction
of desired reductions in overall numbers of positions.
(c)   Plan for a protacted period of employment reduction--both to ease
the burden of transition costs and to allow the province to take
advantage of operating budget finacing mechanisms in the
financing plan for the downsizing.
(d)   Delay salary improvements untl significant employment reductions
have been achieved. By allowing public salaries to decline during
reenchment, the Government can: (a) ease the task of dismissing
public employees, since the losses to released employees are
reduced compared to what they would be were public salaries
increased dunng this penod; and (b) help hold down overall wage
expenditures during the retrenchment period. Once significant
employment reductions have been achieved, salary improvements
to help attract and maintain qualified civil servants will be much
better targeted, since the redundant and under-productive public



.64                             ANNEXX
employees who have been released will not benefit fom ntose
-sary improements.
(e)   Prepare and execute the employment reduction strategy as a
complet  package, integated into the oa  public sevice
inmprovement package, not as a series of unrelated acdons.
(f)   Prepare a detailed financing plan for the entire downsizing package
and subject it to thorough sensitivity analysis to identify the pivotal
parameters; prepare contingency plans for the most likely risks to
be faced over the projected reform period.



- 6S5-,                 - -              ANNEX-X
tANA 1, We se es StwwaIqvmemeiwtau it. * X    tei
Pu    gaogyee   Puje lniolom -   Chanc (ir %    Unnwovmen    AnaUNia
1192     y~er 100 b*hab.    in Pihil. ftl.   A"e         RPad Wage
1112sf          1963.92       1p3b 1b Ia 
22                                   5.5               50.4          10.5          11.36
C    _t*mwea      -  21.401          24.0               ^211           9.5           9.072
Caedobw              73.35            7*                3              6.3          13."o
C                    41m             11.7               46.5           4.7           9.3"
Ches                 39.501          13.0               374            GA           13.67
Chbat                19.017          15.93 02                         14"           12773
Ins' Bios            41.737          12.0               51.1           6.6          11.107
Fo"es                3I.792          25.0               68.0           8.6           9.719
Jugav                30.013          18.3               44.6           0.7           a.oso
La Paioe             14.267          14.6               51.0           4.0          12.242
LaB Pk               21.122          28.0               77.9           8.4          11.123
Midm                 *t,04$           6.0               23.7           4.4          12.237
Mli_e                32.763          11.0               50.4           4.6          91711
N_au                 28.101          19.3               100.5         11.9          13.34
Sals                 4A.57           14.2               57.5          10.6          11.198
SeaJuan              24.111          13.9               35.7           5.9          I1.,3
SLis                 13.561          14.8                17.3          7.2          12046
Sam" Caa             13."2           22*                44.3           4.5          13.680
Sam PFe               1646            6.3                31.2         11.6          2L3
s_no"o,              31.484          14.1               21.6           4.0          11.275
T. Eel Feo            5.074          17.1               161.4         11.3          26MM00
TuGUIRM              43.661          11.6               2.9           14.2           9.070
pi. Nep              29,129            N                120.0           ai          I 1.5,
S5mees Miev of lemnAmy. and FI.EL
Noes:
al ases en ISSI Comu.
bi Oe_ew 1993.
ci in Jasnuv 1534 Fo".



ANNEX X
-66                     
Total Employment and Average Wage in the
Provincial Public Sector
Nwww.t h*WWISY                               ~~~~~~~~~WoMan Janiav 1994 P.S.
10800C0                                                                14000
950000 t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T140
900000f _+-  r  G  12000
850000 + ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~100
800000 +
7500C0 +                                                              sc
7000C0 +
8500CO                          .      .  - 0- ., t g   . >:     2000
s0°o°o             c°    i                                            0  -it 
1983  1984  1985  *988  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Total Pubtc Emyment at te       *    Avefage Wage far Provincial Public
Provna  Level                        Wakers



-67-                      ANN  Xl
THE CURRENT SITUATIN OF PROVINCIAL BANKS 1'
The Structure of the Provincial Bouk System
Overview
1.   Throughout the 1980s public provinci ban  expanded their acdvity, which was
concentrated on providing credit to their provincial govenments, by resortg to rediscounts
from the Central Bank (BCRA) and transfers from the public secr. Between 1985 and 1991,
real credit to the public sector through the provincial banks icreased by owv  200 pernt while
total real credit to the private sctor fell.
2.    The provincial bank mandate was to lend to provincial treasuries and public enterprises.
and, to a lesser extent, to provide subsidized credit to favored private firms without
consideration of profit criteria. Given that these deficits were financed with rediscounts, the
provincial banks were a significant source of macroeconomic instability that led to monetary
expansion. Moreover, the provincial bank financing of provincial budget deficits permitted the
provincial governments to finance their expenditures without the need to tax. As a consequence
of poor loan recovery and massive overstaffing, provincial bank performance indicators are
extremely poor. Estimated annual operating losses for 24 provincial banks amounted to US$983
million for the year ending June 1991.
3.    Since the introduction of the Convertibility Law, in April 1991, the provincial ban'
status vis-a-vis other banks in the financial system has deterioated. The BCRA has eliminated
new rediscounts to the sector and is recovering debts owed by the prwincial banking sector.
Wirthout access to rediscounts, provincial banks have been unable to obtain resources to finance
their respective governments. Furthermore, with higher unit operting costs and poorer assets,
provincial banks have been hard-pressed to adjust quickly to compete with the more efficient
private sector in the current economic setting of falling spreads. As the ultinmate guarantors of
their provincial banks, provincial governments now find their banks a liability and are now
restructuring and, in some cases, divestng.
ConvertibiUty Law and other Intlutlnal reforms
4.    The Convertibility Law, approved on March 27, 1991, established a one to one relation
between monetary base and international reserves fixing the exchange rate at one peso-one
dollar. Under this regime and with almost perfect capital mobility, the BCRA does not control
the monetary base, which is now exogenous and dependent on changes in international reserves.
1/    This Annex updates Chapter IV of the World Bank repor: Argendnw Towards a New
FederalismW (RD Report No. 10612o  Ju IUD 17, 1992), where a fiuler descipdon of the
provincial banks sy_em can be found.



8- -:ANNEXXl
5.    Another important institutional reform concerning monetary policy is the Charter of the
BCRA approved by Congress in September 1992. The Charter states that the BCRA is an
independent agency of the- National Govemment, and that the final objective of monetary policy
is price stability. This objective is attained,- not by means of quantitative trgets on money
growth, but by imposing severe restrictions on the BCRA's power to control the money supply.
The Charter drasticaUy limits the BCRA's possibilities of financing the Government, both
direy and indirectly thougrzediscounts. It also precludes the BCRA from giving guantees
on deposits of financial institutions.
Regulatory Regime for Provincial Daum
6.   The important institutional reforms recently mentioned, in addition to other regulations
implemented by the BCRA, severely limited provincial banks' privileges and placed them in the
same regulatory context as private banks.
7.    Rediscounts from the BCRA were one of the major sources of financing of provincial
banks. These resources were used to finance provincial governments, regional economies and
public enterprises, in most cases without consideration of profit criteria. This situation changed
completely with the introduction of the Convertibility Law.
8.    At present, rediscounts are given only for liquidity reasons and have a maximum term
of thirty days. Their financial cost is set above market interest rates. To get rediscounts from
the BCRA, the monetary authority requires public or private securities as collateral. In the case
of private securities, an additional collateral is required for 100 percent of the financial
assistance.
9.   These regulations, in addition to the consolidation of debts between provincial banks and
the BCRA which was in most cases the net creditor, produced a remarkable decrease in the
amount of rediscounts, which lost significance in provincial banks' balance sheet. In December
1993 rediscounts represented on average 10.2 percent of provincial banlk' deposits, down from
33.7 percent in December 1991.
10.   Public provincial banks no longer benefit from a special regime. Since March 1994, the
lgal reserve requirements on deposits of the provincial public sector (the last regulation that
made a difference for provincial banks) were made equal to those of the rest of the system.
11.  In addition, since 1992 public provincial bankcs are precluded from lending at rates above
the rate charged by Banco de la Naci6n Argentina The objective of this measure has been to
force provincial banks into adjustment and to prevent them from charging excessive
administrative costs to the lending rate. Furthermore, provincial banks are limited in their
lending to the public sector to an amount not exceeding their net worth minus fixed assets plus
public sector deposits In August 1993 the share of loans to the public sector in provincial banks'
portfolios was 36 percent, down from 55 percent in June 1991.



ANNE XX0
12.   Since July 1994 all banks in Argentin are subject to new repordng requirements which
will improve-   ncy and accountability. The new requirements are based on those used
by the Federal Reserve Bank in the US, which uses the CAMEL system. Furthermore, since
1993 the BCRA has given absolute priority to the restructuring of the Superinteency of
Financial InstitUtions. BCRA is strengthening the supervision capacity of the Superintendency
by hiring better-qualified staff and intensifying its taining activities.
13. Since June 1994 all financial institutions have had to comply with a new regulation issued
by the-BCRA about   cation of debtors and loan loss proviions. In contast to the old
regulation 'that was bised on quantitative and legal criteria, the new one establishes a
classification of debtors according to their capacity of payment in the future (by means of an
analysis of the cash flow) and their degree of fulfillment. Following this criteria, financial
staments nwill more accurately reflect the real economic and financial situation of banks by
means of loan loss provisions that will show the real situation of loans. This measure will force
banks to introduce a new classification of their debtors, and in most cases to an important
increase in loan loss provisions with the subsequent decrase in their capital.
14.   This recent regulaion, together with the minimum capital requirements (Basilea
Agreement) introduced by the BCRA last year, will induce provincial banks to recapitaiation
or liquidation (as was the case of Banco de la Provincia de La Rioja which was liquidated in
1991). Given the poor finial condition of several provinces, it is clear that the most likely
solution to avoid liquidation will be the privatzation of its banks, as is already happening.
The Structure of the Provicl Banidg System
15.   Of a total of 206 financial institutions operating in Argentina in December 1993, 30 were
provincial banks (Table 1). The sole province without a public provincial bank is the Province
of La Rioja, while several provinces such as Buenos Aires, C6rdoba, Santa Fe, Tucumdn and
Mendoza are operating two or more banks.
16.  In December 1993, provincial banks totaed 1,080 agencies and 39,266 employees, down
by 173 and 5,754, respectively compared to December 1991 (Table 2). These declining figures
reflect the ongoing restructuring process of the provincial financial system, but they are still
excessive for the level of opemtion of provincial banks. The number of employees per US$
deposits remains on average higher than in the private banking sector. In contrast, remunera-
tions axe 35 percent lower in the prvincial public baning system, reflecting overstaffing in
lower qualified positions.
Financial Situation of Provincial Banks
17. Several provincial banks are in financial distress, as reflected by the structure of their
assets and the negatve return on equity (able 8).



-7@0                      ANNEXXN
18.   The loans and deposits in provicial banks accounted for about 28 percent and 25 percent
of the total domestic financial system, respectively, in December 1993. The structure of the
provincial bank' loan portfolio reflects the close relationship between these banks and the non-
financial public sector as the loans extended to the public  ctor represented 36 percent of their
total loans (including 25 percent to central administradons and 11 percent -to public enterpris-
esW. This interdependence is accentuated by the fact that most provncial banks largely rely
on deposits from the public sector to maintain an acceptable level of liabilities. The deposits
from the public sector were higher than those from the private sector in 15 provincial banks.
19.   Most provincial banks' asses are remunerated loam. Ile share of delinquent loans was
equivalent to 31 percent of total loans in December 1993. The most precarious situation can be
found in the Banks of Salta, Santiago del Estero and Entre Rlos, wheme the level of delinquency
is estimated at above 80 percent.
20. Provisions for delinquent loans in provincial banks amounted to about 21 percent of total
loans, which is far larger than the 3 percent generally found in the private sector, but insufficient
riative to the level of delinquency. One of the reasons for this situaton is that the amount of
provisions on arrears accumulated on loans to the public sector is affected by the concept that
the public sector cannot go bankrupt.
21.   Ove the past two years, loans from provincial banks have increased at about the same
pace as those from the total domestic financial system (about 100 percent). This surge is mostly
explained by the remonetization of the economy and the subsequent increase in deposits for the
system as a whole. In comparison with the rest of the financial system, provincial banks tend
to lend more to the public sector, the agricultural and construction sectors, but less to other
financial institutions and consumption-oriented activities (Tables 4 and 5).
22.  In 1993, total deposits in the provincial banks increased by 48 percent, which is lower
than the 53 percent increase observed in the overall domestic banking system. This expansion
was generalized but the Banks of the Provinces of Chaco and Santiago del Estero. This positive
evolution is the result of the recent increase in cocipated revenues, which are temporarily
deposited in provincial banks, rather than the improved functioning of the provincial banks. In
some provinces, the consolidation of the debt with the Fedeal Government, as well as the
pvatizaion receipts from YPF, have also contributed to this incra.
23. External Financing has become increasingly available in the last few years as a result
of massive capital inflows. However, it remains concentrated in reatively few and wealthy
provinces such as the province of Buenos Aires (where external financing is equivalent to
23 percent of total liabilities), Neuquen (23 percent), and C6rdoba (18 percent).
2/    However, this deedee on the loans of tbe public sector has decsed, dow fm 55 prcent in
June 1991.



-71-                     ANNEX XI
24. In the past few years some provincial governments, through their provincial banks, have
borrowed with the guaantee of fedema coparticipated transfers at short-term and high interest
rates, two ingredients for a future financial crisis. Facing the danger, in November 1993 the
federal authontes reactivated an old decree requirng the provinces to obtain federa
authorzation before borowing abroad. At this moment the only province that is indebted
abroad is Buenos Aires which issued a three year, 9.5 percent fixed rate note maturing on July
14, 1997, for an amount of US$ 100 milion. The intention of the- Mistry of Economy is not
to give more authorizatons.
25.  In December 1993, provincial banks' Intediation costs represented about 1.6 percent
of their total deposits (slightly above the national average of 1.4 percent). This percentage has
decreased from 3 percent in 1991, due both to the process of remonetization produced by the
Convertibility Plan and to an adjustment of personnel costs.
26. On average, financial costs of provincial banks are almost equivalent to those of the
private banks, about 1.3 percent of total deposits in August 1993. However, the disparity across
provincial banks is large, with an acceptable level in advanced provinces such as Buenos Aires
and Santa Fe where financial costs average 1.0 percent of total deposits, but with an excessive
level in underdeveloped provinces such as Santiago del Estero, Chaco, and Formosa. For the
latter group, total financial costs averages more than 3.0 percent of total deposits in August 1993
(Table 6). This disparity is due to the difference in the performance indicators of these two
groups. The banks that are in a worse situation and entail a larger rislc have to pay higher
interest rates to obtain financial resources.
27.   The financial indicators summaized in the attached tables reflect the major structural
problems faced by several provincial banks, including:
X    Excessive proportion of delinquent loans;
*     Low provisions in comparison to the level of delinquency;
*     Inadequate administrative and management systems;
*     Low creditworthiness requiring excessive interest rates to maintain
an adequate level of liabilities;
*    Negap e economic net worth given the prospect of continuing
losses.
Privatization of Provincial Banks
28.   The Provincial Govemnments are showing a considerable level of commitment to the
privatization of their pmvindal banks (Table 8). This commitment has been largely prompted



-72-                     ANNE XI
by the poor financial condition of the banks and by the Central Bank's policy of pressing them
hard to adjust. All provincial bank are currently incuring losses, and face eventual liquidation
if they are not adequately recapitalized and restructured. Given the situation of provincial
finances, the most likely prospect is privaizion or liquidation. Prior to privadzation, a cerin
number of actions are necessary, such as downsizing, consolidtaion of exisig debt and
cancellation of part of delinquent loans. Ie actons that will require financial help from
provincial treasuries   already being carred out in seeral provices he  in of the
provincial banks of Entre Rios, Misiones, Santa Fe, TucumEn, and Chaco has been mcluded in
the action plan of structural refms proposed by these povinces. So far a small number of
provincial banks have already been privatized. These axe the banks of Correntes, La Rioja and
Chaco. The bank of Entre Rios has already been sold to private interests pending final learnce
by the Central Bank.



-73-                     ANNEXXa
ARGENTINA - PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
TALE 1: SUMMARY STATIICS
December 1993
Number of  Number of  Total Deposits  Total Loans
Institutions   Branches  (US$'Million)  (USS Million)
Total System                 206       3,942        41,162        - 47,698
Official Banks                34       1,627         17,325       21,543
ProV. & Mun.                 28         720         10,323 -      14,928
Rest of Official Banks         6        907          7,002         6,615
Private Banks                133       2,298        23,347        25,433
Domestic                    102       1,941         17,210        18,195
Forign                       31         357          6,137         7,238
Non Banking Institutions      39          17           490           72.2
ARGENTINA - PROVINCIAL REFEORM LOAN
TABLE 2: NUMBER OF EM1PLOYEES
1990     1991      1992     1993
Total System            135,264   123,574   118,987  120,213
Official Banks           75,710    67,706   58,984   56,169
Prov. & Mun.             35,598   29,999    26,492   24,413
Rest of Offcial Banks   42,112    37,707   32,492   31,756
Private Banks            57,876   54,375    58,464   62,660
Domestic                45,186   43,057   46,063   49,312
Foreign                  12,690    11,318    12,401    13,348
Non Baing Institutions    1,678    1,493      1,539    1,384



-74-                      ANNEX Xl
ARGENTINA - PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
TABLE 3: INANCIAL INDICATORS
(In Percentage)
1991   1992   1993
Fixed assets/capital                         52.9   55.1    51.9
Administrative costs/total deposits           3.0    2.3      1.6
Labor costs/fixed costs                      63.1   66.2    65.3
Administration costs/Net income               14.5    2.1     2.3
Financial net income/Total deposits           0.2    0.9      0.4
Services income/No. of employees              8.0    1.4      1.5
Overdue loans/Total loans                    42.2   36.3    36.7
Dollar deposits/Total deposits               24.4   26.1    27.2
Total deposits/No. of branches (US$ millions)  2.4    4.1     7.1
Rediscounts BCRA/Total deposits              67.0   34.2    10.4
Loans to public sector/Total loans           32.1   23.8    17.6
Cash and public bonds (dollars)/Total deposits  28.7   19.7    26.8
Public bonds (pesos)/Capital (net of fixed assets)   25.9   27.4    33.1
Excluding the Banks of the province and the City of Buenos Aires.



-7S*                         ANNEX XI
ARGENTINA - PROVINCLAL REFORM LOAN
TAKlE 4: DISTRMIBUTION OF LOANS BETWEEN ECONOMIC ACTVITrES - J                  13
(As a shares of totad loan)
Ofiial RBaks                     Rat of
Activity         Toal System       Total      Prov.& Mun.   Ofial Banks   Private Banks
1. Agriculture                  12.1          16.2            13.9            18.5            8.2
1. Manu rn                     19.7           12.4            15.4            9.5            26.9
II. Consuctio                   4.7           6.0             6.2            5.8             3.5
-IV. Electricity and Water       1.2           0.8             0.8             0.8            1.7
V. Wholesale Activities          5.9           3.2             4.5             1.8            8.5
VI. Retail Activities           9.7            7.8            10.7            4.8            11.4
Vil. Economic services          22.6          26.4            31.3            21.5           18.7
Government                     7.2           14.1            19A             8.9             0.4
Other public                   6.6            4.9             5.0            4.8             8.1
Financial institutions         7.7            6.5            6.0             7.0             8.7
Others                         1.2            0.8            0.9             0.8             1.5
VWII. Others                   24.1           27.2            17.2            37.3           21.1
O'e                            4.3            4.0            7.1             0.8             4.7
Family loans                  19.8           23.2            10.1           36.5            16.4
Total                          100.0         100.0           100.0           100.0          100.0



-76--                        ANNEX X         -
ARGENTINA - PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
TABLE 5: DISUB ION OF LOANS BETWEEN ECONOMIC ACTIVrITES - JUNE 1993
(In peetage)
Offcial Banks                    Rat of
Activity         Total Systan      Total      ProM.& Mlun.   Offical Bank    Private Banks
I. Manufacuting             100.0          31.0           19.2            11.8           67.S
lil. Constrction            100.0          62.S           32.4            30.2           36.8
IV. Electricity and Water   100.0          32.3           16.1            16.1           67.6
V. Wholesle Activities      100.0          26.4           19.1             7.3           72.0
VI. Retail Activities       100.0          39.4           27.2            12.2           58.4
VI. Economic services       100.0          57.2           34.0            23.2           40.9
Govenment                  100.0          97.1           66.7           30.3             2.9
Other public               100.0          36.6           18.7            17.9           60.9
Financial instituions      100.0          41.4           19.2           22.2            55.6
Others                     100.0          35.0           19.0            16.0           62.3
VIIL Others                 100.0          55.4           17.6            37.8           43.3
Other                      100.0          45.1           40.4            4.7            53.9
Family loans               100.0          57.6           12.6           45.1            41.0
Total                       100.0          49.1           24.6            24.4           49.5



-77           .              ANNEX XI
ARGENTINA - PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
TABLE 6: INCOME AND) COST STRUCTURE - AUGUST 1993
As a Shar of TotalLoans    As a Share of Total Deposits
Fnuancial    Services    Faxed    Financal   Sevices
Bank                              Income       income     Costs     Costs      Costs
Total System                        1.4         0.5        0.9       1.1        0.1
Offlcial Banks           -1.1                   0.3        0.6       1.0        0.0
Prov. & Mun.                        1.2         0.5        0.8       1.3        0.0
Advanced Provinces                  1.2         0.5        0.9       1.0        0.0
de la Prov. de Buenos Aires        1.0          0.5       0.8       0.9        0.0
de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires       0.9          0.4       0.6        1.0       0.1
Municipal de La Plata              1.6          1.2       1.7       0.7        0.1
de la Prov. de C6rdoba             1.5          0.7       1.3        1.2       0.1
Social de Cdrdoba                  1.6          0.2       1.9       2.0        0.1
de Santa Fe S.A.                   1.1          0.6       1.2       0.8        0.0
MunicipaldeRosario                 1.9          0.8       1.8        1.0       0.1
Santafesino de Inv. y Des. S.A.    1.8          0.0       1.4        1.6       0.0
de Mendoza S.A.                    1.7          0.5       0.7        1.6       0.0
de Previsi6n Social S.A.           1.3          0.5       0.7        1.1       0.1
Low Density Provinces               1.6         0.6        1.0       1.4        0.0
de la Prov. del Chubut             1.4          1.5       2.2       0.6        0.0
de la Pampa                        1.7          0.5       0.8        1.4       0.0
de la Prov. del Neuqudn            1.1          0.7       1.0       0.4        0.0
de la Prov. de Rho Negro           2.2          0.5       0.9       6.9        0.1
de la Prov. de Santa Cruz          1.1          0.4       0.7       0.7        0.0
do Tierra del Fuego                1.4          0.3       0.8        1.2       0.0
Intermediate Provinces              1.4         0.4        0.9       1.9        0.0
de Entre Rios                      0.6          0.5       0.9        1.5       0.0
Municipal de Parani                1.8          0.7       1.1       1.2        0.1
Provincial de Salta                2.3         0.1        0.6       8.0        0.0
de San Juan S.A.                   1.6          0.7       1.1       0.9        0.0
de la Prov. de San Luis            1.3          0.4       1.2       0.3        0.0
de la Prov. de Tucurian            1.0          0.5       1.1       0.6        0.0
Municipal de Tucuman               1.3                    1.1       2.1        0.1
Underdeveloped Provinces            1.3         0.3        0.6       2.9        0.1
de Catanma                         1.1          0.9       1.6        1.5       0.0
del Chaco S-E.M.                   1.1          0.0       0.2       10.9       0.0
de la Prov. de Corrientes          2.2          1.3       2.1       1.5        0.2
Cofiueno Banco de Inversi6n S.A.   '.9          1.1       1.5        1.0       0.1
de la Prov. de Formosa             2.1          0.3       0.3       5.0        0.1
de Ia Prov. de Jujuy               0.9          0.4       1.1       0.3        0.0
de la Prov. de Misiones            2.2          0.6       1.4       2.1        0.1
de la Prov. de Santiago del EsterO  0.3         0.3       0.6       2.4        0.1
Rest of Official Banks              1.0         0.2        0.4       0.6        0.0
Private Banks                       1.8         0.8        1.2       1.2        0.1
Domestic                           1.9          0.9       1.3       1.2        0.1
Foreign                            1.6          0,6       1.1       1.1        0.1



-78-                           ANNEX Xi
ARGENTINA - PROVINCUAL REFORM LOAN
TABLE 7: KEY FINANCIAL PERFORM£ANCE INDICATORS OF PROVINCIAL BANKS
Dec./1991        /}Dec.1991    Dec 1993 
Capital Adequacy
Net worth/total assts                                            0.43            055          0.52
Liquidity
Liquid assets/deposits                                          30,00            19,60       26.80
Loansldeposits                                                 237.46           159,20   -119,90
Funding
Demand deposit/total liabilities                                15,78            185S5        16.00
Asset Quality
Loan loss reserve/total loans                                    8.75            18,19        17,00
Nonperforming loans/total loans                                                  36,33        36,88
Earnings Perfonnance
Net interest margin/total assets                                                  0,70         0.22
Retum on net worth (average)                                                     -2.22         0.00
Operating expses/total assets                                                     1,01         0.87
Personnel costs/total assets                                                      0,67         0.57



'79'                                  ANNEX l
ARGENTINA - PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN
TABLIE St CURRENT SITUATION OF PROVINCIAL BANKS"
^ NET         ADMINISTRATIVE    DELINQUENT LOANS/               CURPJENT STATUS OF
BANK                     INCOMEtEQUrrY        COSTS/DEPOSIIS          TOTAL LOANS            PRIVATIZATION EFFORT
Provincial de Santa Fe                             .119.80           1.4                   39.4            Approval by legishlure pendintn
de Entre RioS                                      -3263             16                    82.6            Completed
de la Provincia de Tucumin -69.1                                     1.8                   46.9             Approval by legislature pending
de Catamatca                                        -38 59                                 28.9             Under trestturing
del Chaco                                           -S7.2           2.5                    47.4            Completed
de Is Provincia de Chubut                           -51.2            1.6                   17.7             Under roetructuhg
do la Provtncia de Jujuy                           -14.4             1.4                   39.9             Under rteucwring
de b Pmovincia de Mion"es                          .61.8             2.1                   25.8             Approved; bidding undery
de Mendoza S.A.                                      13.9            1.0                   28.1             App i pending
de Previsi6n Social do Metdoze S.A.                  10.6            0.7                   30.2            No plans
de San Juan S.A.                                    23A             0.7                     18.7            Approva pending
Povinwal de Salta                                  .30.9            2.1                    90.8            Law apptoved
de I Provincia de Santiago del Eaeo                -101.1           2.5                    86.6             Study undermay
Cofiwene                                            .11.2           0.6                     5.4            Completed
de Is Provincia de C6rdoba                           4.0             1.6                    17.5            No plans
de la Pmvmiacds duenos Aires                         11.9            1.1                    14.1            No plans
de Is Provinci do Rio Negro                         -70.1           2.1                    40.0             Under study
de Is Pvincia de San Luis                           43.1             1.3                    14.9            Under study
de I Provincia de SantaCz                           -11.9          OS                      15.2            No plans
do Is Provincia de La Panipa                         13.1            1.2                   20.2             Noplans
dole Provincia de Formosa                           -3.1             1.5                   28A              Future study
de la Provincis de Neuquda                            7.4            1.3                   27.6             No plans
Social de Cdrdoba                                   22.1            3.6                    21.5            No plan
del Torritorio Nacional de tierra del Fuego,
Anatdida e Islas del Atlintico Sur SA.               12.17          1.05                   41.2            Future study
Santftesino de Inversi6n y Deurtollo                 5.18           2.22                    2.56            Appwoa pending
11 Does not include the five municipal bank.



