Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3836 AR
Loan Agreement
(Provincial Reform Loan)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 24, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3836 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 24, 1995, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS: (A) the Bank has received a letter dated December 21, 1994, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve 
structural adjustment of the public sector of the provinces of the Borrower (the 
Provinces) and to maintain the current macroeconomic policies of the Borrower (such 
program hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the 
execution of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in the financing of 
urgently needed imports required during such execution; and
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Loan 
in three tranches as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereof set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 11, shall be modified to read:
Page  2
"'Project' means the imports and other activities that may be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Loan 
Agreement.";
(b)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read: 
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the provisions of 
Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."; and
(d)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read:
 
"(c)  Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower 
shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution of the program 
referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement 
and 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"BCRA" means Banco Central de la Republica Argentina, the Borrower's 
Central Bank;
(b)
"FEDEI" means Fondo Especial de Desarrollo Electrico del Interior, the 
Borrower's Electricity Development Fund;
(c)
"First Group of Provinces" means the Provinces (at least four) which 
shall fulfill the conditions set forth in paragraphs 2 through 8 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement;
(d)
"First Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not exceeding the 
equivalent of $100,000,000 to be released by the Bank on or after the Effective Date;
(e)
"FONAVI" means Fondo Nacional de Vivienda, the Borrower's National 
Housing Fund;
(f)
"Large Taxpayer" means any natural or juridical person who is a payer of 
the turnover tax (Ingresos Brutos) in a Province and is classified by the Borrower's 
General Directorate of Taxes (Direccion General Impositiva) as a large taxpayer for 
purposes of the Borrower's taxes;
(g)
"Pacto Fiscal" means the agreement between the Borrower and certain 
Provinces, approved by the Borrower pursuant to Decree No. 1807/93, providing, inter 
alia, for reforms in provincial tax systems;
(h)
"Second Group of Provinces" means the Provinces (at least four) which 
shall fulfill the conditions set forth in paragraphs 2 through 8 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement;
(i)
"Second Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not exceeding the 
equivalent of $100,000,000 to be released by the Bank upon fulfillment of the 
conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph 4 (a) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(j)
"STIC" means the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 
(STIC, Rev. 3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 
343 (1986);
(k)
"Third Group of Provinces" means the Provinces (at least four), other 
than the Provinces included in the First Group of Provinces and/or the Second Group of 
Provinces, which shall fulfill the conditions set forth in paragraphs 9 through 13 of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
Page  3
(l)
"Third Tranche" means the portion of the Loan not exceeding the 
equivalent of $100,000,000 to be released by the Bank upon fulfillment of the 
conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph 4 (b) of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(m)
"Transformation Fund" means Fondo para la Transformacion de los Sectores 
Publicos Provinciales, the Borrower's fund created pursuant to Decree No. 678/93 for 
the purposes of financing needs of the Provinces for downsizing and restructuring of 
public enterprises and banks for privatization; and
(n)
"Transformation Fund Agreement" means the agreement entered or to be 
entered into between the Borrower and a Province to govern the utilization by such 
Province of resources from the Transformation Fund and the provision of technical 
assistance to such Province by the Borrower on the carrying out of such Province's 
structural adjustment program.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of three hundred million 
Dollars ($300,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount 
outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed. 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down after June 30, 
1982, excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank 
has allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans 
which may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest 
rates determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of 
this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
Page  4
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the 
dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding 
Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest 
Period."
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
1 and September 1 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. (a) BCRA is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction to the foregoing, the Borrower hereby 
entrusts BCRA with responsibility for the preparation of withdrawal applications under 
the Loan and for the collection of the documents and other evidence to be furnished to 
the Bank in support of such applications. Such withdrawal applications shall to the 
extent practicable be consolidated so as to apply to withdrawal of aggregate amounts 
of not less than $1,000,000 equivalent.
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in the carrying out 
of the Program and the fulfillment of the conditions set forth or referred to in 
paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Third Tranche which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, 
including any action specified in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 and in Schedules 4 and 5 
to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained 
sound accounting practices the expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section in respect of expenditures under each of the First 
Tranche, Second Tranche and Third Tranche audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
subject to paragraphs 9 and 14 of Schedules 4 and 5 to this 
Agreement, respectively, furnish to the Bank as soon as available, 
but in any case not later than four months after the last 
Page  5
withdrawal from the Loan Account has been made under each of the 
First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third Tranche, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report in respect of the expenditures under the Third 
Tranche, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents, or customs certificates, as appropriate) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the audits 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
(d)
The Borrower shall appoint the auditors referred to in paragraph (b) (i) 
above not later than 30 days after the respective dates on which final disbursement of 
the proceeds of the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third Tranche have been made.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, promtply after the respective dates on which 
final disbursement of the proceeds of the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third 
Tranche have been made, deposit into the Transformation Fund an amount equivalent to 
the respective amounts disbursed under the First Tranche, Second Tranche and Third 
Tranche.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain a unit, within the Borrower's 
Secretariat for the Economic Reform of the Provinces, for the purposes of 
administering the Transformation Fund, providing technical assistance to the Provinces 
which have undertaken structural adjustment programs, and monitoring the progress of 
such Provinces' programs, such unit to have staff, responsibilities and functions 
satisfactory to Bank; and (b) provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required by such unit to carry out its functions and 
responsibilities in a timely manner.
ARTICLE IV
Additional Event of Suspension
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which 
shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be 
carried out.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date of June 22, 1995 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 (a) of this Agreement, the 
Page  6
Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Economia y Obras y
  Servicios Publicos
Hipolito Yrigoyen 250, 5o piso
1310 Buenos Aires, Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121950 AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD 248423 
(RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Domingo Felipe Cavallo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
Subject to the provisions set forth or referred to in this Schedule, the 
proceeds of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account for expenditures made (or, 
if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of reasonable cost of goods 
required during the execution of the Program and to be financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
expenditures for goods included in the following SITC groups or 
subgroups, or any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as 
Page  7
designated by the Bank by
notice to the Borrower:
Group
Sub-group
Description of Items
 
112
   -- 
Alcoholic beverages
 
121
   --
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco 
refuse
122
   --
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or 
not containing tobacco 
substitutes) 
525
   --
Radioactive and associated 
materials
667
   --
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
stones, unworked or worked  
718 
718.1 
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof, 
fuel elements (cartridges), 
non-irradiated or nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
group metals (except watches and 
watch cases) and 
goldsmiths' or 
silversmiths' wares (including 
set gems)
 
971
   --
Gold, non-monetary (excluding 
gold 
ores and concentrates)
 
(b)
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$60,000,000 may be made on account of payments made for such expenditures before that 
date but after September 15, 1994 or the date which is four months before the date of 
this Agreement, whichever is later;
(d)
expenditures for goods procured under contracts costing less than $10,000 
equivalent;
(e)
expenditures for goods supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed 
or agreed to finance;
(f)
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption; and 
(g)
expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to $50,000,000 
for petroleum products and foodstuffs.
3.
Withdrawals for expenditures under contracts for the procurement of goods 
estimated to cost less than $5,000,000 may be required by the Bank upon the basis of 
statements of expenditure under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify. 
4.
No withdrawal shall be made and no commitment shall be entered into to pay 
amounts to or on the order of the Borrower in respect of expenditures to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan after the aggregate of the proceeds of the Loan 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and the total amount of such commitments shall have 
reached:
(a)
the equivalent of $100,000,000, unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after 
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: (i) with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the 
Page  8
carrying out of the Program; (ii) that the macroeconomic policy framework of the 
Borrower is consistent with the objectives of the Program; (iii) that BCRA is 
maintaining and enforcing regulations which treat banks owned or controlled by 
Provinces in the same manner as the private commercial banks; (iv) that banks owned or 
controlled by Provinces have been inspected by the Borrower's Superintendency of 
Financial Institutions, or received from an external auditor an opinion on their 
financial statements consistent with BCRA's regulations on auditing of financial 
institutions, such inspection or opinion to have been made or issued during the 
fifteen-month period immediately preceding the respective months in which the Second 
Tranche and the Third Tranche are released; (v) that the records and accounts for the 
expenditures made by Provinces with proceeds from FONAVI and FEDEI are being audited 
in a manner satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank; (vi) that the Borrower is 
complying with its obligations and enforcing its rights under the Transformation Fund 
Agreements in accordance with the respective terms thereof; and (vii) that the actions 
described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have been taken, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank; and
(b)
the equivalent of $200,000,000 unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after 
an exchange of views as described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, based on evidence 
satisfactory to the Bank: (i) that the conditions referred to in subparagraphs (a) (i) 
through (a) (vi) of this  paragraph are being complied with; and (ii) that the actions 
described in Schedules 4 and 5 to this Agreement have been taken, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Bank.
5.
If, after any of the exchanges of views referred to in paragraph 4 above, the 
Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower that the applicable conditions referred 
to in such paragraph have not been fulfilled and, within 90 days after such notice, 
such conditions continue to be  unfulfilled, then the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, cancel the unwithdrawn amount of the Loan or any part thereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each March 1 and September 1
beginning September 1, 2000
through March 1, 2010 
15,000,000
 
_____________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Page  9
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage per annum) 
applicable to 
the Loan on the day 
of prepayment 
multiplied 
by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11 years
before maturity
More than 11 years but not
0.87
more than 13 years
before maturity
More than 13 years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000,000 or more each shall be awarded through international competitive bidding in 
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published by the Bank 
in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to the following modifications:
(a)
Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the following is 
substituted therefor:
"2.8 Notification and Advertising
The international community should be notified in a timely manner of the 
opportunity to bid. This will be done by advertising invitations to apply for 
inclusion in a bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification, or to 
bid; 
such advertisements should be placed in at least one newspaper of general 
circulation in the Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of the 
following forms:
(i)
a notice in the United Nations publication, Development Forum, 
Business Edition; or
(ii)
an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or technical journal 
of wide international circulation; or 
(iii)
a notice to local representatives of countries and territories 
referred to in the Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the 
goods required."
(b)
The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21 of the Guidelines:
 
"As a further alternative, bidding documents may require the bidder to 
state the bid price in a single currency widely used in international trade 
and specified in the bidding 
documents."
 
(c)
Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are deleted.
 
2.
Contracts for the procurement of goods estimated to cost the equivalent of less 
than $5,000,000 shall be awarded:  
Page  10
(a)
by purchasers required to follow the Borrower's public procurement 
procedures for the importation of goods, on the basis of such procedures, provided 
that such procedures shall have been found acceptable by the Bank; and
(b)
by other purchasers, in accordance with established commercial practice, 
provided that such contracts shall be awarded on the basis of evaluation comparison of 
quotations obtained from suppliers from at least two countries, except that direct 
contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank may be used where considered appropriate 
under paragraph 3.5 of the Guidelines.
3.
Subject to the prior approval of the Bank, commonly traded commodities maybe 
procured through organized international commodity markets or other channels of 
competitive procurement acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Bank.
4.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank of the first 
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract, 
two conformed copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respective 
bids and recommendations for award, a description of the advertising and tendering 
procedures followed and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
5.
With respect to each contract referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to the submission to the Bank 
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect 
thereof, such documentation and information as the Bank may reasonably request to 
support withdrawal applications in respect of such contract.
6.
The provisions of the preceding paragraph 5 of this Schedule shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Loan Account are to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure.
SCHEDULE 4
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (a) (vii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
Standardized reports on the Provinces' budgets, including both current and 
capital expenditures and their financing, have been prepared, in accordance with the 
principles contained in the Borrower's Law No. 24,156, of September 30, 1992, in 
respect of the calendar year immediately preceding the release of the Second Tranche.
2.
The First Group of Provinces is complying with the timetable for implementation 
of tax reforms set forth in the Pacto Fiscal.
3.
The First Group of Provinces is monitoring, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank, at least 50% of the target groups of Large Taxpayers in each such Province.
4.
The First Group of Provinces has reduced in 10,000 the aggregate number of staff 
positions in the public service of such Provinces in relation to that number on 
December 31, 1992.
5.
The First Group of Provinces has prepared draft legislation to reform each such 
Province's financial management systems in accordance with the principles contained in 
the Borrower's Law No. 24,156, of September 30, 1992.
6.
Eight enterprises and four banks owned or controlled by Provinces included in 
the First Group of Provinces have been brought to the point-of-sale, and/or the 
respective services of such enterprises and/or banks have been offered to be 
transferred under concession arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, to private 
juridical or natural persons, and/or such enterprises and/or banks have been legally 
declared under liquidation.
7.
The enterprises referred to in paragraph 6 above, which are manufacturing, 
extracting or power generation industries, have been submitted to an environmental 
audit or evaluation acceptable to the Bank.
8.
The First Group of Provinces has prepared draft legislation, satisfactory to the 
Bank, on revenue-sharing with municipalities, providing that at least 30% of financial 
transfers from each such Province to their municipalities will be based on 
satisfactory fiscal performance by such municipalities.
Page  11
9.
A certified copy of the audit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement in respect of the expenditures financed out of the First Tranche has been 
furnished to the Bank.
SCHEDULE 5
Actions Referred to in Paragraph 4 (b) (ii)
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement
1.
Standardized reports on the Provinces' budgets, including both current and 
capital expenditures and their financing, have been prepared, in accordance with the 
principles contained in the Borrower's Law No. 24,156, of September 30, 1992, in 
respect of the calendar year immediately preceding the release of the Third Tranche.
2.
The Second Group of Provinces is monitoring, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank, at least 75% of the target groups of Large Taxpayers in each such Province.
3.
The Second Group of Provinces has implemented, in a substantial manner 
satisfactory to the Bank, the tax reform measures set forth in the Pacto Fiscal.
4.
The executive branches of the Second Group of Provinces have submitted to the 
respective legislative branches of each such Province bills of law substantially 
similar to the draft legislation referred to in paragraph 5 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
5.
The Second Group of Provinces has reduced in 20,000 the aggregate number of 
staff positions in the public service of such Provinces in relation to that number on 
December 31, 1992.
6.
The executive branches of the Second Group of Provinces have submitted to the 
respective legislative branches of each such Province bills of law substantially 
similar to the draft legislation referred to in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
7.
The Second Group of Provinces has (i) achieved an operational primary balance 
(excluding social security expenditures) in each such Province's budget for their 1995 
fiscal year and any other later fiscal year preceding the release of the Third 
Tranche; and (ii) had submitted, for the approval of the respective legislative 
branches of each such Province, a balanced budget for their 1996 fiscal year and any 
other later fiscal year including the year of the release of the Third Tranche.
8.
(a)
Eight enterprises and four banks owned or controlled by Provinces 
included in the Second Group of Provinces have had at least 51% of their respective 
voting shares sold to private juridical or natural persons, and/or the respective 
services of such enterprises and/or banks have been transferred under concession 
arrangements, acceptable to the Bank, to private juridical or natural persons, and/or 
such enterprises and/or banks have been legally declared under liquidation.
(b)
All action recommended in any environmental audit as necessary to correct 
environmental damage resulting from past operating practices of the enterprises 
referred to in paragraph (a) above has been taken in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank.
9.
Legislation ratifying the Pacto Fiscal has been enacted in the Third Group of 
Provinces.
10.
The Third Group of Provinces has formulated, with the assistance of the 
Borrower's Secretariat of Public Revenues, systems, satisfactory to the Bank, to 
monitor, and to carry out audit and inspection of, Large Taxpayers.
11.
The Third Group of Provinces has agreed with SAREP on plans, satisfactory to the 
Bank, for downsizing of public employment in such Provinces.
12.
The Third Group of Provinces has formulated accounting and budgeting systems 
compatible with those of the Borrower.
13.
Legislation has been approved authorizing (i) the transfer to private juridical 
or natural persons of at least 51% of the voting shares of eight enterprises and four 
banks owned or controlled by Provinces included in the Third Group of Provinces, 
and/or (ii) the transfer to such persons, under concession arrangements, acceptable to 
the Bank, of the services of such enterprises and/or banks, and/or (iii) the 
Page  12
liquidation of such enterprises and/or banks.
14.
A certified copy of the audit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement in respect of the expenditures financed out of the Second Tranche has been 
furnished to the Bank.
