Document of
The World Bank
IFOM OIFFIICIAL USE ONLY
EPQ'ORTrS     D     K|                aepoNo. P-2003-AR
E WEE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
March 3, 1977
This ioemmeun hS rio es sirae  ezdb   anrnau mny be used by rec0p'ents onriy An the peroromce of
thelar offcal dudes. t$s courimens mDy uoq ofbeutase be discoeld wiDthout Wortd Ienk t'da@bogdiizon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of February 14, 1977)
Currency Unit             =           Argentine Peso ($a)
US$1                      =            $a304
$al,000                   =           US$3.29
$al,000,000                           US$3,289.47
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGP                                    Administraci6n General de Puertos
DNPIU                     =            Direcci6n Nacional de Puertos e
Intereses de Ultramar
FA                        =            Ferrocarriles Argentinos
FHA                       =            United States Federal Highway
Administration
GDP                       =            Gross Domestic Product
LRTP                                   Long Range Transportation Plan
NDSP                                   National Directorate of Sectoral
Planning
NTP                                    National Transport Plan
SEGBA                                  Servicios Electricos del Gran
Buenos Aires S.A.
TANS                                   Tippetts Abbett McCarthy Stratton
(US) - Consultants
UNISF                                  United Nations Special Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC FOR A
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Argentine Republic for the equivalent of US$105.0 million to
help finance a Fourth Highway Project. The loan would have a term of 15
years, including three years of grace, with interest at 8.5% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
Introduction
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on Argentina" (No. 1282-AR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on September 8, 1976. It was de-
signed to assess current developments and provide a medium-term prospective
of the Argentine economy. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        Argentina is endowed with a favorable human and natural resource
base and enjoys a relatively high GDP per capita, which reached almost US$1,600
in 1975. However, the country's income level masks deep-seated structural im-
balances in the economy, manifested in its inability to attain stable growth.
In recent years there has been a severe deterioration of key institutions, of
productive capacity and of infrastructure. High levels of protection and
domestic market limitations have contributed to a generally high cost indus-
trial structure which does not reflect relative costs and factor scarcities
within the domestic economy. During much of the postwar period, industrial
growth has been stimulated in order to maintain high levels of income and
consumption in the urban sector. This has been done in part by price, income
and subsidy policies which, in effect, transferred income from the agricul-
tural to the urban sector. Lacking adequate incentives, the agricultural
sector has produced and exported below its potential. Social and economic
tensions, rooted in a clash between urban and rural interests, have made it
difficult to pursue rational economic policies for any considerable period
of time. The result has been a stop-go pattern of growth which, in turn, has
led to frustrated expectations, rising social tensions and periodic political
unrest.
4.        The pace of economic growth in Argentina has been uneven, marked
by persistent inflation and interrupted periodically by balance of payments
crises. The economic and financial chaos inherited by the military govern-
ment when it came to power in March 1976 was, however, virtually without
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



precedent in the country's history. The annual rate of inflation, which
reached 355% in 1975, accelerated to an annual rate of about 1,000% during
the first quarter of 1976. The last few months of the previous administra-
tion saw a total breakdown of economic management which propelled the nation
toward hyperinflation and created a serious danger of default on its ex-
ternal obligations. Upon taking office, the most urgent tasks before the
authorities were to break inflationary expectations and to shore up the
country's precarious external financial position. Since inflationary expecta-
tions manifested themselves in a flight from the peso, and the consequent weak-
ening of the free market exchange rate, the authorities moved to strengthen
the peso. To contain the growth of the money supply and reduce the velocity of
circulation, the authorities raised interest rates and introduced indexed
government bonds to mop up excess liquidity. With a view to further streng-
thening the peso, an increased proportion of export transactions was shifted
to the free foreign exchange market rate and a US$300 million short-term
credit from U.S. and European banks was arranged. In addition, the author-
ities successfully rolled over about US$350 million of payments due on public
sector obligations from the second to the last quarter of 1976. These measures
resulted in a sharp drop in the free exchange rate from 380 pesos per dollar
to 240 pesos within one month, indicating initial success in lowering infla-
tionary expectations and halting capital flight.
Performance in 1976
5.        During the second half of 1976, the new Government in Argentina
made considerable progress in stabilizing the economy. Through a strong in-
comes policy, which sharply reduced real wages while permitting maintenance of
the previous high level of employment, and through improved fiscal and monetary
management, the Government reduced the rate of inflation from 38% per month in
March to an average of 7.6% per month from June to the end of the year. Ratio-
nalization of exchange rate and trade policies resulted in a sharp improvement
in the balance of payments and both the resource and current account balances
registered a US$1.9 billion improvement over the 1975 level. Factor payments
were not as high as had been expected earlier in the year. Improved confidence
in the peso and the increase in real rates of interest produced an inflow of
capital estimated at between US$150 million and US$200 million. The Government
has succeeded in improving the foreign debt structure by repaying the short-
term loans due in the last quarter of 1976 and by contracting new loans with
more favorable maturities. Despite reduction in the level of "swaps" and
substantial repayments of commercial bank loans, gross international reserves
increased by about US$1.0 billion in 1976. As of December 31, 1976, they
amounted to US$1.6 billion, or the equivalent of six months of imports.
6.        Currency issue continued to increase rapidly in 1976, but private
sector claims rose at a rapid pace reflecting a return of confidence in the
financial system and the substantial increase in real interest rates institu-
ted by the new Government shortly after taking office. Thus, while money
supply expanded rapidly, there was a sharp increase in liquidity preference
and commercial banks accumulated large deposits with the Central Bank. Limits
on bank credit were established for credit to the Treasury, the major public



- 3 -
enterprises, and the private sector. A number of financial assets were in-
dexed and interest rates on.other instruments were freed and are now positive
in real terms.  The system of "swaps," whereby the Central Bank permitted
repayment of short-term foreign loans at a subsidized forward exchange rate,
was a major factor in monetary expansion during 1975 and early 1976. The new
Government, however, has substantially reduced the level of foreign borrowings
under this system by making them a prohibitively expensive source of credit.
The outstanding balance of such borrowings fell from US$1,305 million in March
to US$550 million by the end of the year.
7.        During the two years prior to the change of Government in March 1976,
public finances in Argentina deteriorated to an alarming extent and became a
major factor contributing to the hyperinflation of early 1976. Declining tax
collections in real terms, sharply increased expenditures due to massive
wage settlements and expanded public sector employment, resulted in a doubling
of the Treasury deficit as a share of GDP. Adjustments in tariffs of public
enterprises lagged behind inflation and there was serious deterioration in the
financial position of a number of important enterprises, which had to be covered
by Central Government transfers. Upon taking office, the new Government intro-
duced a number of special emergency taxes and drastically cut current expendi-
tures by allowing real wages of public sector employees to decline. On the
expenditure side, the results were dramatic and the Treasury deficit declined
from almost 12% in 1975 to an estimated 8% of GDP in 1976. About 70% of this
improvement in the Treasury deficit was attributable to the decline in expendi-
tures. A major effort was made by the authorities to finance the deficit by
mobilizing private domestic savings and this was achieved through the sale of
high yielding Treasury bills offering investors positive real rates of interest,
and through the sale of indexed government bonds. Central Bank financing of the
deficit declined sharply in real terms and fell as a share of total financing
requirements from 70% in 1975 to 45% in 1976.
8.        In order to stem financial d[eterioration of the state enterprises, the
Government implemented a program of periodic rate adjustments which, since the
middle of the year, have resulted in a substantial real tariff increase for
SEGBA, Agua y Energia, and Gas del Estado. Further progress in reduction of
Central Government transfers to public enterprises is assumed in the 1977 Budget
and the authorities plan to continue periodic tariff adjustments this year.
9.        During 1975 and early 1976, there was a steady and increasingly
sharp contraction in the level of economic activity. As the economic
situation became more and more chaotic, private investment declined precipi-
tously throughout the economy. The sharpest decline in investment was
registered in the first quarter of 1976 as inflation accelerated and default
on the country's external debt appeared imminent. The momentum of the reces-
sion continued into the second quarter of 1976 as measures required to slow
inflation further reduced growth. Stocks of industrial products, which had
been accumulated for speculative reasons during 1975 and early 1976, were
brought to market as the private sector shifted out of real goods into finan-
cial assets, reflecting a return of confidence in economic management and a
response to the sharp increase in real interest rates. This drawdown of stocks
temporarily deepened the decline in industrial production. The automobile
industry and other producers of capital and consumers' durables were espe-
cially hard-hit.



10.       During the second semester of 1976, the situation improved signifi-
cantly due to a turnaround in private investment, increased output in the
mining sector (coal, natural gas and crude petroleum production) and recovery
in growth of agriculture to an estimated 4% for the year as a whole. While
investment demand for manufactured goods, in large part from the agricultural
sector, accelerated, decline in real wages produced a drop in consumer spend-
ing. Despite declining economic activity, unemployment has not shown any
substantial increase. Unemployment is currently estimated at 4.2% in Greater
Buenos Aires and 4.5% for the entire country. Private firms have generally
complied with Government efforts to prevent large-scale layoffs and many
have shortened working hours instead of reducing their work force. Declining
real wages have made it possible for enterprises to maintain staff at pre-
recession levels despite falling production.
Development Strategy and Prospects
11.       Having achieved the objectives of the first phase of its reconstruc-
tion program -- sharp reduction of inflation and shoring up of the country's
precarious external position -- the Government initiated the process of intro-
ducing basic reforms of the economic system necessary to lay the foundation for
strong self-sustained economic growth. In contrast to the highly protectionist
import substituting industrial development growth strategy, which has prevailed
during most of the postwar period in Argentina, the present authorities are
pursuing an export-oriented growth strategy with primary emphasis on accele-
rated agricultural development. To achieve this, the Government has carried
out a tariff reform of major proportions which sharply cuts import duties on
industrial products and has thereby reduced the bias against agricultural
goods. High export duties on a number of important agricultural products have
been eliminated and, since May of last year, there has been an improvement in
the internal terms of trade for agriculture. To restore efficiency and return
to a more market-oriented economy, the Government has done away with the
previous system of centrally administered price controls and has simplified
the trade and exchange system by liberalizing non-tariff import restrictions,
eliminating the multiple exchange rate system, and reducing the wide effective
exchange rate differentials for exports. Work in other key areas -- fiscal
reform aimed at removing the chronic structural deficiencies in the country's
public finances, increased mobilization of domestic savings, expansion of
private investment, liberalization of the foreign investment code, and freeing
up of the financial system -- is moving ahead at a pace which indicates that
most of the important reforms on which the development strategy rests will be
introduced this year.
12.       The major factor determining continued success of the stabilization
program in 1977 is the fiscal situation. This in turn is closely linked to
incomes policy since excessive wage adjustments have in the past and especially
during 1975 and early 1976 not only fueled inflationary expectations, but
aggravated the fiscal problem since wage and salary payments constitute about
60% of current expenditures of the Central Government. Despite the adverse
impact on the Budget, the Government is anxious to permit some recuperation of
real wages in 1977, not only for social reasons but also because this will
foster economic recovery. Consumer spending continued to decline in the second



half of 1976 and the recovery of investment which has taken place in recent
months cannot be expected to continue in the face of a prolonged depression of
consumer demand. While export demand should continue to be strong, the Govern-
ment is concerned that current employment levels cannot be maintained throughout
1977 at present rates of growth of the domestic economy and it is targeting an
increase in real GDP of 4% this year. To achieve this, the Government plans
to stimulate consumer spending by permitting an increase in real wages in
1977 proportional to the increase in productivity. The Government's objective
is to reduce the Treasury deficit from 8% of GDP in 1976 to between 3% and 4%
in 1977, a level which, in combination with the monetary and incomes policy
measures under consideration by the Government, is estimated to be consistent
with a reduction of the rate of inflation to a level considerably below the one
experienced during the second half of 1976. To achieve this target, the
Government plans to introduce new taxes and improve tax administration.
13.       Argentina's balance of payments is expected to continue to improve in
1977 making it possible for the country to resume growth. Export growth is
expected to be strong despite declines in world grain prices and only modest
increases in beef prices. Argentina's 1976-77 wheat crop is estimated to be
the highest in history and output of other grains, oilseeds and beef are also
expected to increase sharply in response to the Government's new stimulative
price policy for agriculture. The Government intends to continue to main-
tain positive real interest rates in 1977 so as to induce further repatriation
of savings held by citizens outside the country. Despite elimination of "swaps"
and resumption of large external debt service payments in late 1977, both
gross and net international reserves should increase during the course of the
year.
14.       Over the longer term, the prospects for strong self-sustained economic
growth in Argentina are favorable. During the next two to three years, growth
rates are likely to increase moderately as the balance of payments continues to
improve and investor confidence is reestablished. Price and trade policies
aimed at opening up the economy are beginning to bring about a shift in the
structure of industry and agriculture, which is needed to increase economic
efficiency and stimulate growth. The levels of international trade -- which
have been low for an economy of Argentina's resource endowment and economic
size -- are expected to expand significantly as the economy adjusts to a new
price structure and set of investment incentives. It will take a number of
years and continuing large capital inflows to carry out these tasks, partly
because of their inherent complexity and partly because public support needed
to maintain the effort can be sustained only if social costs of the adjustment
process are held within tolerable limits. The inflows of medium- and long-term
capital from both private and official sources will, in addition to their
support of modernization of infrastructure and productive capacity, play
essential roles in this process.
15.       Export prospects for the longer term are excellent and assuming
continued recovery of beef exports, substantial increases in the volume of
grain exports coupled with expected improvements in world grain prices, ex-
port earnings should increase by an average 16% annually in current terms
through 1980. Roughly two-thirds of that increase would be generated by
agriculture and about one-third by the industrial sector. Maintenance of a 5%



- 6 -
to 6% growth of GDP during the late 1970s and beyond will require imports to
increase at a rapid pace (15% annually through 1980). This pattern of growth
of imports and exports would permit the country to generate a trade surplus
averaging almost US$1 billion annually between 1977 and 1980. This surplus
would be adequate to cover factor services and still yield a modest current
account surplus. Given Argentina's heavy debt service payments, and the need
to restructure its external debt and to rebuild its international reserves,
however, considerable gross inflows of medium- and long-term capital will be
required, averaging US$1.3 billion annually for the next four years. The bulk
of these capital requirements should be available from bilateral arrangements,
suppliers' credits, world capital markets, direct private investments and
foreign commercial banks. Multilateral sources, however, are expected to play
an important role both by providing capital and by stimulating capital flows
from other sources.
Debt Service and Creditworthiness
16.       At the time the new Government came to power in March 1976,
Argentina's external situation was precarious. To meet the immediate problems,
the authorities secured short-term support from commercial banks (paragraph 4)
and obtained a Standby credit from the IMF of SDR260 million (about US$300
million). This agreement included the first credit tranche of about US$180
million to be used in 1976, and about US$120 million or two-thirds of the
second credit tranche for availability in 1977. On the basis of the IMF
Standby, and as part of a longer-term solution, the Government obtained loans
of about US$1 billion with a four-year maturity from commercial banks in the
U.S., Canada, Europe and Japan. These loans and credits, needed to make
payments on previous short-term bank borrowings, represent an important first
step toward improving the country's external debt structure.
17.       Argentina's debt management problems result from the maturity struc-
ture more than from the level of its external debt. The latter is not exces-
sively high. It is estimated that public debt outstanding and disbursed
was US$3.2 billion at the end of 1975. Private external debt amounted to
roughly US$3.8 billion, of which "swaps" with a maturity of six months consti-
tuted US$1.3 billion, and short-term import financing, also with a six-month
maturity, US$1.5 billion. The latter in large measure is revolving in charac-
ter and normally excluded from medium- and long-term debt figures. However,
almost one-third of the outstanding public debt and almost one-half of the
private debt outstanding at the end of 1975 fell due during 1976. Over 70% of
the total falls due within four years. External public and total debt service
ratios during the current year are estimated at 20% and 29%, respectively.
Despite the large gross borrowings envisaged above and continued use of
financial and suppliers' credits, these debt service ratios are expected to
decline to about 15% and 23% in 1980 because of the improvement in the term
structure and the expected increases in exports. Provided the authorities
successfully implement their policies of reconstructing the economy and
manage the external indebtedness along the above indicated lines, debt service
should not prove unduly burdensome. Under the circumstances, Argentina should
find it manageable to service the aforementioned external borrowing required
for economic reconstruction and subsequent sustained growth.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
Bank Operations
18.       Because of periodic macroeconomic difficulties and unsatisfactory
sector policies, along with delays and problems in arriving at agreements on
specific project conditions, past Bank lending to Argentina has been sporadic.
Since 1961, Argentina has received ten loans from the Bank amounting to
US$647.3 million, of which five have not been fully disbursed. After the
first two loans were made in 1961/62, no loans were made until 1967. In the
1967 to 1969 period, however, five loans were made totalling US$237.3 million.
Two additional Bank loans to Argentina were made in 1971. The loan to SEGBA
for an electric transmission and distribution project, approved by the Executive
Directors in September 1976, marked the resumption of lending to Argentina
after a hiatus of over five years. In total, the Bank has made five loans for
the power sector, four loans for the transportation sector and one loan for
livestock development. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as
of January 31, 1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
19.       In its past and projected lending to Argentina, the Bank has
supported, and intends to continue to support, several important interdepen-
dent and complementary development objectives. The first lending objective is
to contribute to the Government's efforts to diversify and increase Argentina's
export capacity. Argentina's past economic policies have resulted in a low
level of international trade relative to the country's economic resources and
development base. While recent policy changes, such as agricultural sector
pricing, will provide much of the initial stimulus to increasing exports,
sustained growth will require an expansion of productive facilities and
infrastructure. The proposed Fourth Highway Project is but one element in a
package of prospective operations aimed at increasing the country's export
capacity. We plan to submit to the Executive Directors in the near future
other loans pursuing this objective. These prospective operations are a grain
storage project, an agricultural credit project, an industrial credit project
and, possibly, a railways/ports project. The principal aim of the proposed
Fourth Highway Project is to help upgrade the highway infrastructure necessary
to support the planned resumption of economic growth and the expansion of
agricultural export traffic. The proposed grain storage project would help
remove existing storage constraints to exports. The agricultural credit
project would aim at expanding and reducing the cost of agricultural produc-
tion for exports. The industrial credit project has already been appraised
and would support the modernization and expansion of industry in general and
export industries in particular. The ongoing livestock development project
also supports the export expansion objective. The recently approved power
transmission and distribution project with SEGBA will help facilitate the
expansion of industrial capacity in the greater Buenos Aires area, where most
of Argentina's export industries are located.
20.       A second lending objective is institutional development and policy
reform which will ensure that public investments are made and used efficiently.
This has been the case in the highway sector where the Bank has supported



- 8 -
efforts to improve the management, planning capabilities, and operation of the
National Highways Authority (Direccion Nacional de Vialidad). The proposed
project will assist the Goverrnment in continuing these efforts. Institution
building has also been important in the power sector where the Bank has
supported reforms in the tariff structure which will furnish adequate rates of
return on invested capital, and where the Bank has assisted in the preparation
of a long overdue national power expansion program and a national power sector
organization study. In lending for livestock development, the Bank loan has
served to introduce modern methods of ranch management within the framework of
a supervised agricultural credit program.
21.       Thirdly, Bank lending to Argentina is to help provide essential long-
term external capital when it can be absorbed effectively within the framework
of a sound overall financial plan and when capital requirements substantially
exceed availabilities from other external sources. Public investment require-
ments have grown sharply as a result of past neglect. Even with the major
effort presently underway, public sector savings will fall short of require-
ments, and leave a substantial gap in the Government's financial program which
can only be filled by external borrowing. Private sources, however, are not
yet prepared to offer Argentina financing in sufficient amount and on appro-
priate terms. It will take some years of successful economic management for
Argentina to regain its position as a substantial borrower of long-term capital
in private markets. In the meantime, very large amounts of relatively short-
term external loans and credits will have to be repaid. During this period the
Bank hopes to serve as a catalyst to stimulate lending from other sources as
well as to directly provide a part of the needed capital inflow.
22.       Finally, the Bank is maintaining a dialogue with the Government
regarding possible Bank assistance in projects that would foster physical in-
tegration between Argentina and its neighboring countries, especially with the
low-income countries of Bolivia and Paraguay. Such projects should serve as a
major impetus to the economic growth of these two landlocked countries and
enable them to raise their living standards. The Bank project for a gas
pipeline between Bolivia and Argentina has been a milestone in integrating
the two economies in the energy field to the benefit of both countries.
The proposed Fourth Highway Project supports in part this objective of phy-
sical integration since several of the road sections included in the project
are important links for the regional trade between Argentina and its neighbors.
We are also discussing with the Government other integration projects, espe-
cially in the energy field.
IFC Operations
23.       As of January 31, 1977, IFC had made ten loans to borrowers in
Argentina totalling US$51.3 million, and one equity investment of US$2.0
million, of which US$28.6 million has been repaid, cancelled or sold. A
summary of IFC's investments up to January 31, 1977, is given in Annex II.



- 9 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Bank Financing in the Sector
24.       Since 1961, the Bank has participated in the financing of three highway
projects and one railway project in Argentina. The first highway loan, for
US$48.5 million, was made in June 1961 to help finance the construction and im-
provement of about 2,600 km of roads and the purchase of maintenance equipment.
At the same time, the Bank was also the Executing Agency for a long-range study
of transportation in Argentina, financed by the United Nations Special Fund. A
number of problems developed in the course of the 1961 highway project, the most
important being a shortage of local funds. The project was not completed until
1968 and not until its scope had been reduced considerably and US$17.5 million of
the original loan amount had been cancelled.
25.       At the request of the Argentine Government, the Bank reviewed
the problems and requirements of the transportation sector in 1968. On the
basis of the review and recommendations made by the Bank, the Government
agreed to proceed with a program to improve transport coordination and plan-
ning, financially and physically rehabilitate the national railways, and
improve road administration and the planning and coordination of road invest-
ments. On this basis, the Bank agreed to continue to support the development
of the transportation sector, and a Second Highway Loan of US$25 million was
signed in June 1969. The loan helped finance the construction and improvement
of 800 km of roads, consulting services to aid highway planning and purchase
of equipment. All components of the project as originally defined were
completed satisfactorily by June 1973 at a cost substantially below the
appraisal estimate. With the Bank's agreement, in early 1974, the unspent
balance of US$5.2 million was allocated to carry out construction of two
additional road sections. After some delays during 1974 and 1975, due mainly
to lack of equipment, the works on these two roads are now proceeding satis-
factorily and are expected to be completed by the end of 1977.
26.       In May 1971, the Bank made a Third Highway Loan of US$67.5 million to
help finance the improvement of 28 road sections totalling 1,128 km and various
consulting services to assist, inter alia, in the preparation of a highway in-
vestment program. Fifteen of the road sections totalling 556 km (53% of the
total) have now been completed satisfactorily. Construction of the remaining
13 sections ran into severe problems caused by the difficult economic situation
prevailing in 1975 and early 1976. Delays in payments and staggering inflation
during that time had a crippling effect on the financial situation of contrac-
tors. Most of them had to suspend work. The few firms which remained active
were hampered by difficulties in obtaining spare parts for imported equipment.
After March 1976, the Government undertook to liquidate pending payments, to
amend ongoing contracts to include a satisfactory price escalation formula,
and to negotiate pending claims arising from suspension of work. Work has now
resumed at a normal pace on nine sections, and a new call for bids is underway
for the remaining four sections. The bulk of the remaining work is expected
to be carried out during 1977, with the completion of several other contracts
extending into the first quarter of 1978.



- 10 -
27.       In April 1971, the Bank made a loan of US$84 million to the Argentine
Railways to help finance a comprehensive rehabilitation and modernization pro-
gram. Despite the measures that had been taken by the Government and the
Railways, the Bank determined in February 1974 that little progress had taken
place in achieving economies in the use of staff, facilities and equipment; in
procuring new, and rehabilitating existing rolling and motive stock; and in
improving tariffs in real terms. Furthermore, the deterioration of railway
services caused a decline in traffic, with the result that the performance of
the Railways fell below the targets agreed upon with the Bank. Therefore, in
April 1974, the Bank offered the Government and the Railways the alternatives
of (a) renegotiating the loan on the basis of new targets, including methods
for periodically monitoring whether such targets were being achieved and
specific actions to be taken by the Government and the Railways; or (b) can-
celling the balance of the loan, with disbursements being permitted only
against orders placed before the original closing date of April 30, 1974. The
Government and the Railways elected the latter alternative and as a result
US$27.5 million of the loan was cancelled in July 1974.
28.       In June 1971, the Bank made a comprehensive review of the transpor-
tation sector in Argentina which focused on modes which were not covered in
depth by the 1968 Bank sector mission, such as ports, water transport, civil
aviation, pipelines, and a number of specific problems of the Railways. The
review also served as the basis for initiating preparation of a fourth highway
project, which was first appraised in early 1972. However, further proces-
sing of the project was kept in abeyance, pending resolution of issues on
economic and transport policies between Argentina and the Bank. A decision
to continue processing of the project was made in 1974, but presentation of
the project to the Executive Directors was postponed because of then exist-
ing uncertainties in the outlook for the Argentine economy. The presently
proposed project is a substantially modified version of the project that was
first appraised in 1972.
29.       As the foregoing analysis indicates, the Bank has had a long asso-
ciation with the transportation sector in Argentina, both in project financing
and in sector studies. Although there have been some setbacks in the develop-
ment of the sector, such as the problems encountered by the Railways, there
has been substantial overall progress, part of which may be attributed to Bank
efforts. In particular, there has been a reorganization and administrative
strengthening of the National Highways Authority; an increase in the compe-
tence of local consulting firms and an effective use of them in the planning,
engineering and supervision of road projects; establishment in the Secretariat
of Public Works and Transport of an agency to coordinate planning for transpor-
tation investments; an effective effort on part of the National Highways
Authority    to do multi-year planning aimed at identifying and selecting
priority road investments; and an improvement in transport pricing policy.



Sector Background
30.       The development of the Argentine transportation system has been
influenced significantly by the heavy concentration of population and economic
activity around Buenos Aires. About one-third of the country's 25 million
inhabitants live in the metropolitan Buenos Aires area and about two-thirds
of the population live within a 500 km radius of Buenos Aires, a region
comprising only 15% of the total area of the country. Buenos Aires is the
industrial, financial and commercial center of the country and the national
focal point for transportation. Other factors which have determined the
development of the transportation system have been the traditional concentra-
tion of grain and livestock production in the Pampa and the creation, during
the last two decades, of an important industrial corridor in the east, extend-
ing from Cordoba through Santa Fe, Rosario, Buenos Aires, and La Plata. Con-
sequently, the transportation system is characterized by a large and complex
interchange of products along the industrial corridor, the flow of agricul-
tural products from the producing regions to the consumption centers and ports
of embarkation and by a smaller flow of manufactured goods in the opposite
direction.
31.       In 1974, total freight movements in Argentina amounted to about
94.5 billion ton-km. Of this, 40% was carried by road transport, 37% by
coastal shipping and river transport, 11% by rail and 12% by pipeline. Inter-
city passenger traffic in 1974 amounted to 59.0 billion passenger-km, of which
road transport accounted for 88.8%, rail for 8.5%, and air transport for the
remaining 2.7%. Road transport is dominant; coastal shipping and river
transport are specialized in bulk. The relative importance of rail freight
traffic has decreased continuously over the last 20 years. This shift has
been caused principally by a deterioration in railway services resulting from
the poor financial and physical condition of the Argentine Railways as indi-
cated in paragraph 27 above.
32.       Since March 1976, the Government has taken several positive steps
to reverse the negative trend in the railways. First, it has increased
railway tariffs substantially with a view to making the Argentine Railways
financially viable. Second, it has initiated a program to reduce the very
costly inter-urban passenger service. Third, it plans as a first step to
abandon some 4,000 km of uneconomic lines. And fourth, it is undertaking a
major reorganization of the railways and a redefinition of the role of rail-
ways in the transport sector.
Transport Planning and Coordination
33.       Responsibility for coordinating and planning road transport, rail-
ways and civil aviation lies within the Secretariat of Transport and Public
Works of the Ministry of Economy. This Secretariat comprises five Under-
secretariats: Transport, Public Works, Water Resources, Environmental Plan-
ning, and Policy and Coordination. The planning, construction and maintenance
of the national highways network is the responsibility of the National Highways
Authority which is responsible to the Undersecretary of Public Works.



- 12 -
34.       From the middle of 1973 to March 1976, planning and coordination
of the transport sector of Argentina deteriorated noticeably. Poor adminis-
tration by the Government agencies responsible for the sector resulted in
gross overstaffing, inadequate maintenance and operation of facilities, and
massive subsidization of revenue-earning transport agencies. Planning in
the sector was almost halted and, as agencies lacked financial resources,
transport construction activities were stopped. The present Government has
been primarily occupied with immediate macroeconomic problems and is still in
the process of formulating comprehensive sector policies for transport. It
has, however, begun to implement a number of policies which have direct
implications for the transport sector; i.e. (a) restricting public investments
to high priority projects; (b) restoring the financial integrity of state-
owned agencies; (c) developing exports; and (d) opening up new areas for
agricultural development. The proposed project supports these objectives.
The Government has also reinstated competent staff at decision-making levels
in the various agencies dealing with transport matters and has provided to
these agencies sufficient local funds to allow them to continue their oper-
ations. Although the Government is strengthening the transport planning
function, the formulation of policies and investment plans for effective
sector management would require a thorough review of the sector. The Govern-
ment recognizes this need and the proposed project includes financing for the
preparation of a National Transport Plan which will provide the basis for
developing effective management and planning of the sector (paragraph 43
below and Section 3.03 and Part C of Exhibit B to Schedule 2 to the draft
Loan Agreement).
The Highway Subsector
35.       Argentina's road system comprises a national network of approxi-
mately 47,500 km (of which about half is paved) and a provincial network of
about 68,000 km of primary roads (22% paved), 94,000 km of secondary roads
(2% paved) and 792,500 km of tertiary or feeder roads. The coverage of the
present network is generally adequate for the existing traffic and the needs
of the economy, except in the far north and the extreme south, where addi-
tional penetration and development roads are needed. However, expected future
increases in traffic levels will require a continuing program of paving. Pri-
mary access roads to larger cities also need increased capacity to accommodate
present high volumes of traffic. With the assistance obtained from previous
Bank loans, the highway planning system has proved effective in selecting new
road investments in the national system. The planning process for development
roads, however, has been inadequate and the proposed project contains financing
of studies to help correct this deficiency. To further improve the planning
of development roads, the Government has agreed to complete the road inventory
of the provincial primary system by the end of 1978, and the inventory of the
provincial secondary system by the end of 1980, both at a level of detail
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
36.       Total expenditures for highway construction, maintenance and admin-
istration in Argentina rose from US$132 million in 1967 to US$326 million in
1972.  These expenditures declined modestly in 1973 and 1974, but declined



- 13 -
substantially to US$183 million in 1975, when the Government, in view of its
severe financial problems, diverted a substantial portion of intended alloca-
tion for the National Highways Authority to the general budget. This situation
was reversed in mid-1976 and the National Highways Authority is now receiving
adequate resources for current maintenance and administration and for com-
pletion of ongoing investment projects. Expenditures have been financed from
earmarked tax funds and from external sources. The various taxes levied
either indirectly or directly on vehicle ownership and use, make up a complex
system. Road user taxes were raised in the early 1970s. The level of road
user charges is considered broadly adequate, in accordance with the present
Government's intention of making each mode pay for itself.    To remove sub-
sidies on petroleum products, gasoline prices have been increased to US$0.81
equivalent per U.S. gallon for premium and to US$0.71 equivalent per U.S.
gallon for regular. The proposed National Transport Plan will provide a
detailed reassessment of the present taxation of road transport.
37.       The quality of highway engineering and construction in Argentina is
good. In preparing projects, adequate consideration is given to minimizing
investment costs by carefully selecting design standards and by applying stage
construction principles in pavement designs. The local construction industry
is well developed. More than 20 local firms can handle road contracts of over
US$10 million a year. The quality of maintenance on the national road system
is also good, with an average allocation of about US$500 per km per year.
Recently, however, shortage of personnel and equipment has hampered mainte-
nance work, but the Government has agreed that it will take measures to main-
tain roads in the national highways system adequately (Section 4.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement). Regulations governing vehicle weights and dimensions
are satisfactory. A program to control vehicle weights, agreed upon with
the Government, will be in full operation by June 30, 1978 (Section 4.03 of
the draft Loan Agreement). Such a program aims at controlling 80% of the
truck traffic on national roads.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
38.       A report entitled "Appraisal of a Fourth Highway Project" (No.
1405b-AR dated March 3, 1977) is being circulated separately to the Executive
Directors. The main features of the proposed project and loan are summarized
in Annex III. The project was first appraised by the Bank in February 1972,
reappraised in May 1975 and most recently in July 1976. Negotiations with
the Government were held in Washington from February 3 to February 11, 1977.
The Government was represented by a team headed by Mr. Gustavo R. Carmona,
head of the National Highways Authority.
Objectives of the Project
39.       The principal objective of the proposed project is to assist the
Government in upgrading the country's highway infrastructure necessary to faci-
litate the expected expansion of agricultural export traffic. Since March 1976,



- 14 -
the Government has taken appropriate measures, including agricultural pricing
policies, to stimulate increases in agricultural production, and thereby in
agricultural exports. Partially as a result of these policies, it is now
expected that grain exports would increase at an average annual rate in excess
of 5% during the next decade. The road sections included in this project are
located in regions which export, and are expected to continue to export, a
significant portion of their production. Such roads are presently in poor
physical condition mainly because they have been supporting an average daily
traffic substantially heavier than the traffic for which they were originally
designed. In terms of kilometers, about 70% of such roads are earth and
gravel roads. Therefore, the road improvements proposed under the project are
urgently needed both to support present: levels of traffic and to ensure the
evacuation of the expected increases in agricultural exports. A second objec-
tive of the project is to assist the Government in the preparation of programs
aimed at improving transport sector management and operations, investment
planning, and intensification of agricultural land utilization.
Project Description
40.       The proposed project would consist of:
(a) Road Betterment Program. Paving and improving of fourteen earth
or gravel roads totalling about 925 km; repaving and improving of
four paved roads totalling about 390 km; and upgrading of two roads
to four-lane highways totalling about 36 km;
(b) Regional Agricultural Development Study. Preparation of regional
studies for agricultural development in Northern Argentina;
(c) Preparation of a National Transport Plan; and
(d) Preparation of a Pavement Overlay Study and a Traffic Safety
Program.
41.       The roads included in the Road Betterment Program are listed in
Annex III and shown on Map IBRD 12627R. The need for improving these roads
was confirmed by feasibility and detailed engineering studies carried out
under the Third Highway Project (Loan 734-AR of May 1971). Such studies,
including the economic evaluation of the proposed roads, were updated during
the second half of 1976 by the consultants Ingeneco and Organtec (Argentina).
As explained in paragraph 51 below, the proposed roads are economically jus-
tified and represent the bulk of the 1977-79 Three-Year Investment Program
to be undertaken by the National Highways Authority. The proposed invest-
ments include the upgrading and paving of heavily trafficked earth and gravel
roads, the repaving and improving of congested paved roads and the realignment
of segments to higher standards, with distance savings. In addition to
reducing transport costs, several of the improvements would contribute to
(i) developing areas which have not yet reached their full potential for agri-
cultural production; (ii) alleviating congestion on the arterial links leading
to main export and provincial centers; and (iii) facilitating integration and



- 15 -
trade with neighboring countries through improved road transport. Since the
proposed works focus on the betterment of existing roads, no adverse effects
on the environment are expected. There is little or no competition among
transport modes in the zones of influence of the project roads.
42.       The Regional Agricultural Development Study would assist the Govern-
ment in preparing agricultural development programs in regions with develop-
ment potential where land is presently underutilized and where the lack of
secondary and feeder roads is a major constraint for development. Argentina
is one of the few countries in the worLd that still has abundant unutilized
lands available that could be brought into agricultural production if adequate
road transport and complementary investments were provided. However, past
policies in Argentina have provided little inducement for development of this
exploitable land. The present Government's policy is to stimulate increases
in agricultural production, but because of the lack of emphasis on land
development in prior administrations there is little specific information
regarding the exact potential of these unexploited lands. The proposed study
would include identification of the most suitable area in Northern Argentina
for intensified agricultural development, including the settlement of farmers
to develop crop and/or livestock production; and the preparation of a feasi-
bility study for an agricultural development project in the selected area.
Such study would be undertaken under terms of reference and a progress schedule
satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
43.       The National Transport Plan will provide the basis for future plan-
ning and coordination in the sector and will be carried out with the parti-
cipation of the relevant agencies and public enterprises under terms of refer-
ence and a progress schedule satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement). The preparation of the National Transport Plan will
include:
(i) a short-term program (1'78-1979) that will identify and
diagnose the critical problems of the sector, propose
a mechanism for coordinating management, operational and
investment decisions, and provide a coordinated 1978-1979
investment plan for the sector. Such investments are
expected to consist principally of improvements and
rehabilitation of the most urgently needed transport
facilities; and
(ii)  a detailed five-year action program (1980-1984), which will
include (a) a proposed national strategy and set of policies
for the management and development of the transport system;
(b) a program of policy measures for each transport mode that
would include, inter alia, required changes in transport
pricing, required regulations for each subsector and
required improvements in operations; (c) an institution-
alized system for the future planning and coordination of
transport operations and investments; (d) a determination of
the future role of each transport mode on the basis of an



- 16 -
analysis and forecast of future transport demand in relation
to the expected development of the economy, particularly the
development of a phased program for the closure of uneconomic
railway lines; and (e) a five-year investment plan and an
indicative ten-year investment plan, which will include new
44.       The Government has agreed to furnish to the Bank by January 31, 1978,
the short-term program referred to above, for an exchange of views thereon.
The Government has also agreed to exchange views from time to time with the
Bank on the implementation of the recommendations to be made under the
National Transport Plan (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan Agreement).
45.       Consulting services and equipment will be provided under the project
to undertake a Pavement Overlay Study, which will determine the optimal
timing for the renewal and strengthening of pavements of national roads. This
study is expected to help the Government in introducing new methods which will
reduce significantly road maintenance and reconstruction costs. The project
also includes consulting services for the preparation of a Traffic Safety
Program. Such a program would include the improvement of signs, markings, and
road designs; education of the public; establishment of vehicle safety stand-
ards; strengthening of police enforcement and establishment of adequate
vehicle accident statistics.
46.       The Government has agreed to employ the consultants required under
the project within six months after the signing of the proposed Loan Agreement.
The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of such
consultants will be satisfactory to the Bank (Section 3.02 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
Cost Estimates and Financing
47.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$345.1 million (in-
cluding physical and price contingencies) with a foreign exchange component
of US$124.0 million, or 36%. The proposed Bank loan of US$105 million would
finance most of the foreign exchange cost of the project. The Government
would finance all local cost as well as the foreign exchange cost not covered
by the proposed Bank loan. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% of
civil works and supervision. Price contingencies were estimated at 19% of the
base cost estimate on the basis of expected annual international price in-
creases of 9% during 1977-79 and 8% thEreafter, which are the standard rates
used by the Bank. The base cost estimetes are expressed in US dollars and
at March 1977 prices. The foreign exchange cost estimate is based on the
assumption that all bids for civil works contracts, after international com-
petitive bidding, would be won by local firms, as was the case in the previous
two Bank highway projects in Argentina. Contracts will incorporate a revised
and more responsive price adjustment fcrmula for civil works, which has been
agreed upon with the Government in order to avoid some of the pricing problems
with contractors which developed during the execution of the Third Highway
Project (para. 26). The equipment for the Pavement Overlay Study is expected
to be imported. The project includes about 6,500 man-months of consulting
services, as detailed in page 3 of Annex III.



- 17 -
Project Execution
48.       The execution of the Road Betterment Program, the Pavement Overlay
Study and the Traffic Safety Program will be undertaken by the National High-
ways Authority, which was the executing agency for the previous Bank highway
projects. The National Directorate of Sectoral Planning under the Under-
sectary of Transport within the Ministry of Economy, will be responsible for
the management and coordination of studies and investigation to be carried
out for the proposed National Transport Plan. The Government has developed
detailed organizational arrangements to ensure participation of various
agencies and public enterprises in the preparation of the National Transport
Plan. The completion of satisfactory arrangements establishing such organiza-
tional set-up would be a condition of disbursement for this part of the
project (paragraph 4(iii) of Schedule I to the draft Loan Agreement). The
Ministry of Economy will be responsible for undertaking the Regional Agri-
cultural Development Study, with the Secretariat of Economic Programming and
Coordination providing supervision and coordination.
Procurement and Disbursements
49.       Construction of road sections under the Road Betterment Program
is expected to commence at the end of 1977 and all road sections are expected
to be completed by the end of 1980. Construction contracts would be let on
the basis of unit prices after international competitive bidding in accord-
ance with the Bank's Guidelines. The estimated value of individual contracts
would range from US$2.0 to US$8.0 million, so that small- and middle-size
local contractors would have an opportunity to bid. However, in order to
attract the larger contractors, individual contracts would be grouped, where
feasible, into "packages" of two or three lots. Works in each package would
be bid simultaneously and bids would be allowed for any or all lots and
packages. The equipment needed for the Pavement Overlay Study (US$300,000)
would be procured under negotiated contracts. The Bank would disburse at the
rate of 30% for road construction works and supervision; 45% for consulting
services for the National Transport Plan, the Regional Development Study, the
Pavement Overlay Study and the Traffic Safety Program; and 100% for foreign
expenditures for the equipment required for the Pavement Overlay Study.
50.       Prequalification of local bidders on the basis of a permanent
registry is an established practice in Argentina. During March 1977, the
National Highway Authority intends to invite foreign firms to submit documen-
tation for prequalification, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement. The Bank has accepted this prequalification approach under the
Second and Third Highway Projects and experience with it has been satisfactory.
It is proposed that such practice be continued under the proposed project.
Economic Evaluation and Project Risks
51.       The economic evaluation of the Road Betterment Program takes into
consideration the expected economic costs of civil works and the expected
benefits to be derived from savings in vehicle operating costs, savings in



- 18 -
time and savings in maintenance costs. Traffic counts on the proposed roads
were undertaken by the National Highways Authority during 1976. Projections
of annual increases in normal traffic range from 3.5% to 9.0%, with a weighted
average of 5% per year, which is in line with the Bank's projections of GDP
growth. The average economic rate of return of the road betterment program is
estimated at 23%, with a first year benefit of 22%. Individual road segments
under this program have economic rates of return, ranging from 16% to 53%.
The program is well justified. The project does not face any special risks.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
52.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Argentine Republic
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article II, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approving the
proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex IV. Con-
dition of disbursement for the National Transport Plan would be the making of
satisfactory arrangements to ensure the participation of relevant Government
agencies and public enterprises in the preparation of the National Transport
Plan.
53.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
54.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 3, 1977



APIDX I
TABLE 3A                                         Page I of 4 pago
ARGETIA            - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA tTHOU KHZI
------ ------                               ARGENTINA                        REFERENCE COLUNTRIES (19701
TOTAL     2776.9                                   MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    1782.2                    1960      1970   ESTIMATE        VENEZUELA     SPAIN         AUSTRALIA"
-- - - ---.-         --                 - - -- - - -
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 770.0    1060.0    1590.0            1440.0    1560.0     3620.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MIO-YR, MILLION)        19.9      23.2      25.0             10.3       33.6       12.5
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                     7.0       8.0       9.0              11.0      67.0        2.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       ..      13.0      1i,.0            4j9.0     105.0        2.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)      24.9      22.5      21.8              42.1      21.0       20.9
CRUOE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AVI        9.0       8.6       8.8               8.7        8.8       8.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE 1/THOU)     59.4      58.9       ..              49.3/a     27.9       17.9
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)    66.0      67.4      68.2              63.0       70.5      72.0
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             1.5      l.5       1.5               2.9        1.4       1.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (S)
TOTAL                              1.5       1.5       1.5               3.4        1.1       2.0
URBAN                               2.6      2.4       2.3               4.7       2.0        2.9
URBAN POPULATION (B OF TOTAL)       71.2      77.4      80.0              75.7      59.1       88.5
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                    30.7      29.3      29.0              47.1/a    27.8       28.8
15 TO 64 YEARS                    63.7      63.7      63.0              s0.5.a    62.5       62.8
65 YEARS AND OVER                   5.6      7.0       8.0               2.4/a      9.7       8.3
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                 0.6       0.6       0.6               1.0/-     0.6        0.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO            1.0       1.0        ..               1.6ft     1.1        0.9/bc
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THCU)         ..       ..        ..              67.0
USERS It OF MARRIED WOMEN)
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)       7500.Oja  9000.0       ..            3100.0    11900.0    4900.0 /bjc
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (Xt      18.0/b    15.0        ..              22.0      25.0        9.:0b.c
UNEMPLOYED (B OF LABOR FORCE)        9.0       5.0       4.5/a             6.0        1.0       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Y OF PRIVATE INCOME REC o BY-
HIGHEST  SS OF HOUSEHOLDS         27.5      21.4/a      .                 ..         ..      14.1 Id
HIGHEST 2OS OF HOUSEHOLDS         50.9      47.0/a      *-                *-         .       38.9Fd
LOWEST  20' OF HOUSEHOLDS          6.9       5.6a       ..               ..          ..       7.1/d
LOWEST  40S OF HOUSEHOLDS         16.6      16.2/a      ..               ..         ..       20.0/d
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
t OWNED BY TOP IOS OF OWNERS          ..        ..        ..
S OWNED BY SMALLEST 1OB OWNERS         ..       ..        ..
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           650.0 /c.d 500.0    480.0/b          1080.0      740.0/a   840.0 /b
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..     980.0k       ..             520.0        ..      150.0 /b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED        160.0 /c  170.0     170.0/           310.0     220.0       8O.O 7b
PER CAPITA SUPPLY Of -
CALORIES (B OF REQUIREMENTS)      115.0    119.0     133.0             100.0      107.0     115.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)           98.0      99.0     118.0              62.0       81.0      101.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      54.0      64.0        ..              32.0      40.0        71.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4          4.4       3.2        ..               5.4        0.9        0.9
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                    97.0     104.0     104.01            100.0      131.0      106.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                  31.0      37.0      47.0L0            41.0       57.0       83.0
YEARS Of SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)          12.0      i2.0      12.0              11.0      11.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(B OF SECONDARY)                  50.0      59.0      62.0                         20.0       16.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (1)             91.0      93.0        *.              77.0       94.0      99.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)             1.3       1.41/      ..                ..         ..        O.7/b.c
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (B)                   53.0        ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(7 OF ALL DWELLINGSI              69.0      76.0/d    79.0L               *-         *-      98.0/b.c
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (B)                 19.0       ..        ..                ..         ..       93.0/b.c
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)      IT6.0    388.0     425.0 /c          165.0      212.0     212.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)       24.0      62.0      88.0             5S.0        T1.0     312.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)        524.0    936.0    1135.0            1229.0     1634.0    4495.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)            0.6       12.0      7.8               B.2        5.8       35.9
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of It pagen
NOTES
Ieosohron           oe,7aafr190rfrt                  any97  yearbtween 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 and 1970, and for Moant inent Intimate betwee
1973 and96 1975..14Ye-Of-9                              ad     -
AgiitifiN     1960    In  Persona- 14 y    her of. age . nd ve;     Lb   Peranes 15 yearn of age and ovr;         /    1962;     /d1 Registerd, not all
pr7oottoing -'in the Binanity.             -uran
197 d( Itoe re..pi.onta     Buse   Ams .      rbn       /b  Hlenpital Personnel only,       /e  H ooseboido, toto1, urban and     --re,
VENEZUELA        MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:       /-   SePtenbar 1976;      /b   1972;     /-  1971;      Id4  Percetage of Ppeplatcon.
SPAN ZIA1970                  Ia   Lo-1odieg Indian Jungle Population;         /b  getne   of Population ceder 15 and 65 and evr         trtota   laborfre
SPAIN           ~~~~1970  /a  egist-rd, net all pratilning En the easete p.
AUSTRAL,IA             1970    /aDoe to       eirto,PaPu1etEas1 growth rate is higher than rate of naturalccno,                      /b   16,       /    tvatgfol
blooded Aborigines;       /d   1967-68.                                                             b  16,            E  ldgful
Rh Ja...ar y 25, 1977
MUPNITIONS OP' SOCEAL ISiDICATORS                                                                  ----        -
Total -   otl     rcface area c_nyrttg land area and inland waters,stl                          and fIeale81  iradato con-ea, "tand         r"ertified      nor.en. ad nd
Pob-     Mo I  rcntn teetae o          aiotrlaesodtiprrlly ar                            ausilisay Personnel with tr-aIing Oroprien
p     ymce ly t for  urp   I aee, nrkeL b bitchen gardens sor en lie            Pe..natatoo perL h        _eta e  - Population divided by nonbor of hosPitL1 bode
Pollee.                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~avatlable in pablic and private g.ear.1ansd epe-iali-d beepitot and
erhabilitation   nente-, en-lode      -oreig be-o    and estobuiubmeets Per
GNP prcpt                 GN7 -iP per capita entidotna  at earrene marbet prices          custadial and preventine ear.
calculted by con    conversion method an World Banb Atlas (1973-75              *                supPt. ply Of calories CT of ronoirneeste) - Cfopeted iron energy
bsc,196i, 19     9n 195 da,                                                        equivalentp ofnt food naPPlion available is ..ontry per -apita po- day,
avilable seppPlinec"'Prian d-ravnir prad-rtles, impsrtn Sen            syrt
Population and vital sta     steci                                                       and obanges in etock, net eDPplioa eslode animal feed, condo, qoanto-
P2p2jlt-n      ilion) -As of July fleet,        if not available,                 ties oaed Infood pracessieg and losse        In diatribetton; requireeeto
ouoeagn oftwo end- yar es rinaec, t960,  970 and 195 data,        wre. ae    atetd by FAO based en phyn;s1litca1      -sdi Fur neoal     -actity
.v-.ge of t.. ed-y-   1960, 1970and 1975 d.t..and hea lth e.noidoring enirasseontalcpr1                              oc   body wolghta, age and
Psaalndeneitt  - per scaa'rno    - Mid-year papulation par square kila-              no   itioto-o.eoalo,adalwngtT                            o    atea      oobl
eter(150 h-etre) of total area.                                                     Per. capita_saney speei.gaaeeday)                  - Protein cato-t at yet
PoeaaIIo dei    ic -per50amta of agric. land - Compared as above far                      eapita net Supply of food Per day, nec nopply of food is, defined a
ogrcolora      land snly.                                                                above; raquirsnet.t    for all   -twerisa established by USDA Ecooic
Vital atatiaties                                                                           gea.arnh Seerlee    previde for a elinan alwneof 60 gr-m              of total
protei par day, sand 20 g-t of animal sod pales proteie, af which
tyo4  birh rce ar toacad, verae -Aennal live births Per thousad                 10 gramse  honld he anmlProtein; these e eandarda are 1-e            than thoe-
Of eid-year popolotios; ten-YIea atith,etlo       averages ending in 1960 and            of 71 gr,ams af total pratain and 23 gree      of animal peoteis as a
19 70, and liv-you     avrage endisg is 1975 foe east recent       -set                   vraga foe the world, prape..ed byl PAO in the Third World Pend Survoy.
Credo deth rot      oreo     od, averac        - Ansual deaths per the..ea.d of oid-      aeepe       retin sanly Pfro animl and yams - ProLate supply of rood
year Population; ton-year aEtboeticaes               nigi      16     n    90ed          drived fro      animas and Poie     in Igr.on per day
Infis-e-p r avorain ending in 1975 fop moct recent estimate.                            Death rate (/thos) ages 1-4 - An...OI deatbe per tbou-and en age grou~p
isfAst nortalitye rate (/theul    - MA .sal deatba of infants under one year of             1-4 years, to children   is this geg   group,   nggeoutod 00 an indi-ar- Of
age Per thousand live birtha.                                                            nal-orition.
Lif!spr      asvatbrt      (m)       A verageonabar of yeasrs of lifetee"'inlieg
or bith,  sualy fie-yer ovrageeding tn 1960, 1970 and 1975 for                Edn..ation
developing ronevio-                                                                    Adjasute.dt:esrellomn eare -primar ah-o           - ferllent of all agea a
Croon  roduoton rate  - overge nunber of live daughters a     ennan will            Percetag      f prImary nel-_ge yepolo~tiac, i          do    sild-e    aged
bearca  oe eeoa  rerdoc_ five Porte   if ash   xenpois..e. Present age-            6-1l yearn hot adjuated for different lengths of primary education.
spec~ific fertility rates, .n.ally five-year -veragos ending In 1960,                    fee nauntrias with snvra          docactoc, evlceti.-y co-nd Sofy
1970 and 1975 for de-lopieg Isantres.                                                    since som    Pupils are be.1- or above the official school ago.
Puplaca     rothroet-        -toa       - Compound a....al greth rates of iEd.           Adlaated enrolment rati O. -.cec.dary cohuel - Computed as above;
year population for 1950-60, 1960-70 sod 1970-75.                                        secondary educa.tion requirae    at leant lost yearn of approvd pr-ea r
Pouelation gr-wbrate     (1    uba       - Computed lihe growth rate of total               isatruetion; providea general, vera.ti-1a or tacher training
popo1l tio dnifferent defisitoona of orban areas nay affect eompara-                     inatructiona for popln of 12 to 17 yearn of ago, ~onr-epoede-c
rbelfr   ofPJ. daa  mngcnrescuroes ars generally em.e1oded.
-ra  co ro 1% Of total) - Ratio of urban to total population;                         reo   Aho- Total years af
differen t defleitiona   of arban areas may affect gomparability af data                 ahoeg        at necondaey level. vecatione      inutrectios nay he par-
among c-ontrie.                                                                           tially, or completely eacbuded.
Age, structare (pere...t) -Childreno (0-14 years), werhing-age (15-64 years),             Vocational enrollmen fT of secondary        - Vocational institutions
adrtrd(65 years and over) as percentages afAsid-year population.                   include technical, industrial or other progr-m which op-ra
Ago dePendency ratio - cotta of ypoplation onder 15 and 65 and ave           ta             independently or an depareriaOfIcI_dary he-titorbns
those of' agecn 15 throagh Oh.                                                         Adul t literany rats CT) - Literate adte(able tOroad -rdwrite) a
fEson.ic    de_edec   ratio -_Eatio of Ppoplation andr 11 and 65 and Over                    percentage of total adult Ppeplat-o aged 15 years and aver.
tc the lalbor force in ago graup Of 15-64 years.
Poiy V PaIning - aceptorn cnsoln             than) - Comalative comber If                Hawaing
acce ptors of birth-cotrol devicea under auspices of national famIly                    Persons per room (orball)rAverge comber of p-r-r            nyr roo    jdI
planning profrom niece isu-ptio0 ocuied conventIonal dwellings in urban area, duel Sing e-oid
feyoansig -seafofm            rrid woen      -Preentages af narrlnd                    non.p-peameni aSuttrs        n  a    ep itd paris.
women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth,-control1 deviesa                Se-pied dwellings wthont piped water (%I) - Occupied convntional1
en all married cone     in som   age group,                                               dwellings in srhan and rural areas without inside or -atnido piped
water facilitiea so percentage of all orc-pied dwIltinge.
floelayeseme                                                        Reces~~~~~~~~~~~~ ...s to e1ectriitry (%. of all dw 1linge) - Convsntio..al dwol1iego
Total labor force (thonoand) - C-neoic-lly a-tive peraonns, including                       with electrlity in lvin        quarters ac percent of total d.ellinge      in
armed force    and onomployrd but e-eluding hosoewives, students , etc.;                  urbae and rural arnea.l-v
def-nitions In -oreo-     io-tri- are not comparable.                                   gural dwellings conneeted to el-etrlc-ty i          - Conpoted an above for
Labor force in giuer           T   - Agricultural labor force (in farineg,                    rural dwellings only.
forestry, bunt ing and leaSing) a0 percentage of total labor fame.
Unenel.yed (S of labor force) - Unen1yeyd are usually defined as persons                  CM      ti
who are able aend ailling to tube a Job, out of n Jab On a given day,                   gadis receivara (per thou Pool     - All types of rece.ivers   for radio broad-
-enised one of a Job, and ..eehing work for a apseified ninimm Period                     casts to general pablSt per th ona.nd ot popslatio..o      .. nolade
eat n..coedng one woek, nay nut be comparoble between contries due to                     unlicensed receivera    in constries and in years when registration oi
differen.t definitions of onomplayed and source of date, e.g., employ-                    radio sets wan in effect, data for receot years may not be coparable
mee t office  tattieclca,    mPle narveYs, conPulsry unwsplalymnt inuac.                  siance most c.Omeries abolished li..e.aing
Pea..enIer cars (one iben eop) - Pa-Sengoc oars copriue nator cars
Income diatribtrion    - Percentage of private innone (both in cash and hOed)               ..eetieg lean than.eight persons; ecludes onbuloncee, bearnes and
recived by richeat 5%, richest 207%, Poorest 20%, and Poareat 40T of                      military vehicles.
bousebolde.                                                                             Electricity (kwh/y percan        - dAsnual -onoptien 61 industrial, cm-
mercial, public aed pivate elctricity in kilowatt bourn Per capita,
Dsstribuetas of land ecaurnbip - Percentage         of land  _ased by wealthiest             generally booed on production data,' withonut allowance for lenses        ir
STand poorest 107. of Sand awern.                                                       grids but allowing far imprta end emporte of electricity.
Health and Norririon                                                5ew~~~~~~~Nsprint (kg/ye edne cap) - Pler capita annual consoption in kilsgr-m
11-11t.ht,nd NI,iti-                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~estimated from doetic production PIns net imports of newsprint.
populaton pe r physician - Population divided by ember af practicing
physiiotne qualified from a madicol soheet at ani-raity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
(Amounts in millions of U.S. dollars)
Actual                        Est.            Projected
1965         1973          1975          1976         1980         1985 1966-73    1974-76   1977-85     1965   1975  1985
NATIONAL ACODUNTS
3-Year Averages at    1967 - 1969               Prices & Exchange Rates    Average An..ual Growth Rates    As Percent of CDT
Gross Domestic Product                      18,311.9     23,929.6      26,662.1      25,888.9     31,202.0    43,429.2       4.         1.6      6.1      9.7   99.6   100.0
Gains from Terma of Trade (552.9                            501.8         109.3         -68.3       +39.5         -19.1        -          -        -       0.3   0.4     0.0
Cross Domestic Income                       18,364.8     26,431.4      26,771.4      25,820.6     31,241.5    43,410.1       4.1        1.3      6.1     100.0 100.0   100.0
Imports (mncl. NPS)                          1,437.8      1,719.4       1,996.4       1,497.3     2,125.0      3,702.9       2.7      -1.8       9.6       7.8   7.5     8.5
E.ports (mnc. NPS. lomort ,,aeactY)         -1.723.3     -2.494.0      -1.631.6      -2.211.0     -2.995.4    -3.863.5       5.3        1.1      8.9       9.4   6.1     8.9
Resource Gap                        ..,       -283.5       -774.6         364.8        -713.7       -875.4       -160.6        -          -        -      -1.6    1.4   -0.4
Consumption Expenditures                    14,719.1     70,056.6      22,195.8      20,328.1     23,116.8     32,731.2      3.9        3.2      5.4      80.1  92.5    75.4
Investment Expenditures (incl. stocks)       3,360.2      5,600.4       5,040.3       4,778.8      7,254.3    10,518.3       6.8      -5.3       8.9      18.3  16.8    24.2
Domestic Savings                             3,645.7      6,374.9       4,675.6       5,492.5      8,124.7     10,678.9      7.3       -4.3      8.7      19.9   17.4   24.6
National Savings                             3,588.6      6,076.3       4,469.0       5,240.3      7,934.2     10,375.0      6.8       -4.5      9.1      19.5   16.7   23.9
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                          Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital Goods                                155.0        380.0         562.0         550.0        924.0     2,398.0      12.8       13.9     22.1      12.9   14.2   16.0
Pools and Intermediate Goods                 998.0      1,783.0       3,253.0       2,225.0     4,822.0     12,201.0       8.2       15.5     27.1      83.2  82.4    61.2
Co-sumption Goods                             46.0         67.0         132.0          85.0        199.0       435.0       5.2        9.0     11.3       3.9   3.4     2.8
Total Notch. Imports                       1,199.0      2,230.0       3,947.0       2,860.0     5,945.0     175,034.0      8F.7      14.7     26.1     10.100        100
Exports
Primay Products                            1,390.8      2,608.0       2,139.0       2,710.0     4,655.0      8,923.0       7.1        4.3     17.2      93.2   72.2   58.6
Manufactured Goods                           1 02.92      658.0         822.0       1.185.0      2,020.0     6~6.         27.9       26.9     25.4       6.8   27.8   41.2
Total Notch. Exports                       1,493.0      3,266.0       2,961.0       3,895.0     6,675.0     15,183.0      10.3        9.1     1-9.9   -100.0o 100.0  100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                                 Annual Data at 1967/69 Prices
Export Price Index                            99.4        192.0         246.2         236.i        333.3       460.7
Import Price Index                            96.3        153.3         113.2         244.3        329.3       462.6
Terms of Trade Index                         103.2        125.2         107.2          96.7        101.3         99.6
Export Volume Index                          104.5        104.9          75.0          92.3        120.3        192.2
VALUE ADDED 93Y SECTOR                                                                                                                                  As Percent of Total
Agricu1ture                                2,579.0      2,837.0       3,305.0       3,501.0     4,210.0         580.7      1.3        6.3       5.7      15.7  13.7    14.8
Industry and Mining                        5,652.0      9,152.0      10,244.0       9,534.0    12,281.0      1,889.6       4.8        0.6       7.9     34.5   42.4   46.0
Service                                    8,9.        11,156.0      1059.         10,409.0    11.765.0     1462.          4.4        2.0       3. 9    49.8   43.9    37.2
Total                                     16,429.0     23,145.0      24,144.0      23,444.0     28,256.0    39,329.0       4.z 1      1.6       6.5     100.0 100.0   100.0
PUBLIC PINANCE
(Central Gover nment)
1970         1973         1975           1976                            1970-73             1973-76      1970   1975   1976
A-erape Annual Growth Rates      A. Percent of GDP
Current Receipts                             1,612.2      1,296.3      1,013.2        1,656.9                                6.2                  8'.5      7.1   3.6     6.4
Current Expenditures                         1,748.4      2,567.0      4,106.0        3,650.3                               13.7                 12.5       7.7  15.4    14.1
Budgetary Savings                             -136.2     -1,270.5     -3,092.8       -1,993.4                              109.0                 16.0      -0.6 -11.6    -7.7
Other Public Sector (transfers)                 68.1        128.4        426.6          388.3                               23.2                 26.5       0.3    1.6    1.5
P.blic Sector Investment                       136.2        129.6        133.3          129.4                                -1.6                 0.0       0.6   0.5     0.5
SELECTED INDICATORS                             1965-     1970-     1975-    1981-
1970      1975     1980      1985
Average ICOR                                   4.4       6.9       6.8      3.7
Import Elasticity                              1.1       0.9      1.4       1.7
Marginal Domestic Saving Rate (in 7.)         26.7      10.6      43.7     24.5
Marginal National Saving Rate (in %)          23.2      16.2     44.5      24.9
LABOR FORCE AND                                       Total Labor F.tce                                         V.,I~e Added Per Worker (1967/69 Pie          c.Sts
OUTPUT PER WORKIER                     In Millions              % of Total           1965-73                 In U3.S. Dollars         Percen ofAeae1965-73
Agriculture               ~~~1965.      1973         1965      1973         Growth Rate              .9~65  ~   1973         1965           1973         Growth gate
Agriculture                 ~~~~~      ~~~    ~~1.4-,  1.3  17.9  14.4           -0.7               1,842      2,182        86.8           82.1             2.1
Industry                              2.4         2.8         30.8      31.1                1.9              2,355       3.269       110.0          123.0            4.2
Services                              4.0         4.9         51.3      54.4                2.6              2,5       2j276          96.6           85.61.
Total                       ~~~~    ~   ~~~~      ~~~~7.8.  9.0-  100.0  100.0    1.8               2,123      2,658       100.0          100.0             2.9



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
1965            1973           1975          1976            1977           1978            1979       1980         j985
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exp-rts (incl. NFS)                     1,660           3,824          3,692         4,725           5,338           6,200          7,123      8,171       17,990
Imparts (incl. NFS)                    -1,385         -26 36          -4,525        z3,607          -4,590         -5,338          -6,136     -6.986      -17,132
Reso.rce Balance                          275           1,188           -833          1,118            748             862            987       1,185         858
I "t .... t (.et)                         _53           -317            -440          -526            -502           -498            -476       -480         -455
D-tret Inest)e-t Income                                  -77             -16           -34             -60             -90            -95       -100         -130
Worbers' Remittancs
C-rrent Transfers (net)                    -2               9              5             12             -3              -4             -5          -4          -6
Balasce on Carrent Account                220             803         -1 284            570            183             270            411        601          267
Private Strect Investnent                  43              10              -              -             25              30             40          40          60
Official Capital Grants                             -               -                     -               -              -               -          -           -
Public M&LT Loans
Dlsb.rseaents                           238             912            689           851           1,081             882            954       1,034       1,529
-Repa-ments                             -258           -469            -533          -7t4            -794            -796           -845        -919      -1,149
Net Disbursements                         -20             443            156            103            287              86            109         115         380
Other M&LT Loans
Dlsb-rse-ents                             0              71            405            306            256             417            325         2,6         505
-Repayments                             -187             -82           -402          -221            -221            -204           -235        -312        -455
Net Disbarsements                        -187             -11              3             85             35             213             90         -56          50
C.apital Transactions n.e.i.              -17            -635             21           -794           -180            -199           -200        -200         -40
Change Is Net Reserves                     73             610         -1,107            -36            350             400            450         500         717
Actual              Est.
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                       DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE                1969   1973   1974   1975    1976
Official Grants & Grant-Like                -               -               -             -    PFblic Debt Outstanding
& Dinbarsed                       1,743  2,890  2,345  3,160  3,445
Pubilc MALT Loans
JBRD                                     27               -              -            115      interest on Public Debt            110     204    226    249    259
Other Multilaitrel                        _              67            188            142      Repsy-est on Public Debt           366     468    558    582    766
Govern-ents                              84              58             69            135      Total Public Debt Secvice          476     672    784    831  1,025
Suppliers                                72             117            312            195      Other Debt Service                  85     354    410    604    439
Financial Instit.tions                   36             222             75            959      Total Debt Service                 561   1,026  1,194  1,435  1,464
BSnds                                   125              65            200            200
Pusblic Lyons  t. i. i                                    -                             9 4  Brden on Eaport Earn-ngs(%)
Tut;al Publc M&LT Loans                    344            528             844         1,755
Public Debt Service                24.0    17.5   16.4   22.5   21.7
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31. 1975                      Total Debt Service                  28.3   26.8   24.9   38.9   30.9
EX7'ERNAL DEBT                               Dinbarsed Only       Percent                          TDS + Dir. In-estecnt Income        33.6   28.8   25.6    39,3  31.9
Worid Sark                                      341               10.8
IDA                                               -                                            Average Terms of Public Debt
Other Muitilateral                              264                8.4
Governments                                     668               21.1                           It. as 7 Prior Year DO&D            6.2    8.5     7.8   10.6   8.2
Suppliers                                       785               24.8                           Amort. an 7. Prior Year DO&D        20.6   19.6    19.3   24.8  24.2
FPnars-al Irstitatirna                          522               16.5
Bondn                                           524               16.6                           IBRD Debt Out. & Disb-rsed         154    302    340     341   348
Pulibic Debts n.e.i.                             56                1.8                           IBRD os % of Pub. Debt O&D           8.8   10.4   14.5    10.8  10.1
Total Public M&LT Debt                        3,160              100.0                            IBRD Debt Serv. as /. of
Other M&LT Debt                               1 000               31.6                              Pub. Debt Serv.                   2.3    4.6    4.5     5.2   4.0
Short-Tern Debt (disb. only)                  2,810               88.6



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ARGENTINA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS
(As of January 31, 1977)
Amount less    Undis-
Loan #   Year           Borrower            Purpose         Cancellations   bursed
(US$ million)
Fully disbursed loans                                           317.3
505     1968       Argentina              Livestock             15.3          3.7
619     1969       Argentina              Roads                 25.0           3.6
Ferrocarriles
733     1971         Argentinos, SA       Railways              56.5          7.4
734     1971       Argentina              Roads                 67.5         25.1
1330     1977       SEGBA S.A.             Power                115.0        115.0
Total                                       596.6        154.8
Of which has been repaid                    101.2
Total now outstanding                       495.4
Amount sold                  7.0
Of which has been repaid     7.0            _
Total now held by Bank                      495.4
Total undisbursed                                        154.8
No IDA Credits have been made to Argentina.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of January 31, 1977)
Amount in US$ million
Year                    Obligor              Type of Business     Loans  Equity   Total
1960           Acindar Industria              Steel Products       3.7       -      3.7
Argentina de Aceros, S.A.
1960           Papelera Rio Parana, S.A.      Pulp and Paper       3.0       -      3.0
1961           Fabrica Argentina de           Automotive           1.5       -      1.5
Engranajes, S.A.I.C.           Transmission
1962           PASA, Petroquimica             Petrochemicals       3.1       -      3.1
Argentina, S.A.I.C.
1965/1972      Celulosa Argentina, S.A.       Pulp and Paper      12.5       -     12.5
1969/1975      Dalmine Siderca, S.A.          Steel Products      17.0       -     17.0
1969           Editorial Codex, S.A.          Printing and         5.0     2.0       7.0
Publishing
1971           Calera Avellaneda, S.A.        Cement               5.5       -      5.5
Total Gross Commitments                 51.3      2.0     53.3
Less Cancellations, Terminations
Repayments and Sales                    28.6     2.0      30.6
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC       22.7       -      22.7
Total Undisbursed                        0.0       -       0.0
1/   An IFC loan of US$7.0 million for Alpargatas S.A.I.C. was
approved by the Executive Directors on February 15, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION (As of Jamuary 31, 1977)
Loan No. 505 - Balcarce Livestock Project, US$15.3 million loan of July 31,
1967; Effective Date: August 31, 1967; Closing Date: July 31,
1977.
Lending to ranchers and contractors progressed very slowly from
loan effectiveness until 1970, then accelerated as cattle prices increased and
technical services improved. From 1970 to 1973, project performance was satis-
factory and a substantial amount of the loan was disbursed. However, the
closing of the European Economic Community (EEC) to Argentine beef imports
in 1974 limited external demand for beef and slowed down ranchers' demand for
investment credits. Current prospects for beef cattle development in Argentine
are improving significantly since producers' prices are increasing in real terms
under new Government pricing policies and since beef exports are expanding rap-
idly due in part to the reopening of the EEC market. At present, about 25% of
the Bank loan still remains to be disbursed.
Loan No. 619 - Second Highway Project, US$25 million loan of June 24, 1969;
Effective Date: October 1, 1969; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
All components of the project as originally defined have been
completed at a cost substantially below the appraisal estimate. The overall
quality of construction and supervision is satisfactory. The undisbursed loan
amount of US$5.2 million has been reallocated to the construction of the Rio
Colorado-Cotita and Pradere-Rufino roads, after being appraised by the Bank.
The works in these two roads were delayed in 1975 mainly because of problems
in the supply of equipment. The National Highways Authority has taken
measures to improve this situation and works are now progressing satisfac-
torily.
Loan No. 733 - Railway Project, US$84 million loan of April 28, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Due to the socio-economic situation of the country, it became
clear in 1973-1974 that the original Project could not be implemented. On
July 2, 1974, US$27.5 million (or about one-third of the US$84.0 million loan)
was cancelled. The remaining US$56.5 million was to finance procurement
committed by the original Closing Date, April 30, 1974. After having come
to a standstill in 1975, procurement has regained momentum. The last of 59
contracts for Bank-financed goods was finally signed in May 1976. Goods have
been delivered for 40 contracts, and the revised loan is now 87% disbursed.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Loan No. 734 - Third Highway Project, US$67.5 million loan of May 5, 1971;
Effective Date: July 30, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The overall quality of construction and supervision for the
28 road sections included in the project is satisfactory. Fifteen of the road
sections have now been completed, but construction of the remaining thirteen
sections run into severe problems caused by the difficult economic situation
prevailing in 1975 and early 1976. Since March 1976, the Government has taken
measures to improve the situation and work has now resumed at a normal pace
in nine sections. A new call for bids is underway for the other four sections.
The bulk of the remaining work is expected to be carried out during 1977, with
with the completion of several other contracts extending into the first quarter
of 1978.
Loan No. 1330 - Electric Transmission and Distribution Program, US$115.0
million loan of November 1, 1976; Effective Date: January 10,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding as scheduled.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               The Argentine Republic
Amount:                 US$105.0 million
Terms:                  Payable in 15 years, including a three-year grace
period at 8.5% interest per annum.
Project Description:    A.   Betterment of 20 road sections totalling 1,351 km
as follows:
Road Section                  Province          Length
(km)
1.  Lavalle - Limite con Tucuman     Santiago del Estero    32
2.  Salto - Chacabuco                Buenos Aires           41
3.  La Rioja - Bazan                 La Rioja               35
4.  Saladillo - Bolivar              Buenos Aires          130
5. Int. R.N. 95 - Estanislao
del Campo                     Formosa                 43
6.  Emp. R.N. 20 - Emp. R.P. 55      Cordoba                 4
7.  Campo Grande - Dos de Mayo      Misiones                35
8.  San Luis - Candelaria            San Luis              160
9. Carlos Tejedor -
General Villegas              Buenos Aires            66
10. Villa km 213 - Riacho
El Salado                     Formosa                 32
11.  Circunvalacion - San Juan y
Accesos                        San Juan               21
12.  Lavalle - Lujan                  Mendoza, San Juan
and San Luis        230
13.  Leandro N. Alem - Obera          Misiones               28
14.  Emp. R.N. 237 - Lago Espejo      Neuquen                72
15.  Vera - Tostado                   Santa Fe              123
16.  Coronel Olleros - Luis Burela    Salta                  94
17.  Emp. R.N. 301 - Emp. R.N. 9      Tucuman                15
18.  El Tunal - Emp. R.N. 34          Salta                  65
19.  Cordoba - Emp. R.N. 60           Cordoba                62
20.  Paso de Los Libres - Yapeyu      Corrientes             63
B.   Consulting services for construction supervision.
C.   A Regional Agricultural Development Study.
D.   A National Transport Plan.
E.   A Traffic Safety Program.
F.   A Pavement Overlay Study.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
(US$ million)
Bank
Local  Foreign    Total   Participation
Amount     %
Estimated Cost of Project
Component
1. Road Betterment Program
a) civil works                           161.2   86.9      248.1       74.4   30
b) supervision                             7.4     5.0      12.4        3.7   30
Subtotal                          168.6   91.9     260.5       78.1
2. Regional Agricultural Development Study
a) consulting services                     0.4    0.3        0.7       0.3    45
3. National Transport Plan
a) consulting services                     2.4     3.6       6.0        2.7   45
4. Pavement Overlay Study
a) consulting services                     0.1    0.2        0.3       0.15   45
b) equipment                                 -    0.3        0.3       0.3   100
Subtotal                            0.1    0.5        0.6       0.45
5. Traffic Safety Program                     0.1     0.2       0.3        0.15  45
Base Cost                         171.6   96.5      268.1      81.7
6. Contingencies
a) physical (10% of civil works & Sup.) 16.9       9.2      26.1        7.8
b) price (19%)                            32.6    18.3      50.9       15.5
Total Project Cost                221.1  124.0      345.1     105.0    30.4
(US$ million)
Financing:
Bank                                                      105.0
Government of Argentina                                   240.1
Total                                              345.1
Fiscal           (US$ million)
Year         Annually    Cumulative
Estimated Disbursements:                             1978         24.4           24.4
1979          31.1          55.5
1980          45.7         101.2
1981           3.8         105.0



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 3
Procurement
Arrangements:         Contracts for highway construction would be let on the
basis of international competitive bidding. The equip-
ment for the Pavement Overlay Study (US$300,000) would
be procured under negotiated contracts.
Technical
Assistance:           Consultants would be engaged by the Borrower to provide
technical assistance for the supervision of civil works
(4,100 man-months), and for the preparation of a
National Transport Plan (2,100 man-months), a Regional
Agricultural Development Study (175 man-months), a
Pavement Overlay Study (82 man-months), and a Traffic
Safety Program (84 man-months). The estimated cost of
consulting services average US$2,900 per man-month
for local personnel and US$5,000 per man-month for
foreign personnel (in March 1977 wage levels), includ-
ing overhead expenses.
Rate of Return:         The average weighted economic rate of return is 23% for
the road betterment program.
Appraisal Report:       No. 1405b-AR, dated March 3, 1977.






ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
ARGENTINA - FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
SECTION I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by County to Prepare the Project:   Approximately five
years (from 1971 to mid-1976), with various interruptions during
this time.
(b)  Project prepared by:   Consultants TAMS (US) and Ingeneco-Organtec
(Argentina).
(c)  First Presentation to the Bank:   June 1971.
(d)  First Bank mission to consider the Project:   June 1971
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:   First Mission:   February 1972
Second Mission:  May 1975
Third Mission:    July 1976
(f) Completion of Negotiations: February 11, 1976.
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1976.
SECTION II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
NONE.
SECTION III: Special Conditions
(i)  The Government shall:   (a) by December 31, 1978, complete an inventory
of its provincial primary road system, and (b) by December 31, 1980
complete an inventory of its provincial secondary road system, both
at a level of detail satisfactory to the Bank (para. 35).
(ii) The Government shall maintain adequately all the roads and bridges
of its national road network (para. 37).
(iii)  By June 30, 1978, the Government shall complete the installation of
weighing stations and have in full operation the program for control
of vehicle weights agreed upon by the Government and the Bank
(para. 37).
(iv) The Government shall carry out the Regional Agricultural Development
study through the Ministry of Economy, under the coordination and
supervision of the Secretariat of Economic Programming and Coordina-
tion under terms of reference and a progress schedule satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 42).



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(v) The Government shall (a) carry out the National Transport Plan with
the participation of the various concerned agencies and public
enterprises and in accordance with a progress schedule and terms
of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) furnish to the Bank,
by Janaury 31, 1978, the first phase of the National Transport
Plan and exchange views thereon; and (c) exchange views from time
to time with the Bank on the program of action for the execution
of the recommendations of the National Transport Plan (paras. 43
and 44).
(vi)  The Government shall employ consultants for the execution of the
Regional Agricultural Development Study, the National Transport
Plan, the Pavement Overlay Study, and the Highway Safety Program,
whose qualifications, experience and conditions of employment are
satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after the date of
the Loan Agreement (para. 46).
(vii) Condition of disbursement for the National Transport Plan would be
the making of satisfactory arrangements to ensure the participation
of relevant Government agencies and public enterprises in the
preparation of the National Transport Plan (para. 48).



--   -4 S                     I BRD-12627R
i  t t   S A?2tlF}IJG           U   A   Y    f>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FBRAR 17
_______________________                      I                        /o r  I  e  ,<de P M,gOyvU,,
4Mt jEUOir \D
1.0  dAM MAK      0
~~~~~~_                                    ttnr 9Gl        -' YapRASN  ReysTlt
__                               25/         8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ R A Z IL
-    $\ JUANW FOURTH HIGJA    A     P    R    O    .bJes
q'~~~~ g       A               6  CH UOBA        U          T_5fr
. #)  >  (>   \  * /re  y-}Rost    eepoe  ndrFut  ihe  ri-N.
7  *  MEr~ O  ~j~On,ves Ri. C-ft  i,.'~I.7~
J         8 e - _     1     -    -       -. .JGUAYojtn
MEO A . I                    to )  ' '  2 -1  Pe o
4            I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '4T
oboe,  2  ~~Cape S., Av2ooio
CZ:                NV~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/PAMPA K   ROSA    UEO      IRES
QU~NA                               ( * MAR DEL PLATA
00   .        E-    RIO  NEGRO~-1-
ARGE'NTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
*|  Roads to be improved ueder Fourth Highway Project
LLjy
i7.               (D~~~~~~ Project number
.-43--- Primary roads
Paved or gravel roods
ri T                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Principal airports
C P LI Z  ~ ~ ~~~~~~_____Provincial boundaries
IL . i   ; \   9 ;        _:lil  nternationol boundaries
50-                                            0      200     400    600     800
r \ ;%;  @   S Sr  G 1 . .  1 l F . -.  S l~~~~~~~~~KLOM'ETERS    O
-ii                   0    ?0  200    300   400   500
,  ,  ' r [                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
Ti.t.- DEL
~~ V      I-N~~F LIE GO
'O.  /         60'   ,, lii 0,11  ,,ili  n7,irs
EO-                     70-0'5



