Report No. 1405b-AR                                                                     FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a
Fourth Highway Project Argentina
March 3, 1977
Latin America and Caribbean Projects Department
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Units               =  New Pesos ($a)
USS1                         =  $a 248.0
US$1 million                 =  $a 248 million
$a 1 million                 =  US$4,032.3
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
1 kilometer (km)             =  0.62 mile (mi)
1 meter (m)                  =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 square kilometer (km2)     =  0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)         =  0.98 long ton
1 metric ton (m ton)         =  1.1 US short ton
1 liter                      -  0.264 gallon
Abbreviations and Acronyms
AGP             -   Administracion General de Puertos
DNPIU           -   Direcci6n Nacional de Puertos e
Intereses de Ultramar
ER              -   Economic Rate of Return
FA              -   Ferrocarriles Argentinos
FHA             -   United States Federal Highway Administration
FYB             -   First Year Benefit
GDP             -   Gross Domestic Product
INTA            -   National Institute of Agricultural Technology
LRTP            -   Long Range Transportation Plan
NDSP            -  National Directerate of Sectorial Planning
NTP             -   National Transport Plan
TAMS            -   Tippetts Abbett McCarthy Stratton (US)
Consultants
UNSF            -   United States Special Fund
voc             -   Vehicle Operating Costs



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............        ............   i - ii
1.   INTRODUCTION ..................         .     .      .
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR.                                             3
A. Surface Transport.                                           3
B. Railways.                                                    4
C. Inland Waterways.                                            5
D. Ports.                                                       5
E.   Transport Planning and Coordination.                       7
3. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR.                                            9
A. The Highway Network.                                         9
B. Road Transport.                                              9
C. Highway Administration .10
D. Highway Financing .11
E. Highway Planning .11
F. Highway Engineering .12
G. Highway Construction .13
H. Highway Maintenance .13
4. THE PROJECT .14
A. General Description .14
B. Road Betterment Program .14
C.   Regional Agricultural Development Study .15
D. National Transport Plan .16
E. Pavement Overlay Study .17
F. Traffic Safety Program .17
G. Cost Estimates .18
H. Disbursements .18
I. Execution and Procurement .20
This Appraisal Report has been prepared by Messrs. R. Rafloski (Economist),
L. Revuelta (Engineer), C.H. Mumme (Economist) and P. Taborga (Economist);
it has been edited by Miss V. Foster.
Thi document has a reslricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World bank authorizatIon.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...................................    20
A. General .20
B. Road Betterment Program .20
C.   Regional Agricultural Development Study .23
D. National Transport Plan .23
E. Pavement Overlay Study .23
F. Traffic Safety Program .23
6.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .24
TABLES
1.   Composition of Highway Network
2.   Vehicle Registration
3.   Motor Fuel Consumption
4.   National Highway Expenditures
5.   Geometric Design Standards for National Roads
6.   Basic Data Concerning Proposed Road Programs
7.   Estimated Schedule for Disbursements
8.   Economic Evaluation of Road Betterment Program
CHARTS
I. Organization of the National Highway Authority
(Vialidad Nacional)
II. Organization of the Ministry of Economy
III. Initial Implementation Schedule
ANNEXES
1.   Railway Freight Traffic
2.   Statistics on Port Traffic
Table 1: Total Port Traffic (1971-1975)
Table 2: International Traffic
Table 3: Domestic Traffic
Table 4: Grain Storage Capacity (1976)
3.   Road Betterment Program - Description of the Road Works
4.   Regional Agricultural Development Study
5.   National Transport Plan - Summary of Terms of Reference
6.   Pavement Overlay Study - Summary of Terms of Reference
7.   Traffic Safety Program - Summary of Terms of Reference
8.   Economic Evaluation of the Road Betterment Program - Risk Analysis
MAP
IBRD 12627R - Argentina - Fourth Highway Project



ARGENTINA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Inter-turban transport demand in Argentina is characterized by the
movement of traditional grain and livestock production in the Pampa; the flow
of goo,ls and services along the important industrial corridor in the east
extending from Cordoba through Santa Fe, Rosario, and Buenos Aires to La
Plara; and the movement of specialized production of the various geo-economic
regions to the consumption centers and ports and the smaller flow of manufac-
tured goods in the opposite direction.  Most of this demand has been met by
road.  The road network, which now carries about 3 million vehicles, has been
substantially upgraded over the last 15 years. Further upgrading of the
highway infrastructure is necessary to support the planned resumption of
economic growth, in particular the development of agricultural exports.  New
development roads are needed to open up untapped agricultural potential. A
substantial planning effort is required to update transport sector knowledge
and to set policies and prepare investments.
ii.       The present project is well geared to these objectives.  It would
provide for:
(a) the betterment of about 1,351 km of important primary and
secondary links;
(b) a Regional Agricultural Development Study;
(c) preparation of a National Transport Plan; and
(d) a Pavement Overlay Study and a Traffic Safety Program.
iii.      The proposed project is a followup to previous projects (three
projects in 1961, 1969, 1971, total lending US$125 million) which provide
for upgrading and construction of 4,090 km of primary and secondary roads,
roughly one-third of the total mileage of upgrading undertaken since 1963.
Reconnaissance and feasibility studies undertaken under these projects, as
well as direct technical assistance, have strengthened the planning function
of the National Highway Department (Vialidad Nacional).
iv.       The cost of this proposed Fourth Highway Project is estimated at
US$345.1 million equivalent. The estimated foreign exchange cost is US$124.0
million equivalent, of which it is proposed that the Bank would finance
US$105.0 million equivalent. The balance of US$240.1 million equivalent in
foreign and local costs would be provided by the Government.



- ii -
v.        Detailed engineering for the Road Betterment Program is completed.
The cost estimates have been updated to March 1977; adequate contingencies
have been included. Consultants will assist the Government in analyzing
bids and supervising construction. Consultants will also assist the Govern-
ment in carrying out the Regional Agricultural Development Study, the
National Transport Plan, the Pavement Overlay Study, and the Traffic Safety
Program. Adoption by the Government of satisfactory measures to ensure
participation in the National Transport Plan of concerned agencies and
public enterprises will be a condition of disbursement for this project
component.
vi.       Vialidad will be responsible for the Betterment Roads Program,
the Pavement Overlay Study and the Traffic Safety Program. The Ministry of
Economy, with the coordination and supervision of the State Secretariat of
Economic Programming and Coordination, will be responsible for the Regional
Agricultural Development Study. The National Directorate of Sectorial Plan-
ning, under the Under-Secretary of Transport within the Ministry of Economy,
will be responsible for the National Transport Plan.
vii.      The economic return (ER) on the road betterment sections in the
project varies between 16% and 53%, with a weighted average return of 23%;
the project is thus well justified.
viii.     The project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$105.0 million equiva-
lent. The term would be 15 years, including a three-year period of grace.



ARGENTINA
APPRAISAL OF A FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.01      The first Bank highway loan to Argentina (288-AR, US$48.5 million
equivalent, in June 1961) was made to finance the foreign exchange cost of a
project comprising the improvement of 2,600 km of national highways, consul-
tant services, and procurement of road maintenance equipment. At that time,
the Bank was the Executing Agency for a study of Argentina's transport system
financed by the United Nations Special Fund (UNSF); the study was completed
in early 1962, and the results were published as "The Long Range Transportation
Plan" (LRTP). A number of problems developed in the course of the first Bank
project, the most important being a shortage of local funds. After unsuccess-
ful efforts by the Government and the Bank to resolve these problems, the
amount of the loan was reduced to US$31 million in 1965 to correspond to a
more limited scope of work. Subsequent efforts by the then new management of
the National Highway Department (Vialidad Nacional) led to completion of the
revised project by its extended Closing Date of December 31, 1968.
1.02      In June 1969, the Bank made a second loan for highways (619-AR,
US$25 million) to help finance upgrading of 800 km of three national highways
and consulting services for construction supervision, for a reconnaissance
study of highway investment priorities, and for feasibility studies and detailed
engineering. All construction contracts were satisfactorily bid, and construc-
tion work was completed by June 30, 1973, one year behind the initial schedule.
Performance was generally good. Construction costs were about 20% below
estimates.
1.03      After completion of the project works under the second highway
project, a sum of US$5.2 million remained unspent.  The Bank agreed not to
cancel the amount remaining unspent since the saving was mainly due to the
fact that the increase of the dollar/peso exchange rate was higher than the
increase in construction prices expressed in pesos.  Hence, to compensate for
this, the Government and the Bank agreed, in early 1974, to include the
improvement of two further road sections in the project (Rio Colorado-Cotita
136 km and Pradere-Rufino 125 km).  Bids for these sections amounted to about
US$11.0 million equivalent; the Bank agreed to finance 40% of this amount,
or US$4.4 million, leaving US$0.8 million (7% of construction costs) available
for contingencies during construction. Initial progress was hampered by lack
of equipment, but works are now proceeding satisfactorily and are expected to
reach completion by the end of 1977.
1.04      A Bank transport sector mission in 1968 recommended, inter alia,
the preparation of a plan to rehabilitate the Argentine Railways
(Ferrocarriles Argentinos FA), a State-owned enterprise. In May 1971, the



-2-
Bank made a loan (733-AR, US$84 million) to help finance the first phase of
a comprehensive rehabilitation and modernization plan which complemented total
investments of about US$900 million equivalent over the period 1971-1975.
The plan entailed introducing economies in the use of staff, facilities and
equipment; procuring new, and rehabilitating existing, rolling and motive
stock; and introducing a commercially oriented approach. Implementation of
the plan commenced in 1971, but suffered a major setback before it could
pick up momentum. The combination of declining traffic and failure to main-
tain tariffs in real terms led to a worsening financial situation, which, in
turn, led to insufficient investment in track renewal, locomotive rehabilita-
tion and purchase of other equipment and facilities necessary to provide
efficient service. Eventually, the situation deteriorated to such an extent
that the Government and FA opted to cancel the loan rather than renegotiate
on the basis of new targets (para. 2.05). As a result, US$27.5 million of the
loan was cancelled on July 2, 1974, with further disbursement permitted only
for orders placed before April 30, 1974.
1.05      A Third Highway Project (Loan 734-AR, US$67.5 million, in May 1971)
was based on the reconnaissance study, the feasibility studies and the detailed
engineering which formed part of the second project. This project provided for
upgrading of 28 sections of national roads totalling 1,128 km and consulting
services for construction supervision, preparation of a highway investment
program, feasibility studies, and detailed engineering. By the end of 1973,
contracts had been awarded for all sections but one, which required supplemen-
tary engineering because of unusually complex soil conditions. The latter
section was eventually contracted in early 1975. Fifteen sections totalling
556 km, i.e. 53% of the total, have been satisfactorily completed. Construction
of the remaining 13 sections totalling 493 km ran into severe problems caused
by the very difficult overall economic situation which prevailed in 1975 and
early 1976. Delays in payments of up to six months and staggering inflation at
about 600% between March 1975 and March 1976 have had a crippling effect on
the financial situation of contractors. Most of them had to suspend work.
The few firms which remained active were hampered by extreme difficulties
encountered in obtaining spare parts for imported equipment. After March 1976,
the Government undertook to liquidate pending payments, to amend ongoing con-
tracts to include a satisfactory escalation formula, and to negotiate pending
claims arising from suspension of work. Work has now resumed at a normal pace
on nine sections. A new call for bids is under way for the other four
sections. The bulk of the remaining works, representing about 20% of the total
mileage included in the project, is expected to be carried out in 1977, with
the completion of several contracts extending into the first quarter of 1978.
1.06      Total Bank lending for the three highway projects completed or
reaching completion stands at US$124.5 million and provides for upgrading and
construction of 4,090 km of primary and secondary roads, roughly one-third of
the total mileage of upgrading undertaken since 1963. Reconnaissance and
feasibility studies undertaken under these projects, as well as direct
technical assistance, have strengthened the planning function of Vialidad
Nacional. Upgrading of important roads and improvement in planning will be



-3-
pursued further under the present project, which also includes a limited
program for development roads.
1.07      In June 1971, the Bank carried out a comprehensive review of
Argentina's transport sector, which focused on modes not covered in
depth in the 1968 mission, such as ports, water transport, civil aviation
and pipelines. The review facilitated analysis of the problems faced in
implementation of the rail project (para. 2.05) and served as a basis to
initiate preparation of the Proposed Fourth Highway Project. The proposed
project was appraised for the first time in early 1972. However, in early
1973, processing was suspended pending resolution of issues related to the
management of the transport sector. A decision to revive the project was
taken in late 1974, which led to reappraisal and negotiations of a project
with a somewhat modified content in 1975. Presentation to the Board was
postponed on account of general economic management issues related to
worsening of the economic situation. After adoption of corrective policies
during the second quarter of 1976, the project was reactivated. The Bank
and the Government undertook to redefine the project in light of the priority
given to the development of agricultural production and exports. The updating
and expansion of the project was initiated during the reappraisal mission of
July 1976; the final preparation of several key aspects extended until mid-
November 1976, particularly the updating of the economic evaluation of the
Road Betterment Program and the arrangement for carrying out the proposed
National Transport Plan.
1.08      This report is based on the reconnaissance survey and the feasibi-
lity and detailed engineering studies carried out by the consultants Ingeneco
and Organtec (Argentina); on information provided by the Government; and on
the findings of a mission comprising Messrs. R. Rafloski (Economist),
L. Revuelta (Engineer), C. H. Mumme (Economist), and P. Taborga (Economist)
which visited Argentina to reappraise the project in July 1976. It has been
edited by Miss V. Foster.
2.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
2.01      The highway subsector is described in detail in Chapter 3.  This
chapter reviews briefly the characteristics and problems of the transport
system with special attention to export outlets.
A.   Surface Transport
2.02      In 1974, total freight movements in Argentina amounted to about
94.5 billion ton-km. Of this, about 40% was carried by road, 37% by coastal
shipping and river transport, 11% by rail, and 12% by pipelines. Intercity
passenger traffic increased considerably during the last two decades, reach-
ing a total of 59.0 billion pass-km in 1974, of which road transport (both



-4-
public and private) accounted for 88.8%, rail for 8.5% and air transport for
the remaining 2.7%. Road transport is dominant; coastal shipping and river
transport are specialized in bulk. Railways' share of land transport has
decreased continuously over the last 20 years.
2.03      Except for some peripheral areas, the present road system is
generally adequate in coverage for the needs of the economy. The numerous
interruptions of the road network and the lack of lateral links which earlier
hampered communications and transport between urban centers have been largely
corrected in recent years by the expansion of the primary and secondary
network. Meanwhile, the vehicle/population ratio (para. 3.02) has increased
substantially due to the expansion of the local automobile industry, and the
relatively high income per capita of the population (US$1,592 in 1975). As
the economy expands and road traffic increases, substantial investments are,
and will be, required (a) to upgrade the more heavily travelled portions of
the network; (b) to open up areas with undeveloped production potential; and
(c) to substitute for uneconomic railway services once these are discontinued,
as is now being considered (para. 2.06).
B.   Railways
2.04      Railways played a crucial role in the early economic growth of the
country. The relative importance of rail freight transport has decreased,
however, particularly during the last 15 years, and the share carried by
highways and pipelines has correspondingly increased. Traffic for 1973-1976
iS shown in Annex 1. Until 1946, there had been a large number of individual
railway systems in Argentina, mostly privately owned. In that year, the
Government purchased the private railways and entrusted management of the entire
network (44,000 km) to FA. The network was formed into six systems, four with
broad gauge, one with standard gauge and one with meter gauge.  The Government,
however, failed to create a fully unified organization and to discontinue
services which could no longer be provided economically in view of the changed
demographic pattern, the new distribution of economic activity and the develop-
ment of other transport modes. FA suffered severe financial deficits. Produc-
tivity was low and services poor. FA's share of the total traffic underwent
continuing erosion in spite of heavily subsidized tariffs.
2.05      In 1970, the Government and FA adopted a plan to enable the railways
to retain that traffic which they could carry more economically than the other
modes. The Bank helped to finance this plan under Loan 733-AR (para. 1.04).
By February 1974, the Bank had determined that, despite the measures taken by
the Government and FA to improve the operation of the railways, little or no
improvement had been achieved in their physical and financial condition during
1972 and 1973 and that performance had fallen below the established targets.
As a result, in April 1974, the Bank offered the Government and FA the alter-
natives of (a) renegotiating the loan on the basis of including new targets,
methods for periodically testing whether such targets would be achieved and
specific actions to be taken by the Government and FA; or (b) cancelling the
balance of the loan, with disbursements being permitted only against orders
placed before the original closing date of April 30, 1974. The Government



-5-
and FA elected the latter alternative. The situation continued to deteriorate
through early 1976. Over the period 1973-1976, personnel increased from
about 142,000 employees to about 158,000 while annual traffic decreased from
19 to 16 million tons.
2.06      The new Government which came to power in March 1976 has already
taken several steps to check the general deterioration of FA and has recog-
nized the need to restructure FA to restore its financial viability. The
measures taken so far include substantial tariff increases and a start in the
reduction of costly inter-urban passenger services. The Government and FA
have undertaken to prepare a plan of action to redefine FA's role in the
transport sector, to rationalize operations and to plan investments as neces-
sary to enable FA to provide reliable and modern services. Under this plan,
the Government is considering, as a first step, the closure of some 4,000 km
of lines. The Under-Secretariat of Transport recognizes the need to lessen
the social impact of closures with measures to ensure interim compensation for
redundant railway personnel and to provide alternate transport where rail is
currently the only mode.
2.07      Lack of improvement in railway operations may, in the future, affect
the capacity of the transport system to channel exports, particularly from
inland cereal-producing areas to Bahia Blanca. Export evacuation will be one
of the focal points of the proposed National Transport Plan (para. 2.20). The
Government has recently introduced measures designed to alleviate obstacles to
free competition between modes. It has, in particular, taken action to limit
the role of the National Grain Board in allocating cargo between rail and
roads. The Board, which used to purchase from the farmers, now purchases only
at the ports.
C.   Inland Waterways
2.08      The Plata River and its tributaries -- the Parana, Uruguay, Paraguay
and Alto Parana Rivers -- form a navigable system of more than 3,000 km. The
tributaries, particularly the Parana River, are an important outlet for cereals
and other exports and carry about 40% of the total grain exports (total grain
exports average 8.0 million tons p.a.). The water depth limits the draft of
ships entering the river system and, hence, excludes the larger bulk carriers
or restricts their loading capacity. A major project, the dredging of the 50-
km Mitre Channel, was completed in December 1976. It shortens the sailing
distance between Buenos Aires and the river ports by some 60 km.
D.   Ports
(i) General
2.09      Argentina's ports can be classified into three geographic zones:
(a) the Atlantic, whose main ports are Bahia Blanca, Comodoro Rivadavia,
and Quequen; (b) the Plata River, whose main ports are Buenos Aires and La
Plata; and (c) the Parana River, whose main ports are San Nicolas, San Martin,
Rosario and Santa Fe. These nine ports handle about 80% of the total traffic



- 6 -
(68.6 million tons in 1975), with Buenos Aires accounting for more than one-
third. Except in the southern Atlantic areas, natural conditions for ports
are unfavorable. Most ports are affected by silting and require costly
maintenance dredging.
2.10      Main ports are somewhat specialized: (a) general cargo (Buenos
Aires); (b) mineral and petroleum products (Comodoro Rivadavia, San Nicolas,
Santa Fe, and La Plata); and (c) grain products (Rosario, Bahia Blanca,
Quequen and Santa Fe). Roughly 70% of the total tonnage handled in ports
is domestic waterborne bulk traffic, essentially petroleum products, gravel
and sand. Selected data concerning port traffic are provided in Annex 2.
2.11      Imports and exports have been averaging about 24 million tons p.a.
during the last five years, 1971-1975. Buenos Aires, which accounts for 45%
of external traffic, is more or less balanced between imports and exports.
San Nicolas handles mainly import traffic, and the four grain ports handle
basically export traffic. General cargo, minerals, and petroleum products
make up the largest part of the imports, with the latter two commodities
showing a marked increase (approximately 15% p.a. between 1971-1975). Grain
exports (averaging 8 million tons per year) represent about 60% of export
traffic. Beef, representing about 3% of the export tonnage, is handled by
Buenos Aires.
2.12      Argentina ports were notorious in the 1950s and early 1960s for
their congestion and inefficiency. The situation improved considerably after
1966, and average turnaround time dropped substantially, but low productivity
and marketing inadequacies still result in seasonal congestion. Most cargo-
handling equipment in Argentine ports is generally obsolete. Administracion
General de Puertos (AGP) has a plan for replacement of equipment which would
call for an expenditure of some US$40 million equivalent during the 1976-1977
period. Port infrastructre appears adequate and, at the most, may need to be
rehabilitated. Grain storage facilities at port terminals have a total prac-
tical capacity of 2.7 million tons (grain elevators, 1.2 million tons; sub-
terranean silos, 1.5 million tons). This capacity is adequate for present
needs but may require some expansion to accommodate large expected increases
in grain exports, particularly at Bahia Blanca.
(ii) Dredging
2.13      Although general cargo vessels (mainly 12,000-20,000 dwt) -- both
Argentine and foreign-flag -- have generally adapted to the shallow draft
conditions in Buenos Aires and the Parana River ports, these conditions
constitute a handicap for vessels engaged in the grain trade. The average
size of grain bulk carrier calling at Argentina's ports is well below the
worldwide economic size of 50,000 to 60,000 dwt. An extensive dredging
program would be required to enable larger vessels to enter the shallow water
ports. Over the period 1971-1975, maintenance dredging has been averaging
only about one-half of what AGP considers necessary.



2.14      Existing dredging equipment is obsolete and of insufficient capacity.
The Government had approached the Bank for assistance and intends to initiate
project preparation work with UNDP financing, to determine dredging require-
ments, review AGP dredging operations, draw up a rehabilitation program for
the dredging fleet and determine the economic and financial viability of the
necessary investments.
E.   Transport Planning and Coordination
(i) General
2.15      The policies pursued over the 1973-1975 period left Argentina's
transport sector in a state of disarray. Ineffective sector management,
overstaffing, inadequate maintenance, and excessive subsidization are among
the legacies that the present Government must resolve. The railway, which
suffered most, typifies the situation of state-owned transport agencies (para.
2.05). Transport planning and coordination, which had achieved some measure
of progress until 1973, came to a halt. The staff of the Planning Office in
the Secretariat of Public Works and Transport was disbanded or transferred.
Rampant inflation and shortage of funds brought construction projects to a
standstill.
2.16      The new Government which came to power in March 1976 had been
primarily occupied with immediate macro-economic problems and is still in the
process of formulating comprehensive sector policies for transport. It has,
however, indicated a number of policies which have direct implications for the
transport sector: (a) restricting public investment to high priority projects;
(b) restoring the financial integrity of state-owned agencies; (c) developing
exports; and (d) opening up new areas for agricultural development. The
present project reflects some of these objectives. The measures envisaged
for the railway (para. 2.06) suggest that progress will be resumed toward the
improvement of transport coordination and planning. The formulation of
policies and investment plans for effective sector management will require a
thorough review to assess future demand, determine modal distribution and
define capacity requirements. The National Transport Plan to be prepared
under the project will answer the need for such a review and provide the basis
for developing effective management of the sector.
(ii) Institutions
2.17      Argentina has been slow in developing effective institutions and
policies for transport planning and coordination. A Sectorial Development
Office was established in 1968 with the specific objective of improving trans-
port coordination and developing transport investment review procedures. The
1969 reorganization of the Ministerial Departments brought all public transport
responsibilities except air transport under one Ministry. The staff of the
Sectorial Development Office was strengthened, and it assumed responsibility for
supervision and coordination of all planning and investment studies involving
more than one mode. Specific undertakings concerning the two above points
were included as covenants to the Loan Agreement for the Third Highway Project.



- 8 -
The institutions established at that time remained in place through the 1973-
1976 period, but lost a large proportion of their staff and their effective-
ness. In 1974, the Sectorial Development Office initiated a very general
transport study, mainly emphasizing rail. The study was never completed.
2.18      The new Government has restructured the institutions responsible
for transport matters. The new organization is not a radical departure from
the previous one. It suggests a willingness to reinforce the planning function,
which is also exemplified by the detailed organizational arrangements drawn up
by the Government for the preparation of the National Transport Plan. Another
positive development of more importance is the fact that a determined effort
has been made to bring back competent staff at decision-making levels in the
various agencies dealing with transport matters.
2.19      The Secretariat of Public Works and Transport has two Under-
Secretariats for the corresponding functions plus Under-Secretariats for
Policy and Coordination, Water Resources, and Environmental Planning. The
Under-Secretariat of Transport is the supervisory body for railways and road
transport. Its planning and coordinating function is embodied in the National
Directorate of Sectorial Planning (NDSP), which will be responsible for the
National Transport Plan. Highway infrastructure is under the Under-Secretariat
of Public Works which, as such, supervises Vialidad Nacional. All agencies
dealing with ports and waterborne transport are under the Secretariat of
Maritime Affairs within the Ministry of Economy. Pipelines remain with the
Secretariat of Energy.
(iii) National Transport Plan
2.20      The gap in knowledge regarding transport facilities and equipment,
their condition and age and ability to meet expected demands is serious.
Altlhough individual project studies have been undertaken, there has been no
real coordination among them over the last five years. There are also serious
policy questions and sector management problems which need to be addressed.
The Government has decided to undertake a National Transport Plan to be
prepared under the direction of the Under-Secretariat for Transport. The
NDSP will act as Executing Agency and Coordinator. The main objectives of
the Plan will be:
(a) to analyze and project transport demand in relation to
planned development of the economy;
(b)  to review existing capacity and operations;
(c)  to determine the role of each mode in relation to demand;
(d)  to recommend policies and operational improvements de-
signed to make best use of available and future capacity; and
(e)  to prepare a program of investments necessary to improve
and expand capacity as required.
The arrangements proposed for preparing the Plan are outlined in Chapter 4.



- 9 -
3.   THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
3.01      Argentina's road system (Table 1) comprises:
(a)  a national network of about 47,500 km, all primary roads,
about 50% of them paved;
(b)  provincial networks including:
--    68,800 km of primary roads, about 22% paved;
--    94,000 km of secondary roads (2% paved); and
--   792,500 km of tertiary and rural roads (gravel
and earth)
Additional penetration and development roads are needed in the far north and
the extreme south. Increasing traffic levels will require a continuing
program of paving. Primary access roads to larger cities need increased
capacity to accommodate present high volumes of traffic. The investment
problem is that of ensuring wise timing of improvements complemented by a
systematic choice of appropriate standards. The Government has acknowledged
the need for careful studies prior to investment decisions. The National
Transport Plan will provide, inter alia, the basis to plan future highway
investments.
B.   Road Transport
3.02      Road tranport has expanded rapidly in the last 15 years, and the
total vehicle fleet has increased by about 8% per year, reaching 3.3 million
vehicles in 1975 (Table 2). This represents a vehicle density of about one
vehicle per eight inhabitants, about the level of motorization of Southern
Europe. The distribution of the vehicle fleet is similar to the distribution
of economic activity: 60% of the fleet is concentrated in the Federal Capital
and Buenos Aires province, and another 25% in the provinces of Santa Fe,
Cordoba, Corrientes and Mendoza. Details of the composition of the vehicle
fleet are given in Table 2 and details of motor fuel consumption in Table 3.
Commercial traffic on different roads ranges from 13% to 65% of total traffic,
with 30-40% being most usual. Truck transport is used for all commodity types
transported in the country, on both long and short hauls. Freight rates are
low because of the generally easy terrain, which permits the use of heavy
truck trailers with a low power-to-weight ratio.
3.03      Highway accidents are a major problem in Argentina.  The design
of many road sections does not reflect modern safety considerations. US
Federal Highway Administration (FHA) advisers, who were attached to Vialidad
between 1970 and 1974, developed a program for the national highway network
that included: (a) a road inventory; (b) a manual of sufficiency rating;
(c) traffic counting and classification; (d) a vehicle weight study; and



- 10 -
(e) a preliminary safety study. This safety study estimated that approxi-
mately 5,000 people are killed and 50,000 are injured annually in traffic
accidents. These figures represent an accident rate of over 20 deaths per
100 million vehicle-miles, a rate over four times higher than that of the
United States. The proposed project makes provision for development of a
Traffic Safety Program (para. 4.11).
C.   Highway Administration
3.04      Planning, construction and maintenance of the national highway
network is the responsibility of Vialidad Nacional, a semi-autonomous organiza-
tion under the supervisory authority of the Under-Secretariat of Public Works
(Chart I). Vialidades Provinciales (provincial highway departments) are
similarly responsible for provincial networks.
3.05      Vialidad's headquarters in Buenos Aires plans, controls the budget
for, and coordinates development of, the national highway network, and
is also responsible for economic and engineering studies. Construction
supervision and road maintenance of the national network are carried out by
Vialidad's 24 district offices, which report to headquarters through four
regional offices. The size of Argentina's highway network and its level of
development call for a policy of decentralizing several highway functions.
Vialidad has delegated maintenance, and in some instances construction, to the
stronger provincial highway departments. Some provincial roads, particularly
those which have a relevance to the national network, are also maintained
and constructed by Vialidad. Vialidad, however, has been extremely cautious
in its decentralization efforts, due to the varying degree of confidence it
has in the capabilities of the individual provinces.
3.06      Vialidad's staff has been at a level of about 16,900 for the past
two years. There are 700 university graduates, 3,300 technicians, 1,250 in
administrative functions, 800 service personnel and 10,800 laborers. The work
force is more or less adequate in number and qualifications. There is some
overstaffing at low or middle echelons at headquarters. Vialidad's effect-
iveness over the next few years will depend on its capacity to attract and
retain a sufficient number of qualified staff for key managerial and advisory
positions. This will require continuity in management and possibly some
adjustment in the salary scale. The newly appointed Director General is
committed to the strengthening of Vialidad management.
3.07      Regulations governing vehicle weights and dimensions are satis-
factory. Axle loads are limited to 10,600 kg for a single axle and 18,000
kg for tandem axles. A good number of weighing units are on hand (26 fixed
and 70 portables), and the vehicle weighing program recommended by FRA
advisors, which will make it possible to control about 80% of the truck
traffic on national roads, is now under way. During negotiations, it was
agreed that this program will be in full operation by June 30, 1978.



- 11. -
D.   Highway Financing
3.08      Highway expenditures, comprising road construction, maintenance and
administration, have been financed from earmarked and general revenue tax
funds and from external sources. Table 4 shows Vialidad's total expenditures
and resources for the national and provincial roads. The level of expendi-
tures has increased steadily in real terms over the last ten years except for
1975 when, in view of its severe financial problems, the Government diverted a
substantial portion of Vialidad's intended allocation to the general budget.
This situation was corrected in June 1976, and Vialidad is now receiving
adequate resources for current maintenance and administration and for comple-
tion of ongoing capital projects.
3.09      The various taxes, levied either directly or indirectly on vehicle
ownership and use, make up a complex system. The taxes applying to ownership
and use of vehicles were raised in the early 1970s and brought to a point
where the level of taxation was considered adequate. The present Government
has declared its intention of making each mode pay for itself and thereby
is removing elements of subsidy, including those on petroleum products. 1/
The National Transport Plan will provide a detailed assessment of the present
situation concerning taxation of road transport.
3.10      The distribution of funds among the 22 provinces for provincial
primary roads is based on population, fuel consumption and matching revenue
collected by the provinces. The formulas are complicated and do not neces-
sarily produce an economically optimum allocation. Consideration of a new
system for allocating highway funds is awaiting better definition of the
provincial primary road system, which will be based on the road inventory now
under way.
E.   Highway Planning
(i) General
3.11      Up to 1968, Vialidad's planning suffered from inadequate data and
absence of a central mechanism for reviewing investment proposals.  Improvement
of highway planning has been one of the objectives of various Bank projects.
The Second Highway Project provided necessary electronic equipment for improving
compilation of road traffic and inventory data. It also provided for the
development of a comprehensive traffic counting system, including 122 permanent
counting stations and 2,000 additional locations at which periodic counts are
made. FHA advisers (para. 3.03) have helped Vialidad in its drive to improve
data collection; the inventory of the national road system has now been com-
pleted. The inventory of the provincial primary system is reaching completion.
1/   Gasoline prices are now about US$0.81 equivalent per US gallon (US$0.21/
liter) for super grade and US$0.71 equivalent per US gallon (US$0.19/
liter) for regular. Diesel fuel is now about US$0.44 per US gallon
(US$0.12/liter). Taxes account for 50% of retail price for gasoline and
40% for diesel.



- 12 -
Next Vialidad intends to undertake, over the period 1977-1980, an inventory
of the provincial secondary system, which will be essential for improving the
funds allocation system and for planning development roads. During negotiations,
the Government agreed that Vialidad will complete: (i) by December 31, 1978,
the inventory of the provincial primary road system; and (ii) by December 31,
1980, the inventory of the provincial secondary road system; both inventories
to be at a level of detail satisfactory to the Bank.
3.12      Over the last ten years, Vialidad has improved procedures for
reviewing investment proposals. Consultants TAMS (US) and Ingeneco-Organtec
(Argentina) carried out a highway reconnaissance survey under the Second
Highway Project. This survey screened the country's national and provincial
primary road networks, identified roads having high priority for improvement
and construction, and provided information on the technical characteristics
and economic justification of all major highway investment projects. This
survey was completed in 1970 and formed the basis for Vialidad's 1971-1975
Five-Year Investment Plan. The survey was updated in 1971 under the Third
Highway Project and has provided the basis for selecting the road sections
included in the Road Betterment Program to be considered under the proposed
Fourth Highway Project, which is the main element of the current investment
plan of Vialidad for 1977-1979.
(ii) Development Roads
3.13      There are many shortcomings in the present method of planning for
development roads: poor coordination among agencies, minimal effort to
adjust investments to real needs, and too little consideration given to agri-
cultural or regional programs. Detailed planning and execution of development
roads should be done at the provincial level. It is clear, however, that
initiation and preparation of development road projects within the framework
of agricultural development programs will require the intervention of Vialidad
and central agencies responsible for regional development. The Government has
stressed its intention to open up areas with undeveloped agricultural potential
and has undertaken consultation with provincial authorities to define the
scope and institutional arrangements for implementation of regional programs,
including construction of roads. The proposed project includes a Regional
Agricultural Development Study (paras. 4.04-4.06).
F.   Highway Engineering
3.14      Over the last ten years, Vialidad has perfected its design practices
by optimization of design standards and introduction of stage construction
principles (Table 5). Vialidad will be faced in the coming year with increas-
ing requirements for rehabilitation and strengthening of aging pavements and
will have to assess pavement conditions and to develop criteria to program
overlays. A study to develop such criteria and to initiate systematic pave-
ment surveys is included in the project (para. 4.10).
3.15      Vialidad formerly used consultants only for projects financed by
external lenders, but it now makes extensive use of local consultants for
detailed engineering and const-ruction supervision for all projects. The
consulting services provided in the Second and Third Bank Highway Projects



- 13 -
were valuable in supervising and coordinating the work of other consultants
and in issuing guidelines and manuals for contract supervision. The pro-
fessional level of many Argentine transportation and engineering consultants
is up to international standards.
G.   Highway Construction
3.16      The quality of construction work in Argentina prior to 1967 was
uneven. Construction periods were often twice as long as initially estimated,
mainly because of lack of funds and deficient contract administration. After
1967, the combination of adequate funding and better management by Vialidad
resulted in a general improvement in contractor performance, more rigorous
enforcement of contract conditions, and modernization of specifications.
3.17      Over the last four years, however, a number of factors have caused
delays and difficulties in the execution of construction contracts: labor
problems, shortage of materials, unusually heavy rains in 1972 and 1973 and
an unresponsive price adjustment formula. The situation has now improved.
Labor problems seem to be settled. Vialidad has revised the price adjustment
formula. The length of construction periods and the level of contingencies
for the project roads reflect recent experience.
3.18      The local construction industry has developed considerably.  More
than 20 local firms -- some of which began as subsidiaries of large inter-
national firms -- can handle road contracts of over US$10 million per year.
The value of construction contracts awarded by Vialidad averaged US$127
million yearly in 1969-1971. Highway construction is carried out under unit
price contracts let after competitive bidding. Prequalification of bidders
on the basis of a permanent registry periodically updated is an established
practice in Argentina. This system will be used for the prequalification
of local firms. In order to provide foreign firms an opportunity to partici-
pate in the bidding, Vialidad will carry out prequalification procedures
for these firms in accordance with Bank Guidelines. The Bank has accepted
this approach. Experience with it under the Second and Third Highway
Projects has been satisfactory.
H.   Highway Maintenance
3.19      The quality of maintenance on the national network, in general, is
satisfactory. Recently, however, retiring personnel have not been replaced as
necessary to maintain adequate capacity. In addition, field units have run
short of equipment for lack of timely replacement and spares. Maintenance
works have fallen somewhat behind requirements. Vialidad has undertaken to
correct the situation. During negotiations, an assurance was obtained
from the Government that it will continue to maintain the national highway
network adequately and will provide sufficient resources for the purpose.
3.20      Maintenance of the provincial roads is not as good as that of the
national roads. In general, maintenance is more satisfactory in the more
developed provinces -- Buenos Aires, Cordoba, Santa Fe, and Mendoza -- than
in the less developed ones. Several agreements have been signed between
Vialidad and the provincial authorities that will help improve their main-
tenance practices.



- 14 -
4.   THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(i)  Road Betterment Program (total length 1,351 km);
(a) Paving and improving of 14 earth or gravel sections
totalling about 925 km,
(b) Repaving and improving of four sections of paved
highways totalling about 390 km, and
(c)  Upgrading of two sections, totalling about 36 km, from
two-lane to four-lane.
(ii) Regional Agricultural Development, Study;
(iii) National Transport Plan;
(iv) Pavement Overlay Study; and
(v)  Traffic Safety Program.
The project is expected to take about three years from mid-1977 to mid-1980.
B.   Road Betterment Program
4.02      The sections proposed for improvement are listed with their essen-
tial characteristics in Table 6 and are shown on Map IBRD 12627R. A more
detailed description of the roads, and of the proposed works, is given in
Annex 3. Specific road sections were identified on the basis of a reconnais-
sance survey carried out under the Second Highway Project and subsequently
updated under the Third. The road sections included are located in regions
which export, and are expected to continue to export, a significant portion
of their production. Importance for transport of export was a decisive factor
in selecting the sections retained under the project. The specific role of
each section in this respect is underlined in Annex 3. The project roads are
presently in poor physical condition, mainly because they have been supporting
an average daily traffic substantially heavier than the traffic for which they
were originally designed. Some sections are obsolete for their present level
of traffic and have to be improved in order to become amenable to current
maintenance. Other sections suffer from congestion and need expanded capacity.
The proposed investments include the upgrading and paving of heavily trafficked
earth and gravel roads, repaving and widening of existing paved roads and re-
construction, including realignment, of certain road sections to higher stand-
ards. In addition to reducing transport costs, these improvements will contri-
bute to (i) develop areas which have not yet reached their full agricultural
potential; (ii) alleviate congestion on the arterial links leading to main



- 15 -
export centers; and (iii) facilitate integration and trade with neighboring
countries. The roads are located in 14 provinces. The proposed project
concentrates on existing roads, and no adverse effects on the environment
are expected.
4.03      The road sections in the Road Betterment Program are under the
authority of Vialidad, which would be the executing agency for the program.
Bidding documents have been prepared by Vialidad through its consultants
(Ingeneco-Organtec). Vialidad intends to initiate calls for tenders during
the second quarter of 1977. It is expected that these works could begin in
the third quarter of 1977 and that they would take about three years to com-
plete. During negotiations, the standards to which the roads will be con-
structed were confirmed (Table 5) and the timetable for tendering was dis-
cussed and agreed. The Government also confirmed that consultants retained
for the supervision of civil works, as well as their terms and conditions of
employment, will be acceptable to the Bank.
C.   Regional Agricultural Development Study
4.04      The Regional Agricultural Development Study (Annex 4) will assist
the Government in preparing agricultural development programs in regions with
development potential where land is presently underutilized and where the lack
of secondary and feeder roads is a major constraint for development. Argentina
is one of the few countries in the world that still has abundant unutilized
lands available that could be brought into agricultural production if adequate
road transport and complementary investments were provided. However, past
policies in Argentina have provided little inducement for development of this
exploitable land. The present Government's policy is to stimulate increases
in agricultural production, but, because of the lack of emphasis in land
development in prior administrations, there is little specific information
regarding the exact potential of these unexploited lands. The proposed study
will include identification of the most suitable area in Northern Argentina
for intensified agricultural development, including the settlement of farmers
to develop crop and/or livestock production; and the preparation of a feasi-
bility study for an agricultural development project in the selected area,
including recommendations for construction of secondary and feeder roads.
4.05      The Ministry of Economy (Chart II), with the coordination and super-
vision of the State Secretariat of Economic Programming and Coordination, will
be responsible at the central level for undertaking this project component and
ensuring adequate coordination with other agencies at the provincial and
central levels. Preliminary estimates show that the proposed study will take
approximately 12 months and will require about 175 man-months.
4.06      During negotiations, the Government agreed that, within six months
after the date of the Loan Agreement, it will employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment will be
acceptable to the Bank to assist in carrying out the study.



- 16 -
D.   National Transport Plan
4.07      The National Transport Plan will provide the basis for future plan-
sing 2rd coordination in the sector and will be carried out with the partici-
pation of relevant Government agencies and public enterprises. The National
Directorate of Sectorial Planning under the Under-Secretariat of Transport within
the Ministry of Economy will be responsible for the management and coordination
of studies and investigations to be carried out for the proposed National
Transport Plan; it will require about 2,100 man-months with substantial partici-
pation of Argentinian firms (Annex 5).
4.08      The preparation of the National Transport Plan will include:
(a)  a short-term program (1978-1979) that will identify and
diagnose the critical problems of the sector; propose a
mechanism for coordinating management, operational and
investment decisions; and provide a coordinated 1978-1979
investment plan for the sector. Such investments are
expected to consist principally of improvements and
rehabilitation of the most urgently needed transport
facilities; and
(b)  a detailed five-year action program (1980-1984) which will include
(i) a proposed national strategy and set of policies for the devel-
opment, management and operation of the transport system; (ii) a
program of action for each transport mode that will include,
inter alia , required changes in transport pricing based on
user's cost, required regulations for each subsector and
required improvements in operations; (iii) a proposed system
for the future planning and coordination of transport operations
and investments; (iv) a determination of the future role of
each transport mode on the basis of an analysis and forecast of
future transport demand in relation to the expected development
of the economy, and, in particular, development of a phased program
for the closure of uneconomic railway lines when desirable; and
(v) a five-year investment plan (1980-1984), which will include
new construction and expansion of capacity, and an indicative
ten-year investment plan. In the preparation of these invest-
ment plans, particular attention will be given to the investments
needed to open up new areas to agricultural production, support
the expansion of exports, and achieve greater regional integration
with neighboring countries.
4.09      During negotiations, the Government agreed:  (a) to carry out the
National Transport Plan with the participation of the various concerned agencies
and public enterprises and in accordance with a schedule of implementation
(Chart III) and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (b) to furnish
to the Bank by January 31, 1978 the short-term program referred to above, for
an exchange of views thereon; and (c) to exchange views from time to time with
the Bank on the program of action for the execution of the recommendations of
the National Transport Plan. The Government also agreed that no disbursement
will be made for this project component unless measures satisfactory to the



- 17 -
Bank will have been taken to ensure the continuing participation of the
various concerned Government agencies and public enterprises in carrying
out the National Transport Plan. The scope of these measures was reviewed
and agreed during negotiations. They will be incorporated into a Decree which
is now being approved and will expectedly be enacted by April 1977.
E.   Pavement Overlay Study
4.10      The proposed project includes a pavement deflection study of
selected highways (para. 3.14). The study will review the methodologies
currently used for the technical and economic evaluation of overlay designs
and the current practices for cost estimation and bid document preparation.
Recommendations will also be made on the organization, staffing, and equipment
necessary to ensure a continuing program of investigation of the asphaltic
paved network. The proposed study will take approximately 18 months and will
require about 82 man-months. Annex 6 provides an outline of the scope of work,
the consulting services and the equipment requirements. During negotiations, the
Government confirmed that, within six months after the date of the Loan
Agreement, Vialidad will employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment will be acceptable to the Bank to
assist in carrying out the study.
F.   Traffic Safety Program
4.11      The lack of traffic safety is a major problem in Argentina (para.
3.03); however, data on which to base effective programs are scarce. The
proposed project envisages the preparation of an action program aiming at:
(a) adapting available literature and manuals on the subject to
Argentinian conditions;
(b) recommending programs for improvement of signs and markings,
road design and construction and maintenance practices;
(c) educating the public;
(d) establishing vehicle safety standards;
(e) providing training and licensing for drivers;
(f) strengthening police enforcement;
(g) effecting improvement of dangerous sections on the most
heavily trafficked roads; and
(h) establishing a procedure for collecting and analyzing motor
vehicle accident statistics.
Apart from the inclusion of highway safety engineers in the preparation of the
action program, it is envisaged that sociologists and psychologists might
participate to investigate driver behavior, and that institutions such as the
active Automobile Club of Argentina might be represented. Necessary consulting



- 18 -
services (about 84 man-months) will be provided under the project. The scope
of work and the technical assistance requirements are outlined in Annex 7.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that, within six months after
the date of the Loan Agreement, Vialidad will employ consultants whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment will be accept-
able to the Bank to assist in formulating and initiating a Highway Safety
Program.
G.   Cost Estimates
4.12      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$345.1 million,
including contingencies for quantity increase and provision for expected
price increases. Details of construction costs for individual road sections
are given in Table 6. A summary of the project cost appears on the following
page. In view of the high rate of inflation of the national currency and the
frequent changes in the rate of exchange, cost estimates were prepared only in
US$ at the exchange rate prevailing in October 1976 ($a 248.00 = US$1.00).
4.13      The estimates of construction costs for the Road Betterment Program
are based on quantities derived from completed detailed engineering. Base
costs represent the best estimate up to March 1977. They take into account
the application of a revised and more responsive price adjustment formula
(para. 3.17). During negotiations, the Government agreed that a responsive
price adjustment formula, already being satisfactorily applied, will be used
for the proposed project works. The project includes 4,100 man-months of
consulting services for the supervision of the Road Betterment Program.
4.14      The estimate of the foreign exchange component of civil works is
35%, assuming that these would be carried out by local contractors. Under
the second and third projects, the Bank financed 50% and 45% of the total
costs, assuming higher foreign participation than did, in fact, materialize.
The costs of consulting services are based on recent contracts with Argentine
firms and their subcontracts with foreign firms. It is estimated that the
average foreign exchange component of consulting services for supervision,
studies and technical assistance elements would be about 45%. Under the pre-
vious projects, the Bank financed 60% and 45% of the cost of consulting
services.
H.   Disbursements
4.15      The foreign exchange component of the project is estimated at
US$124.0 million equivalent, of which US$105.0 million equivalent would be
financed by the proposed loan. All local costs and other foreign exchange
costs would be met by the Government.
4.16      The Bank would disburse at the rate of 30% for road construction
works and supervision and 45% for consulting services for studies and tech-
nical assistance. The Bank would finance the c.i.f. cost of equipment imported
for pavement testing. Construction of the road sections is expected to com-
mence during the last quarter of 1977. All project components are expected
to be completed by the end of 1980. On this basis, the loan would be dis-
bursed as set forth in Table 7.



- lq -
Project Cost Estimates /1 and Financing
Estimated
Local    Foreign              Bank Participation
Currencv  Currency   Total       Amount     %
1. Road Betterment Program
a.  Civil Works                            161.2       86.9      248.1     74.4        30
b.  Supervision (5% of Civil Works)           7.4       5.0       12.4       3.7       30
Sub-Total                              168.6       91.9     260.5       78.1
2 . Regional Agricultural Development Study
Consulting Services                          0.4        0.3        0.7       0.3       45
3.  National Transport Plan
Consulting Services                          2.4        3.6        6.0       2.7       45
4. Pavement Overlay Study
a. Consulting Services                       0.1        0.2        0.3       0.15      45
b. Equipment                                  --        0.3        0.3       0.30    100
Sub-Total                                 0.1        0.5       0.6        0.45
5. Traffic Safety Program
Consulting Services                          0.1        0.2       0.3        0.15      45
Base Cost                              171.6       96.5     268.1       81.7
6. Contingencies
a. Physical (Civil Works and Super-
vision) (10%)                           16.9        9.2      26.1        7.8
b.  Price (19% of Base Cdst)/2              32.6       18.3      50.9       15.5
Sub-Total                               49.5      27.5       77.0       23.3
TOTAL                                  221.1     124.0      345.1      105.0      29
/1 Cost Estimates Adjusted from October 1976 to March 1977.
/2  Price Contingency Based on Following Estimated Price Increases (per year):  1977-1979,
9%; 1980-1985, 8%.



- 20 -
I.   Execution and Procurement
4.17      Responsibility for the various project components is indicated
in paragraphs 4.03, 4.05, 4.07, 4.10, and 4.11. The implementation schedule
is shown in Chart III. Construction contracts will be let on the basis of
unit prices after international competitive bidding in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines. The estimated value of individual contracts will range
from US$2.0 to US$8.0 million, so that small and middle size local contractors
will have an opportunity to bid. However, to attract the larger contractors,
individual contracts will be grouped, where feasible, into "packages" of
two or three lots. Works in each package will be bid simultaneously, and
bids will be allowed for any or all lots and packages. During negotiations,
details of the packages were agreed upon. The civil works components of
the project will have a substantial employment impact, providing jobs for
about 4,000 laborers and technicians over a period of three years. Equip-
ment for the Pavement Overlay Study (US$300,000) will be procured under
negotiated contracts.
5.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      This economic evaluation concentrates on the Road Betterment
Program civil works component of the project (which, including supervision,
represents about 97% of the estimated project base cost). Quantifiable
benefits are discussed in detail, and an indication is provided of non-
quantifiable benefits which will result from the investment. A qualita-
tive assessment is made of studies and technical assistance components.
B.   Road Betterment Program
(i) General
5.02      The selection of the roads for the Road Betterment Program is based
on the highway reconnaissance study referred to in paragraph 3.12 and updated
by consultants Ingeneco-Organtec (Argentina) in 1976. The road sections re-
tained under the Road Betterment Program were selected in view of their specific
relevance to the upkeep and expansion of agricultural exports. They fulfill
one or more of the following functions: (a) linking export outlets with regions
which at present produce substantial exportable surplus; (b) improving access
to regions in which production potential has been constrained by poor transport
infrastructure; and (c) linking productive regions with centers selected by
the Government for the establishment of grain storage facilities. All road
sections were evaluated following the same methodology and using the Road
Analysis Model (RAM) developed in the Bank. The evaluation considered the
economic costs of civil works, including supervision and physical contingencies;
maintenance costs, vehicle operating costs, and time costs in the "without" and
"with project" alternatives, as well as the effects of congestion. The high
overall rate of return of the Road Betterment Program presented here (para. 5.09)
reflects the selection of road works most urgently needed.



- 21 -
(ii) Road Works
5.03      The proposed investments include the upgrading and paving of earth
and gravel roads, repaving and widening of existing paved roads, and realign-
ments of segments at higher standards, with distance savings (Table 6). In
addition to reducing transport costs, several of the improvements will contri-
bute to:
(a) Developing areas which have not yet reached their full
potential for agricultural production (Santiago del Estero,
Misiones, San Juan, San Luis and Formosa);
(b) Alleviating congestion on the arterial links leading to the
main export centers; and
(c) Facilitating integration and trade with neighboring
countries through improved road transport in the
case of sections in Misiones (with Brazil and
Paraguay) and Formosa (with Chile and Paraguay).
The details of the economic evaluation are given in Table 8.
(iii) Traffic
5.04      Traffic volumes on the proposed road sections were estimated in
surveys conducted by Vialidad and consultants Ingeneco-Organtec, and, in all
cases, were updated with traffic counts made during 1976, which is the base
year. Traffic volumes range from 209 ADT (average daily traffic) in the case
of Vera-Tostado (Section 13) in the Santa Fe province to 7,830 ADT for
Circunvalacion de San Juan (Section 10) in the San Juan province. Projections
have been made for the 20-year economic life of the various subprojects from
1980 to 1999. Normal growth rate projections determined on the basis of past
trends and economic feasibility studies are shown in Table 8. They range from
3.5% per annum to 9.0%. The estimated growth rates seem reasonable and are in
line with the Bank's projection of GDP growth, which is expected to average
about 5% p.a. The proportion of trucks and buses on the various sections
ranges from 7% to 64% of total ADT (Table 8).
5.05      The road works in the Road Betterment Program will "generate" traffic
by reducing passenger and freight costs. The operating cost elasticities for
road transport are moderate, ranging from 0.19 to 0.36 with one exception, San
Luis-Candelaria, which is 0.49. The estimates for generated traffic range from
3.8% to 22.9% of opening year traffic. Traffic diverted from rail is not
significant since there is little or no competition among the modes in the
zones of influence of the project roads.
(iv) Benefits
5.06      The benefits computed are the following:
(a) savings in vehicle operating costs;



- 22 -
(b) savings in time; and
(c) savings in road maintenance costs.
Benefits not quantified in the evaluation are reduced accident costs, reduced
breakage and spoilage of cargo, reduced inventory costs for goods in transit,
and savings from elimination of road closures due to bad weather. The eval-
uation performed is therefore conservative.
5.07      Time costs for drivers of trucks and buses were based on their
actual wages. Time costs for drivers and passengers of automobiles driving
for work purposes were based on the average per capita income of the labor
force (persons betweeen the ages of 14 and 65), which is much lower than the
income of car owners and users, and approaches the recommendations on the
valuation of time given by the Bank Staff Working Paper #199, "A Survey
of the Theories and Empirical Investigations of the Value of Travel Time
Savings." Time values for bus passengers travelling for work purposes were
based on the workers' average income. Developmental effects of the proposed
road sections are implicit in the determination of generated traffic and
its benefits as a consumer surplus in relation to vehicle operating costs and
time costs. The average incidence of time savings on total benefits is less
than 10%, well within the boundaries of the risk analysis (para. 5.11).
(v) Economic Returns
5.08      The economic evaluation considered the economic cost of initial
construction and periodic resurfacing required durin1g the 20-year economic
life. Construction of the road sections was projected to commence in 1977.
(a) Total Road Betterment Program
5.09      The economic rate of return (ER) was computed on the costs and
quantified benefits described above, over the project life period 1977-1999
covering construction period plus economic life. The program has a weighted
ER of 23% and a first year benefit (FYB) of 22%.  The program is clearly well
justified.
(b) Individual Road Sections
5.10      The details of the evaluation of the proposed 20 road sections
are given in Annex 3 and Table 8; rates of return range from near 16% to 53%
and FYB between 12% and 67%. Sensitivity tests applied to the economic evalua-
tion consider a 15% increase in costs and a 25% decrease in benefits. The ER
ranges between 14% and 48% for the cost increase hypothesis and between 12%
and 44% for the benefit decrease hypothesis, indicating that the feasibility
of the total program would remain within acceptable limits.
(c) Risk Analysis
5.11      A risk analysis was performed for all road sections.  The likely
variability in project parameters was represented by normal distributions for



- 23 -
all cost and benefit streams. The analysis shows the virtual assurance of
having a rate of return exceeding 10% (the estimated opportunity cost of
capital for Argentina) for all sections; furthermore, the same can be said for
a rate of return of 15% for all but three sections (Annex 8).
C.   Regional Agricultural Development Study
5.12      Argentina still has unutilized lands that could be brought into
agricultural production. One of the present Government's objectives is to
increase agricultural production, particularly exports. The proposed study
will identify the most suitable area in Northern Argentina for intensified
agricultural development. It will lead to the adoption of improved regional
development policies and to the preparation of specific programs to increase
agricultural development.
D.   National Transport Plan
5.13      In addition to the anticipated upgrading and expansion of transport
infrastructure, the Government plans, over the next several years, to close
uneconomic rail lines (para. 2.06). These investments and disinvestments
will cost several hundreds of millions of dollars equivalent and will have
substantial effects on both the productive sectors (construction and agricul-
ture, in particular) and on employment. The proposed National Transport Plan
(paras. 4.07 and 4.09) is expected to consider these impacts and to present a
rational investment plan based on economic criteria. It will therefore be
the source of substantial economic benefits.
E.   Pavement Overlay Study
5.14      A large part of the Argentine road network is in danger of
deteriorating rapidly because of pavement fatigue. The pavement overlay
study (para. 4.10) will help to identify sections for which overlay is
economically justified and will provide a basis for developing overlay
programs as necessary to prevent the need for more costly reconstruction.
F.   Traffic Safety Program
5.15      Highway accidents are a major problem in Argentina.  A preliminary
traffic safety study prepared by an FHA team indicated an accident rate four
times higher than that of the IJnited States and an annual loss through high-
way accidents of about US$750 million (para. 3.03). The proposed nationwide
traffic safety program (para. 4.11) is expected to reduce the accident rates
substantially and, thereby, to yield important economic and social benefits
to road users.



- 24 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached and assurances were
obtained from the Government on the following:
(a) the agreed vehicle weighing program to be in full operation by
June 30, 1978 (para. 3.07);
(b) Vialidad to complete: (i) by December 31, 1978, the inventory
of the provincial primary road system; and (ii) by December 31,
1980, the inventory of the provincial secondary road system;
both inventories to be at a level of detail satisfactory to the
Bank (para. 3.11);
(c)  the Government to continue to maintain the national highway
network adequately and to provide sufficient resources for the
purpose (para. 3.19);
(d) standards for roads included in the Road Betterment Program and
timetable for tendering (para. 4.03);
(e) consultants for supervision of civil works, as well as their
terms and conditions of employment, to be acceptable to the
Bank (para. 4.03);
(f) the Government, within six months after the date of the Loan
Agreement, to employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience, and terms and conditions of employment will be
acceptable to the Bank to assist in carrying out the
Regional Agricultural Development Study (para. 4.06);
(g) the Government to: (i) carry out the National Transport Plan
with the participation of the various concerned agencies and
public enterprises and in accordance with a schedule of pro-
gress and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank;
(ii) furnish to the Bank, by January 31, 1978, the short-term
program for an exchange of views thereon; and (iii) exchange
views from time to time with the Bank on the program of action
for the execution of the recommendations of the National
Transport Plan (para. 4.09);
(h) scope of measures to ensure continued participation in carrying
out the National Transport Plan (para. 4.09);
(i) Vialidad, within six months after the date of the Loan Agree-
ment, to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience,
terms and conditions of employment will be acceptable to the
Bank to be employed to assist in carrying out the Pavement
Overlay Study (para. 4.10);



- 25 -
(j)  Vialidad, within six months after the date of the Loan Agree-
ment, to employ consultants whose qualifications, experience,
and terms and conditions of employment will be acceptable to
the Bank to assist in the Highway Safety Program (para. 4.11);
(k)  a responsive price adjustment formula, already being satis-
factorily applied, to be used for the proposed project works
(para. 4.13); and
(1)  details of the packages for construction works (para. 4.17).
6.02      The following is a condition of disbursement for the National
Transport Plan: measures satisfactory to the Bank to be taken to ensure
the continuing participation of the various concerned Government agencies
and public enterprises in carrying out the National Transport Plan
(para. 4.09).
6.03      Subject to the above, the project constitutes a suitable basis
for a Bank loan of US$105.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Argentina;
the term would be 15 years, including a three-year grace period.
March 3, 1977






TABLE 1
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Composition of Highway Network
(kmY
A. National Network
Portland Cement    Bituminous    Gravel or
or Asphalt         Surface      Stabilized                  Earth
Year         Concrete         Treatment        Base         Earth       Tracks       Totals
1962          5,025             7,068          8,137       20,176       5,999         46,405
1963          5,444             7,529          8,423       19,004       5,648         46,048
1964          5,782             8,020          8,692       17,851       5,298         45,643
1965          6,144             8,570          8,772       17,277       5,105         45,868
1966          6,592             8,975          8,735       16,966       5,014         46,182
1967          6,622            10,214          8,613       15,804       4,881         46,134
1968          6,693            11,009          8,410       15,390       4,589         46,091
1969          6,693            11,545          8,265       15,587       4,437         46,527
1970          7,315            11,962          7,748       14,358       4,332         45,715
1971          7,550            12,390          7,702       13,866       4,207         45,715
1972          8,295            13,274          7,220       13,146       4,133         46,048
1973          8,514            14,160          7,011       12,558       3,861         46,104
1974          8,941            14,643          7,305       12,247       3,874         47,010
1975          9,559            14,510          7,521       12,102       3,771         47,463
B. Provincial Network
Gravel or                  Earth
Paved       Stabilized      Earth       Tracks       Totals
1972          Primary          13,687         21.081       24,202       4,845         63,815
Secondary         1,489         35,114       45,875       4,804         87,282
Tertiary            787          1,174       13,261    700,000 -1    715,222
1973          Primary          14,040         21,522       25,100       4,960         65,622
Secondary         1,560         36,200       47,010       4,900         89,670
Tertiary            802          1,225       13,700    725,102 -       740,889
1974          Primary          14,520         22,105       25,600       5,025         67,250
Secondary         1,625         37,150       48,300       5,100 /1      92,175
Tertiary            850          1,275       14,150    750,560 -       766,835
1975         Primary           15,020         22,600       26,100       5,100         68,820
Secondary         1,710         38,200       48,900       5,200 /1      94,010
Tertiary            900          1,310       14,750    775,550 -       792,510
/1   Estimate-s
Source: Vialidad, July 1976
October 1976



TABLE 2
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Registration
(in thousands)
Private
Year           Vehicles       Buses       Trucks       Trailers       Total
1961               535          14          424           42          1,015
1962               624          16          470           46          1,156
1963               697          17          502           49          1,265
1964               806          19          553           53          1,431
1965               914          20          554           56          1,544
(%)             (56%)       ( 1%)       (4Qo)         ( 3%)         (100%)
1966             1,031          22          599           62          1,714
1967             1,139          22          639           67          1,867
1968             1,241          23          645           70          1,979
1969             1,351          23          682           75          2,131
1970             1,449          25          711           80          2,265
(%)             (62%)       ( 1%)        (33%)        ( 4%)         (100%)
1971             1,680          29          803           83          2,595
1972             1,853          31          855           87          2,826
1973             2,012          32          890           86          3,020
1974             2,160          34          932           86          3,212
1975             2,228          34          941           86          3.289
(%)             (66%)       ( 1%)        (30%)        ( 3%)         (100%)
AVERAGE ANNUAL GROWTH RATES (%)
1960-70           11.7         7.2          6.5          6.9            8.5
1960-65           14.3         9.4          7.0          7.5            8.6
1965-70           10.3         4.8          4.3          7.1            8.0
1970-75            9.5         7.0          6.2          1.6            7.5
Source: Vialidad, July 1976-
December 1976



TABLE 3
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Motor Fuel Consumption
(in thousand cubic meters)
Year           Gasoline         Diesel Fuel
1961              3,119             1,550
1962              3,437             1,920
1963              3,337              2,073
1964              3,727             2,510
1965              4,124              2,751
1966              4,362             2,851
1967              4,739             3,145
1968              4,802             3,468
1969              5,050             3,812
1970              5,288             4,077
1971              5,646             4,365
1972              6,005             4,367
1973              6,348             4,564
1974              6,143             4,854
1975              5,090             5,250
AVERAGE ANNUAL GROWTH RATES (7%)
Gasoline         Diesel Fuel
1961-71             6                  11
1961-66             7                  13
1966-71             5                   9
1971-75            -2                   5
Note:  Diesel fuel is total sales of diesel fuel for all
purposes; road transport use is estimated to he 60%
of total consumption.
Soutce: Vialidad and Direccion Nacional de Energia and
Combustibles, July 1976
October 1976



TABLE 4
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Highway Expenditures
(millions of $a of 1970)/
Year    Construction    Maintenance    Administration    Total
1970          816              98                142          1,056
1971          910             110                174          1,194
1972          974             116                146          1,236
1973          840             157                171          1,168
1974          528             209                426          1,163
1975          349             121                223            693
NATIONAL HIGHWAY RESOURCES
(millions of $a of 1970)
Road Use 2    National                                  /3
Year        Charges-       Budget      Loans      Other       Total-
1970          865             35         46        124        1,070
1971          936             35        163        109        1,243
1972          952              7         82         29       1,070
1973          973              -        217          7       1,197
1974       1,115              64        137         57       1,373
1975          468             53         42          2         565
/1 Current exchange value in 1976 $a248.0 = US$1.0
/2 Part of user taxes allocated directly to Vialidad Nacional
/3 End-of-year balances are carried over into the next year
(this is the reason why the expenditures for one year do
not equal resources).
Source: Vialidad National, July 1976
December 1976



TABLE 5
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Geometric Design Standards for National Roads/i
--.--- Class of Highway--
I               II               III               IV
Design           5,000-           1,500-             500-              150-
ADT            15,000          5,000              1,500              500
Design Speed             Flat                130            120                 110              100
km/h                 Rolling             110             100                 90                70
Mountainous         80              70                  60               iO
Minimum Horizontal       Flat                700            600                 500              400
Radius, m            Rolling             500             400                300               160
Mountainous        220             160                120                50
Maximum Grade, %         Flat                  3              3                   5                6
Rolling               5              5                   6                7
Mountainous           6              7                   7                8
Sight Distance for       Flat               260             220                185               160
Stopping             Rolling             185            160                 135                90
Mountainous        110              90                  75               45
Sight Distance for       Flat               860             800                740               680
Passing, m           Rolling             740            680                 610               470
Mountainous        540             470                400               260
Pavement Width, m        Flat               7.50           7.30                7.30             6.70
Rolling           7.50            7.30               6.70              6.70
Mountainous       7.00            6.70               6.70              6.00
Shoulder Width, m        Flat              3.00            3.00               3.00              3.30
Rolling           3.00            3.00               3.30              3.30
Mountainous       3.00            2.00               1.50              1.25
Width of Bridges, m    Flat                                8.30               8.30              8.30
/2                   Rolling                           8.30                8.30             8.30
Mountainous                       8.30               8.30              7.00
/1 These standards were adopted in 1967. Bridges are designed for the German standards
"DIN-1075" as modified and set forth in the Vialidad standard design manual (in use
1970) entitled "Bases para el Calculo de Puentes de Hormigon Armado Pavement Armado."
Pavement design is based on a 12,000 lb. wheel load equivalent.
/2 For structures 10 m long or less, total width generally equals pavement width
plus shoulders.
Source: Vialidad, 1976
December 1976



ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Basic Data Concerning Proposed Road Programs
Road Betterment Program
Route                                                                                     Existing Road                Proposed Highway       Design        Construction        Construction
No.    No.      Provinces                    From  -  To                                     Surface    Terrain        Length  Distance  Surface  Speed               Cost               Cost/km
(km)   Saved(km)  Type    Km/h         (million US$ equiv.)(thousand US$)
1      157    Santiago del Estero           Lavalle-Limite con Tucuman                      Earth       Flat             32       6       A.C.      120             4,471,816           139,744
2      191    Buenos Aires                  Salto - Chacabuco                               Earth       Flat             41       9       A.C.      120             5,454,632           157,430
3       38    La Rioja                      La Rioja - Bazan                                Earth       Flat             35               D.S.T.                    5,276,680           150,762
4      205    Buenos Aires                  Saladillo - Bolivar                             Earth       Flat            130      23       A.C.      120            21,757,528           167,366
5       81    Pormosa                       Interseccion R.N.95-Estanislao del Campo   Earth            Flat             43               A.C.      120             7,829,608           182,084
6     S/No    Cordoba                       Empalme R.N.20-Empalme R.P.55                   DST         Rolling           4       4       A.C.      100             4,607,008         1,151,750
7       14    Misiones                      Campo Grande - Dos de Mayo                      Earth       Rolling          35       8       A.C.      100            10,045,080           287,002
8      146    San Luis                      San Luis - Candelaria                           Gravel      Rolling         160      25       A.C.       90            22,067,736           137,923
9      226    Buenos Aires                  Carlos Tejedor - General Villegas               Earth       Flat             66      12       A.C.      100             9,119,696           138,177
10       90    Formosa                       Villa km 213 - Riacho El Salado                 Earth       Flat             32       6       A.C.      100             4,989,528           155,923
11     S/No    San Juan                      Circunvalacion S.Juan y Accesos (F.L.D.H.) DST              Flat             21       6       A.C.      130            24,308,360         1,157,541
12      147    Mendoza, San Juan, and    LaValle - Lujan                                     DST         Rolling         230      40       DST       110            24,313,600           105,711
San Luis
13       14    Misiones                      Leandro N. Alem - Obera                         Earth       Rolling          28               A.C.      100             5,980,936           213,605
14         7    Neuquen                      Empalme R.N.237 - Lago Espejo                   Earth       Mountainous    72                 A.C.                     19,937,152           276,905
15     S/No    Santa Fe                      Vera - Tostado                                  Earth       Flat            123      26       FST.      120            18,677,456            151,849
16     P30      Salta                        Coronel Olleros - Luis Burela                   DST         Flat             94       6       DST       120            14,135,424           150,377
P S
17     S/No    Tucuman                       Empalme R.N.301-Empalme R.N.9(F.L.D.H.)    DST              Flat             15       7       A.C.      130            13,519,200           901,280
18      16      Salta                        El Tunal - Empalme R.N.34                       Gravel      Rolling          65       4       A.C.      110             8,727,744            134,273
19       9      Cordoba                      Cordoba - Empalme R.N. 60                       DST         Flat             62       7       A.C.      120            14,351,312            231,473
20     129      Corrientes                   Paso de Los Libres - Yapeyu                     Gravel      Flat             63       6       A.C.      120             7,516,736            119,472
Sub-Total                                                                1,351                                       248,097,232            183,640
SST = Single Surface Asphalt Treatment                        1/  Civil works not including contingencies and supervision updated to March 1977                                                      >
DST = Double Surface Asphalt Treatment                        Source:   IRD 
TST = Triple Surface Asphalt Treatment                        February  1977 
A.C. = Asphaltic Concrete
F.L.D.H. = Four-Lane Divided Highway



Table 7
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ m)
Disbursed  Cumulative Disbursment
IBRD Fiscal Year                 in Quarter    at end of Quarter    (M)
1978
December 31, 1977                   21.0              21.0             20.0
March 31, 1978                       2.1              23.1             22.0
June 30, 1978                        1.3              24.4             23.3
1979
September 30, 1978                   3.3             27.7              26.4
December 31, 1978                    5.7              33.4             31.8
March 31, 1979                       9.8              43.2             41.2
June 30, 1979                       12.3             55.5              52.9
1980
September 30, 1979                  12.5             68.0              64.8
December 31, 1979                   11.7              79.7             75.9
March 31, 1980                      12.3              92.0             87.6
June 30, 1980                        9.2            101.2              96.4
1981
September 30, 1980                   3.2            104.4              99.4
December 31, 1980                    0.6             105.0            100.0
Source: Mission estimates
February 1977



ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Road Betterment Program
Route                                                                                                                              T r a f f i c                           Best              Sensitive Test
No.      No.            Province                      From   - To                                     Length         Normal o6 of                  Annual       Generated       Estimate           Cost           Savings
(kin)         (1976)!'        Heavy    Growth of         as 1% of     FYB        ER     Increased       Decreased
Traffic  Normal Traff.   Total            .         7.    by 15.;ER(X)  by 25%(ER4)
( .)  ?/    Traffic-/
1        157          Santiago del Estero            Lavalle  - Limite con Tucuman                     32             652             55          4.8            14.0        67.1       53.1      48.3             43.8
2        191           Buenos Aires                  Salto - Chacabuco                                 41             558             51           6.0           15.8        54.6      46.5       42.4             38.3
3         38           La Rioja                      La Rioja - Bazan                                  35              591            31          6. 9           12.0        36.6       34.7      31.4             34.6
4        205           Buenos Aires                  Saladillo - Bolivar                              L30              411            40           5.4           14.2        30.9       31.0      28.0             25.1
5         81          Foreosa                        Interseccion R.N.95-Estanislao del Campo   43                    392             45           4.8           11.1        25.5       29.0      26.1             23.2
6      S/No           Cordoba                        Empalme R.N.20-Empalme R.P.55                      4           2,429             14           3.0           21.1        27.3       27.1      24.1             21.4
7         14          Misiones                       Campo Grande - Dos de Mayo                        35             439             29           6.2           14.2        23.3       26.8      23.9             21.3
8        146           San Luis                      San Luis - Candelaria                            160              369            44           6.8           22.9        25.2       26.4      23.9             21.2
9        226           Buenos Aires                  Carlos Tejedor - General Villegas                 66              323            24           4.9           12.7        22.1       25.5      22.6             19.8
10         90           Formosa                       Villa km 213 - Riacho El Salado                   32              218            44           6.1           14.6        20.7       24.5       21.8            19.3
11       S/No           San Juan                      Circunvalacion San Juan y Accesos                 21            7,830            21           6.2            6.4        19.4       23.7      21.6             19.4
12        147           Mendoze,San Juan, and         Lavalle - Lujan                                  230              444            64           5.9           11.7        21.3       23.5       21.0            18.5
San Luis
13         14           Misiones                      Leandro N. Alem - Obers                           28              439            29           6.2            9.9        19.3       22.9       20.5            18.1
14          7           Neuquen                       Empalme R.N. 237 - Lago Espejo                     72             336            49           6.8           12.6        22.3       22.6       20.4            22.5
15       S/No           Santa Fe                      Vera - Tostado                                   123              209            41           8.1           17.3        19.1       22.2       19.9            17.6
16       P.30
P.5            Salta                         Coronel Olleros - Luis Burela                     94              393            48           7.3           10.4        18.8       21.9       19.5            17.1
17       S/No.          Tucuman                       Empalme R.N. 301 - Empalme R.N.9                   15           6,158             7           4.7             3.8       20.8       21.5       19.4            17.3
18         16           Salta                         El Tunal - Empalme R.N. 34                        65              397            38           6.5             9.2       16.1       1923       16.8            14.4
19          9           Cordoba                       Cordoba - Empalme R.N.60                           62           3,924            32           3.5             2.7        19.2      18.2       16.2             13.7
20        129           Corrientes                    Paso de Los Libres - Yapayu                        63             300            25           9.0             8.4       12.2       15.6       13.8             11.9
I/  Average daily traffic in vehicles.                                           Source: IBRD
February 1977
2/  Annual growth at the completion of the road betterment program               F
averaged over all vehicle types.
3/ Generated traffic as of end of construction (1980)



ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Organization of the National  hiihway Authorijty (Vialidad Niacional)
DIRECTOR GENERAL
SU$ -ADMfNIS Ft^ tO A
A D AqD M SflA m tM .MIN                              !EN A N   C E        CO N ST h CII l O N   E N& M M IN O      PA kNIN Ca
0             Z-~~~~~~~
0~~~~~
0          24 DISTRICT OFFICES
.   __.     _..   .    .   .     S
Source: Vialidad Nacional
December 1976



_!RALII I1 A
FtOUkTR iLGR.Ay IfOJECT
AND          aiO o  te   iisr  of EORnomy.G                                                             -jT
_                                                            I                                             I~~~~~~~~DxI          I                      II 
ECU:GMIUN            BUDGET                                   AGRICULTURE                                                                              A:TPBICWRK  ] Ij                                AICM
PRJAjt44  Ge    r  F  ROl  OEULOPST &All                              CO4ERCEANDCOMMIICACON1                                             PJOOy                   ee TIAFAIR
I-                          I                 --                                                       --    -
COORDIIIATIONNUTRA                                                                                 CODNAIN                                          TIOTCRTAI                                   ERHN
NATIONAL DRMATIAN
%T0,RATE OF~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~AGARA                                             PODC
_l..AL ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~RYRNENA  
1L  Departments down to the level of Undersecretaritats  r  only shown
If invohved I. the project.
j2 Vialidad Naciona1 I. a semi-autonomowa departmet.
Source:  Uod-rscrtar,1tat  of  trOSl.-tt
December 1976.



COOIT ITT
.0-I I
0                                     -0
.0                                                                   0                   00.
0                                        00
0                    0.0          0   .0.0.0                                               0
0                0                                       0
0                                                       00
0                0                                     00
0                0                                     00.                   8
0                0
0.0                 0.
00'                  j                                       0
00     0                                           0            0
0   0                                    a                   0               0
0 0              00
.o              0                                   0.8                 0.8
0  o                0      -0                           0   0               8   0
00                              .0                00    0                00   0
.0  -                                                        0               00  0
0     0                            0   0             .0
-0   1
8            8'                                                             8.            '   8
0.  88                                  o    b.4o,               
0      0.0            80.0.0000              0    0    '                 0         8                   0
00  -    00  .00  .        8
8oooooo2  0                                             000 0  0.00000
-08 .8                              0000000.00             a             000     0.00                  00.00.8   0.00
.0    00 0.000   81          0.      0       88            0          188  ,   j8 a  8 ..    0  8  a8    1
0      000       1                             o3.o                         0j8800
00 .0 0   0 0    0 000  0      0         0.0 .0                                               0     0
8        0           .         0.  0 0             0   0                     0.                0 -0 0
0.                      8000000.0.'                                   000 0 0 0
0.  0    888                                         8.0 888  .0000
00  o     oo  0       8                 0.
81 0 8                    0   0  0 0    0   0.00.00,.  0' 0.8                  0       0
0 0.0              00 80
0                                                                                      10.        .00.0
0.  0.  00                0008                  0.0               .000.0         00   0






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Railway Freight Traffic
1.        FA's freight traffic, according to its own statistics, has fluctuated
between 1973 and 1976, as follows:
---------- Million Tons ----------
Commodities                              1973       1974       1975       1976 /1
Wheat, corn and sorghum                   4.5        5.7        4.4        2.4
Other agricultural /2                     2.4        2.3        2.1        1.0
Construction materials /3                 2.7        2.6        2.2        1.1
Petroleum and derivatives                 3.6        3.0        2.6        1.2
Others                                    5.7        5.5        5.0        1.5
Total                         18.9       19.1       16.3        7.3
/1   Preliminary figures for the first half of 1976.
/2   Includes wine and forestry products.
/3   Lime, cement, stone.
Source: IBRD
2.        Except for a slight increase in traffic between 1973 and 1974, due
exclusively to a large grain crop, traffic of all commodities steadily
decreased between 1973 and 1976. Total traffic decreased by 14% between 1973
and 1975, and, unless the second half of 1976 shows a sharp recovery, it will
continue decreasing. Although the decrease in traffic partly reflects the
general decrease in economic activity in Argentina during this period,
as well as the fierce truck competition, it seems that it was mainly due to
FA's incapacity to handle larger volumes. Because of the very low tariffs
during this period, many shippers preferred to ignore the poor service pro-
vided by FA, and, reportedly, the above figures reflect the capacity being
offered, rather than traffic demand.
3.         In terms of ton-km, freight traffic also decreased, by about 15%,
from 12.3 billion ton-km in 1973 to 10.5 billion ton-km in 1975. The traffic
between January and the end of May 1976 amounted to 4.0 billion ton-km. The
average travel distance, however, remained practically stable, from about
651 km in 1973 to some 644 km in 1975.
December 1976



A .-JEX 
ARGENTINA                               Page 1
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Statistics on Port Traffic
Table  1:  Total Port Traffic (1971-75)
(million tons)
Ports                                 1971       1972       1973       1974        1975
Buenos Aires                          27.1       24.0      24.1       25.7        23.8
La Plata                              13.0       13.9       13.4       8.6         7.4
Comodoro Rivadavia                     7.8        7.9        7.6        7.5         7.0
San Nicolas                            4.1        3.6       4.4        4.1         5.7
Bahia Blanca                           6.8        8.0        7.5       4.5         4.2
San Martin                             4.7        4.8       4.1        3.6         2.9
Rosario                                3.9        2.4        3.4        3.4        2.7
Santa Fe                               2.1       1.4        1.7        1.7         1.2
Quequen                                 .6         .7         .9         .7          .9
Others                               13.4       14,1       12,7       13,7        13.2
Total                                 83.5      80.8       79.8       73.5        68,6
Source: Administracio'n General de Puertos
December 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Tahlp 2: International Traffic
(thousand tons)
19 7 1             1 9 7 2            1 9 7 3             19 7 4              19 7 5
PORTS                               Imp.      Exp.      Imp.    Exp.      Imp.      Exp.       Imp.      Exp.      Imp.      Exp.
BUENOS AIRES
- Beef                              2       327        10      548       11       587        20       253          0       138
- Cereals                           7      3229        17    1470        15      2039          1     2881          0      2100
- Other Agric.                     93       541       298      701      437      2141        95      1969         65      1411
- Minerals                        604        32       673       58      732        99       612        32      1021          6
- General Cargo                  5305      2113      4084    1829    3653        2178      3878      2236      3856       2008
Sub-Total                        6011      6242      5082    4606    4848        7044      4606      7371      4942       5663
SAN NICOLAS
- Petroleum products              667         2       390       11      831         0       847          8     1153          0
- Minerals                       2222         0      1868       66    2420         56      1856          8     3074          0
- Others                           71       152        60      143       67       143        21       250         73       260
Sub-Total                        2960       154      2318      220    3318        199      2724       266      4300        260
ROSARIO
- Cereals                           0      3259         0    1808        94      2715         0      2760          0     1980
- Others                           86       255        87      183       90       209        89       212       129        331
Sub-Total                          86      3514        87    1991       184      2924        89      2972       129      2311
QUEQUEN
- Cereals                           0       596         0      678        0       849         0       730          0      461
- Others                            3        37         2        5       20         0         8          0         0        12
Sub-Total                           3       633         2      683       20       849         8       730          0       473
SANTA FE
- Cereals                           0       929         0      157        0       323         0       461          0       362
- Others                           54        19        19        9       28         8      _10         10         29        19
Sub-Total                          54       948        19      166       28       331        10       471         29       381
BAHIA BLANCA
- Cereals                           0       584         0      715       14      2496         0      2029          0      1667
- Other Agric.                      0       164         0      149        0          5         0      133          0       110
- Others                            9       108         2       85       17        77       898         70       352         7
Sub-Total                           9       856         2      949       31      2578       898      2232        352     1784
TOTAL 6 PORTS                       9123    12347        7510    8615    8429    13925         8335    14042       9752    10872
TOTAL ALL PORTS                     11516    13900       9011    9486   11015    15289    10091    16164    11502    12416
Source: A.G.P. and D.N.P.I.U.
December 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 3
Table 3: Domestic Traffic
(thousand tons)
1 9 7 1             1 9 7 2          1 9 7 3             1 9 7 4              1 9 7 5
PORTS                               In        Out       In       Out      In        Out       In        out       In        Out
BUENOS AIRES
- Petroleum products             5364      1336      5645    1496    5185        1226      4983      1384      3389       886
- Gravel and sand                6974         0      5095        0    5096          0      6560         0      8214         0
- Others                         1073       152      1882      166      590        68       696       104       573       106
Sub-Total                       13411      1518    12622    1662   10971        1294    12239        1488    12176        992
SAN MARTIN
- Petroleum products              953      3174      1414    3127    1098        2508      1165      1948      1055      1338
- Minerals                          0        24         0       22        0        26         0        15         0        20
- Others                           44        79        14       46        2        32         4        53         6        36
Sub-Total                         997      3277      1428    3195    1100        2566      1169      2016      1061      1394
C. RIVADAVIA
- Petroleum products              103      7581       147    7643       238      7317       201      7204       205      6717
- Minerals                         26        11        26       13       24        15        20         9        20         9
- Others                           52        18        49        7       30         5        31         7        45         6
Sub-Total                         181      7610       222    7663       292      7337       252      7220       271      6732
BAHIA BLANCA
- Petroleum products              673      5235       642    6444       668      4255       839       520      1498       453
- Others                            0         7         2        0        3         1         4         0         0         0
Sub-Total                         673      5242       644    6444       671      4256       843       520      1498       453
SANTA FE
- Petroleum products              770        17       893       23      860        11       686        18       432         9
- Gravel and sand                 226         0       292        0      290         0       357         0       302         0
- Others                           16        35        19       38       61      125         22      106         17        28
Sub-Total                        1012        52      1204       61    1211       136      1065       124        751       37
CAMPANA
- Petroleum products             1843       728      2433      914    2033       889      2166        762     1995       641
- Gravel and sand                 176         0       214        0      271         0       222         6       253         0
- Others                            0        16         3       37        2        23         1      149        22       144
Sub-Total                        2019       744      2650      951    2306       912      2389       917      2270       785
LA PLATA
- Petroleum products             8628      2355      9615    2844    7598       3340      3817      3200      3668      2511
- Gravel and sand                 459         0       409        0     392          0      422          0      396          0
- Others                            2         4         1        8        0         2         2         3       21         4
Sub-Total                        9089      2359    10025    2852    7990        3342      4241      3203      4085      2515
TOTAL 7 PORTS                      27382    20802    28795   22828   24441    19843    22198    15488    22112    12908
TOTAL ALL PORTS                    33034    25026    35585   26714   30766    22778    29578    17713    29519    15164
Source:  A.G.P. and D.N.P.I.U.
December 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 4
Table 4: Grain Storage Capacity (1976)
(tons)
Subterranean                    Sacked
Location                  Elevators             Silos l/      Total         Storage
Bahla Blanca                 223,380          320,000           543,380        -
Necochea                      93,000          300,000           393,000       18,000
Mar del Plata                 25,000              -              25,000        -
Buenos Aires                 219,400              -             219,400       37,000
V. Constitucion              123,880          260,500           384,380       18,500
Rosario                      347,100          623,200           970,300      111,200
Santa Fe                      77,250              -              77,250       23,950
Diamante                      20,000                             20,000       14,820
C. del Uruguay                23,200              -              23,200       34,500
Total                     1,152,210         1,503,700         2,655,910      257,970
1/ These facilities, although under Port Administration, are not necessarily
located in the immediate port areas.
Sourcez A,G,P, - Subgerente Explotaci6n de Elevadores,
December 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Betterment Program - Description of the Road Works
The 20 road sections (Table 6 of the report), totalling 1,351 km
in length, are located throughout the country (except the southern region of
Patagonia). All are located in regions which export, and are expected to
continue to export, a significant portion of their production; importance for
transport of exports was a decisive factor in selecting the sections retained
under the project. These roads are presently in poor physical condition,
mainly because they have been supporting an average daily traffic substan-
tially heavier than the traffic for which they were originally designed. All
are two-lane roads if not otherwise stated. Many of the sections are adjacent
to works already being carried out under the two ongoing highway projects. A
description of each project road follows.
1.        Lavalle-Lte. con Tucuman  (32 km)
This section is located in the province of Santiago del Estero and
is part of National Route 157; it runs along a flat terrain around a very
underdeveloped area with high agricultural possibilities for development.
The present earth surface of this road is in very poor condition due mainly
to inadequate designs and heavy traffic. The improvement of this section
is particularly important for the long distance traffic transporting sugar
products from the Santiago del Estero and Tucuman provinces. With this
improvement, the transport costs, mainly of sugar production, will be reduced
considerably. Average traffic is presently 652 vehicles per day, 55% being
heavy vehicles (a relatively low volume since long distance traffic reaches
the main consumption and export markets via another route because of the poor
condition of the project road). The road will be improved with an asphalt
concrete pavement 6.7 m wide (4 cm thick) with 3.3 m shoulder widths in com-
pacted soil. Construction costs will amount to US$142,479 per km. The ER
is 53.1%.
2.        Salto-Chacabuco (41 km)
This section, crossing flat terrain, is located in the province of
Buenos Aires about 150 km from the capital on National Route 191. It services
an area in the humid Pampa with high agricultural potential. At present,
this earth road section is in very poor condition, due mainly to inadequate
drainage and heavy traffic. The improvement of this road section will facili-
tate the transport of agricultural and cattle production from the Salto,
Chacabuco and Indart departments (which are the main areas of influence),
to Buenos Aires for local and export markets. Average daily traffic carried
by this section is about 558 vehicles per day, 51% being heavy vehicles, a low
volume for such a productive area (mainly cereals and livestock). The road



ANNEX 3
Page 2
will be improved with an asphalt concrete pavement 7.3 m wide (4 cm thick)
and 3.0 m wide shoulders with a single surface asphalt treatment to a width of
1.5 m. Construction costs will amount to US$160,526 per km, mainly because the
stone for construction will have to be hauled over a considerable distance.
The ER is 46.5%.
3.        La Rioja - Bazan (35 km)
This section is part of National Route 38 in the Province of
La Rioja and the most important link among the Provinces of Cordoba, Catamarca,
and La Rioja. Several irrigation works, such as Achavil and El Infiernillo
dams, are being carried out in its area of influence, and an increase in agri-
cultural production, mainly grain, is being achieved. The section runs over
flat terrain. The climate is dry. The present earth surface of this road
section is in very poor condition due to the inadequate design and heavy
traffic. The simple earth platform has deteriorated beyond repair. The one-
lane carriageway is grossly insufficient. Average daily traffic is 591
vehicles per day, 25% being heavy vehicles. Improvements will consist of a
double surface asphalt treatment 6.70 m wide (5 cm thick) and shoulders of
compact earth 3.0 m wide. Construction costs will average US$150,762 per km.
The ER is 34.7%.
4.        Saladillo-Bolivar (130 km)
This section is located in the Buenos Aires Province, about
200 km from the capital, and is adjacent to the Bolivar-Pehuajo section which
was paved under the Third Highway Project. The terrain is flat and is part
of the agriculturally rich humid Pampa. The present earth surface of this
road section is in poor condition, due mainly to inadequate drainage, heavy
traffic and lack of maintenance. With its betterment, transport of agricul-
tural and cattle production will be improved, particularly in the Saladillo,
Alvear, and Bolivar departments (the main areas of influence), thereby making
the markets and port of Buenos Aires more accessible. Average daily traffic
carried by this section is about 411 vehicles per day (vpd), 40% being heavy
vehicles. Distance saving will be 23 km.
The road will be improved with an asphalt concrete pavement 7.30 m
wide ( 4 cm thick) and 3.00 m wide shoulders paved with a single surface asphalt
treatment to a width of 2.50 m. Construction cost will be relatively high,
averaging US$170,644/km, because stone for construction will have to be
hauled over a considerable distance. The ER is 31.0%.
5.        Int. R.N. 95-Estanislao del Campo (43 km)
This road section is part of National Route 81 which is the axis of
all surface transportation for the province of Formosa and is adjacent to
works carried out under the First Highway Project (Loan 288-AR). The road,
currently an earth surface, runs through flat terrain. This road is very
important for the regional trade among Chile, northern Argentina, Paraguay,
and Southern Brazil. With the improvement of this road, new agricultural
areas may be brought into production since the road is situated in an area
that is relatively undeveloped. The main production of cereals, cotton,



ANNEX 3
Page 3
and livestock is exported through Puerto Vilelas and down the Parana River.
Average daily traffic is around 342 vehicles per day with heavy vehicles
averaging 45%.  Improvements will consist of a triple surface asphalt treat-
ment 6.7 m wide with shoulders 3.3 m wide in compacted soil. Construction
costs will average US$185,660 per km. The ER is 29.0%.
6.        Emp. R.N. 20-Emp. R.P. 55 (4 km)
This road section (without number) in the Cordoba province will
reduce congestion on National Route 9 which joins the three most important
centers of the nation -- Rosario, Cordoba and Buenos Aires. All of the
agricultural production from the northwest goes through Route 9 to the con-
sumption and export centers; besides this, an intensive agricultural and
touristic development is taking place in its area of influence. The road runs
through rolling terrain, currently has a double surface treatment, which is
in bad condition, and will be improved to an asphalt concrete pavement 7.30 m
wide (5 cm thick) with two 3.0 m wide shoulders with a single surface asphalt
treatment. This road section includes an important new concrete bridge 345 m
long (seven spans) over the San Roque Lake with 8.30 m wide asphalt concrete
pavement (5 cm thick) and 2.10 m wide cement concrete sidewalks. Average
daily traffic is presently around 2,429 vehicles, 14% being heavy vehicles.
Distance savings will be 4 km. Construction costs will amount to US$1,124,292
per km. The ER is 27.1%.
7.        Campo Grande-Dos de Mayo (35 km)
This road section has an earth surface and is one of the few unpaved
sections of National Route 14, most of which has been, or is being, improved
under Bank-financed highway projects. Route 14 is the main artery of
Mesopotamia, running from the northern bank of the Plata River opposite to
Buenos Aires right up to the border of Brazil. This particular section is
located in the province of Misiones; the terrain is rolling and the climate
humid. The departments of Campo Grande and Dos de Mayo are the main areas of
influence. The project improvement of this road will have a large impact in
the transport of soya beans, tea and tung, all of which are exported. Also,
it will provide better access for the improvement of reforestation in the
area for paper production, saving a large amount of foreign exchange for the
country.  Average daily traffic is 439 vehicles per day, 29% being heavy
vehicles. Improvement will consist of a 7.3 m asphalt concrete pavement (4
cm thick) and 3.0 m wide shoulders paved with a single surface asphalt treat-
ment to a width of 1.5 m. Construction costs will average US$292,615 per km.
The ER is 26.8%.
8.        San Luis-Candelaria (160 km)
Situated in the province of San Luis along National Routes 146 and
79, this road section has a gravel surface and runs through rolling terrain.
Several irrigation works, such as La Huertita dam, are being carried out in
its area of influence and an increase in agricultural production, mainly



ANNEX 3
Page 4
grain, is being achieved. The climate is dry. Average daily traffic is 369
vehicles per day, 44% being heavy vehicles. Improvements will consist
of asphalt concrete pavement 6.70 m wide (5 cm thick) and shoulders of compact
earth 3.0 m wide. Construction costs will average US$140,624 per km. The
ER is 26.4%.
9.        Carlos Tejedor-General Villegas (66 km)
This 66-km section is located in the northwestern Buenos Aires
province (part of National Route 226 and about 400 km from the capital); it
runs along a flat terrain in the humid Pampa and is adjacent to the Bolivar-
Pehuajo work carried out under the Third Highway Project (734-AR). The area
has enormous undeveloped agricultural potential. The present earth surface of
this road section is in poor condition, due mainly to inadequate drainage and
heavy traffic. With its improvement, agriculture and cattle production will
also be improved, mainly in the Department of Carlos Tejedor, General Villegas,
Rivadavia, and Tres Algarrobos, making the market of Buenos Aires and the port
of Rosario more accessible. Average traffic is presently around 323 vehicles
per day (24% being heavy vehicles). The road will be improved with an
asphalt concrete pavement 7.3 m wide (5 cm thick) and 3.0 wide shoulders in
compacted soil. Construction costs will amount to US$140,868 per km. The ER
is 25.5%.
10.       Villa km 213-Riacho El Salado (32 km)
This road section is part of National Route 90 in the province of
Formosa and is adjacent to works carried out under the First Highway Project
(Loan 288-AR). The road, currently with an earth surface, runs through flat
terrain; it is very important for regional trade among Chile, northern
Argentina, Paraguay, and Brazil. The main area of influence, the Department
of Pirane, is one of the more intensive production areas of quebracho in the
world. Products include tannin, a high variation of sub-tropical agriculture,
cotton, sorghum and soy beans. Average daily traffic is around 218 vehicles
per day with trucks averaging 44%. Improvements will consist of 6.7 m wide,
triple surface asphalt treatment and shoulders 3.3 m wide in compacted soil.
Construction costs average US$158,976 per km. The ER is 24.5%.
11.       Circunvalacion San Juan y Accesos (21 km)
This road section will eliminate most of the congestion created
by the heavy traffic that must now cross through the city of San Juan and will
facilitate the traffic coming from the capital, Chimbas, Pocito and Rawson
districts. The section runs over a flat terrain. The climate is dry. The
road, currently with a double surface treatment in bad condition, will be
improved to a four-lane divided highway with an asphalt concrete pavement 7.30
m wide each way (5 cm thick), two 3.00 m wide shoulders with a single asphalt
treatment and a 1.50 m wide median. Average daily traffic is presently 7,830
vehicles per day, 21% being heavy vehicles. Construction costs will amount
to US$1,180,247 per km. The ER is 23.7%.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
12.       Lavalle-Lujan (230 km)
This road section, part of National Route 147, is located in the
provinces of Mendoza, San Juan and San Luis, and runs through rolling terrain
that has undeveloped potential. The present double surface asphalt treatment
of the road is in poor condition, due mainly to lack of maintenance and heavy
traffic. The improvement of this section is fundamental to the agricultural
development of the Cuyo region (Mendoza, San Juan, and San Luis provinces).
The main products of this area are fruit, wine, and minerals. The improvement
of this area will facilitate the export of these products to Brazil and also
overseas through Argentina's Port Rosario. The average traffic is presently
444 vehicles per day, 64% being heavy vehicles. The road surface will be
repaved with a double surface asphalt treatment 7.3 m wide and 3.0 m wide
shoulders in compacted soil. Construction costs will amount to US$107,784
per km. The ER is 23.5%.
13.       Leandro N. Alem-Obera (28 km)
This road section has an earth surface and is one of the few
unpaved sections of National Route 14. This particular section is located
in the Province of Misiones; the terrain is rolling and the climate humid.
The departments of Alem and Obera are the main areas of influence, with a high
production of Paraguayan tea ("mate") and soy beans. Lumber manufacturing
also plays an important role in the economy of the area. Average daily
traffic is 439 vpd, 29% being heavy vehicles. Improvements would consist of
a road surface 7.30 m wide asphalt concrete pavement (4 cm thick) and stabil-
ized shoulders 3.00 m wide with a single surface asphalt treatment to a width
of 1.50 m. Construction costs, which average US$217,778 per km are relatively
high since the road is almost entirely on a new alignment. The ER is 22.9%.
14.       Empalme R.N. 237-Lago Espejo (72 km)
This road section is part of National Route "F" and is located in
the most scenic area of Argentina, the Department of Los Lagos, province of
Neuquen. It is an important inter-regional link providing the only land
connection between Central and Southern Chile. The section is adjacent to
work carried out under the First Highway Project (Loan 288-AR). The road
surface, currently consisting of a deteriorated natural rocky soil, runs
through mountainous terrain. The platform was never properly engineered.
The climate is humid. Average traffic is 336 vehicles per day, 47% being
heavy vehicles. The road will be improved with a 5 cm thick asphalt concrete
pavement 6.7 m wide and 2.0 m compacted soil shoulders.  Construction costs
will amount to US$276,905 per km. The ER is 22.6%.
15.       Vera-Tostado (123 km)
This road section is part of National Routes 98 and 3. It is
situated in the north of the province of Santa Fe in a moderate dry area
with high potential for cereals and livestock, but this area remains under-
developed due to lack of roads. This road section will be the most important



ANNEX 3
Page 6
link of the northern Santa Fe province, carrying products to the port of
Reconquista for export via the Parana River. This section, running through
flat terrain, has an earth surface pavement in very poor condition due to lack
of drainage. Average daily traffic is around 209 vehicles per day with heavy
vehicles averaging 41%. Improvement will consist of a road surface 6.7 m
wide with double surface asphalt treatment and shoulders 3.3 m wide in com-
pacted soil. Construction costs average US$154,820 per km. The ER is 22.2%.
16.       Coronel Olleros-Luis Burela (94 km)
This section is located in the province of Salta, and its 94 km are
part of provincial routes 30 and 5. The road runs along a flat terrain
in a dry climate and has a double surface asphalt treatment in bad condition.
The improvement of this section is particularly important because the route
crosses a virgin forest of more than one million hectares in one of the rich-
est areas of quebracho and other valuable timber. Provincial Vialidad in
Salta is carrying out a feeder road program to assist in the agricultural
development of this area; the initial program is very successful and the
production of corn, sorghum, and beans is high. Practically all of the pro-
duction of white beans ("alubias") of this area is being exported to the
Italian and Yugoslavian markets. Average traffic is presently 393 vehicles
per day, of which 48% are heavy vehicles. The road will be improved with
a triple surface asphalt treatment 7.3 m wide and 3.0 m wide shoulders in
compacted soil. Construction costs will amount to US$153,331 per km. The
ER is 21.9%.
17.       Empalme R.N. 301-Empalme R.N. 9 (15 km)
This road section is situated in the province of Tucuman along
National Route 38 and, due to its geographical situation, is the converging
point of the different roads linking the northwest of Argentina with Bolivia.
Its betterment will improve the transport of Argentine industrial products to
Bolivia through La Quiaca, as well as the export of other Argentine primary
products. The section runs over a flat terrain. The climate is humid. The
road currently has a double surface asphalt treatment in bad condition and
will be improved to a four-lane divided highway with an asphalt concrete
pavement surface 5 cm thick and 7.30 m wide each way, two 3.00 m wide
shoulders with a single surface asphalt treatment and a 1.80 m wide median.
Average daily traffic is presently 6,158 vehicles per day, 7% being heavy
vehicles. Construction costs will amount to US$916,952 per km. The ER
is 21.5%.
18.       El Tunal-Empalme R.N. 34 (65 km)
This section is part of National Route 16 and is located in the
province of Salta in an area with characteristics similar to those of Coronel
Olleros-Luis Burela (para. 16). The present gravel surface is in poor condi-
tion, due mainly to lack of maintenance. The terrain of this road section is
rolling land. The climate is dry. Average traffic is 397 vehicles per day,
with 38% being heavy vehicles. The road will be improved with a 5 cm thick
asphalt concrete pavement 6.7 m wide and 3.3 m wide compacted soil shoulders.
Construction costs will amount to US$136,898 per km. The ER is 19.3%.



ANNEX 3
Page 7
19.       Cordoba-Empalme R.N. 60 (62 km)
This section is part of the main road of the country, National
Route 9. National Route 9 channels all the primary products (agriculture,
cattle and forests) from the northwest region to the main export and consump-
tion centers of the country: Rosario, Cordoba, and Buenos Aires. Also, the
section is situated in the frontier area of a zone which has undeveloped agri-
cultural potential. The road runs through flat terrain. The climate is dry.
The road currently has a double surface asphalt treatment in bad condition
and will be upgraded to an asphalt concrete pavement 7.3 m wide (4 cm thick)
and 3.0 m wide shoulders with a single surface asphalt treatment to a width
of 2.5 m. Average daily traffic is presently 3,924 vehicles, 32% being heavy
vehicles. Distance saving will be 7 km. Construction costs will amount to
US$236,066 per km. The ER is 18.2%.
20.       Paso de Los Libres-Yapeyu (63 km)
This section is part of National Route 129 in the Province of
Corrientes. It is also part of the main north/south trunk route through
the rich agricultural area of Mesopotamia; most of this route has been, or
is being, paved under Bank-financed highway projects. In the main areas of
influence (the departments of Paso de los Libres and San Martin), agricultural
production (mainly soy beans) is expected to increase. Its improvement will
also facilitate communications between Paraguay and Brazil. The 63 km of
gravel pavement is in poor condition, largely due to indequate drainage on
the flat terrain. Average daily traffic is around 300 vpd, with heavy vehi-
cles averaging 25%. Improvements will consist of 5 cm thick and 6.70 m
wide asphalt concrete pavement and shoulders 3.30 m wide of compacted soil.
Construction cost will average US$121,814 per km. The ER is 15.6%.
February 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Regional Agricultural Development Study
1.        Argentina remains one of the countries which still contain an agri-
cultural frontier - large areas estimated to include about 7 million ha and
suitable for crop and livestock production. Because of the Government's lack
of emphasis on development in prior administrations, there is little factual
knowledge regarding the potential of these unexploited lands. However, the
present administration has turned the internal terms of trade toward the
agricultural sector with the purpose of providing incentives to increase
agricultural production and exports. These incentives--low export duties,
realistic exchange rates and support prices in line with world price levels--
have resulted in a high supply response in grain and oilseed production for
marketing year 1976/77. For example, during that year, production is esti-
mated to be about 29 million m tons up from 23 million m tons during the
1970/71-1975/76 period.
2.        The Government, through the Secretariat of Agriculture, proposes
an ambitious agricultural development scheme for the northern part of the
country including the provinces of Chaco, Formosa, Santiago de Estero, and
the northern part of Santa Fe. It is thought that this region holds great
promise for increased production of grains, oilseeds and livestock. While
parts of these areas are already settled and partially cleared, much more
land remains virgin and requires technical studies to determine its feasi-
bility to support commercial agriculture.
3.        The Regional Agricultural Development Study will include a First
Phase, the identification of the most suitable areas in northern Argentina
for intensified agricultural production, including the settlement of farmers
to develop crops and livestock production; and a Second Phase, the prepara-
tion of a feasibility study for an agricultural development project in the
selected area.
4.        The First Phase will include the following tasks:
(a)  determine the natural resources endowment in northern
Argentina for agricultural production, e.g., soils,
rainfall, climate;
(b) identify areas with outstanding agricultural potential and
suggest possible cropping patterns for this exploitation;
(c) review the institutions in the areas which provide support-
ing services to farmers, e.g., research, extension, credit
marketing;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(d) explain the land tenure and ownership situation of privately
held and fiscal land as well as farm size and farmers income;
(e) estimate the risk of soil erosion in those areas requiring
land clearing and its impact on the ecology of the area;
(f) prepare the requirements for cadastral surveys; and
(g) if found justifiable, compare the strategy to encourage invest-
ment in designated areas of the north as opposed to investment
in other regions of the country, e.g., Pampas, Northeast,
Rio Colorado area.
5.        Once the specific areas are selected, the Second Phase will include
the following tasks:
(a) prepare land capability studies;
(b) identify the physical environments and micro-areas suitable
for different crops;
(c) quantify the total amount of arable land in each of the main
areas and determine its likely productivity;
(d) determine the areas to be cleared and settled;
(e) examine the possible crop and mixed farming production
systems from the technical and economic viewpoints;
(f) compare alternate methods of production on the basis of
levels of yield;
(g) estimate the required amount of inputs;
(h) prepare enterprise budgets, e.g., corn, sunflowerseed;
(i) select the most promising farming system based on criteria
such as net returns to capital, labor and land in comparison
with existing systems of production, acceptability to farmers,
management factors and the levels of risks involved;
(j) suggest the land tenure system and farm sizes most appropriate
for commercial agriculture in those areas which are not settled;
(k) survey the potential settlers and establish objective criteria
for their selection;
(1) identify a project unit and/or agency which will coordinate
all activity in the area and issue land titles;



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(m)  plan for the improvements required in research, extension
services, and credit facilities; in the institutions re-
sponsible for agricultural development; and in marketing,
processing, storage and other services;
(n) plan for required social services, e.g., roads, electrifica-
tion, housing, water supply, schools, clinics;
(o) present detailed cost estimates of project components,
sources of financing, project organization and management
and procurement guidelines;
(p) derive rates of return from financial and economic
analysis; and
(q) determine manpower requirements in terms of skills, time and
cost for the successful completion of the project.
6.        The entire Regional Agricultural Development Study will be carried
out by the Ministry of Economy, under the coordination and supervision of the
State Secretariat of Economic Programming and Coordination, with the partici-
pation of the Secretariat for Agriculture, National Highway Department, INTA,
National Bank of Argentina, the National Agrarian Council and the relevant
provincial governments, under terms of reference and a progress schedule
satisfactory to the Government and the Bank.
7.        Once the terms of reference for the Study are clearly defined by the
Government, some six months after signing of the Loan, consultants satisfactory
to the Bank will be contracted to carry out both phases of the study.
February 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
National Transport Plan - Summary of Terms of Reference
Introduction
1.        The Argentine Government is engaged in ongoing planning of the
National Transport System, the initial phase being preparation of a National
Transport Plan, with the aim of organizing investment and developing the
best strategy for the efficient short, medium and long-term performance of
the system. The National Directorate of Sectorial Planning under the Under-
Secretariat of Transport within the Ministry of Economy will be the responsible
agency for this National Transport Plan.
Objectives
2.        The basic objectives of the study will be  to develop an efficient
national transport sector that will contribute to the orderly development
of the country and the growth of other sectors of the economy; to formulate
a package of policies for the sector; to make fullest use of available re-
sources and to prepare a program of investments and improvements in the
operation and administration of transport in keeping with the predetermined
policies.
3.        The study will be conducted in accordance with terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank and will include:
(i) a short-term program (1978-1979) that will identify and
diagnose the critical problems of the sector, propose
a mechanism for coordinating management, operational and
investment decisions, and provide a coordinated 1978-1979
investment plan for the sector. Such investments are
expected to consist principally of improvements and
rehabilitation of the most urgently needed transport
facilities; and
(ii)  a detailed five-year action program (1980-1984) which will
include (a) a proposed national strategy and set of policies
for the development, management and operation of the transport
system; (b) a program of action for each transport mode
that will include, inter alia, required changes in trans-
port pricing based on user's cost, required regulations
for each subsector and required improvements in operations;
(c) a proposed system for the future planning and coordina-
tion of transport operations and investments; (d) a deter-
mination of the future role of each transport mode on the



ANNEX 5
Page 2
basis of an analysis and forecast of future transport
demand in relation to the expected development of the
economy, and, in particular, development of a phased
program for the closure of uneconomic railway lines when
desirable; and (e) a five-year investment plan (1980-1984),
which will include new construction and expansion of capacity,
and an indicative ten-year investment plan. In the
preparation of these investment plans, particular attention
will be given to the investments needed to open up new
areas to agricultural production, support the expansion
of exports, and achieve greater regional integration with
neighboring countries.
4.        Within these tasks, particular emphasis will be placed on:
(a) the determination of transport services and infrastructure
needed to support the opening up of undeveloped areas for
agricultural production;
(b) the transport services and infrastructure required to
support the planned expansion of exports, especially
the routing of export flows and optimum strategy for
the development of port capacity;
(c) the future role of the railway system and the development
of a phased program for the closure of uneconomic railway
lines and the provision, where necessary, of alternate
means of transport;
(d) the pricing of road transport and the level of road user
charges in relation to highway expenditure; and
(e) regional integration with neighboring countries, especially
the transport services and infrastructure required to serve
their external trade efficiently.
Scope of the Studies
5.        The study will be nationwide and will cover all modes of transport.
It will extend beyond national geographical boundaries as necessary to link
the national transport system with those of other countries.
6.        A diagnosis will be made of the transport sector from the tech-
nical, operational, economic, financial, administrative, legal and regulatory
aspects. The scope of the basic study and diagnosis will be extended to
cover aspects of other economic sectors that affect the transport system.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
7.        The main focus of attention will be inter-urban traffic; only
limited studies will be made of individual urban centers. Whenever projects
affect traffic flows or other urban area characteristics, the appropriate
authorities will be informed, and such studies as required will be undertaken
to support the analysis of affected traffic flows.
8.        All technical, economic, financial and administrative studies,
field research and other work needed to accomplish the objectives established
for this study will be carried out.
Estimate of Man-Months
Consultants
(man-months)
Highways                                                   781.5
Railways                                                    45.0/1
Ports and Waterways                                        272.0
Civil Aviation                                              25.0
Pipelines                                                   36.0
Sector and Management                                      936.0
Total Man-months                                      2,095.5
/1   15 man-months of the 45 man-months are proposed for finan-
cing under a UNDP grant, and this cost is not reflected in
the total cost.
February 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Pavement Overlay Study - Summary of Terms of Reference
Objectives
The main objectives of this pavement overlay study are:
a.   To define a work plan for a pavement overlay program; and
b.   To provide the necessary training for Vialidad's staff to
predict the period during which overlay on national and
provincial road networks is a viable option to prolong the
life of the roads.
Scope
This study will review methodology currently in use for technical
and economic evaluation of overlay designs as well as practices in use for
preparing cost estimates and bid preparations. Recommendations will be made
on organization, staff, methods, training, and equipment necessary to main-
tain an investigative program for the asphalt pavement network. A definitive,
exhaustive study will be carried out on several national network road sections
as well as on primary, secondary and tertiary provincial road networks. As a
result of this study, Vialidad will be able to determine optimum solutions for
overlay for asphalt pavement for the whole network.
Cost Estimates
Total cost of the study will be US$600,000 equivalent (US$120,000
equivalent local component and US$480,000 equivalent foreign component).
The total cost is split out in US$300,000 equivalent for personnel
and US$300,000 equivalent for equipment.
February 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Local           Foreien Component
Component                                       Total
Equipment                    (US$)                 (Us$)                   (US$)
1 Deflector (Lacroix
Type)                                                 70,000                 70,000
1 Deflectograph (Dynapac
Type)                                                 50,000                 50,000
1  Duraflex Equipment                                    50,000                 50,000
1  Jerdho Equipment                                      70,000                 70,000
1  Rugosimeter                                           60,000                 60,000
TOTAL                                         300,000-1             300,0001/
Local      Foreign Component
Number          Salary      Component                            Total
Personnel          of Months       US$/Month      (US$)              (US$)           (US$)
I Highway Engineer
and Project
Manager                 18            5,500        19,000             80,000          99,000
1  Transport Economist    12             5,000        12,000             48,000          60,000
1  Equipment Inspector    18             5,000        18,000             72,000          90,000
1  Surveyor                17            2,000        34,000                             34,000
1  Draftsman               17            1,000        17,000                             17,000
TOTAL            82                       100,000            200, OrL2/       300,000i/
1/ Bank participation US$300,000
2/ Bank participation US$150,000



ANNEX 7
Page 1
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Traffic Safety Program - Summary of Terms of Reference
Objectives
The main objectives of this study include the formulation of a work
program to:
(a) Adapt relevant literature available;
(b) Recommend traffic control programs;
(c) Educate the people;
(d) Establish motor vehicle safety standards;
(e) Provide training;
(f) Strengthen the police role;
(g) Improve dangerous road sections; and
(h) Establish procedures on accidents.
The study will take into consideration the factors involved in accidents
(human, automotive and road factors).
Scope
The Traffic Safety Program would be truly national in scope and
should constitute the setting within which the continuous process of planning
and ordering traffic safety measures will take place.
Cost Estimates
Total cost of the study would be US$300,000 equivalent (US$120,000
equivalent local component and US$180,000 equivalent foreign component).
February 1977



Foreign Component
Number             Salary            Local Component          (Bank Participation)          Total
Personnel            of Months         (US$/Month)             (Us$)                         (US$)                 (USS)
1.   Traffic Safety
Engineer & Study Managex 12                 5,000                14,500                       45.500                60,000
1.   Highway Engineer           12                4,500               13.000                       41.000                54,000
1.   Mechanical Engineer        12                3,000                8,700                       27,300                36,000
1.   Psychologist                6                5,000                7,300                       22,700                30,000
1.   Lawyer                      6                4,000                6,000                       18,000                24,000
1.   Publicity Expert           12                5,000               14,500                       45,500                60,000
1.   Surveyor                   12                2,000               24,000                                             24,000
1.   Draftsman                  12                1,000              -12,000                                             12,000
84                                                                        I 200 0001/   300 000o /
1/ Bank participation US$150,000
>
(D I
N) 



ANNEX 8
Page 1
ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of the Road Betterment Program
Risk Analysis
1.        The cost and benefit streams used in the risk analysis are the
following:
(a) construction costs (CI);
(b) strengthening costs (C2);
(c)  road maintenance savings or disbenefits (B1); and
(d) operating costs savings (B2).
2.        The distribution of random variations from estimates measured as a
percentage of such initial estimates, applicable to all items in each stream,
is the following:
Sample size: 300
Standard
Stream              Distribution         Mean (Z) /            Deviation (%) /
C1                   Normal                0.0                      20.0
C2                   Normal               10.0                      20.0
BI                   Normal               -5.0                      20.0
B2                   Normal              -10.0                      15.0
/1   All figures give as departures from initial estimates in %, that is,
0.0 means that the normal distribution is centered on initial estimates,
etc.
3.        Independent random samples were drawn for every distribution and a
rate of return computed for 300 samples of each road section in the Road
Betterment Program. In spite of all the uncertainties noted, the exposure
of the project is almost non-existent (Table 1 of this Annex) as suggested by
the results, all projects having a virtual assurance of showing a rate of
return exceeding 15% except the last three sections, two of which would be



ANNEX 8
Page 2
above 15% with a 60% probability or better. The last section has a probability
of about 40% of exceeding the same figure. Under these circumstances, the
Road Betterment Program seems certain to exceed the opportunity cost of the
capital invested irrespective of possible variations in project parameters.
(In Argentina, the opportunity cost of capital is estimated to be 10%.)  Table
2 of this Annex shows a sample of the results for the road section with the
correct rate of return.
January 1977



ARGENTINA
FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Risk Analysis of Economic Evaluation - Suimnary Table
ER Based                        10th      40th
No.   Route No.    From - To                                on Initial  bYean   Standard   Per-         Per-
Estimates            Deviation centile  centile
1       157        Lavalle - LUmite con Tucuman               53.1       50.3       9.4      39.1      47.0
2       191        Salto - Chacabuco                          46.5       44.1       8.3      34.4      41.3
3        38        La Rioja - Bazan                           34.7       32.8       6.6      25.0      30.4
4       205        Saladillo - Bolivar                        31.0       29.2       6.0      22.0      27.1
5        81        Int. R.N. 95 - Estanislao del Campo        29.0       27.3       5.9      20.6      24.9
6       S/N        Emp.R.N.20 - Emp. R.P.55                   27.1       25.4       5.9      18.6      23.6
7        14        Campo Grande - Dos de Mayo                 26.8       25.1       5.6      18.7      23.4
8       146        San Luis - Candelaria                      26.4       24.9       5.2      18.6      23.0
9       226        Carlos Tejedor - General Villegas          25.5       23.8       5.9      16.0      21.9
10        90        Villa km 213 - Riacho El Salado            24.5       22.9       5.2      16.7      20.6
11       S/N        Circunvalaci6n San Juan y Accesos          23.7       22.3       4.2      17.1      20.9
12       147        Lavalle - Lujan                            23.5       22.0       5.1      15.8      20.4
13        14        Leandro N. Alem - Obera                    22.9       21.3       4.8      15.6      19.7
14         7        Emp.R.N. 237 - Lago Espejo                 22.6       21.2       4.4      15.6      19.8
15       S/N        Vera - Tostado                             22.2       20.7       4.6      15.1      19.1
16     P.30/P.5    Coronel Olleros - Luis Burela               21.9       20.5       4.7      14.9      18.6
17       S/N        Emp. R.N. 301 - Emp. R.N.9                 21.5       20.2       4.3      15.0      18.7
18        16        El Tunal - Emp. R.N. 34                    19.3       17.4       4.5      11.9      15.6
19         9        Cordoba - Emp. R.N. 60                     18.2       16.6       4.2      11.4      15.3
20       129        Paso de Los Libres - Yapey'u               15.6       14.3       3.7       9.7      13.1
Ic



ANNEX 8
Table 2 - Page 1
plI (3l.. U l..ll..Nl:'    1::!,'F; :1:1 LT  [O:N   A N;I)  C Totl.JM. AllY'T I    P    [ I:'.l)ES : L. F:' Y  DE s'i Ip Et Elll C'N
E 11   r F 1:  :N 'T': 1  N A 1...     fATEI 0   I:;: -  u F  N
F: R   1     Cl.J, F    :'l M tP R  .                               F'   .C4 .      U .M.  O'       o
I E.:'';':?  IIIAN   VALUE .)                                       CLESS   T'IIAN   YALIJ l
I i11i"   I 'I 'I   :l:B:tlJN1:1'i INTERVAL                                              IJNII'8
040(                                  ~          ~        ~~~~~5 89vt:'i
0.0 i:1.' /!   !(31.B. 9009
30.01                                                       9               092
0o' otflei.<5                                              1. 4:1.0
2              (), t0.02                                            5               0o94
;2 0: J                                                       lft  19.920
:1.            0 +).02                                              4                   9. c.
',  C                                                         20. 430
3              0.03                                                 0                  o.95
.  :1. 90'                                                        20.940
2              0004                                                 2               0. 9
B3 i'(V0                                                          21 * 450
5              0.0(5                                  '                             (.97
""1.                                                              21.o960
9;2            0.03                                                 0               0   97
'i9 o ;:'20                                                       22.470
92             0   :L:.                     :1.                     (1 i9.8
1.0   ''                                                            22+ 980
I1.5             0.6 .                                                                0   .98
:1.  ''                                                             23.490
12               0420                                                 1                ) .98
:L Il e                                                                2 .. iO 24.000
1L2             S0.24 0498
I:.. o    ')                                                        24, +510
250 020
:1L2             0.34                                                 C)              0,9(
:  ' : '5530
:.9              0.4i0                         t                                        .9
26. 040
0 .4" 4                                                              (3 * 99
i." O O                                       ~~~~26.5-'50
23               ( i ..55                                              1              :1. 0 0
:1.~ ~~~~~~~C                        0. 7:^1.  0             2. Dyf                                             C J
4I''                                                         2      6                     0 0 59(
I.              (.60                                                 ). 2'00
20   0 + ':1.                                                             g v fo(511t
0.6                                                  C) 90
C), 71                                       0               1 * 001 
:1.'; .                                                          28 1.0  ?.' f 5910
.                05  )   '.7                                         C)              :1 o (00
:1. O            0 .                    2     :i. 00
1.,    6'i tt(                                                      29.6   C)5:l(
(2             0 * 82                                               C)             :1 o C)C)
1 ; "'                                                          3C) 3 .1:20
1. 7 i                                                              30. 63C)
'i ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                             ~      ~~~~~~~~~ I0i3  0   l 0)
C). 1.3                                             C)               1 *j OC)-Aj 61 ) i C,
3: ~ ~  ~ ~ ~L1. .. 6SC)
031    MI ~~ HI Io N1   1 (1 40                      14.33
'11:!:i [.I IIC :!: Sh l.J [r !  l:1 i'1 M[ FN   ::  f l    7 NC:1.4.     3



Aum. A
CUMULATIVE PROBABILITY DISTRIBUTION PLOT.                    Tabl. 2 - ag  2
CUMULATIVE PROBABILITY (Y-AXIS) LESS THAN VALUE UPPERBOUND (IX-AXIS).
(PLOT CAN ONLY BE TO TERMINAL).
TOTAL NUMBER OF POINTS PLOTTED S      51
AXIS INFORMATIONI
VERTICAL I TOP  C-)   =  1.20
BOTTOM (-) --O.200
INCREMENT  =  0.200
HORIZONTAL. LEFT  C0)  =   S.00
RIGHT  C') =   40.0
INCREMENT  =   5.00
+
+
+
1.0                                                  ***s*****A **
F+                                     ***t*
t                                  ***
t                                *
}                      ~~~~~~~~**
F t
t                            *
0.8  -                          *
0                          i
(  F
F                         *
(      F
t                        *
0.6 -
(      +
+~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~At of R*u
+
+
0.4 ---*
F                 *
F          ~~~*
0.2 
t
+           *
+          *
t        t-
0.0    g
+
't+tF-F-F+++'+4+++++++' ttttt++t++' F++F-F++++'F+FFI++F+++++'++'+tttt++++++++'
5.0        10.0        15.0        20.0       25.0        30.0       35.0       40.0
Xatt ot Slaturn
-END MOOR ANALYSIS-
I SAVE PERM ARGHIVRISK---- RISK
EMD RO(ISK
** ERROR 702 *
EMD RISK
IMPROPER CDMMAND NAME HAS BEEN USED.
ANY DATA AND/OR BLOCKS ARE NOW RESTORED AUTOMATICALLY,
LUNLESS NOTED OTHERWISE. THIS UPDATE CHANGE WILL BE REFLECTED
IN THE 'CBPACK USERS' MANUAL (RELEASE 3)' SOON.
C  NKRS






e~t~Mi~Ay -  -                                                          ___                  *BR D-12627R
A't$CA i                                                                                                                        7 A  -_1?
*AN~~~~-              -i     0        T ot      ;      04Y 
)C@             AzoSAN RAFAELo, do | kBEOAiRES
)Argen tin llg3 *PAT  
" ~ ~      ~       ~~~ JJ Coie, ,''_   ,/od                                  4/ 9'*
j'    L,      40       f    ~      Pdn ,ntIn,~'.    I I ~JR  | SANTR~A               () \I l
.t          5                 J          X        3o,Pde >                    A
.  \    | .   ;    ( ,  g~~~te   tl AH A                         \MA DEPLT
0  i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
I  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
ALUIS40,  A-                   A                            1A
SANn                                                                                    G A JACODBA ,  A'tFAY\~~K
143AN RAFAEL98                              cO         BUENCIS AIRES
1  Vi 0994   5          L~~A PLATA
N   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~AIA*MAR )EL PLATA
-40-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
.   a)llochel/  /     VIED M~~~~~EDA                                                                               40--
'   K   r\                       ; RAWSON                                     ARGENTINA
-v 43 n    -             J                                 FOURTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
C"
t4r /  _)o      \,          COMODORO                                      Roads to be improved under Fourth Highway Project
RIVADAVIA                                        Project number
-4~3--  Primory roads
. -   - --  I   h 2   Ftz R   k                        Paved or gravel roads
Earth roads
*    Principal acrports
Provincal boundaries
International boundories
-50-               '   \t-eX                                                  O          200          400         600          800
*  RIO GALLEGOS                                           KILOMETERS
* r -E-_ S0  100   200       300       400       500
/ -. 9  ,/;    ;>i                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
.,    3'''' I'-/s  _
tS t4VI                                   Ii-eEA!;flXaZ
0o                  0'                 .050'                                                                          50'



