 7
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1384 AR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Fourth Highway Project)
between
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 16, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 16, 1977, between THE ARGENTINE
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).


﻿- 2 -
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section i.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said Gene-
ral Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantet Agreements of the
Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Seotion 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the con-
text otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the General
Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿- 3 -
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred
five million dollars ($105,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1981 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall prompt-
ly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.


﻿Section 2.06. The Borrover shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8 50%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn an, outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with sound
engineering, administrative and financial practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
(b) Parts A and D shall be carried out through the Borrower's
Direccion Nacional de Vialidad; Part C of the Project, through the
Borrower's Under Secretariat of Transportation; and Part B of the
Project, through the Borrower's Ministry of Economy, under the
coordination and supervision of the Borrower's State Secretariat
of Economic Programing and Coordination, with the participation
of, among others, Direcci6n Nacional de Vialidad, the Secretarfa
de Estado de Agricultura y Ganaderfa, Instituto Nacional de Tecnologfa
Agropecuaria, Consejo Agrario Nacional, Banco de la Naci6n
Argentina, and the relevant provincial governments, under terms of
reference and a progress schedule satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Bank.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, within six months after the
date of this Agreement or such other longer period as the Bank
shall agree, employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank, to assist the Borrower in the following matters:


﻿- 6 -
(a) in the supervision of the carrying out of Part A of the
Project;
(b) in the carrying out of Part B of the Project;
(c) in the carrying out of Part C of the Project; and
(d) in the formulation of the traffic safety program and in
the carrying out of the pavement overlay study included in Part D
of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (i) carry out Part C of the
Project with the participation of the various concerned agencies
and public enterprises and in accordance with a schedule of progress
and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) furnish to
the Bank, by January 31, 1978, the short-term plan referred to in
item 2 of Part C, in Exhibit B to Schedule 2 hereto, and exchange
views thereon with the Bank; and (iii) exchange views from time to
time with the Bank on the program of action for the execution of
the recommendations, prepared under Part C of the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, re-
ports, contract documents and construction and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to re-
cord the progress and cost of the Project and to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, and to dis-
close the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Bank's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for carrying out the Proj-
ect.
Section 3.07. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
roads included in the Project shall be designed in accordance with
the standards set forth in Exhibit A to Schedule 2 and in Schedule
5 to this Agreement.


﻿- 8 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of foreign
exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such member.
To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public assets (as
hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt, which will
or might result in a priority for the benefit of the creditor of
such external debt in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank shall other-
wise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank, equally and
ratably secure the principal of, and interest and other charges on,
the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or permitting the creation
of such lien, shall make express provision to that effect.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower, including
assets of the Banco Central de la Repiblica Argentina or any in-
stitution performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.


﻿-9-
The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits of its
constitutional powers, it will make the foregoing undertaking ef-
fective with respect to liens on the assets of any of its political
subdivisions and their agencies, including local governing authori-
ties.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations, resources
and expenditures, in respect of the.Project, of the Direcci6n
Nacional de Vialidad and any other department or agency of the Bor-
rower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain adequately all the
roads and bridges of its national road network and shall take all
steps necessary to ensure the proper use and protection of such
roads and bridges, including the enforcement of appropriate regu-
lations in respect of vehicle weights. To this effect, the Borrower
shall, by June 30, 1978 or such other date as the Bank shall agree,
complete the installation of weighing stations and have in full
operation the program for control of vehicle weights agreed upon
by the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) by December 31, 1978,
complete an inventory of its provincial primary road system (re-
ferred to as red primaria provincial in the Borrower's legislation),
and (ii) by December 31, 1980, complete an inventory of its pro-
vincial secondary road system; both inventories to be at a level
of detail satisfactory to the Bank.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) The Tribunal de Cuentas of the Borrower has examined
the Loan Agreer.ent in accordance with the laws of the Borrower
and has issued its opinion thereon without formulating any objec-
tion thereto.
(b) All action necessary to enable the Borrower to procure
the goods and services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan, in accordance with the procedures referred to in Schedule 4
to this Agreement, has been taken.
Section 5.02. The following is specified as an additionel
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be fur-
nished to the Bank, namely, that the action referred to in Sec-
tion 5.01 (b) hereof has been taken and that the procurement of
such goods and services under such procedures will be in accor-
dance with the laws of the Borrower.
Section 5.03. The date September 12, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time res-
ponsible for public works is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Direcci6n Nacional de Vialidad
Avenida Maip6 3
Buenos Aires, Argentina
Cable address:
VIALIDAD NACIONAL
Buenos Aires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting througv. their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
THE ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Federico B. Camba
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated            % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Categg               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Civil works                74,o00,000         30%
(2) Equipment for                 300,000         100% of foreign
pavement overlay                             expenditures
study
(3) Consultants'
services:
(a) Part A                 3,700,000         30%
(b) Part B                   300,000         45%
(c) Part C                 2,700,000         45%
(d) Part D                   300,000         45%
(4) Unallocated               23,300,000
TOTAL     105,000,000


﻿2.   For purposes of this Schedule "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of, and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of, any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall
be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in
the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: (i) no
withdrawal shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement; (ii) no withdrawal shall be made in respect
of expenditures for construction of roads unless the contract
therefor shall have been awarded, and its execution shall have
been supervised, with the assistance of the consultants referred
to in Section 3.02 (a) hereof; and (iii) no withdrawal shall be
made on account of expenditures under Part C of the Project
unless the Borrower shall have made arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank to ensure the continuous participation of the various
concerned agencies and public enterprises in the carrying out of
such part of the Project.


﻿- 15 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan vhich are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then ap-
plicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank, after consultation with the Borrower, shall
have reasonably determined that the procurement of any item in
any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or re-
ferred to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and the Bank may, with-
out in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or
remedy of the Bank under the Loan Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Loan as, in the Bank's rea-
sonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Road Betterment Program
(a) Paving and improvement of about fourteen earth or
gravel sections totalling about 925 km;
(b) Repaving and improvement of four sections of
paved highways totalling about 324 km; and
(c) Upgrading of two sections to four-lane highways
totalling about 36 km;
all as further specified in Exhibit A hereto.
Part B:   Regional Agricultural Development Study
Preparation of regional development programs for
selected areas in Northern Argentina, as further specified
in Exhibit B hereto.
Part C:   National Transport Plan
Preparation of a national transport plan, as further
specified in Exhibit B hereto.


﻿- 17 -
Part D:   Sectoral Study and Program
(a) A pavement overlay study; and
(b) A traffic safety program;
both as further specified in Exhibit B hereto.
*         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿EXHIBIT A TO SCHEDULE 2
Road Sections
Geometric
Design Stan-
dards (per
Number of               Schedule 5)
Subsections Approximate       Nature
Route                                    for Bidding   Length            of     Number    Surface
No. Province            From - To       Purposes       (km)     Class Terrain  of Lanes Tyve
157   Santiago del Lavalle - Lfmite con     1           32       III   Flat       2      A.C.
Estero       Tucum(n
191   Buenos Aires Salto - Chacabuco        2           41        II   Flat       2      A.C.
205   Buenos Aires Saladillo - Bolfvar      4          130       III   Flat       2      A.C.
81   Formosa      Int. R.N. 95 -           1           43       III   Flat       2      A.C.      c
Estanislao del Campo
S/No   C6rdoba      Emp. R.N. 20 -           1            4        II  Rolling     2      A.C.
Emp. R.P. 55
14   Misiones     Campo Grande -           2           35       III  Rolling     2      A.C.
Dos de Mayo
146   San Luis     San Luis - Candelaria    4          160       III Rolling      2      A.C.
226   Buenos Aires Carlos Tejedor -         2           66       III   Flat       2      A.C.
General Villegas
90   Formosa      Villa km 213 -           1           32       III   Flat       2      T.S.T.
Riacho El Salado
S/No   San Juan     Circunvalaci6n San Juan  4           21         I   Flat       4      A.C.
y Accesos
(Divided)


﻿Geometric
Design Stan-
dards (per
Number of               Schedule 5)
Subsections Approximate       Nature
Route                                    for Bidding   Length            of     Number    Surface
No. Province            From - To       Purposes       (km)     Class Terrain  of Lanes Type
147   Mendoza,     Lavalle - Lujfn          3         164        III  Rolling     2      D.S.T.
San Juan and
San Luis
14   Misiones     Leandr6n N. Alem         1           28        II  Rolling     2      A.C.
- Obera
S/No   Santa Fe     Vera - Tostado           3          123       III   Flat       2      D.S.T.
(P30
(P 5   Salta        Coronel Olleros -       2           94       III   Flat       2      T.S.T.
Luis Burela
S/No   Tucumfn      Emp. R.N. 301 -          3           15         I   Flat       4      A.C.
Emp. R.N. 9
(Divided)
16   Salta        El Tunal -               3           65       III  Rolling     2      A.C.
Emp. R.N. 34
9   C6rdoba      C6rdoba -                2           62        II   Flat       2      A.C.
Empt. R.N. 60
129   Corrientes   Paso de los Libres       2           63       III   Flat       2      A.C.
- Uapeyu
38   La Rioja     La Rioja - Baz6n         1           35       III   Flat       2     D.S.T.
7   Neuquen      Empalme RN 237 -         2           72       III Mountainous 2       A.C.
Lago Espejo
Emp.           = Empalme
Int.           = Intersecci6n
D.S.T.         = Double surface asphalt treatment
T.S.T.         = Triple surface asphalt treatment
A.C.           = Asphaltic concrete


﻿- 20 -
EXHIBIT B TO SCHEDULE 2
Part B:   Regional Agricultural Development Study
The study shall include:
(a) identification of the most suitable area in Northern
Argentina for intensified agricultural development, in-
cluding the settlement of farmers to develop crops and/or
livestock production; and
(b) preparation of a feasibility study for an agricultural
development project in the selected area.
Part C:   National Transport Plan
1.   The main objectives of the National Transport Plan will
be:
(a) to analyze and project transport demand in relation
to planned development of the economy;
(b) to review existing capacity and operations;
(c) to determine the role of each mode in relation to
demand;
(d) to recommend policies and operational improvements
designed to make best use of available and future
capacity; and


﻿- 21 -
(e) to prepare a program of investments necessary to
improve and expand capacity as required.
2.   The preparation of the National Transport Plan will in-
clude:
(a) a short-term program (1978-1979) that will identify
and diagnose the critical problems in the sector;
propose a method for coordinating operational,
management and investment decisions; and provide a
coordinated investment plan for the sector. The
basic tasks to be carried out for this plan will be:
(i) a review and critical evaluation of technical
and economic studies undertaken over the past
ten years and in preparation;
(ii) coordination and review of transport matters
through interagency reviews; and
(iii) an analysis of revenues and costs for each
mode including user charges, subsidies, oper-
ating costs and investment costs.
(b) a detailed five-year action program, including an
investment plan (1980-1984), an indicative
10-year plan (1985-1994) covering construction of
facilities, replacement of obsolete equipment,
expansion of capacity, new works and improvements
and procurement of transport equipment. The program
will, inter alia:


﻿- 22 -
(i) propose a national strategy and a set of policies
for the development, management and operation
of the transport system;
(ii) within this national strategy, develop a pro-
gram for each mode including pricing, regula-
tions, investments and operations; and
(iii) propose a planning and coordination system for
the sector to strengthen and lend continuity
to Government management of the sector.
3.   Within these tasks, particular emphasis will be placed on:
(a) the determination of transport services and infra-
structure needed to support the opening up of un-
developed areas for agricultural production;
(b) the transport services and infrastructure required
to support the planned expansion of exports, es-
pecially the routing of export flows and optimum
strategy for the development of port capacity;
(c) the future role of the railway system and the de-
velopment of a phased program for the closure of
uneconomic railway lines and the provision, where
necessary, of alternate means of transport;


﻿- 23 -
(d) the pricing of road transport and the level of road
user charges in relation to highway expenditures;
and
(e) regional integration with neighboring countries,
especially the transport services and infrastructure
required to serve efficiently their external trade.
Part D (a):    Pavement Overlay Study
The study includes periodic pavement deflection studies of
selected roads; revision of the methodologies currently used for
the technical and economic evaluation of overlay design and of
the current practices for cost estimation and bid document
preparation. Recommendations will be made on the organization,
staffing, methods and equipment necessary to ensure a continuing
program of investigation of the asphaltic paved network.
PartD     :    Traffic Safety Program
1.   The program will include the following:
(a) adapting available literature and manuals on the
subject to Argentine conditions;
(b) recommending programs for improvement of signs and
markings, road design and construction and mainten-
ance practices;
(c) educating the public;


﻿(d) establishing vehicle safety standards;
(e) providing training and licensing for drivers;
(f) strengthening police enforcement;
(g) effecting improvement of dangerous sections on the
most heavily trafficked roads; and
(h) establishing a procedure for collecting and analyz-
ing motor vehicle accident statistics.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1980
through April 15, 1992                       4,3T5,OOO
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in
a currency other than dollars (see General Conditions,
Section 4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar
equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 26 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.70%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                          3.40%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          6.25%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                          7.35%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                          8.50%


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   (a) Goods, works and services, other than goods referred to
in paragraph B below, shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
(b) Contracts for civil works shall include a price adjust-
ment clause, as referred to in the second sub-paragraph of para-
graph 2.11 of the Guidelines.
2.   (a) Before bidding for a contract, non-Argentine contractors
shall only be required to apply for registration in Argentina. In
the event that the lowest evaluated bid shall be one submitted by
a non-Argentine contractor, the Borrower shall facilitate such
registration before awarding the corresponding contract.
(b) A period of at least 60 days shall be allowed for sub-
mission of proposals from bidders. Proposals shall be required to
be accompanied by a bid bond or bank guarantee amounting to not
less than 1% of the estimated contract value.
(c) The successful bidder shall be allowed the option of
furnishing a guarantee by an acceptable financial institution in


﻿- 28 -
the amount of not less than 10% of the contract value or a per-
formance bond in an amount of 100% of the contract price, such
guarantee or bond to remain in effect until six months after com-
pletion of the works. In addition, the contract shall provide for
retention of 5% of the value of the works on the contractor's
monthly invoices. The contractor shall remain liable for defective
work for a period of six months after final reception of the works.
Non-Argentine contractors shall be entitled to convert into foreign
exchange a reasonable portion of their contract payments.
(d) For the purpose of bidding on the Project, each road
shall be divided into bidding subsections (satisfactory to the
Bank) with an estimated cost of not less than $2,000,000 equivalent
nor more than $8,000,000 equivalent. Contractors may bid for the
entire section or for one or more of such subsections, and contracts
shall be awarded on the basis of the lowest of (i) the evaluated
bid for each section, and (ii) the aggregate total of evaluated
bids for the subsections within each section. The bidding sections
id subsections will be as set forth in Exhibit A to Schedule 2
hereto.
B.   Negotiated Contracts
Goods in Part D (a) of the Project shall be procured under
negotiated contracts.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Bank
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid


﻿- 29 -
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonEbly request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, together with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
(e) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, be materially amended or modified.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 5
General Design Standards
Class of Roads
Terrain            I        II       III      IV
Design Speed,       flat                130      120       110    100
km/h                rolling             110      100        90      70
mountainous          80       70        60      40
Minimum Hori-       flat                700      600       500    400
zontal Radius,      rolling             500      400       300    160
m                   mountainous         220      160       120      50
Maximum Grade,      flat                  3        3         5      6
%                   rolling               5        5        6       7
mountainous           6        7         7       8
Sight Dis-          flat                260      220       185    160
tance for           rolling             185      160       135     90
Stopping, m         mountainous         110       90        75     45
Sight Dis-          flat                860      800       740    680
tance for           rolling             740      680       610    470
Passing, m          mountainous         540      470       400    260
Pavement            flat                7.50     7.30      7.30    6.70
Width, m            rolling             7.50     7.30      6.70    6.70
mountainous         7.00     6.70      6.70    6.00
Shoulder            flat                3.00     3.00      3.00    3.30
Width, m            rolling             3.00     3.00      3.30    3.30
mountainous         3.00     2.00      1.50    1.25
Width of            flat                         8.30      8.30    8.30
Bridges, m          rolling                      8.30      8.30    8.30
mountainous                  8.30      8.30    7.00
These design standards for each class of roads correspond to
the following average daily traffic: Class I = between 5,000 and
15,000; Class II = between 1,500 and 5,000; Class III = between
500 and 1,500; and Class IV = between 150 and 500.


