Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053306 
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 4741TU 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated October 4, 2004 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053306 
RELATED TO LOAN NUMBER 4741 TU 
 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND  
GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 2004, between the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global 
Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by 
certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2;  
 
(D) 
by an agreement of even date herewith (the Loan Agreement), the Bank, 
acting in its own capacity, has agreed to make a loan to the Recipient in an amount equal 
to twenty million dollars ($20,000,000) (the Loan) to assist in financing the Project on 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement;  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend the GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
(i) Article 
I; 
 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7) (8), (9), (10), (14), 
(17), (18), and (21), and Sections 2.02 and 2.03; 
 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
 
(iv) 
Section 4.01 and Section 4.06; 
 
(v) Article 
V; 
 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i), (k), (l), (m), (n), (o), 
and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06; 
 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
 
(ix) 
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
 
(x) 
Article XI; and 
 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04. 
 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in  Sections  2.01 (6), and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of 
such term in  
Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as 
an implementing agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, 
the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank acting in its own 
capacity; 
 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an 
account opened by the Bank on its books in the name of the 
Recipient to which the amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is 
credited; and 
 
(vi) 
a new paragraph (q) is added to Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions, as follows: “an extraordinary situation shall have 
arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.” 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement and in the Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“GEF Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
“GEF Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) 
to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equal to seven million dollars ($7,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, and operating costs required for carrying 
out of Parts A.4, C, D and E of the Project, and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the GEF Special Account shall be made 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2012 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Parts 
A.4, C, D and E of the Project through the MEF and the MARA with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, agricultural, engineering, 
financial and technical practices and with due regard to social, ecological and 
environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall carry 
out Parts A.4, C, D and E of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Conditions 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient, through the MEF, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient, through the MEF, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, and  the records and accounts for 
the GEF Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Recipient, through the MEF, shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
Page  7
-
6
-
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations specified in paragraph 9 of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement, the Recipient, 
through the MEF, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a GEF Financial Monitoring 
Report in a form and substance satisfactory to the Bank,  which: 
 
(a) 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
showing separately funds provided under the GEF Trust Fund  
Grant; and explains variances between actual and planned uses 
of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and  
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report.  
 
(b)  
The first GEF Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Bank not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the 
Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure 
under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each GEF 
Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The Project Implementation Plan shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated or waived without the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Loan Agreement. 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Recipient to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan made to the 
Recipient for the financing of the Project shall have been 
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pursuant 
to the terms of the Loan Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Recipient establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Recipient to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Recipient from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Recipient under 
this Agreement.   
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition
 
to the 
effectiveness of the Grant Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that, the Loan Agreement has been executed and delivered 
and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness or to the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of this GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
 
Section 6.02. The date of ninety (90) days from the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their 
obligations hereunder. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Basbakanlik  
Hazine Mustesarligi 
Inonu Bulvari 
Emek-Ankara 
Republic of Turkey 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
HAZINE 
44232 HZM-TR or 
 (312) 212-8550  
 
Hazine, Ankara                    44404 HZM-TR 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
Telex: 
  Facsimile 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
By  /s/ Ibrahim Canakci 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
as an implementing agency of the 
 
 
Global Environment Facility 
 
By   /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink 
Director 
Turkey Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
 
Part A
:
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated  
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
3,400,000 
70% 
 
(2) 
Goods 
1,300,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost) 
 
and 85% of local  
 
expenditures 
 
for other items 
 
procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
800,000 
78% 
 
 
 
(4) Training 
 
400,000 
100% 
 
(5)   
Incremental 
600,000 
50%  
 Operating 
Costs 
 
 
 
(6)  
Unallocated 
500,000
TOTAL 
7,000,000
Page  12
-
11
-
2. 
 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)  
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Recipient;  
 
(b)  
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Recipient;  
 
(c)  
the term “training” means: (i) the fees of consultants, including 
educational or other institutions and organizations, that provide training services; and (ii) 
the cost of study tours (including local tours for farmers), cost of workshops, and related 
travel expenditures, and boarding, lodging and per diem allowances provided to civil 
servants of the Recipient; and 
 
(d)  
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable and necessary 
incremental expenses incurred by the Recipient on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including the cost of transport and travel, fuel and repairs 
made on account of maintenance and operation of vehicles, attendance of seminars, 
conferences and meetings, communication, office operating and maintenance costs, 
including maintenance of office equipment, systems and facilities, rent and utilities. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to 
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works, under 
contracts costing less than $3,000,000 equivalent each but excluding those referred to in 
paragraph 2 (a) (ii) and 2 (b) (v) of Part D of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(ii) goods, under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent each, but excluding 
those referred to in paragraph 2 (a) (ii) and 2 (b) (i), (ii), and (iii) of Part D of Section I of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (v) training; and (vi) incremental operating 
costs, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient. 
 
5. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to support sustainable natural resource 
management practices in about twenty-eight (28) micro-catchments in the Project Area 
and thereby raise incomes of communities affected by resource degradation. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Rehabilitation of Degraded Natural Resources
1. 
Rehabilitation of forest land including soil conservation through afforestation, 
rehabilitation of degraded forests, gallery plantations and participatory afforestation. 
 
2. 
Rehabilitation of rangeland including promotion of technical packages and land 
management practices to improve the vegetative cover of range lands. 
 
3. 
Rehabilitation of agricultural land including fallow reduction through the 
introduction of legumes, improved use of marginal land and river bank protection. 
 
4. 
Promotion of environmentally friendly agricultural practices in the Project Area 
of the Black Sea region, including manure management, nutrient management, organic 
farming and integrated pest management to reduce discharge of agricultural pollutants in 
the lower parts of watersheds, and monitoring of water and soil quality. 
 
Part B:
Income Generation Activities
Carrying out of a program to provide the communities in the Project Area with 
the incentives to undertake rehabilitation and conservation efforts and to raise the income 
of village household, including: (a) small scale irrigation, farm ponds, small dams, and 
small scale fisheries development; (b) agricultural production on terraces; (c) forestry 
based income diversification; and (d) farm enterprise diversification, bee keeping, green 
house development, livestock improvement, and introduction of improved technologies 
and cropping practices. 
 
Part C:
Strengthening Policy and Regulatory Capacity
1. 
Provision of support to the application of the EU Nitrates Directive through the 
monitoring of nitrate levels in the Project Area of the Black Sea region. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
2. 
Development and promotion of a legal framework consistent with the EU 
Nitrates Directive for good agricultural practices based on on-farm trials, demonstrations 
and training. 
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity for the 
production and marketing of organically produced farm products. 
 
Part D:
Awareness Raising, Capacity Building and Replication Strategy
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to: (a) develop and 
disseminate a public information campaign to raise awareness among beneficiaries and 
other stakeholders on the Project’s objectives, approach and terms of participation; (b) 
increase the capacity of implementing agencies at all levels to promote environmentally 
friendly agriculture practices and raise public awareness on methods to reduce nutrient 
discharge from agriculture; and (c) develop a strategy for future replication of similar 
activities in Turkey and other Black Sea riparian countries. 
 
Part E:
Project Management and Support Services
1. 
Provision of technical assistance, training, office equipment and incremental 
operating costs to support Project management and coordination at the central and 
provincial levels, including the upgrading and expansion of the monitoring and 
evaluation system to allow for adequate monitoring of the impact of the Project.  
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance and study tours to farmers and technical staff 
involved in the Project implementation, and carrying out of applied research in support of 
environmentally friendly practices.    
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2011. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
GEF Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(
a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the 
eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$700,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into 
the GEF Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be 
limited to an amount equivalent to $350,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,200,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the GEF Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the GEF Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the GEF Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the GEF Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the GEF Special Account such 
amount or amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the GEF Special Account, the Recipient 
shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the GEF 
Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
Page  16
-
15
-
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
and deposit into the GEF Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown, by 
said documents and other evidence, to have been paid out of the 
GEF Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the 
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the GEF Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the GEF Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the GEF Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
allocated to the eligible Categories of the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
Page  17
-
16
-
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the GEF Special Account as 
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
GEF Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the GEF 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the GEF Special Account 
shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the GEF Special Account will not be required to cover further payments 
for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund 
to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the GEF Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this 
Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
 
