Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4741 TU 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF053306 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 8, 2004 
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4741 TU 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER  TF053306 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 8, 2004 , between the REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
(the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has 
requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
(B) 
by the agreement of even date herewith (the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement), the Bank, acting as the implementing agency of the Global Environment 
Facility (GEF) has agreed to make a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Borrower in 
an amount equal to seven million dollars ($7,000,000), to assist in financing Parts A.4, C, 
D.1 and E of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement; and   
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis
,
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan acceptable to the 
Bank dated February 15, 2003, describing the environmental issues raised under the 
Project and setting forth the mitigation, monitoring and institutional measures to be 
carried out in relation to such issues; 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
“EU Nitrates Directive” means the European Council Directive 
91/676/EEC dated December 12, 1991, concerning the protection of waters against 
pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources; 
 
(c) 
“Fiscal Year” means the twelve-month period corresponding to any of 
the Borrower’s fiscal years, which period commences on January 1 and ends on 
December 31 in each calendar year; 
 
(d)         “Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“KHGM” means the General Directorate of Rural Services of the 
Borrower; 
 
(f) 
“MARA” means the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs of the 
Borrower; 
 
(g) 
“MEF” means the Ministry of Environment and Forestry of the 
Borrower;  
 
(h) 
“Micro-catchment Implementation Team” means the team referred to in 
paragraph 3 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(i) 
“Operations Unit” means the unit established within the MEF pursuant to 
the Law Regarding the Organization and Duties of the Ministry of Environment and 
Forestry (Law No. 4856) dated May 1, 2003, and published in the Official Gazette dated 
May 8, 2003, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Project Area” means the territories within the boundaries of the 
following river basins: (i) Kizilirmak; (ii) Yesilirmak; and (iii) Seyhan; 
 
(k) 
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan dated April 30, 2004, 
prepared by the Borrower and agreed with the Bank, setting out the operational and 
administrative procedures, and terms and conditions related to the implementation of the 
Project, as the same may be amended and agreed with the Bank from time to time, and 
such term includes all annexes to the Project Implementation Plan; 
 
(l) 
“Project Management Group” means the group established pursuant to 
the Law Regarding the Organization and Duties of the Ministry of Environment and 
Forestry (Law No. 4856) dated May 1, 2003, and published in the Official Gazette dated 
May 8, 2003, and referred to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
 
(m) 
“Provincial Project Management Team” means the team referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; and 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
(n) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE II
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty million 
dollars ($20,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a)  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, and in respect of the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2012 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself 
the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. (a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
Page  6
-
4
-
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 
2.07 of this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial 
Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on 
or next preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
 
(iv) 
“LIBOR 
Total 
Spread” 
means, 
for 
each 
Interest 
Period:           
(A) three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) 
the weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate and the 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines 
that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said 
Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to 
the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new basis.  The 
new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period unless the Borrower 
notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in which case said 
modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the MEF and the MARA with 
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
agricultural, engineering, environmental, financial and technical practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to 
this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goo
ds, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through the MEF, shall maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
a
format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower, through the MEF, shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Page  8
-
6
-
Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower, through the 
MEF, shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such Fiscal Year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.   
 
Section 4.02. (a)  Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress reporting 
obligations specified in paragraph 9 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, the Borrower, 
through the MEF, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report 
(FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as of the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty-five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The Project Implementation Plan shall have been amended, suspended, 
abrogated or w
aived without the Bank’s prior approval. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the GEF trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
(c) 
(i) 
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the right of the 
Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
made to the Borrower for the financing of the Project shall have 
been suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, 
pursuant to the terms of the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) 
such suspension, cancellation or termination is not caused by the 
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under 
such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
Page  10
-
8
-
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.   
 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that the events specified in paragraphs (a) 
and (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.  
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that, the GEF Trust Fund Grant Agreement has been 
executed and delivered and all conditions precedent to the effectiveness or to the right of 
the Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only the effectiveness of the Loan 
Agreement, have been fulfilled. 
 
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Undersecretary of Treasury of the Borrower
 
is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Basbakanlik 
 
Hazine Mustesarligi 
 
Inonu Bulvari 
 
Emek-Ankara 
 
Republic of Turkey 
 
Cable 
address: 
 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
HAZINE 
 
44232 HZM-TR or 
(312) 212-8550 
 
Hazine, Ankara  
44404 HZM-TR 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY 
 
By  /s/ Ibrahim Canakci 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink 
Director 
Turkey Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia 
 
Page  12
-
10 -
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category, and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the  
% of 
 
Loan Allocated 
Expenditures 
 Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works 
11,300,000 
70% 
 
 
(2) 
Goods 
5,100,000 
100% of foreign 
 
expenditures, 
 
100%
of local 
 
expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), 
 
and 85% of local 
 
expenditures for 
 
other items procured 
 
locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services 
600,000 
78% 
 
(4) Training 
200,000 
100% 
 
 
(5) Incremental 
800,000 
50% 
 operating 
 
 
 costs 
 
(6) 
Fee 
200,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(7) Unallocated 
1,800,000
TOTAL 20,000,000
Page  13
-
11 -
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for works, goods or services supplied from 
the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for works, goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 
(c) 
the term “training” means: (i) the fees of consultants, including 
educational or other institutions and organizations, that provide training services; and (ii) 
the cost of study tours (including local tours for farmers), cost of workshops, and related 
travel expenditures, and boarding, lodging and per diem allowances provided to civil 
servants of the Borrower; and 
 
(d) 
the term “incremental operating costs” means reasonable and necessary 
incremental expenses incurred by the Borrower on account of Project implementation, 
management and monitoring, including the cost of transport and travel, fuel and repairs 
made on account of maintenance and operation of vehicles, attendance of seminars, 
conferences and meetings, communication, office operating and maintenance costs, 
including maintenance of office equipment, systems and facilities, rent and utilities. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works, under contracts costing 
less than $3,000,000 equivalent each, but excluding those referred to in paragraph 2 (a) 
(ii) and 2 (b) (v) of Part D of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (ii) goods, under 
contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent each, but excluding those referred to in 
paragraph 2 (a) (ii) and 2 (b) (i), (ii), and (iii) of Part D of Section I of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement; (iii) services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 
equivalent each; (iv) services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; (v) training; and (vi) incremental operating costs, all under such 
terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
12 -
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to support sustainable natural resource 
management practices in about twenty-eight (28) micro-catchments in the Project Area 
and thereby raise incomes of communities affected by resource degradation. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A:
Rehabilitation of Degraded Natural Resources
1. 
Rehabilitation of forest land including soil conservation through afforestation, 
rehabilitation of degraded forests, gallery plantations and participatory afforestation. 
 
2. 
Rehabilitation of rangeland including promotion of technical packages and land 
management practices to improve the vegetative cover of range lands. 
 
3.   
Rehabilitation of agricultural land including fallow reduction through the 
introduction of legumes, improved use of marginal land and river bank protection. 
 
4.   
Promotion of environmentally friendly agricultural practices in the Project Area 
of the Black Sea region, including manure management, nutrient management, organic 
farming and integrated pest management to reduce discharge of agricultural pollutants in 
the lower parts of watersheds, and monitoring of water and soil quality. 
 
Part B:
Income Generation Activities
Carrying out a program to provide the communities in the Project Area with the 
incentives to undertake rehabilitation and conservation efforts and to raise the income of 
village household including: (a) small scale irrigation, farm ponds, small dams, and small 
scale fisheries development; (b) agricultural production on terraces; (c) forestry based 
income diversification; and (d) farm enterprise diversification, bee keeping, green house 
development, livestock improvement, and introduction of improved technologies and 
cropping practices. 
 
Part C:
Strengthening Policy and Regulatory Capacity
1.   
Provision of support to the application of the EU Nitrates Directive through the 
monitoring of nitrate levels in the Project Area of the Black Sea region. 
 
Page  15
-
13 -
2.   
Development and promotion of a legal framework consistent with the EU 
Nitrates Directive for good agricultural practices based on on-farm trials, demonstrations 
and training. 
 
3.   
Provision of technical assistance to strengthen the institutional capacity for the 
production and marketing of organically produced farm products. 
 
Part D:
Awareness Raising, Capacity Building and Replication Strategy
Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to: (a) develop and 
disseminate a public information campaign to raise awareness among beneficiaries and 
other stakeholders on the Project’s objectives, approach and terms of participation; (b) 
increase the capacity of implementing agencies at all levels to promote environmentally 
friendly agriculture practices and raise public awareness on methods to reduce nutrient 
discharge from agriculture; and (c) develop a strategy for future replication of similar 
activities in Turkey and other Black Sea riparian countries. 
 
Part E:
Project Management and Support Services
1.   
Provision of technical assistance, training, office equipment and incremental 
operating costs to support Project management and coordination at the central and 
provincial levels, including the upgrading and expansion of the monitoring and 
evaluation system to allow for adequate monitoring of the impact of the Project.  
 
2.   
Provision of technical assistance and study tours to farmers and technical staff 
involved in the Project implementation, and carrying out of applied research in support of 
environmentally friendly practices.    
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2011. 
 
Page  16
-
14 -
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
November 15, 2008 
695,000 
May 15, 2009 
700,000 
November 15, 2009 
705,000 
May 15, 2010 
710,000 
November 15, 2010 
715,000 
May 15, 2011 
720,000 
November 15, 2011 
730,000 
May 15, 2012 
735,000 
November 15, 2012 
740,000 
May 15, 2013 
745,000 
November 15, 2013 
750,000 
May 15, 2014 
760,000 
November 15, 2014 
765,000 
May 15, 2015 
770,000 
November 15, 2015 
775,000 
May 15, 2016 
785,000 
November 15, 2016 
790,000 
May 15, 2017 
795,000 
November 15, 2017 
805,000 
May 15, 2018 
810,000 
November 15, 2018 
815,000 
May 15, 2019 
825,000 
November 15, 2019 
830,000 
May 15, 2020 
835,000 
November 15, 2020 
845,000 
May 15, 2021 
850,000 
 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in dollars to be repaid, except as provided in 
Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  17
-
15 -
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Procurement
 and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Works and Goods
Part A
:
General
Works and goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
(c) 
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines. 
Page  18
-
16 -
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(i) Works estimated to cost less than $3,000,000 equivalent per contract; and (ii) 
goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.  
 
2. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
3. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
4. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which: (a) should be procured as an extension of an existing contract; (b) 
must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with existing equipment; 
(c) are of a proprietary nature; or (d) must be procured from a particular supplier as a 
condition of a performance guarantee, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
 
5. 
Procurement from Government Owned Enterprises
Agricultural inputs, such as forestry seedlings, fruit bearing forest seedlings fruit 
tree seedlings, forest tree seeds, agricultural seeds and bee hives, which are only available 
from government owned enterprises and costing $3,400,000 equivalent or less in the 
aggregate, may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.  When there are more than one government 
owned enterprise that exist as the source of such agricultural inputs, the contract should 
be awarded to the government owned enterprise which offers the lowest price quotation, 
and which meets the qualifications for such agricultural inputs required under the Project. 
 
6. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.  
Page  19
-
17 -
The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the 
Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable.  The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts or any requests for 
price quotations, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all works and goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B of this Section I; and (ii) the first three (3) 
contracts for each works and goods to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Part C.1 of this Section I, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first three (3) contracts for goods to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section I; (ii) the first three (3) 
contracts for goods to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part C.3 of this 
Section I; (iii) each contract for goods to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
Part C.4 of this Section I; (iv) each contract for agricultural inputs to be awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C.5 of this Section I; and (v) the first three (3) 
contracts for works to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of Part C.6 of this 
Section I, the following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier and the execution of any 
contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract; and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Page  20
-
18 -
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services and training shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in 
January 1997 and revised in September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the 
Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for construction supervision and monitoring and 
evaluation, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise 
entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and 
footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for training services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2. 
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  21
-
19 -
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for strengthening Project management and 
implementation under Part E of the Project which meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to 
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; and (ii) each contract for the 
employment of consulting firms to be selected in accordance with the provisions of     
Part C.2 of this Section II, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 
1
to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the 
comparison of the qualifications and experience of candidates, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review 
and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
also apply to such contracts.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply; provided, however that prior review and approval by the Bank shall still apply to 
the terms of reference for such contracts and the criteria for short-listing of individual 
consultants. 
Page  22
-
20 -
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Section A:
Institutional Arrangements
1. 
The Project Management Group shall have the overall responsibility for Project 
management and supervision.  The representative of the MEF shall act as the Project 
coordinator within the Project Management Group. The Project Management Group shall 
be supported by the Operations Unit in charge of day to day Project management and 
coordination. To that end, the Borrower, through the MEF, shall maintain the Project 
Management Group and the Operations Unit throughout Project implementation under 
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and with sufficient and suitable human, 
financial and technical resources.   
 
2. 
At the province level, the Project shall be implemented by the Provincial Project 
Management Team chaired by the provincial directorate for environment and forestry and 
comprising representatives from the respective provincial directorate of agriculture and 
the provincial directorate of KHGM.  The Borrower, through the MEF and MARA, shall 
maintain the Provincial Project Management Teams throughout Project implementation 
under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank and with sufficient and suitable human, 
financial and technical resources.   
 
3. 
For each micro-catchment, the Borrower, through the MEF and MARA, shall 
maintain a Micro-catchment Implementation Team comprising representatives of 
provincial staff of the MEF and the MARA.  Micro-catchment Implementation Teams 
shall be responsible for the preparation and implementation, under terms of reference 
agreed with the Bank, of  annual work programs and budgets for the rehabilitation of 
micro-catchments under Part A of the Project within its respective province.  Each such 
work program shall be developed in collaboration with beneficiary communities and in 
close consultation with local government units and other local stakeholders. 
 
Section B:
Project Implementation Arrangements
4. 
The Borrower, through the MEF and MARA, shall:  
 
(a) 
ensure that the Project shall be implemented in accordance with the 
Project Implementation Plan;  
 
(b) 
not later than April 30, 2005, cause the Operations Unit to hire two 
procurement specialists, as consultants, with qualifications and under terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
ensure that the rehabilitation of micro-catchments under Part A of the 
Project shall be carried out in accordance with annual programs: (i) prepared by the 
Page  23
-
21 -
respective Micro-catchment Implementation Teams referred to in paragraph 3 hereof in 
accordance with the terms of reference indicated therein; (ii) reviewed and endorsed by 
the respective Provincial Project Management Team referred to in paragraph 2 hereof; 
(iii) finalized and approved by the Project Management Group referred to in paragraph 1 
hereof after reviewing the same with the Bank and taking into consideration the Bank's 
comments thereon; and (iv) agreed to by representatives of the population of villages 
benefiting from such rehabilitation of micro-catchments;  
 
(d)  
ensure that the program for income supporting activities under Part B of 
the Project shall be carried out in accordance with plans and criteria for determining the 
eligibility of members of the local population benefiting thereunder agreed with the 
Bank; and  
 
(e)  
ensure that the staff and farmers training under Part D of the Project shall 
be carried out in accordance with programs and criteria for the selection of candidates 
thereunder agreed with the Bank. 
 
5. 
The Borrower, through the MEF and MARA, shall ensure that the infrastructure 
facilities under the Project shall be constructed only on public land where no means of 
livelihood of any communities shall be affected. 
 
6. 
For each dam proposed to be constructed under the Project which: (i) exceeds 
fifteen (15) meters in height; or (ii) presents special design complexities such as 
unusually large flood-handling requirement, location in a zone of high seismicity, 
foundations that are complex and difficult to prepare, or retention of toxic materials, the 
Borrower shall:  
 
(a) 
convene a panel of experts, satisfactory to the Bank, to meet periodically, 
and retain the panel through the start-up of a new dam; 
 
(b) 
prepare and implement the following detailed plans: a plan for 
construction supervision and quality assurance, and instrumentation plan; an operation 
and maintenance plan; an emergency preparedness plan; and 
 
(c)  
after filling and start-up of a new dam, have periodic dam safety 
inspections performed by independent qualified professionals who have not been 
involved with the investigation, design, construction, or operation of the dam. 
 
Section C:
Project Reporting Arrangements
7. 
The Borrower, through the MEF and MARA, shall take all measures necessary to 
carry out the Environmental Management Plan in a timely manner, ensuring that 
adequate information on the implementation of the said measures is suitably included in 
the progress reports referred to in following paragraph 9 of this Section C. 
 
Page  24
-
22 -
8. 
For the purposes of the training consisting of workshops, seminars and study 
tours to be provided under the Project, the Borrower, through the MEF and MARA, shall: 
 
(a) 
furnish to the Bank for its approval, the content of each such training, 
including an explanation on how such training is consistent and conducive to the 
objectives of the Project and whether it offers the best price/quality ratio, as well as the 
schedule for its implementation;  
 
(b) 
select the trainees in accordance with a transparent process and criteria 
satisfactory to the Bank; 
 
(c) 
not later than September 30 of each year, exchange views with the Bank 
on the training to be carried out during the following calendar year; and  
 
(d) furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the results of each training and the benefits to be derived 
therefrom.  
 
 
9. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower, through the MEF and MARA,  shall, not later than March 31 and September 
30 in each calendar year, commencing on September 30, 2005, and until Project 
completion, cause the Operations Unit to prepare and furnish to the Bank for its review, a 
progress report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
describing, in accordance with evolving parameters acceptable to the Bank, the progress 
achieved by the Borrower in the implementation of the Project during the preceding six 
(6) month period. 
 
10. 
The Borrower, through the MEF and MARA, shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, on or about September 30, 2008, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, 
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Bank, by November 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
Page  25
-
23 -
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of 
the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.   
Page  26
-
24 -
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $2,000,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $1,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  27
-
25 -
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence
 
showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal 
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
Page  28
-
26 -
paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
 
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
