                                             Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                                   ReportNo: 28592




                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                          PROPOSEDLOAN

                              INTHE AMOUNT OFUS$20.0MILLION

                 AND A GRANT FROMTHE GLOBALENVIRONMENT FACILITY

                              INTHE AMOUNT OF US$7.0 MILLION

                                               TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                              FORTHE

                       ANATOLIA WATERSHEDREHABILITATIONPROJECT




Europeand CentralAsia Region
This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange Rate Effective January 21,2004)

                      Currency Unit = Turkish L i r a (TL)
                                TL 1 = US$0.00000074
                               US$1 = TL 1,351,000

                               FISCAL YEAR
                           January 1 -- December 31

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND A C R O N Y M S

AGM      General Directorate for Afforestation and Erosion Control o f MEF (Agaqlandirma ve
         Erozyon Kontrolu Genel Miidiirliigu)
APK      Research Planning and Coordination Board of MEF (Arastima Planlama ve
         KoordinasyonKurulu)
ARIP     Agricultural Reform ImplementationProject
AWRP     Anatolia Watershed RehabilitationProject
BCPCPS   Beneficiary-Centered Problem Census Problem Solving Method
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA     Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
csos     Civil Society Organizations
CYGM     General Directorate for Environmental Management o f MEF (Cevre Yonetimi Genel
         Miidiirliigu)
DHKD     Society for the Protection o f Nature (Dogal Hayati Koruma Demegi)
EAWP     Eastem Anatolia Watershed RehabilitationProject
ECA      Europe and Central Asia Region
EMP      Environmental Management Plan
ERR      Economic Rate o f Retum
EU       European Union
FMR      Financial Monitoring Reports
FMSU     FinancialManagement Sub-Unit o f the O U
GEF      Global Environment Facility
I P M    Integrated Pest Management
KHGM     General Directorate for Rural Services o f MARA (Koy Hizmetleri Genel Miidurlugii)
KKGM     General Directorate for Protectionand Control o f MARA (Koruma ve Kontrol Genel
         Miidiirlugu)
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
MARA     Ministry o fAgriculture and Rural Affairs (Tarim ve Koy Islen Bakanligi)
M C      Micro-catchments
MCIT     Micro-catchment ImplementationTeam (Mikrohavza Uygulama Ekibi)
MEF      Ministry of Environment and Forestry (Cevre ve Orman Bakanligi)
MESU     Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-Unit o f the OU
MRMA     Microcatchment Resource Management Associations
NPV      Net Present Value
NTFPs    Non-Timber Forest Products
OGM      General Directorate for Forestry o f MEF (Oman Genel Miidiirlugu)
ORKOY    General Directorate o f Forest and Village Relations o f MEF (Orman ve Koy Iliskileri
         Genel Mudurlugu)
ou       Operations Unit (Islem Birimi)
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAS      Procurement Accredited Staff

                                                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY




          PDA        Provincial Directorate o f Agriculture (Tarim I1Mudurlugu)
          PDEF       Provincial Directorate of Environment and Forestry (Cevre ve Orman I1Mudurlugu)
          PDRS       Provincial Directorate o f Rural Services (KOy Hizmetleri I1Mudurlugii)
          PIP        Project ImplementationPlan
          PMG       Project Management Group (Proje Yonetim Grubu)
          PMR        Project Management Report
          PMT       Provincial Management Team (I1 Yonetim Ekibi)
          P M U     Project Management Unit (Proje Yonetim Birimi)
          PSU       Procurement Sub-Unit o f the O U
          QAG        Quality Assurance Group
          REA        Regional Environmental Assessment
          SA         Social Assessment
          SEE        State Economic Enterprises
          SPO        State Planning Organization (Devlet Planlama Teskilati)
          TCs       Treasury Controllers
          TEMA       Foundationfor Combating Soil Erosion for Reforestation and the Protectiono fNatural
                     Habitats
          TORS      Terms o f Reference
          TUGEM      General Directorate of Agricultural Productionand Development o f MARA (Tarimsal
                     Uretim ve Gelistirme Gene1Mudurlugu)



                                 Vice President:        Shigeo Katsu
                              CountryDirector:          Andrew N.Vorkink
                               Sector Manager:          Marjory Anne Bromhead
                            Task Team Leader:           Peter A. Dewees




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                                TURKEY
                    ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT


                                               CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page

   1. Project development objective
   2. Global objective
   3. Key performance indicators

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-relatedCountry Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project      3
   2. Main sector issuesand Government strategy                                         4
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 8

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                 9
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     12
   3. Benefits and target population                                                    13
   4. Institutionaland implementation arrangements                                      13

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection                           15
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies      17
   3. Lessons learnedandreflected inthe project design                                  17
   4. Indications ofborrower andrecipient commitment andownership                       18
   5. Value added of Bank andGlobal support inthis project                              19

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                          19
   2. Financial                                                                         20
   3. Technical                                                                         20
   4. Institutional                                                                     21
   5. Environmental                                                                     22
   6. Social                                                                            23
   7. Safeguard Policies                                                                25

F. Sustainability andRisks

   1. Sustainability                                                                   27
   2. Critical risks                                                                   28
   3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   29


G. Main Conditions

   1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          29
   2. Other                                                                            29

H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        30

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                           30



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        31
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  36
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 43
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             47
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  48
           (B)Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                       60
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   65
Annex 8:   Documents inthe Project File                                                67
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                                               68
Annex 10 Country at a Glance                                                           71
Annex 11: GEF Incremental Cost Analysis                                                73
Annex 12: GEF Scientific andTechnical Advisory Panel (STAP) Review                     80
Annex 13: Environmental Management Framework                                           84
Annex 14: Summary o f Social Assessment                                                91
Annex 15: Procurement o f Goods, Works andServices from Govemment-owned Enterprises    98
Annex 16: Identificationand Selection Criteria for Microcatchments                     103




MAP(S)
Project Watersheds (IBRD 32583)
Sample Microcatchment Management Plan for Forestry Activities (IBRD 32584)

BORROWEWRECIPIENT              8.60     0.05    8.65
IBRD                           18.38    1.62    20.00
LOCAL COMMUNITIES              8.51     0.95    9.46
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY    5.67     1.33    7.00
Total:                         41.16    3.95    45.11

SorrowerlRecipient: REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
Responsible agency: MEF AND MARA
Undersecretariat o f Treasury
4ddress: InonuBulvari, Emek,06530 Ankara
Contact Person: Ms. Aysen Kulakoglu, Head, World BankProjects
Tel: 90-312-213 02 97                  Fax: 90-312-212 87 37                Email:
%her Agency(ies):
GeneralDirectorate o f Afforestation and ErosionControl (AGM),Ministry of Environment and Forestry
4ddress: GaziTesisleri No. 11, Sogutozu, Ankara
Tel: 90-312-212 55 96                  Fax: 90-312-212 55 32                Email:

General Directorate o f Forest andVillage Relations (ORKOY), Ministry o f Environment and Forestry
Address: Gazi Tesisleri No. 11, Sogutozu, Ankara
Tel: 90-312-212-5536                   Fax: 90-3 12-212-5562               Email:

GeneralDirectorate of Forests (OGM), Ministryo f Environment and Forestry
Address: Gazi Tesisleri No. 11, Sogutozu, Ankara
Tel: 90-312-212-6300                     Fax: 90-3 12-212-5532

General Directorate for Environmental Management (CYGM), Ministryof Environment and Forestry
Address: Eskisehir Yolu 8 km, Lodumlu, Ankara
Tel: 90-312-287-9963                     Fax: 90-312-285-5875

General Directorate of Agricultural Production and Development (TUGEM), Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs
Address: MilliMudafaa CaddesiNo 20., Kizilay, Ankara
Tel: 90-312-418 5982                     Fax: 90-312-417 0026

General Directorate o f Control and Protection (KKGM), Ministryo f Agriculture and Rural Affairs
Address: Akay CaddessiNo. 3, Bakanliklar, Ankara
Tel: 90-312-418-2023                     Fax: 90-312-418-2023

General Directorate of Rural Services (KHGM), Ministryo f Agriculture and Rural Affairs
Address: Eshsehir Yolu 9 km., Lodumlu, Ankara
Tel:   90-312-287 80 92  -                Fax: 90-312-287 8091
7
PO70950 Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):




Project implementation period: 7 years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2004        Expected closing date: 06/30/2012




                                                         - 2 -

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project's overall development objective is to support sustainable natural resource management
practices in28 microcatchments inAnatolia and Turkey's Black Sea Region andthereby raise incomes o f
communities affected by resource degradation. Insupport o f this objective, the project will:

    encourage local communities to take responsibility for planning and implementing an integrated
    approach to sustainable natural resource management inselected microcatchments;
    introduce communities to more environmentally-friendly farming andforestry productionpractices to
    raise landproductivity, to reduce pressures on marginal lands, and to improve household income;
    help reduce nutrient discharge from agricultural sources into the Black Sea;
    strengthen the policy formulation and regulatory capacity towards meeting European Union (EU)
    standards for agricultural nutrient pollution control;
    improve the overall framework for river basinplanning and management inthe context o f EUdirectives
    on water;
    strengthen institutional capacity to promote sustainable natural resource management and to raise
    public awareness about resource degradation issues.

2. Global objective:     (see Annex 1)

The key global environment objective is to introduce farming practices which will reduce the discharge o f
agricultural nutrients into surface and ground water inwatersheds draining into the Black Sea infour
provinces. The Project will help introduce improvedmanure andnutrient management practices as well as
organic farming which, over the long run, will help reduce the discharge of nitrogen andphosphorus into
the surface and ground waters o f Turkey andthe Black Sea. Project activities inthis area are directly linked
to the Strategic Action Planfor the Protection and Rehabilitation of the Black Sea,formulated with the
assistance o f the GEF. The nutrient reduction component is being prepared under the umbrella o f the Black
SeaDanube Strategic Partnership-Nutrient Reduction Investment Fundunder which riparian countries are
eligible for Global Environment Facility (GEF) grants for projects that help to control or mitigate nutrient
discharge into the Black Sea.

3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)

0   Increased quality and quantity o f forest cover, inthe project area;
0   Increase vegetation cover inthe rangelands inthe project villages compared to non-project villages by
    20 percent at the mid-term and50 percent at year 7, over the baseline;
0   Increased public awareness of causes, effects and mitigating measures o f natural resource degradation
    as measured by baseline, mid-term, and end o fproject surveys;
0   Adoption o f environmental friendly agricultural practices by microcatchment farmers;
0   Increased income inproject villages comparedto non-project villages;
0   Reducednutrient load inselected water receiving bodies inmicrocatchment areas.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supportedby the project: (see Annex 1)
Documentnumber: R2003-0181 Date of latest CAS discussion: 11/6/2003

The objective o fthe CAS is to help Turkey continue to implement hdamental reforms to reduce economic
vulnerability, to achieve highand stable growth, andto continue the process o f addressing long-neglected


                                                      - 3 -

                    a




social and environmental problems. The CAS aims to assist inreducing the risk o f the reemergence o f
economic crises, andthe natural disasters which sometimes precipitate these, and to help Turkey achieve its
objective o f getting ready for EUmembership. The planned assistance program for FY04-06 supports
poverty reduction. Inparticular, i t aims at: makingthe economy more resilient to crises (including natural
disasters) that disproportionately affect the most vulnerable; contributing to sustainable economic growth
that is critical to pullmany o fthe poor out o f poverty; promoting humandevelopment to create
opportunities for the poor bymaking access to health andeducation more equitable and malung the social
protection system more efficient; improving the delivery o f and access to services indisadvantaged areas;
andincreasing empowerment through enhanced localparticipation andcivil society involvement.
Specifically, the CAS focuses on four themes: sound macroeconomics and govemance; equitable human
andsocial development; creating an attractivebusiness climate; strong environmental managementand
disaster prevention.

The Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project is included inthe Country Assistance Strategy (FY04 to
FY06) discussed by the Board inNovember 2003. I t is consistent with two o f the four themes articulated in
the CAS, specifically focusing on equitable human and social development and strong environmental
management and disaster prevention. Inthis latter respect particularly, reversing the trend o f long-term
environmental degradation is identified as a priority, including support for further progress to meeting EU
environmental regulations, and introducing sound practices for water, soil, and forestry management.

la. Global Operational strategvlprogram objective addressed by the project:
The Project's strategic objectives are directly tied to the objectives o f the Strategic Action Plan for the
Black Sea, supported by GEF. The Project's objective o f reducing the discharge o f agncultural nutrients
into ground and surface waters is consistent with GEF Operational Program on Waterbodies (Operational
Program 8). The Project provides an opportunity for GEF to be a catalyst for actions that integrate
improved land and water resource managementpractices. GEF support will reduce the costs and barriers to
farmers inadopting improved agricultural practices. It will also help develop mechanisms to move from
demonstration level activities to operational projects that reduce non-point source pollution from
agriculture to the Black Sea.

The Project is consistent with several additional GEF Operational Programs, including Operational
Program 3 on Forest Ecosystems, Operational Program 12 on Integrated Ecosystem Management, and
Operational Program 9 Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Area. Rehabilitation andimproved
management o f degraded watersheds, incombination with improvednutrient and manure management will
also reduce threats to biodiversity and promote increasedcarbon sequestration.

2. M a i n sector issues and Government strategy:
MainSector Issues

The main issues affecting the rural sector inTurkey fall into several areas, but generally reflect weaknesses
inthe overall incentives framework for agncultural productionandproblems relatedto the serious
degradation o f natural resources.

Sectoral Policies and the IncentivesFramework: Turkey's agricultural sector has significant potential,
butthis has gone largely unrealized. Over the last 20 years, agriculture grew at only about one-third the
rate o f overall GNP. As a result, agriculture's contribution to nationalproduction shrank from 36 percent
to 14percent, although the sector still accounts for 45 percent o f employment. A key problemwith the
policy environment has been the structure o f agricultural support which has traditionally been channeled


                                                       - 4 -

through a complex maze o f input and credit subsidies, output price supports, highborder protection, export
controls, deficiency payments, price controls, market interventions to protect consumers, and others. This
fiscally expensive and economically inefficient system is driven by short-term political concerns rather than
long-term strategy. Price distortions have led to unsound agricultural practices, including overemphasis on
the use o f agrochemicals with serious effects on soil and water quality. The Government is now addressing
these issues inthe framework o f an overall structural reform program supportedby the IBRDAgricultural
Reform Implementation Project (ARTP).

Although the poverty incidence is not significantly different between urban andrural areas, a large fraction
(over 40 percent) o f the poor are engaged inagriculture. There is marked inter-regional variation inthe
poverty incidence. Regions with a higher poverty incidence generally derive a larger share o f their income
from agriculture and have significantly lower agricultural productivity than better o f f regions. Productivity
differences across rural areas are a reflectiono f differences inresource endowments, the status o f the
naturalresource base, and access to public infrastructure.

It is especially strikingthat the incidence ofpoverty is closely associated with altitude. Eveninwealthier
regions, the incidence o fpoverty is significantly higher at higher elevation areas, compared with the
lowlands, due to the precarious state o f the natural resource base and limited opportunities for income
diversification. The consequent dependence on forests to provide rural goods and services for the rural
poor is much greater than inother areas. Average household income inhigher altitude forest areas is
anywhere from 40 to 60 percent o f the average household income inother rural areas. Between 1975 and
 1990, largely inresponse to rural poverty and to risk mitigation, the population o f about 95 percent o f
forest villages inTurkey declined due to out-migration. The most important cause o f out-migration was
poverty, experiencedboth interms o f wealth and income and also interms o f inadequate infrastructure and
social services. Inmountain villages, landfor agriculture and pasture (a crucial determinant o f income) is
severely limited. On average, households inforest areas have access to 2.5 ha o f land, which compares with
the average for all ruralhouseholds inTurkey o f 6.4 ha. The proximity o f the forest does provide some
benefits: 57 percent o f villagers are completely dependent on wood for heating, and about halfo f these are
dependent on wood for coolung as well. The scarcity o f good farming landinmountains and other forested
areas has meant that communities are often dependent on mixed landuses, including grazing. Indeed,
livestock management is a muchmore important livelihood strategy inthese areas than most other farming
options.

Degradation of Natural ResourceBase: Deforestation to meet increasing timber, fuel andfodder
 demands, together with overgrazing o f rangeland, farmingo f steep slopes, andthe lack o f effective soil
 conservation practices on agricultural landhave resulted inwidespread degradation of land and water
resources. Only 6.6 percent o f the Land inTurkey does not suffer from erosion with 7.2 percent slightly,
20.1 percent moderately, 36.4 percent severely and22.3 percent very severely eroded. Land degradation
has significantly reduced the carrying capacity o f rangeland and the fertility o f agricultural landinthe
upper catchment areas and thus negatively affected farming households' ability to derive a livelihood inthe
uplandregions, with resulting higher poverty rates inthese areas. Reducedvegetative cover has ledto
marked reductions insoil moisture content thus subjecting agricultural lands to significantly higher
vulnerability to drought. Land degradation has also led to unstable and increasingly torrential river flows
with increased incidence o f flooding and growing sedimentationproblems. Landslides have also become a
 growing problem.

Agriculture basedpollution of ground and surface water: Inmany areas o fthe country, particularly in
 low landsand fertile plains, extension workers and farmers heavily emphasize the use o f external inputs
 like pesticides, inorganic fertilizers and animal feed. At the same time farmers are not sufficiently familiar


                                                       - 5 -

with these technologies andtheir risks. Relevant Government bodies are illequippedto legislate and
implement the necessary controls to prevent the over-use o f chemicals. As a result, existing regulatory
restrictions are weak and there are indications that excessive application o f agricultural chemicals has led
to considerable contamination o f soil andground water, including the contamination o f drinkingwater in
rural communities. Excessive input use has also led to highlevels o f nutrient loads inground water and
rivers draining into the Black Sea, causing eutrophication.

The Black Sea Region Transboundary Diagnostic Analysis (1996) identified Turkey's rivers which empty
into the Black Seas as a key sources o fphosphorus (P) and nitrogen (N)pollution. It estimatedthat
Turkey's annual discharge o f nitrogencontributed about 20 percent, and its discharge o fphosphates 12
percent, o f total Nand P respectively produced inthe non-Danube Black Sea Basin. Three o f the largest
rivers emptying into the Black Sea originate inCentral Anatolia. While one o f them (Sakarya) embraces
industrial as well as agricultural areas, the main source o fpollution inthe other two (Yesilirmak and
Kizilirmak) is agriculture. The main sources o f river pollution from agriculture non-point sources are: (i)
poor agncultural practices, including inappropriate andover-application o f fertilizers and pesticides, (ii)
soil erosion, (iii) drainage and, (iv) inappropriate handling o f animal manure waste.
                   poor

Limited Institutional Capacity to Promote Sustainable Natural ResourceManagement: The current
system to protect and manage Turkey's natural resources suffers from an over reliance on centralized
management, a lack o f coordination among key agencies involved inrural development, limited public
awareness and participation, insufficient use of economic instruments for natural resource management
and, limited research on the lmkages betweennatural resource management andcommunities'
socio-economic development.

Inadequate Policy and Regulatory Capacityfor meetingEUStandards: Turkey's status as an EU
candidate country calls for important changes inthe country's environmental policy and regulatory
framework, specifically taking account o f the EUDirectives on Water Resource Use, Nitrates, and
Environmental Impact Assessment. Turkey must adopt a detailed, directive-specific program to transpose
the national legislative andregulatory framework ina manner consistent with the EUenvironmental acquis,
andto develop a plan to finance supporting investments. Inthe medium term Turkey will needto implement
the environmental acquis through the development and enforcement o f environmental and sectoral
legislation. A number o f directives (for example, the Nitrates Directive) will be particularly difficult to
implement for Turkey, given the current status of infrastructure and available financial resources. The
Water Framework Directive has important implications for integrated river basin planningand
management.

 Government Strategy

SectoralPolicy: In 1999, the Government launched an ambitious economic reform programto create the
basis for stable economic growth and to set the stage for the country's entry into the EU. The sectoral
 reform program encompasses three main initiatives designed to reduce the heavy burden on the budget and
 consumers, while promoting agricultural growth. These include: i)introduction o f a unified national
 programo f direct income support; ii)phasing out the system o f subsidies for fertilizer, credit and price
 support and linking support prices to market prices; and iii)privatization o f most State Economic
 Enterprises (SEES) inagriculture to reduce state involvement inthe marketing andprocessing o f
 agricultural products. The overall program o f agncultural policy reforms will increase Turkey's
 competitiveness while protecting natural resources and the poor. The Bank is supporting the Government's
 agriculture sector reform strategy with the IBRD-financed Agricultural ReformImplementation Project
 (ARIP), approved inJuly 2001. Government has also undertaken significant efforts to improve the rural


                                                      - 6 -

population's access to physical and social infrastructure through substantial investments inboth.

Natural Resource Management: The needto embracenatural resourcemanagement as an integralpart o f
a sustainable rural development strategy was clearly identified inGovernment's NationalEnvironmental
Action Plan, The NEAP spelled out the needto introduce improved agncultural practices to reduce soil
degradation andground and water pollution from agnculture. The Government has initiated efforts to
rehabilitate degradedareas andto promote environmentally fnendly agricultural practices. However,
widespread adoption o fthese practiceshas remained limiteddue to lack of funds for expansion and
promotion, lack o f coordination among various Government agencies involved inthe rural sector and an
approachthat traditionally relies too much on central command and control rather than on participationby
affected communities. Underthe recently completed World Bank supportedEasternAnatolia Watershed
Management Project (EAWP) the Government introduced a more holistic and participatory approach to
natural resourcemanagement on a watershedbasis ineleven provinces, with positive effects on the status
of natural resources as well as household incomes. Among other things, the EAWP received a 'best
practice' rating from the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG). Underthe EAWP, the Ministryo f
Forestry, the Ministry of Agriculture andRural Affairs (h4ARA) and the General Directorate o f Rural
Services (Kdy Hizmetleri Gene1MiidiirliiNor KHGM) beganto coordmate and integrate their activities at
themicrocatchment (MC) level .The approachresultedina series of quite positive outcomes, increasing
rural incomes andreducing natural resource degradation inMCs. Inorder to buildon some o f the lessons
learned, andto use Bank and GEF-financed interventions as a means for introducing further innovation in
rural landmanagement, Government has decidedto introduce M C planningand managementinitiatives in
severalother areas, and has agreedto integrate these activities with agricultural pollutioncontrol measures
inlower partsofMCsas well asto bringaboutbetter riverbasin-wide planning.The Government has
requestedfinancial support from IBRDand GEF for this effort.

A recentinstitutionalreorganization hasbeenundertakento improve the effectivenessof some ofthe key
institutions with environmental managementresponsibility, and to more closely align the institutional
framework with EUenvironmental directives. KHGM,which hadpreviously been ina separate State
Ministry,hasbeenincorporatedinto the MinistryofAgncultural andRuralAffairs. TheMinistryof
Environment andthe Ministryof Forestry have also beenmerged, to create the Ministryo f Environment
and Forestry (MEF). These changes should fixther facilitate implementation o f a holistic approach to
rural development andnatural resourcemanagement. Inconjunctionwith these changes, and as part o f the
overall program o fpublic sector reform, ProvincialDirectorates for agriculture, forestry, and the
environment are also currently being restructured.

The Forestry Sector Review (2001) jointly preparedby the Bank andGovernment identifiedseveral vital
challenges facing the forestry sector. These include issues related to poverty, land tenure, the need to
establishmultipurpose, participatory forest managementplanning, andto control soil erosion indegraded
areas. The Ministry o f Environment andForestry has started to prepare a National Forestry Program, ina
participatory manner, that includes a review o f the existing status o f the sector, short and long term
 forestry policy and strategies, and which outlines implementation strategiesand an actionplan. Preparation
 of the programis fundedby FAO. To date the agreedpolicy recommendation includes preparation o f
watershed-basedforest resourcemanagementplans, participationo f local communities inresource
 managementdecisionsand interventions, andbenefit sharing and collaboration with other sectorsand
 stakeholders.




                                                     - 7 -

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project andstrategic choices:
Buildingon the successful approaches to community based andintegrated approachto natural resource
management, the proposedproject aims at addressing the following sectoral issues:

e  Land Degradation in Upper WatershedAreas: The project will work with communities to develop
   andimplement anintegratednatural resource management planinthe upper part of selected
   microcatchments. Communities will choose from a menu o f technical options to rehabilitate and to
   more sustainably use degraded forest, range, and agricultural lands. The project will provide
   opportunities to help raise income o f participating communities inretum for adopting and
   implementingrehabilitation measures.

e  Agriculture Based Water Pollution and Nutrient Flow into the Black Sea:The project will help
   introduce environmentally friendly agricultural practices aimed at reducing ground and surface water
   pollution and nutrient discharge into the Black Sea. It will provide training to extension staff and
   farmers on appropriate nutrient management strategies, organic farming, integrated pest management
   and improved manure handling.

e  Inadequate Policy and Regulatory Capacity TowardsMeeting EU Standards: The project will
    support the implementation o f the EUNitrates Directive through staff training andthrough the
   provision o f equipment to monitor nitrate levels at selected locations inthe four participating Black Sea
    Provinces. It will also support the preparation and implementation o f a Code o f Good Agricultural
    Practices, inline with EUenvironmental standards, and will strengthen the institutionalcapacity in
    support o f organic farming. The project will provide a framework for integrated river basinplanning
    inthe Yesilirmak and Kizilirmakbasin, consistent with guidanceprovided inthe EUWater Framework
    Directive.

e  Limited Awareness of Natural ResourceDegradation Issues and Mitigating Measures: Awareness
    of the consequences o f natural resource degradation and agriculture based pollution ando f mitigating
    measures is limited. The project will help develop and implement a strategy to raise awareness o f the
    causes and effects o funsustainable agricultural practices and o f effective approaches to improved
    natural resource management.

e   Limited Institutional Capacity to Promote Integrated Natural ResourceManagement: The project
    will provide concerned agency staffat the national andlocal levelwith training inthe new approach to
    natural resource management and effective implementation o f environmentally improved agricultural
    practices. This will include allowing local staff to learn frtst handfrom their colleagues, who have
    already gained experience with integrated natural resource management. The project will also help
    buildcapacityneededto meet Turkey's obligations under the Convention onthe Protection o fthe Black
    SeaAgainst Pollution and several additional international protocols aimed to reduce pollution inthe
    Black Sea. It will also help develop the capacity o fprivate smallholder and commercial farmers to use
    environment-friendly agricultural practices andresource management.

Strategic Choices: Three strategic choices were made with respect to this project. The first decision, made
duringpreparation ofthe CAS, was to limitactivities supportedbythe project specifically to natural
resource management interventions, complementing sectoral policy reforms which are being addressedby
AMP. The second decision was to focus on watersheds inwhich EAWPhad already successfully
operated, but to expand activities into new microcatchments inthese watersheds. This decision was
motivated by the needto consolidate the achievements o f EAWP, and inparticular, further to strengthen the



                                                      - 8 -

institutional capacity for integrated natural resource management builtunder this project at the field level.
Thirdly,the decision was taken to broadenthe activities supportedby EAWPto include agricultural
pollution control andwaste management to provide scope for greater innovation andto test out
farmer-based approaches to nutrient management within the framework o f MC planning.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Projectcomponents (see Annex 2 for a detailed description andAnnex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
ProjectApproach: The proposed project will buildand expand on a community-based approach to natural
resource management. Under this approach, natural resource degradation is seen as a multi-sectoral
problem, requiring microcatchment specific solutions. MC development thus involves the integration o f
forestry, soil and water conservation; crop- and livestock production; and limited off-farm income
generation ina mutually reinforcing manner. A team o f provincial rural services, agriculture and forestry
staffwill work with villagers to help MC communities identify andrank their principal resource
management anddevelopment problems. Project staffwill present M C communities with a menu o f
conservation and income generating activities appropriate to the specific M C conditions, with some o f them
being conditional on the adoption o f others, so as to encourage adoption o f conservations measures which
may include short term costs to communities or specific groups. Implementingagencies will simply identify
anddemonstrate to concemed communities what can be undertaken to stem or reverse resource
degradation, but they will not implement such measures on a massive scale. Insteadthey will create the
conditions to encourage landusers themselves to adopt more productive and protective landmanagement
systems. The project will introduce the innovation o fpiloting the management o f agricultural waste to limit
nutrient runoff, through integration with watershed micro-catchment activities.

ProjectArea andLandUse: The project will be implemented in6 provinces (Samsun, Tokat, Sivas,
Kayseri, Corum, and Amasya provinces) covering: i)two main ecological regions, namely the Black Sea
and Continental ecological regions; and ii)three o f Turkey's 26 major river basins, the Kizilirmak and
Yesilirmak basins (which drain into the Black Sea) and the Seyhan basin (which drains into the
Mediterranean Sea). The project will rehabilitate 28 MCs in5 o f the 6 provinces (Tokat, Sivas, Kayseri,
Corum, and Amasya provinces), and will reduce agncultural based nutrient discharge into the Black Sea,
through GEF supported activities, infour o f the provinces (Samsun, Tokat, C o m andAmasya). Each o f
the 28 MCs to be rehabilitated by the project will cover between 5,000 and 15,000 hectares and the total
 area under development will be inthe order o f 202,000 hectares, out o f which about 30,000 ha will be the
physical implementation area. Detailed information on each M C will be gathered andanalyzed during the
 MC planning process.

 Ofthe 8 million ha o f land inthe project provinces about 45 percent is agricultural land, 19percent is
 gazetted forest (comprising both forest and brush land) and29 percent is rangeland. Although there are
 significant differences among provinces, the principal landuse inthe project MCs is rangeland. Rangeland
 conditions vary from moderately productive but overgrazed to severely degradedand eroded. Agriculture is
 generally limitedto small scale, often subsistence production, including inthe Black Sea provinces. Due to
 limited land availability, crops are often planted on fragile slopes. The type o f crop rotation is determined
 by ecological characteristics o fthe productionarea as well as socio-economic conditions o ffarmers.
 Generally, wheat andbarley are rotated with fallow, rarely with pulses. Due to land constraints, continuous
 cereal production which leads to significant soil degradation is also common inmany MCs. Only about one
 quarter o f agricultural land is imgated, although small scale irrigation is possible inMCs with perennial
 streams and springs. Inlower irrigated parts of MCs, cereals are rotated with sugarbeet, oil crops, beans,
 maize or horticultural crops.



                                                       - 9 -

RuralPopulation: With the exception of MCs inthe lower watersheds inthe four Black Sea Provinces,
MCs to be includedinthe project are primarily located inrural mountainous areas. The ruralpopulationin
these watersheds i s around 2 million. Many o fthe 400 or so villages inthe project area are classified as
"forest villages" with limitedaccess to proper agricultural and range land. Most households inthe project
area rely on crop and livestock production as their main sourceof income, with forest villagers
supplementingtheir income with forestry basedwork. As a result ofthe significantly degradednatural
resourcebase andlimitedaccess to infrastructure, household incomes inthe M C area are significantly
below the average rural householdincome inTurkey. Many households inthe project area remainlargely in
the subsistenceeconomy. A survey infour project provinces showedthat (excluding subsistence
consumption) average household cashincome ranged from betweenUS$ 100to $750per year in
mountainous areas, while average household income inrural areas inthe Black Sea provinces varied
between USS 100per year inmountainous MCs and $ 1300per year inthe more commercialized farming
areas o f Corum. Dueto low incomes anda degradednatural resourcebase, there is significant
outmigration.

A.       Overall Project Description

The project will have five components. Costs are indicative andinclude physical and price contingencies,
as well as counterpart andbeneficiary contributions.

Component 1:Rehabilitation of Degraded Natural Resources (US$23.5 million). This component will
provide support for the planning andimplementation of a menuof activities to be implemented by village
communities underthe direction of the MEF andMARA, inpartnership with communities. The
component's primary objective is to protect degradedareas from further degradation, erosion and pollution.
Rehabilitation interventions are focused around four sub-components as outlinedbelow andwill be
implemented in28 micro-catchments and in6 provinces. The activities include a specific programfor
piloting actions on reducing nutrient dischargeto the water bodies that will be implemented inthe lower
parts o f watersheds o f four participatingBlack Sea provinces usingGEF funds.

The mainsub-componentsare as follows:

i)       Rehabilitation of forest land including soil conservation by afforestation, protectionand
          improvement o f poor & degradedsoils, gallery plantation, rehabilitation o f oak coppices ando f
          degradedhighforests, participatory replantingand inventory of non-wood forest products. All
          implementedby MEF(AGM& OGM).

ii)      Rangeland Rehabilitation, including improved management o f forest rangelandsunder MEF and
          rehabilitation activities on rangelandoutside the forest landby MARA.

iii) Rehabilitationof AgriculturalLand,including:fallowreduction,appropriateuseofmarginal
          agncultural land, wild tree grafting, river bankprotection, and construction and production on
          agricultural terraces. Implementedby MARA (KHGMand TUGEM).

iv)      Environment-friendly agricultural practices, including demonstrations of improved crop
          production practices, organic farmingand Integrated Pest Management by MARA and nutrient
          reduction activities implementedby MARA/MEF.

Withregard to the environment-friendly practices, implementation ofselectedactivities to reducenutrient


                                                      -10-

discharge into the water bodies inthe lower watersheds o f participating Black Sea provinces will be
financed by the Global Environment Facility (GEF) grant, by Government andby beneficiaries.

Component 2: IncomeRaisingActivities(US$17.57 million). Under this component target communities
would be offered a menu o f activities designed to raise household incomes inretum for participation in
conservation activities supportedunder Component 1. Income generating activities are designed to provide
participating communities with the incentives to undertake conservation efforts even ifthey incur short or
medium term costs ( e g short term closure of range lands, closure o f forest land) or ifbenefits can only be
reaped inthe longrun(afforestation). The menu offered will vary in accordance with
agro-ecological and socio-economic conditions ineach village, as well as with farmers' resources and
needs. The approach will be flexible so as to be able to respond to the needs o f the villagers andflexibility
will be maintainedduringproject implementation. The main income generating activities which will be
financed by the project include small scale irrigation including creation o f small irrigatedperimeters and
farm ponds, implemented by MARA (KHGM); investments inlivestock improvement, greenhouses and
small-scale freshwater fisheries implementedby MEF (ORKOY); and farm and crop enterprise
diversification (including rainfed and irrigated horticulture, irrigated forage crops, vegetable production,
plantingtrees on field boundaries, agncultural processing and beekeeping) implemented by MARA
(TUGEM).

Component3: StrengtheningPolicy andRegulatoryCapacityTowardsMeetingEUStandards
(US$0.28 million). This component will provide support for implementing the following three
sub-components which emphasize participatory approaches to sustainable natural resource management,
corresponding to locally expressed priorities:

i)       Supportfor the Application of the EUNitrates Directive through the monitoring o fnitrate levels
         at selected sites inthe four Black Sea provinces, as first step inimplementing the nitrates directive.

ii)      Development and Promotion of a Code of GoodAgricultural Practices basedon on-farm trials,
         demonstrations and training. The preparation andultimate application o f this code is a mandatory
         part o f the nitrates drective program.

iii) InstitutionalSupportfor OrganicFarming:Theprojectwouldprovidetechnicalassistanceto
         strengthen the institutional capacity insupport o fproducing andmarketing organically produced
         farm products.

Component4: Awareness Raising, CapacityBuildingandReplication Strategy (US$1.06 million):
This component, implementedjointly by MEF and MARA) will have the following sub-components:

i)       Public Awareness in Micro-catchmentDevelopment: This will raise awareness amongst target
         beneficiaries and other stakeholders about the program approach and terms o f participation in
         Micro-catchment development. The goal will be to increase transparency inprogram
         implementation and empower beneficiaries to demand program services.

ii)      Public Awareness, Capacity Building and Replication Strategy: With regard to the four Black Sea
         provinces, the component would provide capacity buildingandpublic awareness activities at the
         local, national and regional level, for the training o f beneficiaries and participatinginstitutions as
         well as for the future replicationo f similar activities inTurkey andother Black Sea riparian
         countries.



                                                       -11 -

Component 5: Project Management and Support Services (US$2.5 million): This component will have
the following sub-components:

i)       Project Administration: This sub-component will support the technical assistance, financial
         services, logistical and operational requirements necessary to ensure the appropriate and efficient
         administration o fproject activities andresources by central and provincial project management
         units.

ii)      Support Services: This sub-component will fund extension, technical assistance and some study
         tours for project managers, technical project staff and farmers.

iii) Monitoring&EvaluationSystem: Theprojectwouldprovidefortheupgradingofthepresent
         MonitoringandEvaluation system.

iv)      Fundfor applied research and technology dissemination:This sub-component will finance
         short-term, small scale applied research on soil, water, crop, natural resource management,
         agricultural pollution, livestock and forestry focusing on MC environment.


                                                     Indicative                        Yo of      GEF       % of
          Component                                    costs                           Bank     financing   GEF
                                                      (US$M)             1I          financing   (US$M)   inancing
Component 1: Rehabilitationof DegradedNatural           23.50                            50.8       6.13    87.6
Resources
Component 2: Income Raising                              17.57       38.9    7.95        39.8       0.00     0.0
Component 3: Strengthening Capacity for Meeting          0.28        0.6     0.00         0.0       0.18     2.6
EUEnvironmental Standards
 Component 4: Awareness Raising, Capacity                 1.06       2.3     0.51         2.6       0.38     5.4
buildingand Replication Strategy
 Component 5: Project management and Support             2.50                             6.0       0.31     4.4
Services
                               Total Project Costs      44.91       100.0   20.00        99.0       7.00   100.0
                                                                   ~

                                     Front-end fee       0.20                             1.o       0.00     0.0
                        Total Financing Required        45.11                           100.0       7.00   100.0


As indicated inthe table, the GEF Grant will be financing: (a) promotion o fenvironmentally friendly
agncultural practices under rehabilitation of degraded natural resources component; (b) strengthening
policy an regulatory capacity component; (c) public awareness and replicationactivities; and (d) relevant
project management and support services.

2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key institutional reforms supported by this project include (i)  participatory watershed management; (ii)
improved inter-agency collaboration at central and field level to facilitate effective natural resource
management; (iii)   direct engagement o f communities inimplementation o f M C plans, including full
responsibility for operation andmaintenance o fproject supported investments; (iv) increasedresponsibility
o f local level implementing agencies inplanningand implementation o f resource management activities and,
(v) increased policy andregulatory capacity to meet international obligations to reduce polluting discharge
into the Black Sea and move towards EUstandards on agricultural pollutioncontrol.




                                                      - 12-

3. Benefitsand target population:


~ Beneficiaries                             Benefits
 Farmers and rural households living in       0 Improved longer term access to wood and non-wood forestry
 degradedmicro-watersheds                       products
                                              0 Increased availability o f water for animal and human
                                                consumption
                                              0 Sustainable increases incrop yields
                                              0 Higher fodder production on rangelands
                                              0 Improvedlivestock yields
                                              0 Higher and more stable household incomes leadingto reduced
                                                poverty
                                              0 Improved well water quality
                                              0 Reduced flooding due to smoother streamflows
                                              0 Reduced siltation and sedimentation
 Communities living downstream o f            0 Improved well water quality
 degraded areas                               0 Improved downstream water quality
                                              0 Reducedcost o f water treatment for human consumption
                                              0 Reduced siltation and sedimentation loads
                                              0 Reducedflooding due to smoother streamflows
 Non-farming households in watersheds         0 Improved water quality
 emptying into Black Sea and inBlack Sea      0 Safer food products
 rioarian countries                           0 Reduced nutrient discharge to main rivers and Black Sea
 Commercialbeef fattening and dairy           0 Ability to meet environmental regulations with regard to
 producers inperi-urban areas of Black          discharge into water
 Sea region                                   0 Improved water quality
                                              0 Income from sale o f manure
 IAgro-processorsand commercial farmers       0 Ability to meet EUrequirements on nitrate and good agricultural
                                                oractice
 Ministryo fAgriculture and Rural Affairs     0 Ability to meet EUrequirements on nitrate monitoring and code
 (MARA) and Ministryo f Environment and         o f good agricultural practice


                                              0 Higherjob satisfaction
                                              0  Improved technical skills w.r.t sustainable resource management
                                                 and environmental friendly agricultural production techniques



 4. Institutional and implementationarrangements:
 The project would be implemented over a seven year periodunder the same institutional arrangements as
 the recently completed EAW.

 Project Management: The responsibility for overall project management and coordination will lie withthe
 MinistryofEnvironment and Forestry's General Directorate for Afforestation andErosionControl
 (MEF/AGM). Overallproject management and supervision will be assuredby a ProjectManagement
 Group (PMG) andline agency specific Project Management Units. The Project Management Group
 comprises representatives o f each participating line agency with MEF/AGMacting as the project
 coordinating agency. The Project Management Group will be supportedby an Operations Unit incharge o f
 day to day project management andcoordination. The OUwill be established at MEF/AGMandhave



                                                     - 13-

sub-units for financial management, procurement andmonitoring andevaluation. Funds will be made
available to hire a social scientist and a communications specialist, as needed, to assist inthe preparation o f
specific studies. At the local level each Province will establish a Provincial Project Management Team
comprised o f representatives from fieldunits o f the project agencies. The Operations Unitwill be headed by
AGM andbe responsible for project coordination and supervision o flocal level implementation.

ImplementationArrangements:The project will be implementedby field staff o fthe relevant General
Directorates o f the MEF and MARA (see Annex 2). For each microcatchment, a Microcatchment
Implementation Team (MCIT) will be established with staff from relevant provincial agencies. This team
will be responsibility for the elaboration and implementation o fthe M C development planincollaboration
withbeneficiary communities and inclose consultation with local government units (provincial Govemor,
municipality) and local NGOs. These implementation arrangements are similar to those adopted under
EAWP and there thus is considerable experience with this approach, both at the local and the central level.
Overall implementation responsibility for GEF-related activities will rest jointly with M A R A ' s General
Directorate for Protection and Control (KKGM) and the MEF's General Directorate o f Environmental
Management. The PMG's Operation's Unitwill also be responsible for handling the administration o f
GEF-financed activities.

ProcurementArrangements:All procurement under the project will be carriedout under the supervision
of the OU's procurement sub-unit which will have four staff, including at least two professional
procurement specialist (employed as consultants to the unit).Tendering for small works and small amounts
o f locally available goods will be carried out by the field units o f the implementingagencies, subject to
close supervision and approval by the OU's procurement sub-unit. All other procurement will be carried
out by the OU's procurement unit, with implementing agencies providing necessary technical
specifications, bills of quantities and terms o freference. Bids will be evaluatedby a BidEvaluation
Committee comprising technical specialists o f the relevant line agency andrepresentatives o f the OU's
procurement sub-unit and approved by the PMG. Not later than April 30,2005, the OUwill hire two
independent, professional procurement specialists as consultants to the OUwith qualifications, experience
and for a term acceptable to the Bank.

FinancialManagement: Overall responsibility for financial management ofthe project rests withthe OU
inthe MEF.Followingthe project financial management assessmentcamed out bythe Bank, anaction
planwas agreeduponwith the MEF, andimplemented, to bringits financial managementcapacity upto
standards satisfactory to the Bank As part o f this action planthe OU's financial management sub-unithas
been hlly staffed with specialists satisfactory to the Bank and a computerized project financial
management system has been set up. A Financial Management Manual satisfactory to the Bank has been
prepared.

Financial Monitoring Reports: The formats o f the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) have been agreed
and included inthe project Financial Management Manual andthe PIP. The OUwill prepare quarterly
FMRs for submission to the PMGandthe Bank.

Audit Arrangements: Annual financial statements for the project will be audited by the Treasury
Controllers inaccordance with Intemational Standards on Auditingand under TORSagreed uponwith the
Bank.

Disbursement Arrangements: The Government will open two Special Accounts inUS$ at the Central
Bank, one for proceeds from the IBRDloanand one for proceeds from the GEF grant. Allpayments willbe
 executed centrally by the OU's financial management sub-unit with the authorization o f the PMG


                                                      -14-

Coordinator andthe Financial Manager o fthe OU. Payments exceeding 20 percent o f the authorized
Special Accounts allocation will be made directly from the loan account. Disbursementswill be made
against Statements o f Expenditures for: (i)  works under contracts costing less than US$3,000,000
equivalent each, but excluding the contracts which are subject to prior review; (ii) goods, under contracts
costing less than USS300,OOO equivalent each, but excluding the contracts which are subject to prior
review; (iii)services o f consulting firms under contracts costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent each;
(iv) services o f individual consultants under contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (v)
training (subject to provision o f an agreed training plan) and (vi) incremental operating costs. Full
documentation insupport o f SOEs would be retainedby the PMUfor at least one year after the Bank has
received the audit report for the fiscal year inwhich the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made.
This information will be made available for review during supervision by Bank staff and for annual audits
which will be required to specifically comment on the propriety o f SOE disbursements andthe quality o f
the associated record-keeping.

Monitoring and Evaluation: Overallproject Monitoringand Evaluation will be the responsibility o f the
Project Management Group which will be supported inthis task by the Operation Unit's M&E staff.
Buildingonthe M&E system ofthe EAWP, the M&Eunitwill develop andimplement anM&Esystem
which will include both routine monitoring and evaluation and special-purpose M&Efocused on impact
assessment. The M&E system will include targeted annual performance objectives andmonitoring
indicators usingthe Key Performance Indicators inAnnex 1as a basis. A baseline survey against which
project performance targets can be measured will be carried out ineach M C during the detailed MC
development planningphase. The M&Eunit will produce quarterly reports for submisson to the Project
Management Group covering progress inphysical implementation, use o f funds andproject impact.
Reports will be produced ina format agreed with the Bank. Quarterly reports will be consolidated into
semi-annual progress reports to be submitted to the Bank.The latter will also include implementation and
work plans for the six months following the reportingperiod. The development o f beneficiary-based
Participatory Monitoring will be developed duringthe course o f project implementation, working with
Microcatchment Resource Management Associations. Reporting formats for M&ESystem have been
agreed and finalized

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Three altematives to the proposed intervention were considered andrejected:

No follow-up watershed rehabilitation uroiect: The question o fwhether the achievements o fEAWPwere
sufficient to allow for sustainable natural resource management inTurkey without a follow-up project was
considered andrejected on the following grounds: First, while EAWP successfully developed andtested a
new approach to natural resource management, its achievements (inline with project objectives) remained
limited interms o f physical coverage and number o f local implementingagency staff involved. Financial
constraints and the time andresources required to mobilize and train additional staff to replicate EAWP's
approach on a larger scale would make it unlikely that this would occur without m e r support by a
project. Second, natural resource rehabilitation andmanagement is a long term endeavor and many o f the
processes initiatedunder EAWP needto be taken a step further. Examples include range landmanagement
through "participatory grazing management", participatory and equitable use o f wood and non-wood forest
resources from rehabilitated forest lands andboundary tree plantations and, the need to expand the
awareness o f environmentally friendly agricultural practices. Thirdand most importantly, it was felt that
because natural resource degradation is such a dominant feature inmany o f Turkey's watersheds, the



                                                      - 15-

economic and social costs o f not addressing this problem inan effective manner were too high.

Countrv-wide coverage: Given widespread m e t demand for inclusion into the EAWPandthe needto
address natural resource degradation issues ina large part of the country, the question o f whether the
proposed follow-up project should aim at replicating and expanding on EAWP's approach at a national
scale or should limit its interventions to a set o f strategically important watersheds with serious resource
degradation issues was considered. Itwas decided to limit the project area to three river basins, including
three provinces which were already covered by EAWP and four adjacent provinces which contribute
significantly to Black Sea pollution. This decision was motivatedby the perceivedneed further to solidify
the institutional capacity for integrated natural resource management at the field level and the ability to
buildonthe momentum gained through EAWP interms of awareness and interest inparticipatory natural
resource management by communities inneighboring MCs, as well as to explore the scope for innovating
by tackling the problem o f agricultural waste pollution. The expansion ofthe project on a national scale
would have taxed the institutional capacity for replication, given the number of agencies involved and the
need for intensive supervision andmonitoring by the Project Management Group.

Stand alone project for agricultural pollution control: Consideration was given to having a separate GEF
financed project focusing on reducing agnculture inducednutrient discharge into the Black Sea. This option
was discarded on grounds that environmentally fnendly agricultural practices should be an integral part of
sustainable natural resource management andthus be integrated with other natural resource management
activities on a watershed basis. Furthermore, effective participation o f all relevant stakeholders requires
cooperation among all key agencies engaged innatural resource management and rural development which
i s best achieved through the participatory resource management approach already developed under EAWP.




                                                        - 16-

2. Major relatedprojectsfinancedby the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoingand planned).
                                                                                   Latest Supervision
              Sector issue                              Project                       fPSR) Ratings
                                                                               (Bank-finance projectsonly)
                                                                               Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                                   Progress(IP)    Objective(DO)

Sectoral Policy Reform                    Agricultural Reform                        S               S
                                          Implementation Project

Natural Resource Degradation              Eastern Anatolia Watershed                 S               S
                                          Rehabilitation Project

 Sectoral inefficiency, low productivity, Agricultural Research Project              S                S
resource degradation

Institutional Development                 Commodities Market                         S                S
                                          Development Project

                                          Privatizationo f Irrigation                S                S
                                          Project




 3ther developmentagencies
 Biodiversity conservation                GEF financed Biodiversity and
                                          Natural Resource Management
                                          Project
  Environmental legislation andEU         EUfinanced: Analysis o f
 accession                                 Environmental Legislation

                                           Approximation Advice for
                                           Turkish Environmental
                                           Legislation
 P/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S(Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), k (Highly Unsati:


3. Lessons learnedand reflected inthe projectdesign:
Internationalexperience:
Participatory natural resource management using a sub-watershed approach has worked well inseveral
other countries. Like the first EAWP inTurkey, the Loewss PlateauNatural Resource Management Project
inChinawas followed by a secondproject andreceivedan "outstanding" rating from the Quality Assurance
Group (QAG). Similar approaches have also been successfully used inBrazil (LandDevelopment 1and2
inSouthernBrazil) and inother regions. EUcountries also follow similar principles, with incentives
provided to farmers to adopt sustainable farming practices.


                                                     - 17-

Key lessonslearnedfrom agricultural and environmental projects inthe region include the need to:
0   actively involve concerned communities inthe identification o fproblems andproposed solutions for
    natural resource degradation;
0   effectively communicate project rationale, objectives and benefits to all stakeholders;
0   establish a direct linkbetween objectives o f environment friendly agricultural practices, rehabilitation
    efforts and tangible benefits for key stakeholders;
0   aggressively disseminate information about benefits o f improvedenvironmental management to assure
    widespread adoption o fnew technologies;
0   make long-term commitments to address agriculture and environmental issues throughphased
    programs o f interventions and broad-based participation.

Country specific lessons:
The project builds on some o fthe country-specific lessons gained inthe EAWP. The ICR for EAWP
identified the following issues, which have been accounted for inthe design o f this operation:
    establish strict guidelines to assure that the project's focus remains on rehabilitation o f MCs with site
    specific solutions;
    ask village beneficiaries to contribute at least 10 percent o f the cost for all MARA activities and inform
    farmers about this requirement up-front so that they can take this into consideration when deciding
    whether or not to participate inthe project;
    informvillagers up-front that they will be responsible for the operation andmaintenance o f small
    irrigation schemes andrehabilitated rangelands following initial project financed investments. Develop
    and test guidelines should for the creation o fvillageheneficiary associations to take this responsibility;
    clear selection criteria are needed for small scale irrigation investments to assure that they are made
    selectively and cost effectively.
    development o f M C plansrequires up to one year to allow implementing agency staff to adequately
    diagnose the causes o f natural resource degradation, decide on technically sound rehabilitation
    measures and properly interact with the target groups. Implementation o f MC plans requires 3 years to
    assure sustainability o f interventions;
    the project should not initiate work inmore than two MCs per province per year to assure a
    manageable work load for field staff during the peak fourth year;
    the participatory nature and complexity o f the project call for a project duration o f at least seven years;


4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
 This project was prepared within the scope o f the Country Assistance Strategy, as agreedbetween the
Government o f Turkey andthe World Bank.Inorder to be ensure consistency with the overall public
expenditure program, the loan amount was reduced based on Government's request. It is strongly supported
by all line agenciescharged with implementation, motivatedby the positive results onthe ground o fearlier
interventions. The Government's commitment to the proposedproject was further reflected intheir
organizing inter-agency workshop to clearly identify the key lessons learnedfrom EAWP with the objective
to integrate those into the design o f the follow-up project. Basedon these lessons, Government agencies
undertook project preparation o f the loan portion themselves.

The Government has demonstrated its commitment to reduce the discharge o f pollutants into the Black Sea
byratifying several key international conventions andprotocols to this effect, includingthe Convention on
the Protection of Black Sea Against Pollution. Inthe fall o f 2000, the Government requestedBank support
to help it meet its international obligations to reduce pollutant discharge into the Black Sea. The



                                                       - 18-

government has also indicated its commitment to approximating Turlushenvironmental legislation towards
the EUacquis by requesting EUfundingfor advice on Turkish environmental legislation.

5. Value added of Bank and Global support inthis project:
Experience inTurkey and elsewhere has shown that effective natural resource rehabilitation and
management calls for a long-term commitment through phasedprograms o f interventions and broad-based
participation. The Bank's value-added lies inits ability to make a long term commitment to help Turkey
address natural resource degradation issues ina more systematic and sustainable manner. The Bank's
strategy for natural resource management emphasizes the importance o f an integrated approach to
watershed management andthe proposed project implements this approach. The Bank's ability to draw on
experience with similar projects inother countries provides an important backing and strengthens the
credibility o f the initiatives undertaken by field staff inTurkey. This operation will further strengthen the
local capacity for more sustainable natural resource management andwill provide support to gradually
expand the approach successfully tested under earlier interventions 6n a larger scale.

The principal value added o f GEF support for the project comes from providing additional funds to help
reduce barriers to farmers' adopting more environmental friendly agricultural practices and thus to allow
the Government to scale up a program which has so far largely been limited to localized pilot activities.
GEF fundingwill allow the Government to accelerate itsprogramo f demonstrating environmental friendly
agricultural practices on a wider range o f farms and to engage ina much neededpublic awareness program
on agricultural pollution. Agricultural pollution and conversion o f flood plains areas into agricultural
polders is a problem with major transboundary effects inmany E C A countries, particularly those inthe
Black Sea region. Some level o f financial support from the public sector and the intemational community
are necessary, as program to control agricultural pollution have significant extemalities, affect
transboundary pollution andinvolve an element o f public good.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessmentsare inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
0 Costbenefit             NPV=US$15.3 million; ERR = 18.6 o/o (see Annex 4)
0 Costeffectiveness
0IncrementalCost
0 Other(specify)
Economic benefits o f the project fall into two main categories: (i) benefits from a restored natural resource
base and, (ii)  increased household income from intensification anddiversificationo f farming systems. The
quantification o f economic benefits from an improved natural resource base inthe 28 project MCs includes
a valuation o f three distinct benefits: (i)
                                           savings inerosion induced soil loss; (ii) increases due to
                                                                                    yield
improved agricultural land and (iii)   reduced flood control costs. Other benefits, such as reduced siltation in
dams, improvedquality o f dnnlungwater due to reduced sedimentation content o f the water, increased soil
moisture content andreduced carbon sequestration have not been quantified due to lack o f credible data.
The quantification o f incremental benefits from improved farmingtechniques anddiversification has been
based on farm budgets for various project supported activities and the application o f net benefit streams for
these activities to the activity target area inthe 28 MCs, takinginto consideration the expectedphasing o f
project activities.

As manyresource management andprotection activities are expectedto have a long term impact and may
 incur net costs duringthe initial project years, the ERRand the N P V were calculated over a period o f 25
 years, with an annual discount rate o f 12 percent appliedto the NPV calculation. Sensitivity analysis



                                                       - 19-

suggests that a 20 percent increase inproject costs combined with a 20 percent reduction inproject benefits
still results in a ERR o f 14.4 percent and an NPV o f US$5.7 million. Similarly, a 2 year delay inproject
benefits would result inan ERRo f 18.3 percent and an N P V o fUS$ 13.7 million.If the impact o f project
activities on erosion were not to materialize the ERRwould drop to 18.1percent and the NPV to US$ 13.7
million. Excluding the irrigation component reduces the ERRto 12.3 percent and the NPVto - US$0.4
million, pointing to the critical importance o f imgation investments.

The incremental cost analysis for the GEF-funded component is presented inadditional Annex 11to this
PAD. Inthe baseline scenario prevailing agricultural practices are only partially corrected through ongoing
Government, NGO and bilaterally supported efforts o f limitedreach and the proposed AWRP without GEF
support. The cost of activities inthe baseline scenario is estimated at US$ 37.92 million. Available
resources would not be sufficient to develop environmentally friendly farming practices inthe lower part o f
the key watersheds that empty into the Black Sea, nor to strengthen Turkey's capacity to meet EU
standards and raise public awareness about the need for agricultural pollution control, nor to support
adaptive research aimed at reducing agricultural pollution while maintainingor increasing yields. The
incremental cost o f activities to be supported by GEF related activities amount to US$7.0 million, which
will be sought from GEF.



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=USS million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)


Fiscal Impact:
The scope and cost o f the project was reduced inlight o f Turkey's tight fiscal situation. Assurance has
been sought from Government that the necessary Government counterpart contribution is consistent with
the available fiscal envelope of the two implementing Ministries. Total Government financing during the
project implementation period is estimated to be US$ 8.65 million (around 19 percent o f project costs).
The Government's average annual contribution thus amounts to around US$ 1.2 millionper year over the
life of the project, divided across 2 Ministries and7 implementingagencies. Although this is not a
substantial share o f the implementing agencies' overall budget andthe Government has confirmed that this
project is o f highpriority, there is a risk that the Government will not be able to make counterpart funds
available on a timely basis, ifthe country's fiscal situation further deteriorates. Beyond project
implementation, the fiscal impact o f the project is expectedto be minimal, as the main recurrent expense
derives from the management andoperation of irrigation investments which will be entirely born by project
beneficiaries.

3. Technical:
The majority o ftechnologies to be promoted under the project have already beentested andvalidated in
particular areas o f Turkey under other projects such as the recently completed EAWP. The promotion o f
proposed technologies is backed up by operational manuals o f the Ministryo f Environment and Forestry
and the General Directorate o f Rural Services which were prepared on the basis of results o f successfully
completed adaptive research and experience gained under internationally and nationally financed projects.
Duringproject preparationa number o ftools were usedto identify priorities, these include :(i)    the
Beneficiary Centered-Problem Census-Problem Solving (BCPCPS) methodused inthe villages of 12
indxative MCs, ii)a detailed baseline survey o f 12 indicative MCs, iii)farm surveys conducted with
livestock owners andcrop producers inthe 4 GEF provinces, iii)a detailed baseline survey insupport of
the social assessment camed out in5 selected MCs, and iv) collection o fbaseline information inanother 6


                                                       - 20 -

selected MCs for the Regional EnvironmentAssessment. Cost estimates for the proposed interventions are
based on actual unitcosts o f similar interventions carried out under the EAWP and an estimate o f target
areas for the combination o fproposed interventions based on initialMC plans developed for 12MCs.
While the unit costs are thus accurate, overall cost estimates are a first best approximation, as actual costs
will depend on the mixo factivities adopted by communities ineach one o f the 28 MCs. Specific
investment identification and cost estimates for the GEF-financed agricultural pollution sub-components
were based on technical designs and data preparedby consultants incollaboration with implementing
agency staff and agreements reachedwith the local beneficiaries.

4. Institutional:


4.1 Executing agencies:
The institutional capacity for project implementation at the field andnational level is adequate inall
implementingagencies. The project builds on the institutional capacity established under the recently
completed EAWP, inparticular the close cooperation inthe field between staff o f the agencies o f the two
implementing Ministries and the four key agencies, namely, TUGEM, ORKOY, AGM, and KHGMand
expands on these strengths by involvingCYGMandKKGM. The project will M e r strengthen the
interagency collaboration and technical expertise needed to successfully develop and implement
participatory M C based natural resource management plans.


4.2 Project management:
Overall project management and oversight will be the task o f the inter-agency Project Management Group
under the MEF. For day to day project management, the P M G will be assisted by an Operations Unit (OU)
which will be staffed by financial management, procurement, and M&E specialists with qualifications
satisfactory to the Bank. Funds will be provided to hire a communications specialist and a social scientist,
as required, for specific studies.


4.3 Procurement issues:
As the project focuses on community participation andM C specific investments, procurement o f small
works and small quantities o f locally available goods will needto be carried out by the implementing
agencies. These offices have limited experience with Bankprocurement procedures and will thus needto be
closely supervised by the OU's procurement sub-unit.To assure adherence to Bank procurement
guidelines, it was agreed that field office staff will only proceedwith procurement decisions uponreceiving
approval by the OU's procurement sub-unit. All field offices will use standard Bank procurement
documents which will be translated into Turkish for this purpose. The experience o f the EAWP showed
that procurement o f larger contracts by individual implementing agencies was not an effective way to
assure timely procurement inline with Bank procurement guidelines. Therefore, the procurement function
will be centralized and carriedout by specialized staff o fthe OU's procurement sub-unit, with line agencies
providing technical specifications and participating inbid evaluation through their representation inthe Bid
Evaluation Committee.


4.4 Financial management issues:
The financial management assessmentconcluded that the existing FMcapacity inthe MEF was not
adequate for meeting the Bank'sminimumrequirements. To address these deficiencies, a financial
management action planwas prepared and agreed uponwith MEF. The action planto improve the OUs


                                                       -21 -

financial management capacity andthe project's financial management system have been implemented,


5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summuize the steps undertaken for environmental assess~nentand EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The project is expected to have overall very positive environmental impacts. It will contribute to reduced
erosion, increased vegetative andforest cover, improved land management, andwill reduce the discharge o f
polluting nutrients into waterways. Broader positive environmental impacts include the institutional
measures to support application o f the EUNitrates Directive and public awareness buildinginthis regard.

A Regional Environmental Assessment was commissioned by Government, to providethe analytical
framework to better addressenvironmental concems inthe design, implementation, andmonitoring o f
project interventions. The Regional Environmental Assessment confirmed that the project is not expected to
result inany significant environmental risks or negative environmental impacts. A range o f potential, minor
negative impacts are, however, possible. These have been identified, and mitigation measures have been
incorporated into the project's design. They include:

0   potential impacts resulting from poorly designed soil erosion control measures such as terracing;
0   potential impacts resulting from the rehabilitation or construction o f access roads;
0    potential impacts on forest villages which may find traditional access to forests restricted;
0    potential impacts associated with the possible use o fpesticides inthe production o f tree seedlings for
     afforestation andmicrocatchment rehabilitation; and
0    concems about dam safety, resulting from the construction o fnumerous small farm ponds and
     irrigation tanks.

The Regional Environmental Assessment was reviewed indraft, andrevised based on the comments from
the client and the Bank. The final Regional Environmental Assessment was translated into Turkish, and
was made widely available inTurkey. A consultation on the reviseddraft was held on February 20,2003
andinvolved project agencies andNGOs.


5.2 What are the main features o fthe EMP andare they adequate'?
 The EMF describes mitigation steps which have been incorporated into the project's design. These include:

0    design standards for the construction o f various erosion control measures have been reviewedto ensure
     that they represent prevailing 'best practice,'
0    prevailing national standards for forest roads construction have been reviewed for their adequacy in
     addressing potential environmental problems, and these will be adopted as a contractual obligation of
     roads subcontractors;
0    With respect to forestry activities, communities and individualswith interests inthe use and
     management o f forest resources will be identified and consulted during the participatory preparation of
     microcatchment plans. The project will not limit communities' traditional use o f forested areas.
0    The extent o fplanned pesticide use was examined, which is very minor. Measures have been
     incorporated into the project to limit their use, consistent with principles o f Integrated Pest
     Management.
0    Standards for the construction o f small dams and farm ponds were reviewed to ensure that dam safety
     measureshave been adequately incorporated into their design by qualified engineers.
0    The impact o fwater abstraction on the Black Sea, as a result o f the project was reviewed and is


                                                       - 22 -

    expected to be negligible, and a waiver to the requirement to notify riparians was sought and received.


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and Stahis o f EA:
                      Date o f receipt o f final draft: 01/15/2003
The Regional Environmental Assessment was received and disclosedbefore the project was Appraised.

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe meclianisms
of consultation that were usedand which groups were consulted?
The Terms of Reference for the Regional Environmental Assessment were preparedbased on experience
gained from consultation processes undertaken inthe EAWP, and reported on inthe ICR. The draft
Regional Environmental Assessment was discussed extensively with MEF andwith the project agencies
andNGOsbefore the project was Appraised. Public consultations on the Regional Environmental
Assessment were carried out ina national workshop, held inFebruary 2003.


5.5 What mechanisms have beenestablished to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
The project's Monitoring and Evaluation system has incorporated environmental performance indicators,
which are to be based on special studies outlined inthe EMP.


6. Social:
6.1 Sumarize kcy social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
 The project area is located in areas of highpoverty. The majority o f the populationdepend on a
combination o f cropping, livestock andnon-fam activity as the primary livelihood strategy. Land
degradation inthe upper catchments due to deforestation, overgrazing andunsustainable agricultural
practices over time have had a negative impact on local livelihood strategies and contributed to the
incidence o fpoverty. Because of its highvisibility, overgrazing by goats has been singled out as a cause o f
landdegradationandlarge livestock owners have come increasingly coming under pressure from the rest of
the community agnculturalists to reduce their herds and switch to other economic activities. The project
willhelp alleviate some o fthis tension byproviding incentives to livestock owners to switch away from
livestock or to adopt more sustainable management practices. Inaddition, the project implementation plan
and other relevant material outlines conflict resolution measures inherent inthe BCPCPS process to ensure
that potential conflict situations are resolved up-front and that livestock owners will participate effectively
inthe development of M Cplans. Insome areas, localcommunities haveprotestedagainst the reinstatement
o f pasture leases to nomadic shepherds from provinces outside the project area due to the damage inflicted
bythe seasonalmovement ofthese animals ontheir agricultural lands. The project will ensure that nomadic
shepherds are not deprived of their legal access to pasture grounds. Inthe southeastem part o f the project
area, significant portions o f land that fall officially under the jurisdiction o f the MEF are either occupied by
humansettlements or are beingcultivated under usufructary andother tenure claims. There are concems
among local communities that the project will strengthen the Ministry's claim over these lands. InM C s
where such contested landclaims occur, the project will work together with local communities to transfer
long term management responsibility to community members andstrengthen the role o f local communities
inprotecting the forest lands. Conflict resolution remains at the heart ofthe BCPCPS process.

Social Development Outcomes: The project is expected to result inincreased equity, community


                                                         - 23 -

empowerment andsocial inclusion. Labor intensive project interventions such as tree planting and
construction will provide poor villagers with income-earning opportunities, w h l e improvedagricultural and
forestry productivity anddiversification o f income sources will enhance the livelihood strategies o f poor
villagers. The project's emphasis on participation inthe conservation o f naturalresources is at the core o f
successful resource management and essential for improvedlivelihood strategies. Project interventions at
the M C level will be demand driven primarilythrough the inclusion o f all concerned inthe development o f
M C plans.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project`?
Project preparation activities involved all key stakeholders: national, regional and local government
authorities; NGOs; local communities including land-owning farmers, landless farmers, andlivestock
owners. The project's approach to sustainable natural resource management on a MC basis rests on the
active participation o f M C communities. As part o f the BCPCPS process, a team o f provincial rural
services, agriculture andforestry staffwill work with villagers to help MC communities identify and rank
their principal development problems andthen identify andrank proposed solutions which can be
implementedunder the umbrella o f the project. Project implementation staffs contributionto these
consultations is limitedto facilitation. The resulting MC development plan spells out proposed activities
andparticipation requirements of all involved. Eachproject agency works together with a group of
volunteers from the M C villages to determine the scale and site o f interventions regardmg forestry,
agricultural, and irrigation development activities included inthe M C plan. The planmust be supportedby
all involved and is posted inthe village for review/objection by all. To assure full participation and
ownership o f MC plans by concerned communities, one full year is allocated to MCplandevelopment, with
M C implementation occurring duringthe following three years. Duringthe problem andsolution
identificationprocess, particular efforts are made to encourage women's participation, so as to assure that
gender issues are mainstreamedinto M C development planning and implementation. Provincial
implementing agency staff will receive training on community mobilization and other participatory
techniques.


6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Civil society organizations have shown interest inthe project andwere consulted during preparation. These
include the Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation, and for the Protection o f
Natural Habitats (TEMA). The Association for Livestock Producers was also consulted. CSOs andNGOs
are expected to play a role duringproject implementation inmonitoring, training, and awareness raising.


6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The project will create at the local level MC Resource Management Associations (MRMA)that will
mobilize the community to participate inproject implementation andto take up responsibility for
post-project operation and maintenance. The development o f participatory monitoring strategies will rely on
the involvement ofthese Associations. At the field level, for each province, a Provincial Project
Management Team (PMT) consisting o f the participating line agencies will be formed to ensure
coordination between agencies and effective delivery o f goods andservices to the project beneficiaries. For
each microcatchment, a Microcatchment Implementation Team (MCIT) will be established.


 6.5 How will the project monitor performance interms of social development outcomes?



                                                     - 24 -

The project will use the fmdings ofthe Social Assessment to design andimplement a comprehensive
baseline survey which will form the basis for measuring changes inperception, welfare, and incomes
associated with the project interventions. A participatory monitoring andevaluation program will be
developed to keep track o f the project's overall social development outcomes. An independent M&E
program will be initiated to keep track o f the safeguards issues.


7. SafeguardPolicies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliaiice with applicable safeguard policies.
Environmental Assessment (Operational Policy 4.01): A RegionalEnvironmental Assessment (REA) to
address the potential environmental impacts o f the project was prepared and reviewedby the Bank prior to
appraisal. The REA includes a review o f national laws and regulations relevant to the project. The project
comprises a series o f sub-projects, w h c h are to be defined during project implementation as a result o f the
participatory microcatchment planningprocess. The REA describes a methodology for screening M C plans
for environmental impacts, andfor proposing and introducingmitigating steps, which will be handled as
part o f the regular criteria-based M C selection process. When microcatchment plans are prepared,
particular mitigating steps may be triggered. The project will support the establishment o f capacity within
the implementingagencies to ensure that subprojects are assessedfor their potential impacts, and
environmental management plans are preparedand implemented incompliance with the national
requirements as well as Bank policy on environmental assessment (OP 4.01). The REA describes the
procedures andarrangements betweenthe implementing agency, the environmental authority andthe
borrower entities for subproject environmental screening, assessment, consultations and disclosure. Generic
EMPs for investments indifferent subsectors (farmponds, feeder roads etc.) are provided as examples.
EMP recommendations are incorporated into the Project ImplementationPlan anddescribe screening
standards, mechanisms, examples, and procedures related to Safeguards issues.

Pest Management (Operational Policy 4.09): The only sub-component which may involve the use (butnot
the purchase with IBRDor GEF funds) o f abiotic pesticides is the component which results inthe
production oftree seedlings. The project will not be directly financing the purchase o f pesticides, but the
agents contracted for nursery productionmay use pesticides inconjunction with tree seedling production.
The Regional EA reviewed current practice inthe use o f pesticides for tree seedling production inTurkey.
The REA describes 'best practice' pesticide handling intree seedling production, and recommends that these
practices are incorporated into the contracts o f sub-contracted agents. Farmers inmicrocatchments will be
encouraged to reduce the use o fpesticides and to adopt Integrated Pest Management approaches.




                                                       - 25 -

Forestry (Operational Policy 4.36): The project l l l y complies with OP 4.36 on Forests as it aim to
"reduce deforestation, enhance the economic contribution o f forested areas, promote afforestation, reduce
poverty and encourage economic development". I t supports an integratedandparticipatory approach to
M C natural resource management, particularly through activities aimed at rehabilitating degraded forest
lands and income generation activities geared towards compensating communities for short term costs
associated with afforestation.

Dam Safety (Operational Policy 4.37): Under the income generation component, the project will finance
small scale irrigation, including construction o f concrete ponds, diversion weirs and small dams. Highest
priority will be given to irrigation ponds at strategic places throughout the M C areas as this will allow to
reach the largest number o f beneficiaries. Construction o f dams will only occur inMCs with extreme water
shortage. Based on the experience with EAWP, these dams are expected to be less than 15 mhigh. The
implementingagency for this component, KHGM, has a long experience with the design, construction and
maintenance o f over 600 small dams throughout the country. Duringproject preparation and appraisal, it
was determined that KHGMhas the relevant knowledge and experience to design, construct andmaintain
small dams and that it has proper design standards to guarantee the safety o f small dams. Generic dam
safety measures are being designed by qualified engineers. Operation and routine maintenance of imgation
infrastructure will be the responsibility o f beneficiary communities under the supervision andguidance o f
KHGM.Under the project KHGMwill provide relevant local communities withtraining on dam
surveillance, operation andmanagement to assure that they can effectively carry out their responsibilities.
Although it is unlikely that the project will include construction o f dams higher than 15 meters, a panel o f
independent experts, consisting o f a dam engineer and a hydrologist with qualifications satisfactory to the
Bank,has beendesignatedwho would be calleduponto carry out anindependent review o fthe
investigation, design, and construction o f the dam and the start o f operations, as spelled out inOP 4.37.
Independent experts shall ensure compliance with the large dams reporting requirements. No private land
will be acquired for the construction o f dams and resettlement is therefore not an issue.

Involuntary Resettlement (Operational Policy 4.12): This OP does not apply to the project because all
dams to be built under the project will be very small andbe constructed on public land located inthe
mountainous upper part o f watersheds. No private land will be acquired for dam construction andthe dam
locationwill be selected such that the reservoirs will only flood rocky, barren land. No grazing or other
public landfrom which communities mightderive a livelihoodwill be affected. The loan agreement will
include a covenant to this effect.

Projects in International Waterways (Operational Policy 7.50): This OP does not apply because the MCs
inwhich the project will providefor small scale irrigation are locatedinthe upper mountainous areaso fthe
three major watersheds and water for irrigation purposes will be taken from springs or small streams inthe
 MCs. The springs from which water will be diverted into small concrete ponds are not directly linkedto the
national rivers inthe project provinces that flow into the Black Sea or Mediterranean Sea. Furthermore,
many o f the springs which will be used for diversion are infact already usedby farmers andthe project will
 improve the storage and water use efficiency inthese areas. The small streams are thirdor fourth level
tributaries o fthese national rivers. About 15 diversion schemes, irrigating about 20 ha each, will be
 constructed along these small streams ineach ofthe three national river catchments. The project's emphasis
 on extension will result inreduced agriculture-based pollution o fground and surface water.




                                                       - 26 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
This project i s a follow-up project to the recently completed EAWP and has been prepared at the explicit
request o f the Government. Preparationwas carried out by agencies o f the two implementing Ministries
(MARA andMEF)with limited support from consultants. This direct engagement o fall implementing
agencies at the central and at the field level has significantly contributed to project ownership and
commitment. To further cement the cooperation of implementing agencies at the local level, the Ministry of
Environment andForestry submitted a law to Parliament (which was subsequently passed) which
encourages collaboration between MARA,MEF, andlocal communities for all watershed-based activities
(Statute 6831, Article 58). InMay 2003, the new Government merged the Ministries o f Environment and
Forestry, creating the Ministry o fEnvironment and Forestry. KHGM, which used to be under a State
Ministry,was transfered to MARA. These actions not only reducedthe number ofimplementingagencies
for the project, but increased the chances of success by makingthe collaboration much easier. The project's
community-based participatory approach leads to the preparation o f M C plans which are locally developed
andimplemented (withthe support o fimplementing agencies) rather thanby implementing agencies
themselves, is expectedto create a sound basis for project sustainability at the M C level. Communities will
be fully responsible for operation andmaintenance o f investments provided for by the project, andthey
have to agree to do so as a condition o f the project proceeding at a particular site. Therefore the
Government will not incur substantial additional costs at specific sites upon project completion.

The Project will create conditions for more sustainable landuse through increased productivity o f
non-marginal land, reduced variability inproduction (through terraces and small scale irrigation) and
household income (through income diversification), and improved vegetative covers rendering the land more
resistant to drought and erosion. The training and institutional strengthening insupport o f sustainable
natural resource management to be provided to implementing agencies at the central andfield level and to
local communities under the project are expected to significantly contribute to project sustainability.

Inthe mediumterm, the critical challenge for Government willbeto take the lessons learnedthrough the
AWRP and to mainstream these types o f activities into the budget process.

la. Replicability:
Replicability is a fundamental feature o f project implementation, as the approach to developing MC
management plans is replicated over the life o fthe project, and indeed, builds on lessons o f replicability
learned inEAWP.




                                                      - 27 -

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found inthe fourth column of Annex 1):
                   Risk                           Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Project agencies do not maintain                        N          The M C planning andbudgeting process
cooperation and collaboration                                      provides a framework for collaboration by all
                                                                   implementingagencies;
                                                                   All implementingagencieswere closely involved
                                                                   inprojectpreparation;
                                                                   The project builds on the successful
                                                                   inter-agency collaboration establishedduring
                                                                   EAWP;
                                                                   Implementingarrangementsprovide for
                                                                   inter-agency supervisory committees at national
                                                                   andlocal levels;
Target communities do not participate in                M          The M C planningand budgeting process
planningandimplementation                                          provides a framework for collaboration by all
                                                                   implementing agencies;
                                                                   All implementingagencieswere closely involvec
                                                                   inproject preparation;
                                                                   The project builds on the successful
                                                                   inter-agency collaboration establishedduring
                                                                   EAWP;
                                                                   Implementingarrangementsprovide for
                                                                   inter-agency supervisory committees at national
                                                                   andlocal levels;
                                                                   A key criteria for M C selection is confirmed
                                                                   interest andparticipationby communities;
                                                                   MCplansare only be developedwith full
                                                                   participationby communities;
                                                                   Participation inrehabilitationefforts with only
                                                                   long term benefits and/or short term benefits is
                                                                   supportedby income generation activities;
                                                                   The project's flexible approachwill allow to
                                                                   tailor interventions to the interestsand needso f
                                                                   each community
From Componentsto Outputs
Lack or untimely releaseof counterpart                  M          Project andloan size were downscaled in
                                                                   agreement with SPO to secure availability o f
                                                                   counterpart funds;
                                                        M          Project teams at the national and local level will
                                                                   be establishedafter appraisal, however, staff
                                                                   turnover has been anticipated bypreparation o f
                                                                   andprovisionoftraining inproject
                                                                   methodologies throughout the project period.;



                                                      - 28 -

Inputswill not be available on time                   N            Inputneedsare identifiedat endofMC planning
                                                                   year, allowing for sufficient time for
                                                                   procurement. Procurement o f inputswill mostly
                                                                   occur at local level;
Government reorganization.                             S           Government reorganizations occur inmany
Decentralization is on-going.                                      projects. Training has beenprovided for. The
                                                                   project life is 7 years, which allows for
                                                                   implementation delays due to reorganizations.
Overall Risk Rating                                   M




3. Possible ControversialAspects:
There are no controversial aspects.

G. Main Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition
For the Loan: All conditions precedentto the effectivenessof the GEF Grant Agreement or the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only to the effectivenesso f the LoanAgreement have
beenfulfilled.

For the GEF Trust FindGrant: All condtions precedentto the effectivenessof the LoanAgreement or the.
right ofthe Borrower to make withdrawals thereunder, except only to the effectivenesso fthe GEF Trust
FundGrant Agreement havebeen fulfilled.

2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]

0   Not later than April 30,2005, the OUwill hire two independent,professional procurement specialists
    as consultantsto the OUwith qualifications, experienceand for a term acceptable to the Bank
0   The infrastructure facilities under the Project shall be constructedonly onpublic landwhere no means
    of livelihood o f any communities shall be affected.
0   All measuresnecessary for the carrying out ofthe Environmental Management Planshall be taken ina
    timely manner, ensuringthat adequate informationon the implementation of the saidmeasures is
    suitably included inthe progressreports.
0   The PMG, OU, Provincial Project ManagementTeams andMicro-catchment ImplementationTeams
    are maintained throughout Project implementation in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
0   The Project Implementation Plan (PIP) shall be maintained throughout the Project and the PIP shall not
    be amended, repealedor waived without the prior approval o fthe Bank.
0   A mid-termreviewofthe Project shall be carried out byNovember 30,2008.

H. Readinessfor Implementation
[7 1.a) Theengineeringdesigndocumentsfor the first year'sactivities are complete andready for the start
         ofproject implementation.
H 1.b)Notapplicable.

H2. Theprocurementdocumentsforthefirstyear'sactivities arecomplete andready forthestartof


                                                     - 29 -

     project implementation.
El3. TheProjectImplementation Planhasbeenappraisedandfoundtoberealisticandofsatisfactory
     quality.
04. Thefollowingitemsarelaclungandarediscussedunderloanconditions(SectionG):



1.Compliance with Bank Policies
E!1.ThisprojectcomplieswithallapplicableBankpolicies.
0 2.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedfor approval. Theprojectcomplieswith
     all other applicable Bankpolicies.




                     w
Pet& A. Dewees                         Marj&y-Anne Bromhead
                                         4                          Andrew N.Vorkink
Team Leader                            Sector Manager               Country Director




                                               - 30 -

                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                  TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATIONPROJECT
                                                                             ion
 Hierarchy of Objectives                                                                       CriticalAssumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:       jector Indicators:             sector/ country reports:      [fromGoal to Bank Mission)
'rovide support for equitable  <educedpoverty in degraded      e ESW (occasional);          Turkey maintains its
iuman and social               vatershed catchments            e Government reports and     commitment to collaborate
levelopment                                                       studies                   with international institutions
                                                                                            inits efforts to reduce poverty,
                                                                                            improve income disparities    .
                                                                                            while managing its natural
                                                                                            resourcebase in an efficient
                                                                                            and environmentally friendly
                                                                                            manner
'rovide support for strong     'rogress i s made in adopting
mvironmental management        iU environmental standards,
md disaster prevention         md introducing sound
                               xactices for water, soil, and
                              'orest management




5EF Operational Program:       3utcomeI Impact
                               ndicators:
The project's objective of     1 Improvement in water           Adoption o f                  Turkey maintains its
*educingnutrient discharge to pality and in water receiving nutrient-friendly farming       commitment to GEF and the
:he water bodies feeding into  lodies inproject areas         practices by project farmers  international community in
:he Black Sea are consistent                                                                adopting measures to reduce
NithGEFOPNo. 8, Water          1 Adoption and                   Water quality monitoring at pollution in the Black Sea
Jody based Operational         mplementation o f legislation selected sites
Program, and will help restore InEUNitrate Directive
3alance to Black Sea
xosystems.




                                                             I




                                                          -31 -

                                                                Data CollectionStrategy
 Hierarchyof Objectives      -                                                                   Critical Assumptions
'reject Development
         _IC                   D
                               htcome I Impact                  'roject reports:              from Objective to Goal)
Ibjective:                     ndicat0rs:
rhe Project's Overall           0 Increasein vegetative         %aseline,mid-term and final   successful implementation o f
Ievelopment Objective is to       cover inproject MCs           ample surveys o f stakeholderhis and other relatedprojects,
ntroduce sustainable natural      above baseline by 20% by iractices intargeted               is required
esource management                the midterm and by 50%        nicrocatchments
iractices in 28 degraded          by closing
nicro-catchments and thereby    0 Increasein soil fertility
aise incomes o f communities      on sloping lands as
.ffectedby resource               measured by humous
legradation.                      content in project MCs
                                  from 10%above the
                                  baseline by the midterm
                                  and by 20% by closing
                                0 Increase inhousehold
                                  incomes in participating
                                  M C communities by 10%
                                  above baseline at
                                  midtermandby 40% at
                                  closing
                                0 Increasedpublic
                                  awareness o f causes,
                                  effects and mitigating
                                  measures o f natural
                                  resource degradation as
                                  measured by awareness
                                  surveys
rhe Global Environmental        0 Adoptionof                   daseline and project-end
Ibjective is to introduce         environment-friendly         assessment o f impact o f
arming practices which will       practices (e.g. crop         environmental friendly
educe the discharge of            rotation, crop nutrient      technologies adopted
iutrient and other agricultural   management with soil
)ollutants into surface and       testing, use o f organic
;roundwater in watersheds         matter) by 30% o f
Iraining into the Black Sea.      farmers in4 Black Sea
                                  Provinces
                                0 Adoption o f improved
                                  manure handling and
                                  storage facilities by
                                  55%-60% o f farmers in
                                  areas where such
                                  practices are piloted




                                                          - 32 -

                                     Key Performance
 Hierarchy of Objectives                 Indicators                                            CriticalAssumotions
Iutput from each               Output Indicators:               'roject reports:            (from Outputs to Objective)
:omponent:
 . Rehabilitation of           28 M C plans developed and       innual Project reports;      Favorable actions by
IegradedNatural                fully implemented                                            participating institutions
tesources:                     22,700 ha o f forestry land      &E reports;                 regarding adoption of the
'roductivity o f forest,       rehabilitated                                                improvedpolicy framework.
angeland and agricultural      4,150 ha o f rangeland           ;IS surveys;
and in 28 M C improved.        rehabilitated                                                Farmers show commitment to
                               7,000 ha o f agricultural land   Iousehold surveys;          usingnewly introduced
                               rehabilitated                                                environment-friendly
                                                                igricultural statistics;    agronomic practices

                                                                IUexpert reports
Ievelopment and testing o f    Packageso f practices
iackage o f investments and     successfully tested, and
iractices for reducing nutrient adoptedby at least 65 % o f
Lischarge into water-bodies.    farmers in pilot areas

!. IncomeGeneration:            3,900 ha o f imgatedland        'roject progress reports    Farmers actively participate in
lualifying farmers provided     developed                                                   income
vith training and materials to                                                              generatioddiversification
:ngagein activities to raise   495 ha o f terraced agriculture                              activities and extension staff
mdor diversify farm income                                                                  are adequately equipped to
                                At least 60 % o f farmers in                                introduce them
                                MCs provided with training
                                innew agriculture based
                                income geneneration /
                                diversification activities.

                                168 dairy cattle units
                                improved

                                169 dairy sheep units
                                improved

                                10 fishponds constructed

                                80 greenhousesdeveloped



I. StrengtheningPolicyand       Water quality monitoring        Nater quality monitoring
ZegulatoryCapacity:            program developed and            eports
'olicy documents and            implemented
,egulatoryprovisions drafted.
                                Code for good agricultural
                               practices completed              Lelevant regulatory
                                                                Locuments
                                TA and training insupport o f
                                organic farming and
                               marketing o f organic products 'roject progress reports
                               was provided as planned.


                                                           - 33 -

4. Public Awareness,
Capacity Building &
Replication Strategy:

Responsibility o f local       Public awareness campaign        iwareness strategies and
community enhanced through for project implemented              locumentation
shared resource planning
activities                     Public awareness campaign
                               for reduction o f agriculture
                               basedpollution implemented

Increasedawareness o f threats Replication strategy for
to pollution o f national and nutrient discharge reduction      ieplication strategy report
trans-boundary water bodies    ieveloped.
from animal waste and
agricultural chemicals.

Farmers provided with
increasedaccess to marketing
and technical information.

5. Project management and
support services

Effective project management Effective M&E system               'roject progress reports
system                         :stablished. Timely
                               monitoring and reporting as
                               ?lanned.
Increased technical and                                         iesearch result reports
community development          Staff trained as planned
capacity of implementing
agency staff                   4pplied research projects
                               :ompleted




Project ComponentsI             nputs: (budgetfor each          aroject reports:             (from Components to
Sub-components:                zomponent)                                                    Outputs)
1. Rehabilitation of            E 23.5 million                  hpervision reports;            Counter-part funds are
DegradedNatural Resources                                                                    available in a timely manner
                                                                2uarterly and Annual project
a. Forest Land                                                   eports;                       Farmers actively participate
b. Rangeland                                                                                 inplanningand
c. Agricultural Land                                            :inancia1 management reports implementation
d. Environment-friendly
Agricultural Practices                                                                         Project agencies maintain
                                                                                             active cooperation and
                                                                                             collaboration

2. Income Generating            6 17.57 million


                                                           - 34 -

Activities

a. Small-scale Irrigation
b. Agricultural Terraces
c. Forest Activities
d. Crop & Farm Enterprise
   Diversification
e. Livestock improvement
f. Greenhousedevelopment
g. Fish pond construction

3. Strengthening Policy and   JS$ 0.28 million
Regulatory Capacity:
a. Nitrates directive
b. Code for Good Ag.
Practices
c. Institutional support for
organic farming

4. Awareness raising,         JSS 1.06 million
Capacity Building &
Replication Strategy

a. Public awarenessraising
and replication strategy
b. Capacity building

5. Project management,        JS$ 2.50 million
monitoring, and support
services

a. Project administration
b. Support services




                                                 - 35 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                TURKEY: ANATOLIAWATERSHED REHABILITATIONPROJECT

Estimated Project Componentcosts are Indicative Project Costs, and include IBRD, GEF,
Government, and Local community inputs.

By Component:

Project Component 1 US$23.50 million
                       -
Rehabilitation of DegradedNatural Resources
This component consists o fa menu o frehabilitative measures to be implemented by village communities
under the direction o f the Ministryo f Environment and Forestry and the Ministryo f Agnculture and Rural
Affairs. The component's primary objective is to protect degraded areas from further degradation, erosion
andpollution. Activities are focused around four sub-components as outlined below and will be
implemented in 28 microcatchments in6 provinces. The activities include a specific program for piloting
actions on reducing nutrient discharge to the water bodies that will be implemented inthe lower parts o f
watersheds o f four participating Black Sea provinces using GEF h d s

la: Regeneration of Forestry Land: The objective o fthe sub-component is to put inplace measures to
conserve soils andvegetation inwatershed catchments, and to introduce mechanical andbiological
approaches toward catchment conservation, management, andrehabilitation inforestry land. Physical
measures will involve the establishment o f terraces which will inturnbe stabilized by tree planting. Where
appropriate, natural regenerationwill be encouraged. Riverbanks will be protected by the establishment o f
gallery plantations. Extensive natural stands o f oak will be rehabilitatedby enrichment plantings and
enhanced coppice management. Silvicultural treatments will be introduced to improve the quality o f
degraded high forests. To gain a better understanding o f the potential contribution o f non-timber forest
products (NTFPs) to local economic development, the sub-component will also finance an inventory o f
locally important NTFPs with a view towards developing and introducing locally-derived management
plans.

lb: Rangeland Rehabilitation. This sub-component will provide resources to rehabilitate and improve the
carrying capacity o f degraded range-lands. This will include the adoption o f sustainable rangeland planning
andmanagement principles, includinglimitingthe number o f animals admittedto a particular grazing area
andfencing offareaswhich needprotection. The project would provide for fencing to control grazing
access; sward enrichment (seeding and fertilizing); removal o f stones andunpalatable plants from
rangelands; construction o f shelters; water points and salt licks and, land rehabilitation.

IC: Rehabilitation of Agricultural Land. This sub-component will focus on three main areas, including
fallow reduction, improved use o fmarginal land and, river bankprotection. Thefallow reduction program
aims at introducing edible and feed legumes to increase moisture retention and soil fertility, while
decreasing erosion and improving landproductivity. The project will raise farmers' awareness o f the
damaging effects o f growing annual crops on steeply sloped marginal land and promote the adoption o f
more suitable production techniques for such land, such as contour tilling and replacement of food crops
with perennial crops and bushy plants with market potential. River bank rehabilitation will seek to halt
river bank erosion which result inflooding and destruction o f adjacent agricultural lands. The main activity
will be river bank strengthening withrocks and gabions. Terracing will be introduced onprivately owned
arable landwhere continued agricultural productionwould result inerosion andwhere it is difficult to
capture soil moisture.



                                                     - 36 -

Id: Environmentally Friendly Agricultural Practices. Under this sub-component, MARAwould promote
the adoption o f improvedpractices including organic farming, crop productionpractices, appropriate
fertilization andIntegratedPest Management, through advice and demonstrations inthe 28
microcatchments. Inthe lower parts o f watersheds o f the four participating Black Sea provinces,
M A N E Fwouldpromote the following practices, gearedto reducing nutrient discharge:(i) manure
management; (ii)   nutrient management; (iii)   organic farming; and (iv) water/soil quality monitoring
program to measure the impact o fthese practices on nutrient discharge. Inthe area o f manure management,
the project would initially support the piloting o f improved community-level andon-farm livestock manure
storage facilities, improved manure collection and application to agricultural land. For poultry units,the
project would primarilyprovide technical assistanceto help enforce compliance with existing legislation
and to develop a more efficient system for manure collection and utilization. Following an impact
evaluation o f these pilots, project activities would be extended on a wider scale as o fthe thirdproject year.
Inthe areaofnutrient management, the project provide farmers with technical advice onnutrient
management on the basis o f laboratory tested soil samples. Inthe area o f organic farming, the project        '


would support production testing, promotion and marketing advice for organic produce. Inthe area o f
integrated pest management the project would provide farmers with IPMrecommendations for various
crops tailored to their specific production area and the establishment o f computerized early pest warning
systems.

The project would finance the following investments under Component 1:civil works associated with
implementing catchment rehabilitation activities outlined inmicro catchment management plans (e.g.
terraces, riverbank strengthening works) and manure storage facilities; equipment (e.g. manure handling
equipment, laboratory equipment, computers and software) in support o f manure and nutrient management,
organic farming, water and soil quality monitoring ;agricultural inputs and fencing insupport o f forest,
range and agricultural land rehabilitation, training and technical assistance and operating costs associated
with GEF supportedactivities to reduce nutrient discharge into the Black Sea.

Project Component2 US$17.57 million
                        -
Income Generation
Under this component target communities would be offered a menu o f activities designed to raise household
incomes for those who participate inresource conservation activities supportedunder Component 1.
Income generating activities are designed to provide participating communities with incentives to undertake
conservation efforts even ifthey incur short o f medium term costs (e.g. short term closure o f range lands;
permanent closure o f protected forest lands) or ifbenefits can only be reaped inthe longrun(afforestation).
The menu offered to communities will vary inaccordance with agro-ecological and socio-economic
conditions o f each village, as well as with farmers' resources and needs. The component includes the
following sub-components:

2a: Small ScaleIrrigation. Small-scale irrigation (which was the most popular activity under EAWP, and
i s expected to continue to be so) involves development o f one or more water sources, a conveyance system
to the irrigation area and a distribution system to the boundaries o f the farmers plots. With the objective o f
raising family incomes through production o f highvalue crops, the project will provide for the construction
of small scale irrigation facilities including:

0    Diversion constructions (weirs) providing controlleddiversion from the rivers and varying according to
     the river bed and resource conditions;
0    Concrete irrigation channels where field conditions permit, providing conveyance without pressure with
     minimumloss o fwater;
0    Pipedwater conveyance structures inrough ground where open channel construction is not possible or


                                                       - 37 -

    where water is conveyed from source under pressure;
0   Farm reservoirs comprising small dams between 7.00 - 15.00 m inheight and storing winter andspring
    flows from the watershed.
    Farm ponds where the water flow rates is less than 20 Us.

Works will include exploitation o f as yet unexploited water sources as well as improvement o f existing
small scale irrigation schemes. Duringthe M C planningphase a thorough investigation o f all potential
water sources ina given M C will be carried out. Firstpriority will be given to the development o f irrigation
ponds locatedat strategic places through the microcatchment areas, so that a larger segment o f the village
population can benefit. Streams will have second priority. Only inextreme water short catchment areas
without springs and only seasonal streams, will the development o f small dams be taken into consideration.
Itis estimatedthat the total commandarea inthe 28 project MCswill be about 3,000. Where suitable
small-scale freshwater fisheries may be developed inselected MCs.

2b: Agricultural Production on Terraces. The project would establish terraces on farmland where
continued practicing o f agriculture would result inerosion and where capturing o f soil moisture is
problematic. Technical advice andwhere necessary seeds for demonstrations will be provided for planting
alternative irrigated and rainfed crops (e.g. fodder crops, fruits and vegetables) on terraced land.

2c: Forestry Based Income Diversijication: This Sub-component seeks to help forest communities make
better use o f forest resources while conserving the resource base and would includeparticipatory tree
plantingandgrafting o fwild trees inforest land.

2d: Farm Enterprise Diversijication: This sub-component seeks to help farmers diversify and raise their
agnculture based income through the introduction o f high-value non traditional niche and forage crops,
grafting o f wild trees, tree planting on field boundaries, apiculture and small scale agro-processing. The
project would provide for demonstrations, technical support and marketing advise to help farmers shift to
the productiono f non-traditional highvalue niche crops such as lavender, thyme, raspberry, rosehip,
orchid, triticale, organic products, pharmaceutical plants or seedlings for ornamental plants. Grafting o f
wild fruit and nut trees aims to improve the quality and quantity offruits andwouldbe supportedthrough
the provision o f grafting materials, technical organization o f and grafting by experienced grafters and
farmer training. Greenhouse horticulture may be supported. Apiculture allows to raise farmer incomes
without puttingadditional pressure on the land and is inparticular demand by particularly landless farmers
and goat keepers. To increase the durability andvalue added o f crops, farmers would be introduced to
simple ago-processing methods which meet food safety and quality standards necessary to sell processed
products inurban markets. Inan effort to reduce householddependence on the naturalresource base,
improved breeds o f cattle and sheep may be provided.

Under project Component 2, the project will finance civil works for irrigation and agricultural terraces;
simple ago-processing equipment, farmer training intechnical aspects o f income raising activities,
marketing advice and operating costs associated with implementing agency staffs' operational travel.

Project Component 3 US$ 0.28 million
                        -
StrengtheningPolicy and Regulatory Capacity
This Component aims at strengthening the policy and regulatory capacity towards meeting EU standards in
the area o f agricultural pollution. Itwill consist of the following three sub-components:

3a: Supportfor Implementation of the EU Nitrates Directive. The project would support the monitoring
of nitrate levels at selected sites inthe four Black Sea provinces as a first step inimplementingthe EU


                                                        - 38 -

Nitrates Directive. The objective would be to monitor areas o f intensive agriculture inthe watersheds o f the
Kizilirmak andYesilirmak Rivers andidentify ``vulnerable zones".

3b: Development and Promotion of a Code of GoodAgricultural Practices. The project would provide
technical assistance for the preparation of a Code o f GoodAgricultural Practices inline with EU
requirements. The preparation and ultimate application o f such a code is a mandatory part o f the EU
Nitrates Directive program.

3c: Institutional Supportfor OrganicFarming. The project would provide technical assistance to
support production and marketing o f organically produced products.

Under Component 3 the project would finance technical assistance andtraining insupport o f these
activities, as well as equipment and operating costs to monitor water and soil quality.

Project Component 4 US$1.06 million
                        -
Public Awareness, CapacityBuildingandReplication Strategy
Under Component 4 the project would finance public relations campaigns and informationalmaterials,
training, andtechnical assistance as well as computer andother equipment for the rural tele-centers. This
component will have the following three sub-components:

 4a: Public Awareness in MCDevelopment: This sub-component is intended to help raise awareness
 amongst target beneficiaries and other stakeholders about the program approach and terms o fparticipation
 inM C development. The goal will beto increase transparency inprogramimplementation andto
 empower beneficiaries to demand program services. With regard to the four Black Sea provinces, the
 sub-component would provide for public awareness activities at the provinical and national levels, as well
 as for future replication o f similar activities inTurkey and Black Sea ripariancountries.

Project Component 5 US$2.50 million
                        -
ProjectManagementand Support Services
 Through 4 sub-components, Component 5 would finance technical assistance,training, office equipment
 and incremental operating costs associated with project management:

 5a: Project Administration. This sub-component will provide resources for logistical, operational, and
 support services, as well as financial services necessary to ensure the efficient administration o f project
 activities and resources by central andprovincial project management units.

 5b: Support Services: This sub-component will fund extension, technical assistance andlocal andregional
 visits for project managers, technical project staff and farmers, surveys, and technical designs for
 monitoring and evaluation.

 5c: Monitoring and Evaluation: The project provides for upgrading the existing M&Esystem.

 5d: Fundfor Applied Research and TechnologyDissemination: The project would finance short-term,
 small-scale applied research. This would include soil, water, crop, natural resources management,
 agricultural pollution, livestock and forestry applied research.

ImplementationArranpements

Project activities will be implemented by the relevant General Directorates o fthe Ministryo f Environment


                                                       - 39 -

and Forestry, and the Ministryo f Agriculture and Rural Affairs as follows:

         JAME OF AGENCY              RELATEDUNITS                            ROJECTCOMPOSEST
         Iinistry of Environment     iD o f Afforestationand Erosion control ovcrall planning and
         id Forestry (MEF)           4GM)                                    coordination 'budgeting
                                                                             soil conservation by
                                                                             afforestation
                                                                             protection and improvement
                                                                             o f poor and degraded soil
                                                                             gallery plantations
                                                                             rehabilitation o f rangelands ii
                                                                             the forest area
                                                                             participatory afforestation
                                     3D ofForestry (OGM)                     rehabilitationo f oak and
                                                                             degraded forest
                                                                              inventory o f non-wood forest
                                                                             products

                                      iDofForest andVillage Relations        livestock improvement
                                      3RKOY)                                 freshwater fisheries
                                                                             development
                                                                             greenhouse development
                                      iD o f Eniironmental Management         Construction standards for
                                      CYGM)                                   manure handling facilities
                                                                              stream water quality
                                                                              monitoring
                                                                              public awareness and
                                                                              replication strategy for
                                                                              nutrient discharge reduction
         linistry o f Agriculture anc iD o f Development and Agricultural     range land rehabilitation
         .ural Affairs (MARA)         'roduction (TUGEM)                      outside the forest area
                                                                              agricultural land
                                                                              rehabilitation
                                                                              agriculturalbased income
                                                                              raising activities
                                                                              demonstrations
                                      iD ofProtection and Control (KKGM)      manure management,
                                                                              nutrient management,
                                                                              organic farming
                                                                              water & soil quality
                                                                              monitoring
                                                                              nitrate level monitoring
                                                                              code o f good ag. practice
                                                                              public awareness campaign
                                                                              demonstrations
                                      GD o f Rural Services (KHGM)            protection and rehabilitation
                                                                              o f agricultural land
                                                                              small scale irrigation and
                                                                              irrigation facilities, includini
                                                                              farm ponds
                                                                              riverbank and creek
                                                                              rehabilitation
                                                                              wet and dry terracing



                                                      -40-

           VAME OF AGENCY             lELATEDUNITS                        PROJECT COMPONENT
'rovincial vlinistry o f Environment  itthe time ofAppraisal, a           0Overall planning and
           md Forestry (MEF)          :organization o f regional and       coordinationibudgeting
                                      rovincial directorates was underway 0soil conservation by
                                      iiiththe aim ofmore fully            afforestation
                                      ecentralizing implementation        0protection and
                                      esponsibilities.                     improvement o f degraded
                                                                           soil
                                                                          0gallery plantations
                                                                          0 rehabilitation o f range
                                                                           lands inthe forest area
                                                                           participatory afforestation
                                                                          0inventory o f non-wood
                                                                           forest products
                                                                          0wild tree grafting
                                                                          0rehabilitation oak and
                                                                           degraded forests
                                                                          0nutrient management
                                                                          0stream water quality
                                                                           monitoring
                                                                          0public awareness and
                                                                           replication strategy for
                                                                           nutrient discharge
                                                                           reduction
                                                                          0 livestock improvement
                                                                          0 freshwater fisheries
                                                                            development
                                                                          0 greenhouse development
           Ministry o fAgriculture   At the time of Appraisal, a          0 rehabilitation o f
           indRural Affairs          reorganization o f regional and        rangelands outside o f
           :MAW                      provincial directorates was underway   forest areas
                                     with the aim o f more fully          0 rehabilitation o f agr.
                                                                            land
                                                                          0 ag. based income
                                                                            raising activities
                                                                          0 manure management,
                                                                          0 nutrient management,
                                                                          0 organic farming
                                                                          0 MC water & soil
                                                                            quality monitoring
                                                                          0 nitrate level monitoring
                                                                          0 code o fgood ag.
                                                                            practice
                                                                          0 public awareness
                                                                            campaign
                                                                          0 demonstrations
                                                                          0 small scale irrigation
                                                                          0 riverbank rehab.
                                                                          0 terracing




                                                    -41 -

                                            Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                 TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATIONPROJECT

                                                                                                                       Foreign                  Total
                                                                                                                    US $million             US $million
                                                                                                                            1.73                 20.28
Component 2: Income GeneratingActivities                                                            13.80                   1.04                 14.84
Component 3: Strengthening Policy and Regulatory Capacity                                            0.18                  0.07                    0.25
towards MeetingEUStandards
Component 4: Awareness Raising, Capacity Building, and                                               0.78                  0.23                    1.01
Replication Strategy
Component 5: Project Management and Support Services                                                 2.16                  0.29                    2.45
Total Baseline Cost                                                                                 35.47                  3.36                  38.83
 Physical Contingencies                                                                              3.10                  0.20                    3.30
 Price Contingencies                                                                                 2.58                   0.20                   2.78
                                         Total Project Costs1                              1        41.15                   3.76                 44.91
                                                               Front-endfee                                                 0.20                   0.20
                                 Total Financing Required                                           41.15                   3.96                 45.11

  IIdcrititiabletaxes andduties are 3.58 (L'SSm) andthe totalproject cost, net of'taxes, is 31.53 (tiS$m). Therefore; thc project cost sharingratio is 57.9246 of'
  total project cost net oft3xes.




                                                                    - 42 -

                                   Annex 4: Cost BenefitAnalysis Summary
                       TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT

 Summary of Benefits and Costs:
 The analysis takes a holistic view o fthe project impacts and interventions. While some interventions may
 have higher or lower internal rates o f retum (IRR) when considered inisolation, they complement each
 other and will yield full benefits within the context o f integrated microcatchment MC rehabilitation.
 Accordingly, the present cost benefit analysis has been carried out in four stages: (i)               estimation o f net
 financial benefits o f project activities aiming at natural resource rehabilitation and erosion control,
 intensification and diversification o f farming systems, and employment generation; (ii)                 construction o f
 representative M C models (financial); (iii)         economic analysis at the project level (28 MCs); and (iv)
 sensitivity analysis to test the robustness o f the results. This analysis indicates that the proposed
 combination o f interventions should be attractive from the financial point o f view to target communities in
 MCs at various altitudes, but that the financial performance o f MC development plans largely depends on
 the balance betweenrehabilitative and income generating interventions. Details of this last analysis are not
 presented inthis annex, but are available inthe project files.

 Net Financial Benefits of Project Activities

 Natural Resource Rehabilitation and Erosion Control

 The benefits o f rehabilitation and conservations measures have been measured intwo steps: (i)                        income
 streams from rehabilitative investments ( e g additional wood production) and, (ii)                 benefits from reduced
 erosion as measured by reduced soil loss, higher agricultural yields andreduced flood damage.

 Direct Income from Rehabilitative Investments: Among the protective project interventions, only
 participatory planting, range landmanagement and range landrehabilitation are expected to yield tangible
 benefits to the communities, with the benefits inmost cases only accruing after 5-10 years. Given their
 costs to participating communities, it is essential that these protective activities be complemented by income
 generating activities which will allow M C communities, inparticular those persons who will lose from
 protective interventions, to derive and increase their household income from alternative sources. Table 1
 below summarizes financial benefits o f rehabilitative measures. It must be noted, however, that while the
 mainbenefits o f these rehabilitative measures can not be captured by measuring direct incremental income
 generated from these investments, the mainbenefit o f these investments is the rehabilitation andrestoration
 o f the resource base inthe M C area. This is a pre-condition for the generation o f benefits o f essentially all
 other project benefits andfurthermore has significant additional environmental benefits some o f which are
 hfficult to quantify, while others will be quantified inthe next section.

ITable 1: Summary of Benefits from Forestry and Range Land Rehabilitation
                                 /Firstyear inwhich     IYear inwhich fullbenefits /Incrementalbenefitsha at full
                                 positive net benefits  are reaped                  maturity                      1IRR
                                 occur                                             (TL milha)                      25 yrs
  Participatory planting         5                      20                          5,23 1
  Range land management          5                      6                           19                             -0.2%
 Range landrehabilitation        6                      8                           19                             -2.9%




                                                                -43-

increased infiltration o frain water and thus water content o f forestry andagricultural landleading to
greater availability o f water for animal andhuman consumption and higher soil moisture; (vi) improved
environmental conditions due to increased vegetative cover leading to better conditions for wildlife, carbon
sequestration andmore humidlocal microclimates; (vii) reducedcost o f water treatment for human
consumption downstream as a result o f reduced water turbidity.

Methodological difficulties and absence o f data, prevent the quantification o f all benefits. The present
cost-benefit analysis includes a quantification o f the benefits from reduced soil loss, progressive
improvement o f soil quality and thus agricultural yields and o f reduced flood control costs. The
quantification o f benefits from reduced siltation o f dams was not included, as the project area only affects
less than 1percent o fthe catchment area o f concemed dams.

A conservative estimate is that about 1.5 million tons o f sediments are lost to erosion annually inthe 28
project MCs'. Results elsewhere inTurkey showed that erosion decreases from 16,000 tons per km2 o f
fallow (nude soils) to 1,360 tons on pastures and to negligible values on forest land. Therefore afforestation
activities could reduce erosion by up to 100percent. Under the project, the combination o f forestry and
rangelandmanagement and improvement activities has been assumed to reduce erosion by 80 percent.
However, this will be slow to materialize and this result is assumed to materialize progressively after 5
years andto reach full potential after 10 years. Then, an estimated 1.5 million tons o f soil which would
have been eroded without project will be "saved" from erosion. To quantify the value o f this reduction in
soil loss, soil losses intons were translated into soil losses inarea, with one 1ton o f soil loss translating
into 3m2o f lost soil). The cost o f this loss was valued at the average net retum o f land subject to erosion in
the project area, which is about US$68/ha per year. As a consequence, one ton o f sediment lost,
corresponding to a permanent loss of 3 m', would lead to an annual productivity loss o f US$0.021. A loss
o f 1.5 million tons o f sediments corresponds to an annual loss o f about US$31,000. However, the loss o f
soil beingpermanent, these productivity losses would cumulate over time andreach US$ 310,000 per year
after 10 years. Under the project, erosion would progressively be reduced by 80 percent and it is estimated
that inPY 20, annual savings would reach 400 billion TL, or USS 300,000 per year.

Effectsonyields: Bothfarmers andtechnical services recognizethat erosion is negatively affecting
agncultural yields inthe project area. However, no reliable data exists for Turkey which would allow to
document this impact. Inthe absence o f specific data related to the project area or Turkey, the following
very conservative assumption has been applied: productivity would decrease by 1percent every year
without project as a result o f continuing erosion; these losses would progressively be reduced andyields
would stabilize after 5 years as a result o f erosion control activities. This very conservative assumption
would lead to an annual saving o f about 380 billionTL (USS 280 thousand) after 10years.

FloodControl.Damage causedby floods averages about US$ 1.12 million per year inthe three major
watersheds concerned by the project. Reduced erosion has a great impact on the frequency and scope o f
 floods by sharply reducing the peaks o f water flow both through increased infiltration and slowing down
the flow where vegetation cover is restored. However, at an average area o f 40km2,the 28 MCs covered by
the project account for only about 2.4 percent o f the area o f these watersheds. Therefore the reduction o f
erosion resulting from project implementation has been assumed to progressively reach 50 percent o f 2.4
percent of these damages which can be attributed to the 28 MCs forming the project area. After 10 years,
 annual savings would reach about US$ 30,000.

 BenefitsofAgriculturalIntensificationandDiversification



                                                       - 44 -

Crop Budgets: Crop budgets were developed for each ofthe main income generation activities to be
promotedunder the project. The following assumptions underlie these budgets: (i)       budgets were prepared in
TL andfarm gate prices were used; (ii) perennial crops, a projectionover 20 years was done, with full
                                          for
productionassumed to gradually occur between year 3 and year 10, depending on the crop; (iii)       family
labor was considered as a financial cost, hired labor (assumed to represent 10 percent inthe case o f annual
crops and 30 percent for perennial crops) was valued at TL 6 millionper labor day. Net annual benefits per
hectare were calculated for annual crops and average annual incomes (over 20 years) and financial rates o f
return (FRR) for the perennial crops. Detailed results o f these crop budgets are available inthe Financial
andEconomic Analysis Project PreparationReport inthe project files.
Fallow Reduction:An activity model for fallow reduction shows that the average net annual income per ha
from agriculture would more than double from a very low 213 million TL to 461 million TL . I t is
estimated that the incremental availability o f fodder for animal feeding could reach a total o f 4,585 tons at
full development, iffallow reduction is implemented on 1,834 ha, leadingto incremental annualbenefits o f
TL 334 billion as o fyear seven.

SmallScale Irrigation:The project would provide for the development of about 3,940 ha o fnewly
irrigated landwhich would allow to convert from the current extensive productiono f cereals to a more
intensive cultivation o f higher value crops. Cost-benefit models for two typical irrigation schemes were
prepared (irrigation pond covering 5 ha or irrigated land, irrigation dam covering 30 ha). Financial rates o f
return (calculated over 20 years) are estimated at 30 percent and 27 percent for irrigation pond and
irrigation dam respectively. Fromthe farmers' viewpoint, the investment is even more profitable as they
would have to bare only a small share o f the investment cost estimated at 20 percent. The financial rates o f
return from their viewpoint are estimated at respectively 92 percent and 81 percent. Further details are
available inthe project file.

Impact OnAnimal Husbandry:The project will provide grant financing for dairy cow and sheepkeeping
activities by inhabitants o fproject MCs who agree to arrangements for improved range management, to
compensate them for their losses from reducedgoat flock sizes. The support will include the provision o f
two improved cows incalf or o f 30 sheep and one ram, and support towards the construction or
improvement o f a 5-animal stall or sheep pens. Experience suggests that former goat keepers prefer to first
switch to sheep keeping rather than shifting to cow keeping which may require more skills. Nevertheless
the project will make sure that the number o f sheep introduced through this activity will not lead to
overgrazing. Furthermore, inline with the spirit o f coordinated MC planning, the project will require that
the farmers it supports will also be engaged infodder crop production supportedby TUGEM to ensure that
their livestock does not pose a threat to rangeland. Support is envisaged for 168 dairy cow units (i.e. 2
 improved cows per unit)and 169 dairy sheep units (i.e. 30 sheep and 1ramper unit). The average support
per investment will be about USD 7,850 for dairy sheep and U S D 10,800 for dairy cows. ORKOY
 envisages about 50% in-cash or in-kind(or some combination thereof )co-funding from beneficiaries.

 Summary of Benefitsand Costs:
 For purposes o f the project's overall cost benefit analysis the entire project area (28 MCs) has been
 considered and treated as a giant MC inwhich all project activities are implemented over a 7 year period.
 The phasing o f physical activities was multiplied by net economic retums per unitas calculated inthe
 economic activity models and crop budgets. The costs o f all other activities for which no benefits were
 estimated were included inthe calculations. Financialprices were replaced by economic values inthe crop
 budgets and activity models. Another major difference between financial and economic models is that the
 latter attribute a value to the economic cost o f family labour -- not the case inthe financial models.




                                                      - 4 5 -

The economic rate o fr e m (ERR) was calculated over a 25 years period (as most o fthe activities are
expected to have a long term impact) .The ERR including all project benefits is 18.6 percent and the net
present value (NPV) calculated with an annual discount rate o f 12percent is 20.7 trillion TL, or US$ 15.3
million. Benefits from irrigation activities make up a large part o f the IRRand NPV. InProject Year 20,
they account for about 60 percent o f the entire economic benefits, while benefits from agricultural activities
account for about 18 percent and benefits from erosion reduction for about 22 percent.

Main Assumptions:
1.         This estimate is based on an observed annual average sedimentation o f 453 tonsikm2 inthe rivers
           o f the three major watersheds to which the participating 28 MCs belong andthe assumption that
           the project MCs contribute to these sediments inproportion to their area (average area o f 40 km2
           per MC). This is a conservative estimate, as erosion is above average inthe selected MCs and the
           observed sediments are averages over 30 years which do not take into account recent increases in
           erosion levels.
2.         Status Report: "Erosion inTurkey" prepared inFeb 1998 inthe context o f a Forestry Sector
           Reviewjointly undertakenby the MoF andthe WB'.
3.         Estimates are based on average soil depth o f 20cm and average soil density o f 1m3=1.665tons, see
           Financial and Economic Analysis Project Preparation Report (inproject files) for details.

Sensitivity analysis/ Switching values of criticalitems:




                                               ERR               NPV (US$million)
BaseCase                                       18.6%                   15.3
Costs increasedby 20%                          16.7%                   12.0
Benefits decreasedby 20%                       16.3%                    7.6
Cost +20% and Benefits-20%                     14.4%                    5.7
Benefits delayed by 2 years                    18.3%                   13.7

The sensitivity o f the net project benefits to the materialization o ftwo key project benefits was also tested.
First,an estimation ofeconomic benefits ifthe impact from conservation activities on erosion would not
materialize. The results indicate that the project would still be economically feasible even inthe absence o f
erosion reduction benefits. Second, to show the importance o f irrigationdevelopment inthe economic
viability o f the project, the irrigation sub-component was subtracted from the analysis. Without irrigation
benefits, the project wouldjust barely be economically viable. Results are summarized inTable 3.


                                               ERR               NPV (US$ million)
BaseCase                                       18.6%                    15.3
Erosion Control Benefits not Materializing     18.1%                    13.7
KOImgationSub-component                        12.3%                    0.4




                                                      - 46 -

                                 Annex 5: Financial Summary
               TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                      Years Ending
                                       December31

                          IYear I  I Year2   I Year3   Iyear4  IYear5  IYear6   1 Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
  InvestmentCosts              2.7       6.9        8.0     8.1     6.6     4.1       1.8
 Recurrent Costs               0.4       0.6        0.8     1.o     1.2     1.4       1.4
Total Project Costs            3.1       7.5        8.8     9.1     7.8     5.5       3.2
             Front-end fee     0.2
Total Financing                3.3       7.5        8.8     9.1     7.8     5.5       3.2
Financing
   IBRDllDA                    1.o       3.6        4.0     4.1     3.6    2.5        1.1
   Government                  0.8       1.7        1.8     1.8     1.6    1.1        0.7
       Central                 0.6       1.6        1.7     1.7     1.5    1.o        0.5
       Provincial              0.2       0.1        0.1     0.1     0.1    0.1        0.2
   Co-financiers
Local Communities              0.2       0.9        1.4     1.7     1.7    1.6        1.2
Global Environment             1.3       1.3        1.6     1.5     0.9    0.3        0.2
Facility




Total Project Financing        3.3       7.5        8.8     9.1     7.8    5.5        3.2
Main assumptions:




                                            - 47 -

                              Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
             TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATIONPROJECT

Procurement

Procurement o f goods, works and technical services financed bythe World Bank andGEF will be done in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (issued in
January 1995, Revised January andAugust 1996, September 1997 and January 1999).

Consulting services and technical assistance financed by the World Bank and GEF will be done in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by the WorldBank
Borrowers (issued inJanuary 1997, revised September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002).

The Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments and Request for Proposals will be used. Works, goods and
services which are not financed by the Bank would be procured inaccordance with the arrangements agreed
between the financier andthe Government. A General Procurement Notice will be annually published in
UNDevelopment Business.

II.Implementation:

There will be two Ministries responsible for the implementation o f this project, which are namely:

1.      MinistryofEnvironmentandForestry (MEF)
       e    General Directorate o f Afforestation andErosion Control (AGM)
       e    General Directorate o f Forestry (OGM)
        e   General Directorate o f Environmental Management (CYGM)
        0   General Directorate o fForestry and Village Relations (ORKOY)

2.      MinistryofAgnculture andRuralAffairs (MARA)
        e   General Directorate o fAgricultural Production and Development (TUGEM)
        e   General Directorate o f Protection and Control (KKGM)
        e   General Directorate o f Rural Services (KHGM)

Ministryo fEnvironment and Forestry (MEF) willbethe coordinating agency for the proposedproject and
play key role inthe implementation o fthe project.

Project Management Group (PMG) will be responsible for overall project management. A Project
Coordinator will headthe P M G and membership will comprise representatives o f all Ministries/central
agencies (implementing agencies) listed above having project activities. The P M Gwill be responsible for: i)
overall project coordination; ii)review and approval o f microcatchments plans; and iii)annual budget
proposals for all project activities. An Operations Unit (OU) will serve the PMG. Within each
implementing agency, a Project Management Unit (PMU) at the central level will oversee project activities.
At the provincial level, ProvincialProject Management Team made up of line agencies will be responsible
for managing project implementation. The OU will be located at the premises o f MEF-AGMand will have
3 sub-unitsto the satisfaction of the Bank: i)Financial Management; ii)Procurement; andiii)Monitoring
and Evaluation.

Procurement Sub-Unit (PSU): will have four procurement specialists (including one primarily for handling


                                                    - 4%-

GEF expenditures) andwill be responsible from coordinating allprocurement activities o fthe project, one
o f them being the leader o f the procurement team.

Financial Management Sub-Unit (FMSU): will have a financial manager, an accountant and a
disbursement officer andwill be responsible from all project financial management activities.

MonitorinP and Evaluation Sub-Unit (MESU): will have two M&Especialists, employed for at least four
months a year (one o f whom will focus on GEF activities), and a secretaryiinterpreter.

All procurement activities withinthe scope o fProject will beunder the responsibility o f OU-PSU, where at
least two professional (individual consultant/one o f them will primarly work for GEF) procurement
specialists will be employed. It was agreed that procurement related decisions that will be taken at the
related implementingagency will be discussed at the Project Management Group (PMG) and implemented
by the BiddingCommittees which will comprise o fexperienced technical staff from relatedimplementing
agency as well as procurement staff from OU. Ifneeded, update(s) inthe procurement planwill be
proposed by the implementingagencies, and after the approval o f the PMGiOU the updated procurement
plans will be send to the Bank's clearance. Any revision inthe procurement plans shall not be valid without
Bank'sprior concurrence andno-objection (please seeparagraphIVbelow). Procurement activities that
will be managedat the provinciallevel will be closely supervised by relevant central agency and OU, and
the field offices will take no procurement action, unless the decision is approved by OU.

The implementing agencies listed above will be primarilyresponsible inpreparation o f the procurement
documents such as advertisements, scope o f works, terms o freferences, technical specifications, delivery
sites, drawings, bill o f quantities etc..In order to apply the Bankprocurement procedures andrules
properly, ImplementingAgencies will obtain the participation o fthe PSUprocurement experts when they
prepare the biddmgdocuments. The PSUprocurement experts will also help the implementing agencies
duringthe evaluation stage o fthe expressiono f interests andbidsiproposals, establishing short lists,
contract negotiations (consultants services only) andcontract preparations interms o f Bank's procurement
procedures.

All the Bank financed procurement activities will be performed under the management o fthe OU-PSU, and
without the clearance o f the OU-PSU on the procurement activities no procurement will be performed. The
procurement documents which are subject to prior review o f the Bank will be send to the Bankthrough
OU-PSU (please see Section IV below).

The contracts will be signed by the relevant Implementing Agencies after all clearances from the OU-PSU
and the Bank are obtained. The cop(ies)y o f the contracts will be send to the OU-PSU for their records and
payment purposes. The contracts will be executedby the relevant ImplementingAgencies. The contract
payments will be done by OUagainst evidences and invoices submitted by the ImplementingAgencies.

MEFandMARAhave fieldunits inall o fthe 81 provinces. The project area includes 6 provinces inthe
Central Anatolia and Black Sea Regions o f Turkey and the fieldunits o f these ministries will be responsible
for tendering small construction works andprocuring small size o f locally available goods. However, they
have a limited experience andno training inthe Bank's procurement procedures. Whenever required, the
provincial project staff will be trained by OU-PSU specialists regarding the procurement activities.

All biddingdocuments for the procurement o fBank financed goods, works and services shall beprepared
bythe implementing agencies with the participation o fOU-PSU experts. At the provincial levelthe
responsible team o fthe line agencies will prepare the small size procurement documents under the


                                                        - 49 -

supervision o f central management o fthe relevant agencies andPSU. All the procurement documents will
be cleared by OU-PSU before any action.

A Project Launch Workshop shall beheldafter the effective date o fthe LoadTrust FundAgreement to
reaffirm the PSU's and implementation units' understanding of the procurement procedures under the
Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project.

In.ProcurementArrangements:

The following procurement methods will be applicable for the procurement o f goods, works and services.

(a) Procurement of Goods:

The goods to be financed by the Bank include the following: agricultural seeds; fruit tree seedlings; seeds
for forest trees; forest tree seedlings; greenhouses; fishponds; dairying; breeding;fertilizer; bees; beehives
and kits laboratory; field, ofice, survey equipment andmachinery.

International Competitive Bidding(ICBI: These contracts will be procuredthrough ICB in accordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

National Competitive Bidding (NCB): The contracts for the procurement o f locally available goods
estimated to cost less than US$300,000 per contract will be procuredthrough N C B inaccordance with the
Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

International Shopping (IS): The contracts for the procurement o f readily available off-shelf goods
estimated to cost less than US$ 100,000 per contract will be procuredthrough I S on the basis of at least
three quotations obtained from suppliers from two eligible source countries inaccordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines.

National Shopping. (NS): The contracts for the procurement o f locally available off-shelf goods estimated
to cost less than USS50,OOO per contract will be procured through N S on the basis o f at least three
quotations obtained from domestic suppliers inaccordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

Direct Contracting (DCI: The procurement of goods, which (i)      would be an extension o f an existing
contract, (ii)mustbe purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with the existing equipment,
(iii) ofaproprietarynature,(iv)mustbeprocuredfromaparticularsupplierasaconditionofa
     are
performance guarantee, (v) must be purchased from the only available source, with the Bank's prior
agreement, will be done through D C inaccordance with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

(b) Procurement ofWorks andTechnical Services:

The works to be financed by the Bank include the following;
     afforestation services for soil conservation,
0    protection and improvement services for degraded soils,
0    plantation and rehabilitation services for forestry areas,
0    construction of small scale irrigation works,
     riverbed rehabilitation,
0    construction o f agricultural terraces,
0    construction of central and farm stores for manure management,


                                                       - 50 -

0   construction of green houses,
0   construction o f fishponds.

International Competitive Bidding(ICB): These contracts will be procured through I C B inaccordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.

National Competitive Bidding(NCB): The contracts for the procurement o ftechnical services and
construction works estimated to cost less than US$ 3 million per contract will be procured through N C B in
accordance with the procedures acceptable to the Bank and also inaccordance with the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. When falling under the legal framework governed by the Borrower's Public
Procurement Law No. 4734 dated January 04,2002 and Amendment Law No:4761 dated June 12,2002
and Amendment Law No.4964 dated July 30,2003, the following procedures with respect to NCB will
apply:

    Eligibility:Biddingshall not be restricted to domestic bidders. N o restriction shall be applied to
    foreign bidders who wish to submit a bid.

    Procedures:The OpenProcedure, as defined inthe Public Procurement Law, shall be followed inall
    cases. Invitations to bidshall be advertised inthe Official Gazette andinat least one widely circulated
    national daily newspaper allowing a minimumo f 30 days for the preparation and submission o f bids.

    Assessmentof Bidders'Qualifications:Inthe procurement o fgoods and works, where
    pre-qualification is not used, the qualifications o f the bidder who is recommended for award o f contract
    shall be assessedby post-qualification, applying minimumexperience, technical and financial
    requirements which shall be explicitly stated inthe bidding documents and which shall be determined
    by a `passffail' method, not through use o fa meritpoint system.

    Participationby Government-ownedEnterprises:Except as otherwise noted, Govemment-owned
    enterprises inthe Republic o f Turkey shall be eligible to participate inbidding only ifthey can establish
    that they are legally and financially autonomous, operate under commercial law and are not a
    dependent agency o f the Government. Furthermore, they will be subject to the same bidand
    performance security requirements as other bidders.

    Participationby Joint Ventures: Participation shall be allowed fromjoint ventures onthe condition
    that suchjoint venture partners will bejointly and severally liable under the Contract.

    BiddingDocuments: Procuring entities shall use the appropriate standard biddingdocuments for the
    procurement of goods, works or services, and shall contain draft contract andconditions o f contract
    acceptable to the Bank.

    BidEvaluation:Evaluation ofbids shallbe made instrict adherence to the monetarily quantifiable
    criteria declared inthe biddingdocuments and a merit point system shall not be used. Extension o fbid
    validity shall be allowed once only for not more than 30 days. N o further extensions should be
    requested without the prior approval o f the Bank. Contracts shall be awarded to qualified bidders
    having submitted the lowest evaluated substantially responsive bid.N o preference shall apply under
    National Competitive Bidding.

    PriceAdjustment: Civilworks contracts of long duration (e.g. more thaneighteen (18) months) shall



                                                      - 51 -

    contain an appropriate price adjustment clause.

    RejectionofAll Bids: Allbids shall not be rejectedand new bidssolicited without the Bank's prior
    written concurrence.

    Contracts:All contracts shall be inwriting, signedand stamped by authorized signatories o fthe
    Purchaser and the Supplier and contain identical terms and conditions o f contract to those included in
    the tender documents.

    Securities:BidSecurities should not exceed 2% (two percent) ofthe estimatedcost o fthe contract;
    Performance Securities not more than 10%(ten percent). No advance payments shall be made to
    Contractors without a suitable Advance Payment security. The wording o f all such securities shall be
    included into the bidding documents and shall be acceptable to the Bank.

Minor Works (MW):The contracts for the procurement o f small scale rehabilitation, plantation and
construction works estimated to cost less than USS 100,000 per contract will be procured through h4W
based on at least three quotations obtained from qualified domestic contractors inresponse to written
requests.

(c) Procurementof ConsultingServices:

The consulting services to be financed by the Bank include the following: monitoring and evaluation,
agricultural marketing, soil and water pollution monitoring, livestock waste management, simple
ago-processing, code o f good agricultural practices, organic agriculture, public awareness, communication
specialist.

Oualiw andCost Based Selection (OCBS): The consulting services to be contracted to consulting firms
will be procuredon the basis o fQCBS procedure inaccordance with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines.

Selection Based on Consultants' Oualifications ((20):The consulting services to be contracted to
consulting firms estimatedto cost less thanUS$ 100,000 will be procured on the basis o f CQ procedure in
accordance with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines.

Individual Consultants (IC): The consulting services for strengthening project management and
implementation to be contracted to individual consultants will be procured on the basis o f Individual
Consultants inaccordance with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines. For the individual consultants to be
hired for more than six months duration, the positions will be advertised for expressions o f interest in
international and/or national media depending on the expertise required andselection will be based on
comparison o f qualifications o f those expressing interest.

Single Source Selection (SS): The consulting services, which (i)   would be a natural continuation o f
previous work carried out by the firm, (ii) must be selected rapidly due to an emergency need, (iii) an
                                                                                                      has
exceptional nature where only one firm is qualifiedor has experience o f exceptional worth for the
assignment, (iv) is estimated to cost less thanUS$ 100,000, with the Bank's prior agreement, will be done
procured through SS in accordance with the Bank's Consultants Guidelines.

(d) Procurementfrom GovernmentOwnedEnterprises:

Itis recognizedthat the agncultural inputssuch as forestry seedlings, fruitbearing forest seedlings, fruit


                                                     - 52 -

tree seedlings, forest tree seeds, agricultural seeds, bee hives etc. to be provided under the project have
unique characteristics (such as sensitivity to local soil conditions, topography, climate) which would render
competitive biddingas goods through ICB or even N C B procedures impractical. Nevertheless, it is
recognizedthat at least some o f this type o f material may be available from private sources on the localized
marketplace andin some instances could be purchased through local competitive biddingwhen suitable
items meet the quality standards (including disease free condition) specified. It is only when suitable
agncultural inputs are not available on the open market or suitable sources on the open market have been
exhausted, that purchases from Government Owned Enterprises (GOEs) or agencies would be allowed.
Furthermore, when more than one GOE source is available, the project authorities should insure that the
purchases would be made from GOEthat would be the most economical while still satisfying the quality
aspects o f the project. Incategorical terms, the procurement o f these agricultural inputs would follow the
following steps:

When the suitable agricultural input is available from private sources on localizedmarketplace; it will be
procured:
(i) nationalshoppingproceduresforcontractslessthanUS$50,000equivalent,
   through
(ii) localcompetitivebiddingproceduressatisfactorytotheBankforallothercontracts.
    through

When the suitable agricultural input is only available from GOEs, it will be procured:
(i) themosteconomicalsourcewhenmorethanoneGOEsourcewithsuitableagriculturalinputis
   from
available,
(ii) directcontractingwithaGOEwhenitistheonlysourceofsuitableagriculturalinput.
    by

As result, the Bank (OPCPR) agrees, on an exceptional basis, with the procurement o f above listed
agricultural inputs and services from government owned enterprises and agencies under the scope o fthe
project, if andwhen they can not be procured from private sources inlocal market. The subject agencies
are the Government agencies andthey are not eligible according to paragraph 1.8 (c) o f the Bank's
Procurement Guidelines. More specifically, they are not legally and financially autonomous; they do not
operate under commercial law; they are the dependent agencies o f the Borrower or the Sub-Borrower i.e.
implementingMinistries. However, because o f specific nature o f the project and when there is no private
sector alternatives for these agncultural inputs and services, the direct procurement from government
owned enterprises will be considered. Therefore, the implementing agencies shall procure some agricultural
inputs and services (e.g. digitized maps) from government owned enterprises under the scope o fthis project
through the above-explainedmethodology. The details o f these procurements are explained inAnnex 15 to
this Project Appraisal Document.

(e)Training and StudyTour Expenditures:

The P M G shall prepare detailed training programs for every six months inconsultation with the
implementing agencies. The Training Programs shall contain time schedules for workshops, seminars,
studytours andtravels etc. including detailed information onthe content, itinerary, location, number o f
beneficiaries, cost estimates for each activity etc. These training programs shall be submitted to the Bank
for review andclearance before implementation. After the Bank's clearance, the program shall be
implemented inaccordance with the agreed procedures without requiring the Bank's clearance o f each
component o f the training program. The status o f the training program will be included as part o f progress
reports andwill be updated andor modified as may be mutually agreed between the related Ministries and
the Bank.

The training services expenditures consist o f subsistence and travel (local andor international) costs


                                                       - 53 -

incurredby trainees, training fees, provision o f training materials and handouts, trainers' fees etc. These
expenditures will be directly reimbursed subject to the presentationby the PMGo f Statement o f
Expenditures.

(0OperatingCostsofOU(RecurrentCosts):

The incremental operating costs associated with the project include OU, PMG andP M U staff salaries,
bank charges and to maintain Special Account. All incremental operating costs will be financed by the
Government.

The other operating costs including operating andmaintenance cost o f office equipment, stationary and cost
o f advertisement for procurements under the project shall be financed through Loan proceeds.

IV.ProcurementReviewBvThe Bank

The PSU shall use the latest versions o fthe Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) for the
procurements financed by the Bank.

Schedulingof Procurement. Procurement o fgoods, works and services for the project will be carried out
inaccordance with the agreedprocurementplan,whichwill beupdatedas necessary andincludedinthe
progress reports for Bank review and approval. The Bank will review the procurement arrangements
proposed by the Borrower, including contract packaging, applicable procedures, and the scheduling o f the
procurement processes, for its conformity with Bank Procurement and Consultant Guidelines, the proposed
implementation program and disbursement schedule.

(a) PriorReview: The following procurement action and documentation would be subject to Prior Review
by the Bank.

Goods, Works and TechnicalServices: Prior review o f BiddingDocument (including, Invitation to Bid,
Instructions to Bidders and BidData Sheet, General and Special Conditions o f Contract, BidForms,
Schedule o f Requirements, Techmcal Specifications, Bill o f Quantities), BidEvaluationReports;
Recommendations o f Contract award.

Consultant Services: Prior review o fprocurement documents andactions which will include:

QCBS:Prior review o f (1) short listing criteria for consultingassignments; (2) Consultants Short Lists; (3)
complete Request for Proposal (WP) package (including Invitation, Information to Consultants and Data
Sheet, General and Special Conditions o f Contract, Technical Proposal standard forms, Financial Proposal
standard forms, and Form o f Contract); (4) Terms of Reference, including description o f services,
consultants' reporting requirements, and required qualifications o f consultants' key personnel; (5)
Technical and Financial Evaluation Reports (including official minutes) and Recommendations for contract
award; and (6) Negotiated Draft Contract.

IndividualConsultant(INI))contractsof US$50,000 and above: Prior review of :(1) Consultants
Short Lists; (2) Draft Contract Agreement; (3) Terms of Reference, including description of services and
consultants' reporting requirements; and (4) Agreed Draft Contract.

IND contractsof below US$50,000: Prior review of: (1) criteria for short listing consultants; and (2)
Terms o fReference will be conducted.


                                                      - 54 -

The Bank's prior review o f procurement action would cover the following;

          i.AllICBcontractsforgoodsandworks
         ii.FirstthreeNCBcontractsforgoodsandworks
        iii.FirstthreeMinorWorkscontracts
        iv. Firstthree IS andN S contracts
         v. All contracts awardedunder Direct Contracting Procedures
        vi. All contracts awarded to Government OwnedEnterprises
        vii. All contracts with consulting firms estimatedto US$ 100,000 or more each
       viii. All contracts with individualconsultants estimated to US$ 50,000 or more each
        ix. All contracts awarded under Single Source Selection
         x. The Terms o f Reference for all consultant contracts with consulting firms and individuals

A complete set o fprocurement documentation, as specified above, for contracts which require prior review,
shall be submitted to the Bankbefore taking any action for review and clearance by the Bank's
Procurement Specialist andthe relevant technical staff.

(b) PostReview: The procurement documents for all other contracts shall be subject to the Bank's post
review on a random basis, one infive contracts. Post review o f the procurement documents will normally
be undertaken duringthe Bank supervision missionor as the Bank may request to review any particular
contracts at any time. Insuch cases, the PMGshall provide the Bank for its review the relevant
documentation including bidding documents issued to the bidders, letter o f invitation to quote, minutes o f
bidopening, bidevaluation reports, copies o fbidproposals, signed contracts etc. The periodic post reviews
shall be conducted by the Bank's Procurement Specialist. The outcome o f the post review will be
communicated by the Bank to the P M G at the earliest time.

V. ProcurementMonitoringandReportinp:

The PSU will keep a complete andup-to-date record o f all procurement documentation and relevant
correspondence inits files, which will be reviewed by the Bank staff during supervision missions. The
Procurement Plan for the project shall be preparedlconsolidatedby the PSU and furnished to the Bank for
its review and approval inaccordance with the provisions o f the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. The
Procurement Plan, which indicates the procurement arrangements, contract packaging, applicable
procurement method, scheduling o fprocurement process, estimated cost etc. will be updated annually by
the PSU. All procurements shall be undertaken inaccordance with the Procurement Plan.

Monitoring reports on procurement progress will be submitted as part o f progress reports on program
implementation. The report shall include all informationrelated with the completed, on-going andplanned
contracts.

VI. ActionPlanTo BuildUPTheAgency's Capacitv:

Tasks Completed: The procurement file containing the upto date procurement documents such as
guidelines, templates o f procurement notices, standard bidding documents for the procurement o f works
and goods under ICB, NCB, MW and IS/NS methods, StandardRequest for Proposal document for the
consultants services, standard consultants contracts for large and small assignments and for time based and
lumps-sum payments, evaluation report formats have been prepared inhardcopy andinelectronic versions
on diskettes andprovidedto the implementingagencies staff during the preparation o f the capacity


                                                    - 55 -

assessment. Although they are familiar with the Bank's documents, the latest versions o fthe documents
shall be used inthe new project. The OUhas arranged for translating the relatedprocurement documents,
into Turlush such as National Competitive Bidding, Minor Works, National Shopping andwill provide the
translations to the Implementing Agencies and their provincial directorates.

April 2004-May 2004: OU shall appoint at least 2 persons who will be worlung full-time for the
procurement activities under the scope o f the project. The qualifications o f the procurement staff shall be
reviewed by and agreed with the Bank. Since the project activities require close coordination among various
agencies together with provinciallregional directorates, these 2 persons shall work very closely with the
other agencies too. Each implementing agency shall also appoint at least 1person for the procurement
activities under the scope o f the project. The assigned persons will participate the training course which
will be arranged by the Bank for the Borrower`s staff inApril 2004.

At least two experiencedprocurement consultants shall be recruited before the LoadGranteffectiveness
(January 2005). These positions will be advertised after the LoadGrant signing (November 2004) to get
these consultants inplace immediately after the loan effectiveness date. The procurement consultants shall
have at least 3 years experience with Bank financed projects and shall work very closely with the staff o f
OUand all implementingagencies mainly for the preparation o fbidding documents primarilyfor large
procurements. The TOR and C V o f the procurement consultants shall be reviewed and approved by the
Bankbefore signingthe contract.

January 2005: The former PAS has already organized two-days procurement familiarization seminar in
early 2002, for project related staff from related departments o f the implementingMinistries who would be
potentially involved indifferent aspects such as technical, financial, legal aspects o f the project. This
seminar served as both introductiono f Bank's procurement procedures andupdating their previous
knowledge. Another similar seminar shall be scheduled during the Project Launch Workshop to be held in
January 2005 after the Loan effectiveness date for the whole project staff again.

Withinone year after the Loan Effectiveness: None o fthe staff has any formal training on the Bank's
procurement except that they'gained experience while working inthe Bank financed projects. At least 2
staff of OU shall attend procurement training offered by ILO Turin in the early stages o f the project.

Inthe lifetime of the project:

     Inorder to overcome the problems at the bidevaluation stage; qualifiedandexperiencedtechnical staff
     of implementing agencies, especially those who have some knowledge o fthe Bank's procurement and
     evaluation procedures should be appointed as evaluation committee members. At the beginning o f each
     procurement, just after the finalization o f the biddingdocuments, evaluation committee members
     should be appointed and they should start reviewing andbeing familiar with the bidding document and
     evaluation methodology stipulated inthe bidding document. Then, before the receipt o fbids,
     procurement staff should meet with the evaluation committee members to explainthe Bank's evaluation
     methodology.

     The Ministries` intemal approval procedures should be reconsideredto avoid long delays and if
     possible, delegation o f approval authority up to certain monetary values should be taken into
     consideration.

     The OU should start usingelectronic filing and electronic communication as early as possible to
     improve its capacity.


                                                        - 56 -

0  EachBank Supervision Mission shall include the procurement specialist assigned to this project to
   assist the OU staff for updating the procurement plan andresolving pending procurement issues to
   overcome delays.

Procurementmethods(Table A)




E. Front End Fee                                            0.20                   0.20
                                                           (0.20)                  (0.20)
TOTAL                                           5.00       22.33       0.00       27.33
                                                (3.50)     (16.50)     0.00       (20.00)

   Turkey Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project GEF Financed Components
            -                                             -
    Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (US$ million equivalent)




                                                 - 57 -

r        Table 8:Thresholds for ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review-Loan


                                                                     ContractsSubjeci
ExpenditureCategory   Contract Value Threshold      Procurement
                          (US$ thousands)             Method           to Prior Review
                                                                        (US$ million)

                           > or equal 100               NCB                  0.50
1. Works
                                e100                    MW                   0.20


2. Goods                        e50                      NS                  0.15


3. Consultants'                 <I00                     CQ                  0.21
Services                        e50                      IND                 0.72


4.Training            Subjectto provisionof approvedtraining plan




         Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review- GEF



                      ContractValue Threshold       Procurement       Contracts Subjeci
ExpenditureCategory       (us$thousands)               Method          to Prior Review
                                                                         (US$ million)


                           > or equal 100               NCB                  0.90
1. Works
                                e100                     MW                  0.25

2. Goods                         e50                      NS                 0.12

                           > or equal 100               QCBS                 1.oo
3. Consultants'
Services                        e100                     CQ                  0.10
                                 e50                     IND                 0.25


4.Training                       Subjectto provision of approved training plan




                                              - 58 -

Overall Procurement RiskAssessment :High

Frequency o f procurement supervision missionproposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)

  Overall ProcurementRisk Assessment
  ---.-....---     .
  Section I: Capacity of the ImplementingAgency inProcurementandTechnical
  Assistance requirements
  The capacity of the implementingagency to conduct procurement has been assessed. The
  overall procurement assessmentis high-risk.The following action plan is recommendedas a
  result of this assessment: (1) The procurementfile containing all the up-to-date Bank
  procurement documents such as guidelines,SBDs, RFP, etc. is to be providedto the Project
  Management Group both in hard copy and electronically. This had been completed by
  Appraisal.; (2). The PASshall organize two-days procurementtraining during the project launch
  workshop for PMG staff and the other staff who may be involved in the review of procurement-
  related documents, to familiarize themselves with the Bank's procurement procedures; (3) The




  Explain briefly the ProcurementMonitoringSystem: Procurement implementationprogresswill be
  monitoredthrough progress reports and supervision missions. Each supervision mission will
  include the project procurementspecialist for updating the procurement plan and for conducting




  Indicate name of ProcurementStaff or Banks staff Dart of Task Team resoonsiblefor the
    .___     -
  procurementin the Project: Salih K. Kalyoncu (ECSPS)
  Exolain brieflv the expected role of the Field Office in Drocurement:There are two orocurement
  specialists inthe Country Office. One of them will be iesponsible for this project and the other will
  provide back-up service in the absence of assigned staff.




                                                     - 59 -

              Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
                 TURKEY:ANATOLIAWATERSHED REHABILITATIONPROJECT

FinancialManaPement
1. Summaryofthe FinancialManagementAssessment

An assessmento f the financial management arrangements for the project was undertaken inOctober 2003,
andupdated inJanuary andMarch2004. The assessmentconcludedthat the Ministry ofEnvironment and
Forestry (MEF) Operations Unit (OU) satisfies Bank's minimumfinancial management requirements. The
detailed financial management assessmentquestionnaire is included inthe project files. A summary o f the
financial management assessment and its conclusions follows:

   Financial Management Assessment            Rating            Comments
   1. Implementing Entity                     Satisfactory      OUhas been establishedand have
                                                                experience inmanagingBank-financed
                                                                projects.
   2. Funds Flow                              Satisfactory      Arrangements are discussed and agreed
   3. Staffing                                Marginally        There is a full time finance coordinator in
                                              Satisfactory      place.
   4. Accounting Policies and Procedures      Satisfactory      Draft financial manuals andpolicies are
                                                                prepared.
   5. Internal Audit                          NA                N o reliance placedon internal audit
   6. External Audit                          Satisfactory      The project will be audited by the Treasury
                                                                Controllers.
   7. Reporting and Monitoring                Satisfactory      Format o f the FMRsare agreed with the OU.
   8. Information Systems                     Satisfactory    I Accounting software used satisfactorily for
                                                                other projects is customized for AWRP.
   Overall Financial Management Rating      I Satisfactory


Country Issues:

A Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) for Turkey was carried out in2001. The CFAA
report identifiedmajor weaknesses inTurkishfinancial accountability, inboth the public and the private
sectors. Inview o f this the CFAA concluded that to ensure Bank funds are used for the purposes intended
ringfenced financial management arrangements are more appropriate for the implementation o fBank
financed investment projects rather than relying upon government systems.

Audits o f most Bank-financed projects inTurkey are carried out by the Treasury Controllers (TCs). The
regular work o f the TCs focuses primarily on compliance auditing, and their financial statement audit skills
are limited. This has led to problems with the quality o f their reports submitted to the World Bank.
However during last year various bank-financed programs have been carried out to enhance the capacity o f
the TCs, including training with private sector audit firms and a two-month training program heldby the
Scottish Institute o f Chartered Accountants. The quality o f the audit reports submitted for the 2001 year
end audits o f the projects have improved a lot compared to the previous years. Ofmore fundamental
concern as specified inthe CFAA is the independence o f the TCs, given their subordination to the
Treasury, which is responsible for the implementation o f Bank-financed projects. There are no mitigating
measures within this project for this as this is considered a macro level issue to be addressed through
reforms ingovernment auditing.



                                                      - 60 -

Finunciul ManugementAssessment

Implementing Entity: The OU Financial Management Sub-Unit (FMSU) will be responsible for all project
financial management activities. All payments will be centralized at the OU. Relevant line agencies will
prepare the technical specifications or Terms o f References (TORS)for the goods, works, services required
and will be responsible for the procurement process with help from the procurement sub unit o f the OU.
Responsibility for accepting and overseeing the related items procured, for monitoring contract
performance, and for obtaining the approval o f the Ministryo f Finance Budget and Payment offices will
also be the responsibility o f the relevant implementing agency. The OU/FMSU will make the payment from
the Special Accounts (there will be two Special Accounts) based on the payment order o f the related
implementing entity. The OU will document the format andthe contents o f the informationrequired from
each line agency to make payments inthe project financial management manual. The riskassociated with
implementing entities are assessed as moderate. The implementing ministries have experience with
implementation o f World Bank loans. The relationship between the OU andthe ministries will be
monitored closely.

Funds Flow: There will be two Special Accounts for the project: one for disbursements from the World
Bankloanand one for the disbursements from GEF.Botho fthese SpecialAccounts will be inUS Dollars
and will be at the Central Bank o f Turkey. All payments to the contractors, suppliers and consultants will
be made from these Special Accounts with the authorization o f the Head o f P M G and the Financial
Manager o f the OU/FMSU. Payments will be made directly from the loan account for amounts over 20%
o f the authorized special account allocation.

Fundsrequired for the World Bank and the GEF financed portions ofthe project will be describedinthe
annual budgets o f each implementingentity and the responsibility for ensuring that the counterpart funds
are allocated inthe annual budget belongs to each implementing entity. Inthe preparation o f the following
year's budget, the implementingentity staff will work together with the F M S Uto determine the amount o f
project funds required to complete the planned activities inthat particular year. Then the implementing
entities will make sure that this amount is included inthe entity's budget when they apply to the State
Planning Organization (SPO) and the Ministryo f Finance. The payments for the counterpart funds will be
made directly by the Ministryo f Finance's payment office at the implementing entity. The OU/FMSU will
get a copy o fthe payment document relating to the counterpart funds so that they are included and
documentedinthe overall project accounting. The payments for the IBRD/GEFfunds will be made by the
FMSU from the special accounts. The implementing entities will be responsible for receiving approval from
the Ministryo f Finance payment and budget offices to facilitate this payment.

There will also be contributions from local communities inthe project. Local community contributions
(individual beneficiaries, cooperatives, municipalities) will be in-lund, including the value o f labor and
existing equipment used on the project. The monetary values o f these contributions together with their
recording arrangements will be considered after the arrangements are finalized andwill be documented in
the project financial management manual. The risk associated with funds flow is considered as moderate
andbudgeting for the project byboth implementing ministries will be monitored closely to avoid any delays
indisbursements.

StafJing: The OUunder the direct responsibility o fthe PMGwill work as a specialized organizational unit
o f MEF and will act as a "service provider" to the implementing entities. The OUwill have three sub-units;
(i) procurement sub-unit, (ii)  financial management sub-unit and (iii) sub-unit. The financial
                                                                        M&E
management sub-unit currently has a full time financial manager with qualifications satisfactory to the
bank.MEFwill submit the names o fproposedstaff for, the accountant andthe disbursement officer


                                                     - 61 -

positions to the bank by April 30,2004. The riskassociated with staffing is considered as moderate. The
assignment o fthe accountant and the disbursement officer to the OUwill be monitored closely.

Accounting Policies and Procedures: The project accounting will be maintained separately within the
OU. The project accounting willbe on a cashbasis. The MOF has purchaseda computerized accounting
system according to technical specifications agreed upon with the Bank. The accounting system, allows for
proper recording o f project financial transactions, including the allocation o f expenditures inaccordance
with respective components, disbursement categories andsources o ffunds.

Accounting procedures have been set out inthe draft financial management manual for the project. The
financial management manual covers (a) the financial and accounting policies and procedures for the
project (b) organization o f the financial management (FMSU staffresponsibilities) (c) the financial
management information system (d) disbursements (e) budgeting and financial forecasting (f) project
reporting and (g) project planningprocedures. The risk associated with accounting policies andprocedures
i s considered as negligible.

Reporting and Monitoring: The OUwill maintainrecords and will ensure appropriate accounting for the
funds provided. Financial statements for the project will be preparedby the OU. The Financial Monitoring
Reports (FMR) will be prepared quarterly and will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after the
end o f the quarterly period. The format and the contents o f the FMRhave been agreed upon with the Bank.
The financial management manual o f the project includes a section on the FMR. The FMR includes
financial reports, output monitoring reports andprocurement reports. The risk associated with reporting
and monitoring is assessed as moderate.

Information Systems: The OUhas purchased a computerized financial management system also capable
o f producing the project financial reports. The technical specifications for the system were agreedupon
with the Bank. Software has been installed and staffhave beentrained. The riskassociated with
information systems is assessed as negligible.

SupervisionPlan: Duringproject implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial
management arrangements intwo main ways: (i)        review the project's quarterly financial management
reports as well as the project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter; and (ii)
duringthe Bank's supervisionmissions, review the project's financial management and dsbursement
arrangements (including a review of a sample o f SOEs and movements on the Special Accounts) to ensure
compliance with the Bank's minimumrequirements. As required, a Bank-accredited Financial Management
Specialist will assist inthe supervision process.

2. Audit Arrangements

Internal Audit.: There is no internal control department which carries regular audits o f the departments
withinthe Ministryof Environment and Forestry and therefore no reliance will be placed on internal audit.

ExternalAudit: Annual project financial statements for the project will be audited by the Treasury
Controllers inaccordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISA) and under TOR cleared by the
Bank.

3.       FinancialRisk Analysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed Project is considereda moderate risk project. A


                                                      - 62 -

summary o f the risk assessment for the project is as follows:


  Risk                                       Rating         Comments
  Inherent Risk
    1. CountryFinancialManagement            High           Basedonthe CFAA
    Risk
    2. ProjectFinancialManagement            Moderate       Flow of funds couldbe slow due to budgeting
    Issues                                                  constraints,
  Overall Inherent Risk                      Moderate
  ControlRisk
    1. ImplementingEntity                    Moderate       Experiencedimplementingministries.
    2. FundsFlow                             Moderate       Allocation of funds inthe budget will be monitored
                                                            closely.
    3. Staffing                              Moderate       Assignment of accountant andthe disbursement
                                                            officer to the OU will be monitored.
    4. AccountingPoliciesand Procedures Negligible
    5. Intemal Audit                         NIA
    6. Extemal Audit                         Negligible
    7. Reportingand Monitoring               Moderate       The informationsystem is capableofproducingthe
                                                            reports andtimely productionof these reportswill
                                                            bemonitoredclosely.
    8. Information Systems                   Negligible
   Overall Control Risk                      Moderate


3. DisbursementArrangements

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs): Disbursements will be made against Statements o f
Expenditures for: (i) works under contracts costing less than US$3,000,000 equivalent each, but excluding
the contracts which are subject to prior review; (ii)  goods, under contracts costing less than USS300,OOO
equivalent each, but excluding the contracts which are subject to prior review; (iii)    services o f consulting
firms under contracts costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent each; (iv) services o f individual consultants
under contracts costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent each; (v) training and (vi) incremental operating
costs. Full documentation insupport o f SOEs would be retainedby the P M U for at least one year after the
Bankhas receivedthe audit report for the fiscal year inwhich the last withdrawal from the LoanAccount
was made. This information will be made available for review during supervision by Bank staff and for
annual audits which will be required to specifically comment on the propriety o f SOE disbursements and
the quality o fthe associated record-keeping.

Special Account: The GOTwill open and maintaintwo Special Accounts inUS dollars at the Central Bank
o f Turkey. The Special Account will be used following procedures to be agreedwith the Bank, and will
have an authorized allocation o f USS2,000,000 for the IBRDloan and USS700,OOO for the GEF grant. The
Project Coordinator and the Financial Manager will be authorized to sign the withdrawal applications, with
two signatures required. At the start o f the project, the initial deposit will be limited to US$l,OOO,OOO for
the IBRDloan and to USS350,OOO for the GEF, andthe remaining portions o f the authorized allocations
will be requested only after cumulative disbursements from the loan reach a level o fUS$4,000,000 and
$1,200,000 from the grant. The minimumapplication size for payments directly from the Loan Account for
issuance o f Special Commitments is 20 percent o f the Special Account authorized allocation.

Applications for replenishment o f the Special Account will be submitted to the Bank on a monthly basis, or



                                                       - 63 -

when the balance o f the Special Account is equal to about halfo f the initial deposit or the authorized
allocation, whichever comes first, andwill include a reconciled bank statement as well as other appropriate
supporting documents.

 Allocation of loanlgrant proceeds (Table C)

                              Table C: Allocation of LoanlGrant Proceeds

                                                                                  Financing Percentage
                                                                                  70% of all expenditures
                                                                                100%o f foreign expenditures;
                                                                           100% of local expectirures (ex-factory
                                                                                           costs) and
                                                                         85% o f local expenditures for other items
                                                                                       procured locally
~Consultant Services                                   0.60                                  78%
 Training                                              0.20
 Incremental Operating Costs                           0.80

 Unallocated                                           1.a0

 Total Project Costs with Bank                         19.80
 Financing
                              Front-endfee             0.20                                  100%

 ITotal                                     I          20.00

                                  Table C: Allocation of GEF Proceeds

__
 ExpenditureCategory                          Amount in US$                Financing Percentage
 Civil Works                                         3.4                                 70 Yo
 Goods                                               1.3                     100%of foreign expenditures;
                                                                               100%of local expectirures
                                                                                 (ex-factory costs) and
                                                                             85% o f local expenditures for
                                                                              other items procured locally
 ConsultantServices                                  0.8                                  78 Yo
 Training                                            0.4                                 100Yo
 IncrementalOperatingCosts                           0.6                                  50 Yo
 Unallocated                                         0.5
 Total                                               7.0




                                                   - 64 -

                              Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
               TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT



 Time taken to prepare the project (months)              12                                26
 First Bank mission (identification)                     0911512000
Appraisal mission departure                              06/20/2003                        06/20/2003
INegotiations                                            11/05/2003                        04111I2004
\Planned Date of Effectiveness                   II      0211512005              II                        II

Prepared by:
The Anatolia WatershedRehabilitation Project was preparedbythe Govemment of Turkey. The Project
Preparation Team was ledby Ismail Kucukkaya andHanifiAvci (AGM).

Proiect PreparationTeam:
Ministryof
Environment
andForestry:                  MevlutDogan, MevlutDuzgun, SuadeArancli, Selim Karaca, Sibel
                              Erzincanli, Erkan Ispirli
AGM:                          I.Kucukkaya, Hanifi Avci, Yilmaz Altas, Hanifi Akbiyik, Erdogan Ozevren,
                              Banu Karabiyik, IsmailBelen, Tuncay Oztekin, Mahmut Simsek, Halit
                              Babalik, ErsenTipi, M.Sacma, RidvanAtman
ORKOY:                        HuseynKaraosmanoglu, Davut Odabasi, Muhammet Bayburtlu, Dr.Gulzade
                              Kahveci, Dr. Askin Kirac
OGM:                          U.Tufekcioglu, Atilla Kurmus,BahattinOrs, Ali Temerit, Nejat Turan
KHGM:                         Sait Yildirim, Yakup Saglam, Ceyhun Alogu, Mustafa Algan, Suleyman
                              Demir, Ali Caglar Gelikcan, Tenfik Fikret Alkaranli, Davut Ozgur, Kubilay
                              Yilmaz, Celal Yenginol, Yurdanur Surmeli, KaniBilgic, Suleyman Kaldirim,
                              NevzatErdogan, Yuksel Turkyilmaz
TUGEM:                        Ahmat Savas Intisah, Sule Ozevren, BirsenCapanoglu, Refi Ratip Ozlu,
                              Ismail Cozoglu, Eyup Koksal, MahmutCevik, EyupYuksel, Mehmet Ozgun,
                              Sule Ozevren, Orhan Yazganarikan, Birsen Capanoglu, Ismail Cozoglu
KKGM:                         Dr.0.FarukMutlu, Abdulmecit Yesil, HasimToksoy, Omer Tiktik, Ali
                              Kasaci, Yalcin Bagsiz, Aynur Ebinc, Yesim Basaran, Filiz Soydal
CYGM:                         Sedat Kadioglu, Saliha Degirmencioglu, Yakup Zeyrek, Ozgur Cakmak,
                              EmineErcan, Nuray Taneri, GuzinArat, GuvenUlusoy, BilalDikmen, Sibel
                              Gucver, Mahmut Dagoran, Tuncay Demir

Consultantsto the ProiectPreparationTeam:
Philip Metcalf(Waste Management Specialist); Ramesh Kanwar (Soil andWater Quality Monitoring
 Specialist); Frank Anderson (M&E Specialist); Keith Openshaw (Environmental Assessment Specialist);
 Sema Alpan (Environmental Assessment Specialist); Akin Atauz (Social Assessment Specialist); Surkal
Co. (Household Questionairre for GEF component); NazifKolankaya(Soil andWater Quality
Assessment); PeterBrul(Organic Farming Specialist); FerkoBodnar (Nutrient Management Specialist);
 Suha Satana (Financial Analyst)



                                                   - 65 -

Preparation assistance:
Preparation of GEF-related activities was funded inpart by a GEF PDF B Grant (USS300,OOO).

IBank  staff who worked on the Droiect included:
         Name                                            Specialitv
 S. Nedret Durutan                       Team Leader, Agriculturalist
 Peter Dewees                            Team Leader, Forest Economist
 Joop Stoutjusdijk                       Irrigation Specialist
 Rasit Pertev                            Senior Agricultural Economist
 Jitendra Srivastava                     Agriculturalist
 Cuneyt Okan                             Operations Specialist
 Elmas Arisoy                            Procurement Specialist
 Salih Kalyoncu                          Procurement Specialist
 Seda Aroymak                            Financial Management Specialist
 Julian Lampietti                        Social Assessment Specialist
 Shahridan Faeiz                         Social Assessment Specialist
 Tijen Arin                              Environmental Economist
 Dilek Barlas                            Lawyer
 Rohit R. Mehta                           Senior Finance Officer
 Ulker Karamullaoglu                     Program Assistant
 Consultants to the World B nk:
 John Cole                               Agriculturalist
 Meeta Sehgal                            Economist
 Benoist Veillerette                     Economist
 Raffaele Suppa                          Economist




                                                   - 66 -

                            Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
             TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATIONPROJECT


A. Project Implementation Plan



B. Bank Staff Assessments


Anatolia Watershed Management Project, Social Assessment, January 12,2003
Anatolia Watershed Management Project, Procurement Assessment, January 2003
Anatolia Watershed Management Project, Financial Management Assessment, October 2003
Eastem Anatolia Watershed ManagementProject: ImplementationCompletion Report, May 20, 2002
Eastem Anatolia Watershed Management Project: Project Performance Assessment Report (OED draft,
November 18,2003)

C. Other
ProjectPreparationReportsandWorking Papers

Worlung Paper 1:Basic Data for ThirteenProvinces
Working Paper2: Baseline Household Survey infour Provinces
Working Paper3: Menuof Project Activities for Micro-catchment Rehabilitation & Income Generation
Working Paper 4: Manure Management System
Working Paper 5: Pollution from Agro-Industry
Working Paper 6: Water and Soil Quality MonitoringProgram
Working Paper 7: National LevelStrengthening of Policy & Regulatory Capacity
Working Paper 8: Designo f Public Awareness Campaign, Capacity Buildingand Replication Strategy
Working Paper9: Project Organization andManagement
Working Paper 10: Regional Environmental Assessment
Working Paper 11:Operational Manual for Micro-catchment Rehabilitation
Working Paper 12: Project Cost Tables
Worlung Paper 13: Project Benefits, Financial & Economic Evaluation, plus Incremental Cost Analysis for
GEF
Working Paper 14: Project Monitoring & Evaluation System
Working Paper 15: Project Procurement Plan
Working Paper 16: FinancialManagement System
Working Paper 17: Operational Manual for Manure Management System
Working Paper 18: Operational Manual for Water & Soil Quality MonitoringSystem
Working Paper 19: Nutrient Management & Demonstration Program for Conservation Tillage
*Including electronic files




                                                 - 67 -

                                   Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                       TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATIONPROJECT
                                                   30-Mar-2004
                                                                                                            Differencebetween expected
                                                                                                                     and actual
                                                         OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                           IBRD         IDA                  GEF    Cancel. Undisb,       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO82801     2004 EXPFIN2                             303.10       0.00                  0.00    0.00  300.07        -3.03      0.00
PO59872     2003 BASICED 2 (APL#2)                   300.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00  292.96       149.83      0.00
PO70286     2002 ARlP                                600.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00  398.79       332.12      0.00
PO74408     2002 SRMP                                500.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00  378.58       219.37      0.00
PO69894     2001 PRlV SOC SUPPRT                     250.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00   131.65      107.32      0.00
PO44175     2000 BIODIV/NTRLRESMGMT(GEF)               0.00       0.00                  8.19    0.00     5.72        3.51      0.00
PO68368     2000 MARMARA EARTHQUAKEEMGRECON          505.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00  300.13       300.00     66.04
PO68792     2000 ERL                                 759.60       0.00                  0.00    0.00  375.00       375.00    375.00
PO09073     1999 INDUSTRIALTECH                      155.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00   5139         51.39      0.00
PO09072     1998 PRlVOF IRRIGATION                    20.00       0.00                  0.00    0.00     1.38        1.38       1.38
PO48852     1998 NATLTRNSMGRID                       270.00       0.00                  0.00   27.79   173.43      201.22      -9.44
PO08985     1998 CESME ws a SEWER                      13.10      0.00                  0.00    2.70     5.56        8.26      0.82
PO09076     1995 HEALTH2                              150.00      0.00                  0.00   20.17   24.00        50.67     50.67

                                            Total:  3825.80       0.00                8.19     50.66  2438.65     1797.03    484.46




                                                       - 68 -

                                                 TURKEY
                                           STATEMENTOF IFC's
                                          HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                              Feb29 - 2004
                                           InMillionsUS Dollars


                                                           Committed                      Disbursed
                                                          IFC                           IFC
FY Approval         Company                         Loan   Equity   Quasi Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1995196             CBS BoyaKimya                    0.00   0.65     0.00  0.00   0.00    0.65    0.00   0.00
1994                CBS Holding                      4.00   0.00    0.00   0.00   4.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1996101             CBS Printas                      0.00   0.01    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.01    0.00   0.00
1992                CayeliBakir                      2.10   0.00    0.0'0  0.00   2.10    0.00    0.00   0.00
1990102             Conrad                           3.50   0.00    0.00   0.00   3.50    0.00    0.00   0.00
1998               DemirLeasing                      0.56   0.00    0.00   0.00   0.56    0.00    0.00   0.00
2002               EKS                              13.40   0.00    0.00   0.00  13.40    0.00    0.00   0.00
1995               Entek                            20.50   0.00    0.00   13.25 20.50    0.00    0.00  13.25
1998               FinansLeasing                     0.56   0.00     0.00  0.00   0.56    0.00    0.00   0.00
1999                Finansbank                       5.56    0.00    0.00  5.18   5.56    0.00    0.00   5.18
1998                Garanti Leasing                  0.56    0.00    0.00  0.00   0.56    0.00    0.00   0.00
1999                GumussuyuKap                     4.00    0.00    3.58  0.00   4.00    0.00    3.58   0.00
2001                Gunk01                           7.38    0.00    7.38  0.00   7.38    0.00    7.38   0.00
1998                IndoramaIplik                    5.63    0.00    0.00  0.00   5.63    0.00    0.00   0.00
1998100102          IpekPaper                       17.70    0.00    0.00  0.00   17.70   0.00    0.00   0.00
1990                KepezElektrik                    4.05    0.00    0.00  0.00   4.05    0.00    0.00   0.00
1988190             Kiris                           10.87    0.00    0.00  0.00   10.87   0.00    0.00   0.00
1991                Kula
                                                    11.oo
                                                     5.15    0.00    0.00  0.00    5.15   0.00    0.00   0.00
2003                MESA Group                               0.00    0.00   0.00   5.50   0.00    0.00   0.00
2002                MilliRe                         50.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998102             ModemKarton                     10.00    0.00    0.00   0.00  10.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1991               NASCO                            10.18    0.00    0.00   3.55  10.18   0.00     0.00  3.55
2004                Oyak Bank                       50.00    0.00    0.00   0.00  50.00   0.00     0.00  0.00
2002                Pasabahce                        7.50    0.00    0.00   0.00   7.50   0.00     0.00  0.00
1998                PinarET                          5.50    0.00    0.00   0.00   5.50   0.00     0.00  0.00
2000                Pinar SUT                       15.55    0.00    0.00   0.00  11.95   0.00     0.00  0.00
1999                SAKoSa                          20.04    0.00    0.00  12.77  20.04   0.00     0.00  12.77
1990                Silkar Turizm                    2.74    0.00    0.00   3.12   2.74   0.00     0.00  3.12
2002103             Sise Ve Cam                     67.31    0.00    0.00  42.07  67.3 1  0.00     0.00 42.07
1998102             Soktas                           3.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   3.00   0.00     0.00  0.00
1999                TEB Finansal                     I.67    0.00    0.00   0.00   1.67   0.00     0.00  0.00
1982183189191196199 Trakya Cam                       0.00    0.61    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.61     0.00  0.00
I999102             TurkEkonBank                    17.78    0.00   15.00   0.00  17.78   0.00    15.00  0.00
2001                TurkishPEF                       0.00  10.00     0.00   0.00   0.00   1.37     0.00  0.00
1999                UnyeCement                      13.40    0.00    0.00   0.00  13.40   0.00     0.00  0.00
1999                Uzel                             9.48    0.00    0.00   5.69   9.48   0.00     0.00  5.69
1998                Viking                           8.60    0.00    0.00   0.00   8.60   0.00     0.00  0.00
1995                Yalova Acrylic                   2.50    0.00    0.00   1.33   2.50   0.00     0.00   1.33
1998                Yapi KrediLease                  0.53    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.53   0.00     0.00  0.00
1998                ALease                           0.56    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.56   0.00     0.00  0.00
2001103             Adana Cement                     2.50    0.00    0.00   0.00   2.50   0.00     0.00  0.00
1998                Akbank                          25.00    0.00    0.00   0.00  25.00   0.00     0.00  0.00
1996101103          Altematif Bank                   4.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   1.oo   0.00     0.00  0.00
                    Arcelik                         18.97    0.00    0.00   0.00  18.97   0.00     0.00  0.00
                           Total Portfolio:        620.89  19.48    25.96 122.48 517.78   10.85   25.96 122.48




                                                   - 69 -

                                               Approvals PendingCommitment
FY Approval   Company                        Loan      Equity    Quasi    Partic
2001          Akbank                          0.03       0.00     0.00     0.00
2004          Akbank BLoanInc                 0.00       0.00     0.00     0.02
2003          CayeliExpan 2                   0.02       0.00     0.00     0.00
2004          MeteksanSistem                  0.01       0.00     0.00     0.00
2002          MilliReasurans                  0.00       0.00     0.01     0.00
2004          OPET Petrolculuk                0.03       0.00     0.00     0.05
2003          Sisecam Exp.                    0.00       0.00     0.00     0.01
2002          TEB I11                         0.00       0.00     0.00     0.05
2004          Turkish Leasing                 0.04       0.00     0.00     0.00

              Total Pending Commitment:       0.12       0.00     0.01     0.13




                                         - 70 -

                                              Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                   TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                                             Europe8   Lower-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                              Central middle-
                                                       Turkey    Asia  income    Developmentdiamond'                I
2002
Population,mid-year(millions)                            69.6    476     2,411
GNi percapita (Atlas mefhod, US$)                       2,500                                Life expectancy
                                                                2,160    1,390
GNI (Atlas method,US$billions)                          174.0   1,030    3,352                      -
Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population(%)                                             1.7     0.1      1.o
Laborforce (%)                                            2.2     0.4      1.2   GNI

Most recent estimate (latest year available,1996-02)                             per
                                                                                 capita
Poverty (% ofpopu/afionbelownationalpoverfyline)
Urban population(% oftotalPopulafionJ                     67      63       49
Lifeexpectancyat birth (years)                            70      69        69                      i
Infantmortality (per 1,000livebirfhsJ                      33     25        30
Child malnutrition(% of childrenunder5)                     8               11        Access to improvedwater source
Access to an improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)         82     91        81
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage f5+J                          14       3       13     -
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)       101     102      111            Turkey
    Male                                                  105     103      111            Lower-middle-incomeWOUD   I
    Female                                                 96     101      110

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1982   1992    2001     2002     Economicratios.                   1
                                                                                                                    I
GDP (US$ billions)                                64.4  158.9   145.2    182.8
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                      17.0   23.9    16.8     21.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP                 11.9   14.4    33.7     28.8                    Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP                        13.8   20.9    19.2     19.6                      T
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                         18.5   24.4    20.7     20.7
Current account balance/GDP                       -1.5   -0.6     2.3     -0.8
Interest payments/GDP                              1.8    2.0     3.6      3.4
TotaldebVGDP                                      30.6   35.6    78.4     71.9
Totaldebt service/exports                         29.4   32.1    44.0     49.0
Presentvalue of debVGDP
Presentvalue of debVexporIs

                                     1982-92 1992-02    2001    2002   2002-06
(average annualgrowth)                                                              -
GDP                                       5.1      2.8   -7.5     7.8      4.7             Turkey

GDP per capita                            2.7      1.0   -9.0     6.1      3.6             Lower-midd/e-mcomegroup


STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY
                                                 1982   1992    2001     2002    Growthof investmentand GDP("A)
(% of GDP)                                                                                                          I
Agriculture                                       22.7   15.3    12.8     13.0
Industry                                          25.1   29.9    26.1     25.4
   Manufacturing                                  17.7   10.9    15.8     16.0    0
Services                                          52.2   54.7    61.1     61.6
Privateconsumption                                76.3   66.2    66.6     66.3
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       9.9   12.9    14.2     14.0
Importsof goodsand services                       15.0   17.3    31.3     30.5

                                              1982-92 1992-02            2o02
(average annualgrowth)                                                           Growthof exports and imports(%)

Aqricuiture                                        1 4    11     -6 0      7 6   4o
Industry                                           7 2    2 6    -7 2      5 7   20
   Manufacturing                                   7 2    3 3    -8 0      8 2
Services                                          4 2     3 1    -6 2      7 0
Private consumption                               4 3     2 2    -9 2      2 6
Generalgovernmentconsumption                       3 4    4 4    -8 5      5 4   40
Grossdomestic investment                           5 0    11    -420      357           -Exports         -O-lmpotis
Importsof qoods and services                      8 8     8 3   -248      157




                                                             - 71 -

                                                                                                                                   Turkey

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                                  1982         1992      2001    2002
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                       ..        70.1      53.9   44.8
Implicit GDP deflator                              28.2        63.7       54.8    43.5

Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                                 19.0      29.3    28.2
Current budget balance                                          -1.3     -14.7    4 . 7
Overall surplus/deficit                               ......   -10.7     -20.9   -12.3

TRADE                                                                                                                                     I
                                                  1982         1992      2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                               Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Total exports (fob)                               5,890      14,891     34,373 39,827      60.000
  Textiles                                        1,145       5,603     10,344 12,066
  Processedagricultural products                  1,571       2,293      1,876   1,705
  Manufactures                                   4,655       13,440     28,695 32,673      40,000

Total imports (cif)                               8,843      22,871     41,399 51,270
  Food                                              123       1,398        848   1,211     20,wo
  Fuel and energy                                 3,943       3,903      8,316  8,955
                                                                                         I                                                I
  Capitalgoods                                    2,214       7,970      7,344   8,949            0

Exportprice index /1995=100)                                     95         76     75                96    97   98    99    00    01

Import price index (1995=100)                                    90         81     80                       Exports       8Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                             ..         105        94     93                                                  O2



BALANCEof PAYMENTSI /
                                                  1982         1992      2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                             1 Current  account balance to GDP ("A)

Exportsof goods and services                      7,818      23,343     50,403 54,608
Importsof goods and services                      9,592      26,706     45,816 55,095    I    ~     T
Resourcebalance                                  -1,774      -3,363      4,587    -487

Net income                                       -1,455      -1,670     -5,000  -4,549
Net currenttransfers                              2,277       4,059      3,803   3,496
Current account balance                            -952         -974     3,390  -1,540

Financingitems (net)                              1,120       2,458    -16,314   1,328
Changes in net reserves                            -168      -1,484     12,924     212

Memo:
Reserves includinggold /US$ millions)             2.027      15.252     30.192 38.067
Conversionrate (DEC.local/US$l                    162.9      6.881 3 1,228.367##/####

EXTERNAL DEBTand RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                  1982         1992      2001    2002
/US$ millions)                                                                             1 Composition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed              19,716      56,554    113,806 131,407
    IBRD                                          1,962       5,564      4,707   5,367                          A: 5,367
    IDA                                             187          148        95      89                G: 15.155           8: 89

Total debt service                                2,968       9,086     24,623 28,632
    IBRD                                            209        1,207       723     708
    IDA                                               3            6         7        7
Compositionof net resourceflows
    Officialgrants                                  307         506          0     334
    Officialcreditors                               762         -509        74     797
    Private creditors                               146       3,604     -2,187   3,811
    Foreigndirect investment                        55           779     2,769     862
    Portfolioequity                                   0      -1,194     -4,611  -1,180

World Bank program
    Commitments                                     648         686      2,200   1,650       A - I E 3                        E Bilateral
    Disbursements                                   500         286      1,537   1,031       B IDA
                                                                                               -         D Othermultilateral
                                                                                                          -                   F Private
    Principalrepayments                             86          733        437     442     IC-IMF                             G Short-term
                                                                                                                               ---
    Net flows                                      415         -447      1,100     588
    Interestpayments                                127         480        292     272
    Net transfers                                  288         -928        808     316

uevelopmenttconomics
I / 2001and 2002 are basedon the new classification.


                                                                      - 72 -

                      Additional Annex 11: GEF Incremental Cost Analysis
               TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATIONPROJECT


Introduction

1.       The Turkey Black Sea Agricultural Pollution Control Project (APCP) (to be funded under the GEF
WB Partnership Investment Fundfor Nutrient Reduction inthe Black SedDanube Basin) has been fully
blended with the Turkey Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project (AWRP). The global environmental
benefit expected from APCP is the reduction o f nutrients from agricultural sources flowing into the Black
Sea, which would contribute to the alleviation o f eutrophication o f the Black Sea. This annex presents the
baseline and GEF alternative scenarios, andanalyses the incremental cost o f achieving the global benefits
under the GEF Alternative.

Background

2.       Over the past three decades, the Black Sea has experienced significant losses inaquatic
biodiversity, fisheries, public health and tourism due, inpart, to eutrophication causedby extensive flows
o fnutrients (nitrogen andphosphorus) from point (industrial and municipal wastewater) and non-point
(agricultural) sources. Background diagnostic analyses have identified that upstream Danube riparian
countries (including Bulgaria, Georgia, Romania, Ukraine, Turkey andRussia) contribute to the nutrient
pollution. Nutrient flows into the Black Sea and its tributaries decreased inthe 1990s, mainly due to the
economic downturn inthe transition countries, but are expected to increase inthe near future as a result o f
resumption o f industrial activities and renewed intensification o f agriculture. A GEF Partnership on the
Black Sea andDanube Basin was established inMay 2001 to take coordinated actions for the rehabilitation
o f the Black SeaDanube environment. The Partnership is ledby the GEF and its implementing agencies,
the World Bank, UNDP and UNEP, and funded through a US$95 million GEF grant over several tranches.
The WB executed, US$70 million Investment Fundfor Nutrient Reduction inthe Black SeaDanube Basin
i s financing investments inimproved agricultural practices, wastewater treatment and restoration o f
wetlands, as well as policy and legal revisions, andcapacity buildingfor enhanced monitoring and
enforcement. The UNDP and UNEP are implementingtwo regional projects aimed at regulatory reform and
capacity buildingina basin-wide integrated fashion.

3.       With a Black Sea coastline o f approximately 1,700 kmand with three large rivers, Sakarya,
Kizilirmak, Yesilirmak, originating inCentral Anatolia andemptying into the Black Sea, Turkey is one o f
the contributors o f pollutants to the Black Sea. According to the Black Sea Transboundary Diagnostic
Analysis (1996), Turkey's annual discharges o fNand P to the Black Sea are estimated at 38,000 t/y and
5,800 tly, respectively. These amounts make up about 20 percent and 12percent, o f the total Nand P,
respectively, produced inthe non-Danube Black Sea Basin.

4.       The Nutrient Reduction Action Plan for Turkey prepared with GEF assistance identified
agricultural non-point source pollution as a very important source o f nutrient loads inYesilirmak and
Kizilirmak. The main causes o f river pollution from agncultural non-point sources were identified as (i)
poor agricultural practices, including inappropriate and excessive application o f agricultural chemicals,
such as fertilizers; (ii)
                        inappropriate management, storage and disposal of animal manure and waste; (iii)
soil erosion resulting from unsustainable land use and (iv) poor drainage. There is indication that excessive
application o f agncultural chemicals has also led to widespread contamination o f wells which provide
dnnking water to rural communities, thus threatening public health. The Action Plancalls for the



                                                    - 73 -

development o f sound agricultural management and participatory integrated river basinmanagement.

5.      The Kizilirmak andYesilirmak basins are intensively cultivated andhome to ago-processing
enterprises. Kizilirmak, Turkey's longest river with 1,15lkm, andYesilirmak originate inthe Central
Anatolian Plateau and empty into the Black Sea at the Bafra and Carsamba Deltas inthe Samsun Province.
Inbothdeltas, intensive horticultural andsmall-scale livestock productionis carriedout. Along Yesilirmak
to the south o f Samsun, Amasya and Tokat are also significantly engaged inintensive cultivation o f fruits,
vegetables and crops, and in as small-scale livestock production. Inthe upper regions o f Kizilirmak, to the
southwest o f Samsun, the land is under intensive rice cultivation inaddition to crop production. Large-scale
poultry production is prevalent inC o m while plastic house or green house vegetable production (with
highlevels o fchemical use) isbecoming popular inthe BafraDelta.

6.      Nutrient Loadsfrom Yesilirmak and Kizilirmak. The Turkey -Black Sea EnvironmentalPriorities
Study (1998) funded by the GEF Black Sea Environmental Programme estimated nutrient discharges for
Yesilirmak andKizilirmak (Table 1). Intensive crop cultivation, livestock production and agro-processing
which is dominant inthe Kizilirmak and Yesilirmak Basins and believed to be the most important source o f
nutrient flow intothese rivers. Inparticular, the Bafra and Carsamba Deltas, where intensive horticulture is
practiced, are nutrient hotspots.


                 Kizilirmak          Yesilirmak
Total N          4,730               7,768
Total P          278                 414
Source: Turkey - Black Sea Environmental Priorities Study (1998)

Baseline Scenario

7.       Inthe baseline scenario, the Government ofTurkey andthe NGOscommunity would continue their
ongoing and planned activities inthe agriculture and environment sector. These include activities aiming at
water pollution control inthe Black Sea region as well as relatedpolicy and capacity buildingmeasures,
namely (i) annual Government expenditures inmonitoring and control activities inthe 14provinces o f the
Yesilirmak andKizilirmak Basins; (ii)    AWRP, but excluding the Black Searegion; (iii) EU-funded
                                                                                         the
Water Quality Analysis Project, (iv) a GTZ funded erosion control project inthe eastem Black Sea region,
and(v) Dutch-funded activities to align environmental regulations withthose o fthe EU.

8.       The General Directorate for Protection and Control (KKGM) of the Ministryo f Agriculture and
Rural Affairs (MARA)would continue its water quality monitoring and control activities inthe 14
provinces o f the Yesilirmak and Kizilirmak basins. In2002, Government funding allocated to GDCP's
provincial directorates for their work inwater quality control amounted to approximately US$17,000.
Additionally, approximately US$20,000 were allocated to Provincial Control Laboratories inSamsun,
Amasya, Tokat, Ankara andKayseri. Assuming that the same amount would be allocated for these
purposes duringthe project period, 2004-2010, the total amount is estimated at US$259,000.

9.       AWRP which is a follow-up to the successful EastemAnatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project,
would be implemented inthe Seyhan, Ceyhan andGoksu Basins which drain into the Mediterranean Sea.
The objective o f the project is to support sustainable natural resource management andraise income o f the
communities indegraded watersheds inAnatolia. Inthe baseline scenario, there would be no incentive to
extend AWRP's effective integrated andparticipatory microcatchment management approach to the
introduction and popularization o f environmentally friendly agricultural practices inthe Black Sea basin.


                                                      - 74 -

Furthermore, without APCP, original AWRP provinces would not benefit from the emphasis on proper
manuremanagement andfertilizer use methods.The total cost ofAWW, without APCP, is estimatedat
USS57.05 million, of which US36.62 millionwill be covered from a World Bank loan andthe rest by the
Government and project beneficiaries.

10.      MEFis carrying out aprogram to monitor land-basedsources ofpollution to the Black Sea
Region.The project cost of $500,000 has been allocated by Government to MEF for 2004 to finance
implementation.

11.      Furthermore, the EU-fundedWater Quality Analysis Project o f approximately US$9 millionhas
supported capacity building, notably equipment and training, in 10 laboratories inTurkey. Inthe absence
of concrete data, we conservatively assume that approximately USSO.5 million has been spent onupgrading
the SamsunWater Analysis Laboratory.

12.      Another relatedproject inthe Black Sea region focuses on erosion control andnatural resources
managementinBayburt, Coruh Valley. Fundedby the Germanbilateral cooperation agency, GTZ, the
project has been implementedby the NGO TEMA since 2000 andwill continue through 2007. The total
project cost is approximately USS4million.

13.      Itshouldalso bementioned that the MEF, inits capacity as the coordinating agency for efforts to
harmonize environmental legislation with the EUacquis, is cooperating with the Government o f
Netherlands to align Turkish regulations with EC Water Framework andEnvironmentalImpact
AssessmentDirectives. Both activities will last two years at a cost o f 800,000. An agreement has also
beensignedbetweenthe Turkish and Dutch governments, inthe framework of which MEF's priority areas
o fBlack Sea water quality improvement and construction of wastewater treatment infrastructure inthe
Black Sea region will be addressed. Finally, while not directly part of the baselinescenario for APCP, it is
also worth mentioning that the Turkish Government is also beneficiary o f the Dutch MATRA project
"Implementation o fWater Framework Directive inTurkey". The main aim o f the project is to implement
the Water Framework Directive andto analyze water use arrangements inTurkey with a focus on the
BuyukMenderes Watershedlocatedinthe Westempartofthe Turkey.

14.      The Yesilirmak Basin Development Project whichwas carried out between 1996and2001 under
the support o fthe Govemor's Offices o f the provinces Samsun, Amasya, Tokat, Conun and Yozgat,
should also be mentionedas it helpedput inplace capacity that will be very usehl inthe implementation o f
APCP. The project aimed at landuse planning taking into account ecological concems, modem natural
resourcemanagement, erosion prevention, identification o fwater pollutionsources andtheir monitoring,
rangelandrehabilitation, identificationof forest areas andtheir monitoring, monitoring o furbanization and
industrialization, and resolving issues inplanned development. In 1998, satellite images and data on
climate, soil, settlement areas androads were collected. In 1999, data neededfor a GIS infrastructure were
completed. This GIs capability will contribute significantly to the implementation o fAPCP.

15.      Turkeyhas also carriedout two consecutiveLocalAgenda 21 projects with UNDP funding. The
projects have coordinated by IULA-EMMEInternationalUnion of Local Authorities Section for Eastem
Mediterranean andthe MiddleEastand designed and executedby local committees madeup o f local
authorities, NGOs and educational institutions. The purpose o f the projects was to have local authorities,
via their commitment to Local Agenda 21, foster a participatory, multi-sectoral process to achieve the
goals o fAgenda 21 at the local level through the preparation and implementation o f long-term, strategic
action plans that addresspriority local sustainable development concems. To this end, city-wide
consultative mechanisms(City Councils and other platforms), as well as working groups and special task


                                                    - 75 -

forces have been constituted from amongst differenttypes of local actors and citizens ina significant
numberof cities. Inthe Black Sea region, the provinces of Samsun, Kastamonu, Bolu, Carum, Trabzon
and Zonguldak have beenpart of the these projects and some o f them electedto form working groups
focusing on environment and sustainableagnculture issues. These formations provide a good civil society
basis for the implementation of the APCP project. A cost estimatefor this part of the project is not
available.

16.      Finally, Turkey has playeda prominent role in efforts to rehabilitate the Black Sea. Inparticular,
since the early 1990sTurkey has hosted the Black Sea Environment Programmebased inIstanbul andhas
contributed about 40 percent o f the operating costs o f this organization.

17.      The total cost ofthese baselineactivities are US$ 61.66 million over the period 2004 -2010. O f
these, US37.92 million are baseline activities specifically associatedwith AWRP.

GEFAlternative Scenario

18.      GEF Alternative will aim at reducingnutrient dischargesfrom agricultural sources into the
Yesilirmak and Kizilirmak rivers. Project activities to achievethis benefit are (i)promoting
environmentally-fnendly farmingpractices, including proper animal waste management; (ii)      strengthening
policy and regulatory capacity for meeting EUstandardsinagricultural pollution control; (iii)   raising
public awareness to disseminatethe benefits of the proposedproject activities and developing a replication
strategy to promote project activities inother similar areas inTurkey as well as inBlack Sea riparian
countries; and (iv) applied research.These activities will be fully blendedinthe components of the Anatolia
WatershedRehabilitation Project.

19.      Under the "Environment-friendly Practices" component, the project will construct storage and
provide handling facilities for livestock waste management. Itwill also provide training to farmers. Such
activities are a first inTurkey andwouldnot have happenedwithout the project's financial and technical
contribution. Advice on crop nutrient managementwill also be made an integral part o f extension advice to
farmers, supportedbyprovision o f simple field equipment for soils analysis andpart payment o f KHGM
soil analysis services usedby farmers. The project will train MARA and MEF staff on crop nutrient
management.The outcome o fthese activities will be morejudicious application andpartial replacement by
manure o f synthetic fertilizers whichwill lower the run-offo f excessivenutrients. Demonstration o f
financial gains from more rational use of fertilizers will help convert farmers to suchpractices and ensure
sustainability and replicationby farmers inother partso f the region. The project will also support the
development of organic farming inthe project area which by definition will contribute to nutrient reduction.


20.      The implementation ofthe EUNitrates Directive and adoption ofa Code of GoodAgricultural
Practiceswill provide the regulatory baclung for the above activities andhelp ensure sustainability and
replicability. The project will support institutionaldevelopment inMARA and MEF.Awareness raising
campaigns at the provincial andnational levels will fkrther support the dissemination o f knowledge about
environmentally friendly activities.

21.      Applied researchwill concentrate on conservation tillage andits potential to reduce nutrient
leakages. Annually up to 20-40 percent decreases inNand P flows have beenrecorded on demonstration
plots inother parts o f Turkey and other countries. The component will aim to achieve wider application o f
the practice inthe Black Sea regiono f Turkey by emphasizing the financial gains conservation tillage holds
for farmers.


                                                     - 76 -

22.      As the above project description demonstrates, the GEF Alternative will provide the Government of
Turkey with capacity to systematically control agricultural nutrient pollution which does not currently exist
inTurkey. Itwill foster collaboration ofagencies involvedwhichis also lacking. Furthermore, by adopting
AWRP's integrated participatory micro-catchment (MC) managementapproachthe project will ensure that
project interventions reflect M C preferencesand that villagers are committedto sustainable resource
management. The MCs will also serve as basic water quality monitoring units.

23.      The project activities describedabove will result inestimated reduction o fnutrient flows o f 20
kg/ha Nand 2.5kgha P annually. These estimates are transferred from the case o fthe Romania
Agncultural Pollution Control Project. It is believed that per hectare savings would be the same inboth
countries. Project activities will be carried out on about 50,000ha (4 M C s and one irrigationperimeter o f
approximately 10,000 ha each). O fthis agricultural area i s estimated at 20,000 ha. Assuming that by the
endof the project, 50 percent ofthe farmers adopt environmentally friendly agricultural practices supported
bythe project, the reduction ofannualNandPrun-off at the fann level wouldbe 200 tons Nand25 tons
P. Furthermore, conservatively assumingthat in 10years suchpractices are adopted on 30 percent of the
1.7 millionha o f agricultural area inthe four project provinces, annual reductions o fNand P run-off at the
farm levelwouldreach 11,000tons Nand 1,300 tons P, respectively, by 2003. Inthe longrun,the effect
will be multiplied as nutrient saving practiceswill be more widely adopted inTurkey's Black Sea Basin.

The incremental costs ofthese benefits is estimatedat US$7.00 million, which will be requestedfrom the
GEF.




                                                    - 77 -

c
Table 1: Incremental Cost Matrix USDmillio
 Component             Cost Category                 Cost"      Local Benefits             Global Benefits
                                                  (US$ million)
 1. Rehabilitation o f Baseline                      17.38      Reduction o f resource
   degraded natural                                             degradation
   resources
I                     /WithGEF Alternative          23.51       Financial gains from       Reduction o f
                       (Introduction of                         rational nutrient          nutrientrun-off to
                       environment-friendly                     management; reduced        the Black Sea.
                       practices, incl. manure                  health risks from ground
                       management, nutrient                     and surface water
                       management, organic                      contamination.
                       farming and waterisoil
                       quality monitoring.)
                       Increment
 2. Income raising     Baseline                      17.57      Increasedhousehold
    activities                                                  incomes inrural areas.
                       With GEF Alternative          17.57
                       Increment                       0
 3. Strengthening      Baseline                      0.10       Limited harmonization
    policy and                                                  with EUdirectives.
    regulatory
    capacity towards
    meetingEU
    standards
                       With GEF Alternative          0.18       Enhanced capacity o f      Enhanced
                       (Policy and regulatory                   regulatory agencies to     sustainability and
                       capacity building, incl.                 monitor and enforce water  replicability o f
                       implementation o f the                   quality regulations.       nutrient reducing
                       Nitrates Directive,                      Improved quality o f       activities in
                       preparation o f a Code o f               agriculturalproduce and    Turkey's Black Sea
                       Good Agricultural                        more secure access to      Basin.
                       Practices and support for                European agricultural
                       institutional developmenl                markets.
                       for organic farming.)                    Possibility o f capturing
                                                                local and international
                                                                niche marketsfor organic
                                                                produce and associated
                                                                incomes.
                      IIncrement                     0.18
 4. Awareness         /Baseline                      0.68       Farmers become aware o f
    raising, capacity                                           sustainable resource
    building and                                                management practices and
    replication                                                 are more likely to adopt
    strategy                                                    them.
                       With GEF Alternative          1.06       Inadditionto the above,    Replication and
                       (Farmer training on                      farmers understand          sustainability o f
                       environment friendly                     financial benefits from     environment
                       agricultural practices,                  proper manure and           friendly agricultural
                       public awareness raising                 nutrient management        practices in the
                       at the national level, and               practices as a result o f  project region and



                                                     - 78 -

              creation o f a replication            which they more likely to  across the country.
              strategy.)                            adopt them.
              Increment                    0.38
5. Project    Baseline                     2.19     Project implementation
  Management                                        with financial, fiduciary,
                                                    environmental and social
                                                    due diligence.
              With GEF Alternative         2.50                                Project
                                                                               implementation
                                                                               with financial,
                                                                               fiduciary,
                                                                               environmental and
                                                                               social due diligence.
              Increment                    0.31
Total         Baseline                     37.92
              With GEF Alternative         44.92
              Increment                    7.00




                                            - 79 -

   Additional Annex 12: GEF Scientificand Technical Advisory Panel (STAP) Review
               TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATIONPROJECT


Scientific and technical soundness

The scientific andtechnical basis o fthe project is sound. Itaddressesthe critical issue o f reducing nutrient
pollution o f the Kizilirmak, Yesilirmak Rivers flowing into the Black Sea. Itbuilds upon and is linkedwith
the "Strategic Action Plan for the Protection and Rehabilitation of the Black Sea" (BSSAP), formulated
with the assistance of the Global Environment Facility (GEF).

The proposal builds upon and extends the practical demonstration o f implementation and benefits o f
pollution reduction projects Eastem Anatolia Watershed Management Project (EAWP). I t seeks, with
reasonable recognition o f the social constraints o f patriarchal "elder" decision malung, to build
understanding andacceptance of andcommitment to identifying and operating within the constraints o f the
ecological systems that underlie agricultural production.

Global environment benefits and costs

Nutrient pollution o f the Black sea has been identified as an environmental issue o f global significance. If
thisproject achieves its objectives it will have clear benefits inaddressing a significant source ofnutrient
pollution o f the Black Sea from Turkey. With similar success incomparable projects being undertaken in
other country catchments draining into the Black Sea this project will contribute substantially to the global
goals o f reduced agricultural pollution o f the Black Sea

The context o f GEF goals and guidelines

The project clearly addresses the objectives of the integrated land and water and water quality within the
context of watershed agricultural andenvironmental management. It addresses the objectives o fproviding a
basis for achieving sustainability and it applies the guidelines with respect to incremental costs and the
log-frame. GEF Operational Program Number 8, "Waterbody Based Operational Program               'I,which
focuses "on seriously threatened water-bodies andthe most important trans-boundary threats to their
ecosystems". The Project is also consistent with GEF Operational Programs 12 "Integrated Ecosystem
Management" and 9 "Integrated Land and Water Multiple Focal Areas OperationalProgram".

Regional Context

Discussedabove. The project is important inthe context o f the rehabilitation o fthe Black Sea.

Replicability

This project builds on experience of projects addressing agricultural pollution and watershed rehabilitation
of major river systems draining into the Baltic Black andMediterranean Seas. It is replicatingand
extending this experience inthe socioeconomic context o f the EAWPby addressing 3 Mediterranean
watersheds from EAWP and 2 additional Black Sea watersheds. The clearly stated intention inthe design
concept is that this extension will consolidate and hrther develop experience and capacity to replicate
similar practices inother catchments.




                                                      - 80 -

Sustainabilitv

This is a key element o fproject design. I t has been developed inthe light o f experience o f local
participation and conditions inEAWP. The ongoing sustainability will depend on demonstration of
benefits and on community and particularly appreciation by decision-makers o f the economic,
environmental and social benefits o f altemative agricultural methods and on a reasonable flow-on o f those
benefits from landowners to others inthe communities.

Contribution to future strategies andpolicies

Success with this project should contribute to the broader adoption o fpollution minimizing agricultural
practices inthe catchments o f the Black and Mediterranean Seas.

Involvement o f stakeholders

The project proposal recognizes stakeholder involvement as a critical issue. It discusses the issues o f
patriarchal elder decision making, the capture o f benefits by elites and the vulnerability o f younger men to
exclusion from decision malungconcerning landandresources for which they will eventually be
responsible. The discussion on extension addresses demonstration sites andpublic awareness programs. It
can be inferredthat the demonstration sites are targeted largely at the decision makers.

There is no specific mention o f a role for school based education inthis process. Inclusion of a school
based curriculum element would have to be addressed sensitively but other environmental projects have
demonstrated the benefits o f accelerating the acceptance o f information into communities through school
children having good information and discussing it within family groups. A further stakeholder issue that is
perhaps understatedrelates to the humanhealth benefits o f improved water quality. This is an issue often
o f particular interest to women as careers o f the sick and sickly andexplicit treatment o f that issue inthe
public awareness strategy could provide another avenue o fpersuasion to customary decision makers.

Riskassessments

To the extent that Icanjudge, being unfamiliarwith the field operating situation, the risks seem to be
reasonably discussed and Iconcur with the assessments




Ihaveinsufficientoperationalexperienceinthetargetareatomakesubstantialcommentonthedetailof
funding allocations. However inthe lighto fcomments above onreplication andcommunity education I
would suggest that the design team consider the adequacy o f the budget components for Component 4 (a)
Public Awareness and Replication Strategy. Unless there is some other source o f provision for
development and delivery o f school andcommunity education materials a total expenditure U S D M 0.39
from a total budgeto f USDM69.70 appears insufficient. Imake this comparison inthe light o f my
experience inother projects seeking to develop community involvement and"ownership" andmy
understanding o f the scale o f the areas being addressed. The allocation for component 4 (b) Capacity
Buildingseems reasonable andIwouldnot suggest reducing that.

Conclusion

This is a soundly designed project drawing on the experience o fsimilar projects to tackle critical issues o f


                                                       -81 -

agricultural pollutioninways that appear to be appropriate to the socio-economic situation described for
Anatolia. Subject to specific consideration o f the targeting, resourcing andbudget adequacy of provisions
for Component 4 (a) Public Awareness and Replication Strategy Irecommendthat it should proceed.




RA Kenchington
RAC Marine Pty Ltd
17 February 2003




                                                     - 82 -

                              Bank Responseto STAP Reviewer's Comments

(i)StakeholderInvolvement. "...thereisnospecificmentionof arolefor schoolbasededucationinthis
process.. .Afurther stakeholder issue that isperhaps understated relates to the human health benefits of
improved water quality. This is an issue often ofparticular interest to women as carers of the sick and
sickly and explicit treatment of that issue in thepublic awareness strategy couldprovide another avenue
ofpersuasion to customary decision makers".

The project team concurs with the STAP reviewer that school-based education would be a useful tool to
inform and train potential beneficiaries inresource management and conservation techniques, including
environmentally friendly agncultural practices as proposed under the Project. It is expected that as a result
o f the participatory approach ofthe project, whereby communities will actively determine and evaluate
public awareness activities duringproject implementation, school-based programs will become a significant
avenue for dissemination of knowledge and provision of training innatural resources management.
Towards this, the Project Management Unit will design an appropriate school-based program and allocate
necessary funds for its implementation.

The public awareness campaign designed under the Project to disseminate information on project benefits,
includes the importance of clean dnnking water and its implications for humanhealth. The project will
encourage the participation of women so as to assure that gender issues are mainstreamed into M C
development, planningandimplementation.

(ii)     The design team consider the adequacy of the budget componentsfor Component 4 (a) Public
Awareness and Replication Strategy. Unless there is some other source of provision for development and
delively of school and community education materials a total expenditure USDM0.39from a total
budget of USDM69.70appears insufficient.

Project costs were revised and finalized during the appraisal mission inJanuary 2004, inpart to take
account ofthis concern. The allocation for the component on Public Awareness and Replication Strategy
i s US$1.06 million, o f a total project cost o f USD 45.11million.




                                                      - 83 -

               Additional Annex 13: Environmental Management Framework
              TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT

Introduction

Onbalance, the Anatolia Watershed Rehabilitation Project is expected to have significant positive
environmental impacts. It is expected to contribute to reduced erosion, increased vegetative and forest
cover, improved landmanagement, andwill reduce the discharge o f polluting nutrients into waterways.
Wider positive environmental impacts will be an outcome o f institutional measures implementedby the
project to support application o f the EUnitrates directive and public awareness buildinginthis regard. The
project was screened by Bank Safeguards staff who concluded that it should be rated as a Category B
project, with potential adverse environmental impacts on humanpopulations or environmentally important
areas. These impacts are site-specific; few ifany o f them are irreversible; and inmost cases mitigatory
measures can be readily designed andimplemented.

Inorder more closely to consider the project'spotential negativeenvironmental impacts, Government
commissioned a Regional Environmental Assessment to provide the analytical framework better to address
environmental concerns inthe design, implementation, and monitoring o f project interventions. The
Regional Environmental Assessment confirmed that the project is not expected to result inany significant
environmental risks or negative environmental impacts, but indicated that a range o fpotential, minor
negative impacts are, however, possible. The Regional Environmental Assessment identified these impacts,
andmitigation measureshave been incorporated into the project's design. Potentialnegative environmental
impacts include,

0   impacts resulting from poorly designed soil erosion control measures such as terracing;
0   impacts resulting from the rehabilitation or construction o f access roads;
0   impacts on forest villages which may findtraditional access to forests restricted;
0   impacts associated with the possible use o f abiotic pesticides during the establishment and operation o f
    tree nurseries which are to provide seedlings for afforestation and for microcatchment rehabilitation;
0   impacts associated with dam safety, resulting from the construction o f numerous small farm ponds and
    irrigation tanks.

Project investments are to be made on the basis o fpriorities identified through a participatory and
community-based planningprocess ineach o f the 28 microcatchments where the project is to be operating.
The project itselfwill be supporting this planningandpriority setting process, andso the project's likely
environmental impacts can only be described inthe abstract ex-ante, on the basis o f the technologies which
are likely to be supported inproject microcatchments. Inthis respect, the project comprises a series o f 28
microcatchment sub-projects, each with their own potential environmental impacts.

The project's Environmental Management Framework seeks to balance the need for screening new
microcatchment management plans for their potential environmental impacts, for puttinginplace mitigation
measures which are consistent with prevailing best-practice technical standards andwhich will be triggered
dependmg on the mix o f activities which are adopted ineach microcatchment, for monitoring environmental
performance ineach microcatchment, and for makingfurther corrections as monitoring and evaluation
activities identify environmental concerns andthe need for further mitigation during implementation.

The Regional Environmental Assessment was reviewedby Government and by the Bank, and was
subsequently revised. The revisedRegionalEnvironmental Assessment was translated into Turkish, and



                                                     - a4 -

was made widely available. A consultation on the revised draft was held on February 20, 2003 and
involved a range ofcivil society organizations andgovernment agencies. The REA describes a methodology
for screening microcatchment plans for environmental impacts, and for proposing and introducing
mitigating steps, which will be handled as part o f the regular criteria-based microcatchment selection
process. The project will support the establishment o f capacity within the implementingagencies to ensure
that subprojects are assessedfor their potential impacts, and environmental management plans are prepared
andimplemented incompliance with the national requirements as well as Bankpolicy on environmental
assessment (OP 4.01). The REA describes the procedures and arrangements between the implementing
agency, the environmental authority and the borrower entities for subproject environmental screening,
assessment, consultations and disclosure. Generic EMPs for investments indifferent subsectors (farm
ponds, feeder roads etc.) are provided as examples. EMP recommendations are incorporated into the
Project ImplementationPlan anddescribe screening standards, mechanisms, examples, andprocedures
related to Safeguards issues.

Screening

A screening exercise, which reviewed38 sets ofproject activities, was camed out as part o fthe REA to
determine the extent o f possible negative environmental impacts. A screening matrix was developed which
assessed these llkely impacts o f these activities, andwas completed inconjunction with a detailed review of
6 microcatchment plans which had been completed prior to Appraisal. The objective o fpreparing the
screening matrix was both to ensure that potential impacts are adequately identified upstream and that these
can be mitigated as part of the project, but also to provide guidance to project staff for the implementation
o f microcatchment managment planenvironmental screening duringproject implementation. The screening
process identified a range o f possible negative environmental impacts.

Possible negative environmental impacts

Potential for increased soil erosion

Ground preparation inforest areas, both with machines and by hand, and the manual construction o f
terraces will be undertaken, as required, insome forest areas. Insome agricultural areas, the prevailing
land-use practice has been to plough perpendicular to the contour, rather than with the contour. Where
these practices are widespread, erosion could clearly be worsened by the introduction o f various cropping
measures through the project. Onbalance, when poorly implemented, a range o f practices to be supported
bythe project could actually leadto increased erosionrather than to erosion control andinthe absenceo f
various mitigation measures, ground preparation activities can leadto soil compaction.

Access road rehabilitation or construction

There are three types o f roads to be constructedunder the project. Provisions have been made for the
construction o f around 80 kmof service roads by AGM inproject microcatchments, primarilyalong ridges.
Another 60 kmo f B-type secondary forest roads are to be constructed by GDF. Finally, the project is
expected to buildaround 30 kmo f service roads inmicrocatchments to provide access to imgation
channels andpipes by KHGM for their operation and maintenance.

Generally speaking, the primary potential negative environmental impacts related to the construction o f
roads include habitat losdfragmentation (associated with the footprint o f the road); alteration o f
drainagehatural hydrologic regime; stream erosion; soil erosion anddownstream sedimentation; slope
instability and landslides; and resultant secondary impacts (e.g., increased access to formerly remote areas,


                                                      - 85 -

increasedresource extraction and resultant impacts to biodiversity and physical environment, economic
impacts such as employment      - both temporary (road construction impacts) and permanent (ongoing
maintenance andresource extraction impacts)).

Traditional access to forests

Itis conceivable that the community-basedparticipatory planningprocess may identify degraded forested
areas within microcatchments which would benefit from protection, or from otherwise restricting access to
traditional use. This determination will be made on a microcatchment-by-microcatchment basis.
Restrictions inaccess may affect household access to common grazing resources or to fuelwood, but likely
not to Non-timber Forest Products (which can largely be extractedwith minimal negative impacts).

Pesticide use

The only sub-component which may involve the use o f abiotic pesticides (but not their purchase with IBRD
funds) is the component whichresults inthe productionoftree seedlings. The project will notbe directly
financing  the purchase o f pesticides, but the agents contracted for nursery productionmay use pesticides in
conjunction with tree seedling production. More generally, farmers who are involved with the project may
use pesticides as part o f their on-going farming practices, but their use is neither advocated nor financed by
the project.

Dam safetv

Under the income generation component, the project will finance small scale irrigation, including
construction o f concrete ponds, diversion weirs and small dams. Highest priority will be given to irrigation
ponds at strategic places throughout the M C areas as this will allow to reach the largest number o f
beneficiaries. Construction o f dams will only occur inMCswith extreme water shortage. Basedon the
experience with EAWP, these dams are expected to be less than 15 high. Damsafety concerns are issues
where poor design and construction standards may result indam failure. No landacquisition or resettlement
i s expectedto be required, as dams will be constructed on public lands.

Mitigation measures

Potential for increased soil erosion

All terracing is to be carried out manually. Mechanicalterracing was abolished by the MoF after bad
experiences during the early stages o f the EAWRP. When undertaking ground preparation, including
terracing, to reduce erosion, to improve degraded forest and range areas, andfor reforestation, care must be
taken not to exacerbate erosion and to increase flash flooding. This will be done by first undertaking a
classification of soil types depth, slope and rainfall and then adhering to prescriptions for terracing
according to internationally acceptable criteria, as outlined the instructions published by AGM. (Issues to
be Taken into Account in the Erosion Control Activities, Instruction No: 14, Ankara, 1999; Instructions
No, 6,7 and 8 regarding erosion control activities, in-forest rangeland rehabilitation activities and
reforestation activities respectively; Guidelinesfor Terracing, TOPRAKSU, Ankara; and Technical
Speclficationsfor Biddingfor Terracing KHGM (Ankara-2000)). These Instructions conform to
 international best-practice standards.

Onagncultural land, where fields are narrow and contour ploughing may not be practical, alternatives to
 `slope' ploughing include minimumtillage. Terracing and the planting of perennial crops will be


                                                      - 86 -

introduced. It was observed inMalatya that, by planting fruit trees andvegetables on terraces, while
plantingeither fodder or vines on slopes, agricultural benefits to farmers are increasedand environmental
benefits are improved. The demonstration o f alternatives to slope ploughing with the appropriate agronomic
package, including dnp irrigation on terraces, is essential as is farmer participation inthe planning and
execution o f alternatives. Early commitment o f farmers should be sought for re-vegetation o f terraces,
including perennials, immediately after they have beenprepared.

Withrespect to the potential for soil compaction, deep rippingwill only be applied where the soil will
benefit from infiltration. It should be confined to where trees are to be planted or sown, or on a limited
basis where rangeland areas are to be re-seeded. Buildingon experience gained through EAWRP, most
rangelands will be improvedthrough enclosure. When soils are disturbed, exposed ground will be
re-vegetated quickly to prevent erosion andto improve water retention. Water harvesting will be considered
on rangelands to be rehabilitated inorder to sustain the vegetative cover and to improve the soil-water
balance.

Gullyplugging,especially at an early stage will prevent loss o ftopsoil andfertility. The number and
frequency o f gullies will be assessed ineach microcatchment inorder to optimise environmental benefits
andto minimize costs. The lessons learnt from the EAWRPingully pluggingmust be transferred and
implemented inthe AWRP. Gullies can be prevented through appropriate and sufficient vegetation cover,
correct land preparation practices (especially for arable farming), reduction o f fallow and the use o f
suitable harvesting methods and equipment.

Access road rehabilitation or construction

Access road construction standards have been developed by GDF invarious Instructions which describe
technical and administrative specifications and conditions for road construction bidding, including a format
for special provisions and a sample contract (Forest Roads,Road Construction Works, Gen. Dir. o f
Forestry, Ankara, 19%). Roads are to be constructed with the specifications o f4 mplatform width plus 1
mditch width(5 m.intotal) and0.5 msub-grade width, a minimumcurve radius of 10-12mand
maximum slope o f 10%. These standardsshould be updated to more fully incorporate more recent
environmental best practice standards inroad construction.

When undertaking road construction, maximum slopes should not exceed standards set for the soil type and
terrain. Culverts should be installed to prevent erosion andbridges built across streams or rivers o f a
specified width. Where the soil is disturbed through cut and fill, the exposed ground should be re-vegetated
quickly to prevent erosion. There will be clauses inthe roadbuildingcontract concerning environmental
protection such as no cutting o f trees without approval, replacing cut trees with appropriate species, where
to dump excavated soil, no use o f explosives without approval from MoE, how to maintain a temporary
camp etc. Maintenance o f roads is important to prevent erosion, ruttingandwater logging etc. Planting
vegetation along the roadside should stabilize the soil and improve the microclimate.

Traditional access to forests

Withrespect to forestry activities, communities and individuals with interests inthe use andmanagement o f
forest resources will be identified and consulted duringthe participatory preparation o f microcatchment
plans. The project is not expectedto limitto any significant extent communities' traditional use o f forested
areas. The project fully complies with OP 4.36 on Forestry as it aims to "reduce deforestation, enhance the
economic contribution o f forested areas, promote afforestation, reduce poverty and encourage economic
development," through an integrated and participatory approach to microcatchment natural resource


                                                     - a7 -

management, particularly through activities aimed at rehabilitating degraded forest lands and income
generation activities geared towards compensating communities for short term costs associated with land
management and protection.

Pesticide use

All farmers that use or will use permitted herbicides, insecticides andpesticides ontheir arable and
horticultural crops will be trained inthe storage, handlinganduse o f these chemicals as well as with
respect to the careful disposal o fthe containers ina manner consistent with the Directive on the Method
and Principles of Registration of Pesticides and Similar Agents usedfor Plant Protection as well as other
regulations anddirectives. The use of appropriate clothing will be encouraged through demonstration. It is
not envisaged that the any pesticides will be procured with project funds. Alternatives to chemicals, such as
disease resistant strains (fiomlocal wild varieties) and integrated pest management will be demonstrated.
Local people may know o f natural predators andplants with naturally occumng insecticide properties:
such indigenous knowledge should be tapped. The control o f ticks and other parasites is important in
animal husbandry; therefore, pastoralists will be trained inthe handling and use o f control agents. The
procurement o f any abiotic pesticides, including those on WHO 1A and 1B lists will not be allowed
through the project.

More generally, Turkey has signed the Rotterdam Convention covering the use o f chemical control agents.
Pesticides are differentiated according to their toxicity with the eventual goal o fphasing out the use o f
pesticides which are hazardous for the environment and humanbeings. The use o f following pesticides is
banned inTurkey: 2,4,5-T, Aldrin, Binapacryl, Captafol, Chlordane, Chlordimeform, Chlorobenzilate,
DDT, Dieldnn, Dinoseb and its salts, HCH (mixed isomers), Heptachlor, Hexachlorobenzane, Lindane,
Pentachlorophenol, Hg (Mercury) compounds, Endrin, Leptephos, As (Arsenic) compounds, Fluorodifen,
Chlorpropylate, Daminozide (Alar 85), Taxophane, Zineb, Azinphos ethyl, Dibromochlorpropan(DBCP),
Methylarsenic (MSMA). From the list o fpesticides, which are subject to PIC (Prior Informed Consent)
according to the intemational legislation only the following preparatives which are incompliance with PIC
limitations are not banned, and the rest are either banned or not registered licensed at all: Monocrotophos,
Methamidophos, Phosphamidon, Methyl parathion, Parathion. The Aqua Products Law (No. 1380 o f
1995) lists pesticide concentrations allowed in inlandwater bodies, and there are guidelines on products
which can be used for phyto-sanitation published by the MARA General Directorate o f Protection and
Control (Plant Protection Products 2002, MARA, TISIT, Istanbul, 2002).

Dam safe&

The implementingagency for this component, KHGM, has long experience with the design, construction
and maintenance of over 600 small dams throughout the country. Duringproject preparation and appraisal,
it was determinedthat KHGMhas the relevant knowledge andexperience to design, construct and maintain
small dams and that it has proper design standards to guarantee the safety o f small dams. Operation and
routine maintenance o f irrigation infrastructure will be the responsibility o f beneficiary communities under
the supervision andguidance o f KHGM.Under the project KHGMwill provide relevant local communities
with training on dam surveillance, operation andmanagement to assure that they can effectively carry out
their responsibilities. Although it is unlikely that the project will include construction o f dams higher than
 15 meters, a panel of independent experts, consisting o f a dam engineer and a hydrologist with
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank, has been designated who would be calledupon to carry out an
independent review o f the investigation, design, and construction o f the dam andthe start o f operations, as
spelled out inOP 4.37. No private land will be acquired for the construction o f dams and resettlement is
thefore not an issue.


                                                       - 88 -

There should be no major negative environmental effects when buildingirrigation channels, ponds, small
reservoirs andrealigning water courses. Reservoir construction is mainly to regulate water flow and
provide water balance to the soil since rainfall is very irregular between the seasons. Flooding i s expected
to be reducedby roughly 40-60%. There may be some initial erosion, but this can be quickly stopped
throughre-vegetation. Some o fthe irrigation and pond work etc. will be put out to tender. There are
internationally acceptable technical specifications published by KHGM(Ankara-2000) for small irrigation
dams (upto 15 mhigh).Duringthe tendering process, provisions will be made to ensure that environmental
standards are adhered (i.e. limitedtree cutting, replacing cut trees, re-vegetation o f bare soil, dumping o f
excavated soil).

Monitoringenvironmentalperformance

Environmental monitoring standards are to be incorporated into the project's Monitoringand Evaluation
system, which is to be undertakenby staff inthe Project Operations Unit.Monitoringo f environmental
performance will focus both on a range o f environmental indicators (areas reforested, pastures
rehabilitated, sediment load, etc.) as well as on implementation o f mitigation measures (compliance with
roads construction standards, compliance with terrace construction standards, etc.)

Institutionalresponsibilitiesandcapacitybuilding

Itwas agreed during Appraisal that a mechanismwouldbe established withinthe Project Operations Unit
formally to screen Microcatchment Management Plans, once these have been prepared, in a manner which
is consistent with the guidance providedinthe REA. The Project Operations Unit will also be responsible
for ensuring that mitigation measures describedinthe REA are hlly incorporated inthese plans.
Environmental performance will be monitoredas part o f the M&E system, andwill be supervised by the
Bank duringproject implementation.

Capacity to undertake these tasks is weak. The project will provide resources to train project staff inthe
development and implementation o f environmentally-sound microcatchment management methods and
approaches, including screening andmitigation o fpossible negative environmental impacts.

Other issues

Involuntary Resettlement (OP4.12): A review o fpossible issues surrounding resettlement concluded that
this OPdoes not apply to the project. No landacquisition is involved. Inparticular, this review concluded
that all dams to be builtunder the project will be very small andbe constructed on public landlocated in
the mountainous upper part o f watersheds. No private land will be acquired for dam construction andthe
dam locationwill be selected such that the reservoirs will only floodrocky, barren land. No grazing or
other public land from which communities might derive a livelihoodwill be affected. The loan agreement
will include a covenant to this effect.

Projects in International Waterways (OP7.50): Various concerns were raised duringproject preparation
that the OP on Projects inIntemational Waterways mightbe triggered because o f the small scale irrigation
component. The matter was thoroughly reviewedby Bank legal staff who concluded that the OP does not
apply because their impact on abstraction of water flowing into the Meditteranean and Black Seas would
be negligible. The small streams (many o f which are already intensively used by local farmers) are thirdor
 fourth level tributaries o f these five national rivers. A number o f diversion schemes, irrigating about 20 ha
 each, will be constructed along these small streams ineach o f the five national river catchments.


                                                         - 89 -

Considering the annual flow of these large rivers, the total annual abstraction is negligible (less than 0.1%
inthe riverwiththe smallest annual flow). The project's emphasis onextensionwill result inreduced
agriculture basedpollution of ground andsurface water.




                                                    - 90 -

                     Additional Annex 14: Summary of Social Assessment
              TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATIONPROJECT


1.0      Social Development Outcomes
This Annex summarizes the key social issuesrelevant to the project objectives. The detailed social
assessmentis available inthe project documents. The project will contribute to the following social
development outcomes:
    m.Labor         intensive project interventions such as tree planting and construction works will offer
    poor villagers income-earning opportunities. Improvements inagricultural and forest productivity and
    new employment opportunities will enrich the livelihood strategies o f poor villagers.
     Empowerment. The project emphasises people's participation inthe conservation o f particular natural
    resources essential for their livelihood strategies. Local communities will be empowered to organize
     andmobilize themsleves andbe fully involvedinthe planningandmanagement o ftheir naturalresource
    base.
     Social Inclusion. Project intervention at the MC level will be demand driven primarily through the
     involvement o f local communities indeveloping their own micro-catchment management plans. In
     addition, the application o fthe farmer-centred-problem-census-problem-solving     (FCPCPS) approach
     has helped strengthen inter-agency collaboration and will W h e r improve access o f local communities
     to goods and services generated by the project.

2.0      Method
A social survey usingbothqualitative and quantitative methods was conducted inJuly-August 2002 infive
MCs located infive different provinces. The MCs were selected based on their locationineach o f the five
catchments (Kyz);lyrmak, Yehilmak, Seyhan, Ceyhan, East Mediterranean- Goksu) andreflecting
different climatic andvegetation conditions. Ingeneral, there are two types o f MCs corresponding to the
two different categories o f intervention inthe project: Type Irefers to the MCs where erosion controland
landmanagement is the mainconcern and forms the bulko f the MCs covered under the project. Type I1
refers to the MCs where interventions are targeted at controlling agncultural pollution and corresponds
with the GEF financed sub-component o fthe project. Inthe social survey, the MCs studied were the
Gogden, Orcan and Kabaktepe MCs under Type I,         and Kazova andIlyasli under Type 11.The surveys
included in-depth interviews with village muhtars (village heads), and focus group discussions particularly
with women and livestock producers. The quantitative household survey (QHS) was undertaken in25
villages representing 566 households inthe project area.

3.0      Description of Project Beneficiaries
The population o fthe five project provinces total 10million where more than halfthe number live inrural
space. Within the project sites (28 MCs encompassing an estimated 200 villages) the estimatednumber o f
project beneficiaries are 98,000. The majority o f the population depend on agncultural-based activity as the
primary livelihood strategy. Each watershed, however, have different patterns o f cropping, livestock, and
non-farm activity. A detailed description o f the 5 surveyed MCs is provided inthe project files. Table 1
shows the general characteristics o f the MCs surveyed.




                                                      -91  -

Table 1: General characteristicsof MCs surveyed
                   IGOGDEN          IILYASLI           IKABAKTEPE       IKAZOVA              IORCAN
No. ofvillages     4                 8                 3                 8                   7+4
Total population 1 500              4 313              495               3515                 11 864
of the M C
Total area of the 17 271             7 196             5 780             4 883                8 772
MC(ha)
Forest area ofthe 6 240              368.2              1 905            180.5               4 871
MC(ha)*
Total agricultural 15 351           13.790             1952             12 308               13 402
land (ha)
Rangeland (ha)     5 034            Nla                2 057             nla                 40
No. of cattle      132              2 170               1996             4 499                1325
No of sheep and 13 350               1220              2 300             3 700                9 330
goats


Non-farm income is a major source o f cash for these communities, especially inType IMCs. There is
substantial seasonal movement o f labor which varies inintensity between the MCs. Most o f the migration
are to cities and tourist centers andtake place duringthe construction and tourism seasons. Most o f the
migration are done by the young men o f the villages. Insome MCs, such as Gogden, Orqan and Kabaktepe,
there have been net outmigration o f the population.

4.0      Poverty
The project has been designed to target the rural poor inthe selected watersheds. The provinces o f the
project are spread across the second, third and fourth quartile o f the 1997 Turkey Human Development
Index. Withinthese provinces, the project MCs are located inzones o fhighpoverty. The annual cash
income o f the families inthe surveyed MCs is between 1,500 million TL and 6,000 million TL - the lowest
being inOrqan andthe highest is inKazova. The annual income o f the lowest group o f family (inOrqan
and Kabaktepe) indollar equivalent is about USD 920.24. The average daily income o f the family is
USD2.52with a per-capita income (assuming a family o f 5) at USD 0.50. This is half o f the level defining
absolute poverty inTurkey which is USD 1.0 a day per-capita. The better o f fhouseholds (inKazova) have
a daily income o fUSD10.08 per family and a per-capita income o f USD 2.017. This stands at only two
times above the absolute poverty line, which is suggestive o f the very low incomes inthe project area.

InType IMCs, the poorestfamilies do notgenerally make cashexpenditures onhousing, most fooditems,
heating inwinter, and for most o f the agricultural /livestock input and labor expenditures. Families practice
subsistence agnculture (producing mainly cereals, vegetables, fruits, dairy products) to avoid cash
payments for food items. Barter is used to obtain greater variety intheir diet. Very little cash expenditure is
made for agricultural inputs (seed, animal fertilizer etc). Duringthe harvest season, labor i s obtained
through exchange among families. Indry agriculture areas very little machinery and chemicals are used. In
general, the daily cash expenditure items o f the poor families are: sugar, tea, oil, cigarettes, fuel for cooking
andtransportation. The monthly and annual cash expenditures include electricity, telephone, clothing and
school expenditures. Health expenditures are met through the use o f the green cards which allows access to
free state health care. For families inthe Type I1MCs, there is greater use o f cash inthe economy. Cash
expenditures are made on all spheres o f life. However, the practice o f purchasing chemical inputs for
agriculture on credit has created a serious debt problem for many families. Inthe past, obtaining credit to
purchase inputsfrom farmer cooperatives was a livelihood strategy to defer payment untilthe harvest was


                                                      - 92 -

sold. The recent removal of agricultural subsidies by the government, however, accompaniedbyrapid
inflation has inflated the cost of inputsandpushedthe farmers into a debilitating debt cycle.

The QHS found significant variation in the distribution o f land ownership o f irrigatedand dry agricultural
land. While some householdsmay have little or no irrigated landthey may own large holdings of dry
agriculturalland. The distribution o f agricultural and dry land size within the survey area can be seen inthe
detailed social assessment. The QHS also found that there is a class of householdswho do not own any
land at all. These households can constitute as low as 3.4% of the population (inIlyasli) and as highas
16.4% of the population (inOrcan). The 2002 Turkey poverty assessment found a strong correlation
between land ownerslllp andpoverty. Inthis regard, the social assessment identifiedhouseholdswith little
or no landas a particular vulnerable group inthe project. Table 2 shows the distribution o f landless
householdsinthe MCs surveyed.


                    GoZ)den          Orqan           Kabaktepe        Kazova          Ilyasli
% of landowners 96.7                 83.6            95.7             92.0            96.6
% without any land3.3                16.4            4.3              8.0             3.4
Total               100.0            100.0           100.0            100.0           100.0



5.0      Beneficiary Priorities
Land-ownina farmers. Their mainpriority is to increase cash income through increased agricultural
efficiency and yields. Specific expectations include development o fwater resources, advancednew seeds
for apcultural production, fruit tree saplings, grafts. Inaddition, there was also interest intraining on
techniques for improving agricultural efficiency and on entrepreneurial skills for market oriented
production.
Landlesspoor. This includes owners of small land-holdings, women andyoung men. Their mainpriority is
to have greater short-term employment opportunities andtraining innon-assetbasedincome generating
activities.
Livestock owners. This group has similar priorities with the landlesspoor. Inaddition, they require
compensationfor givingup their goats andfor funds to help start-upnew businesses. Inthe long run,they
expect the project to assist themincattle grazing through improvedrangeland management.
Middle-income topoor farmers in Tvpe11MC. Their mainpriority i s assistanceto switch to alternative
agricultural productionincluding moving to environment-hendly agriculture.
Better-offfarmers in Tvpe11MC.Assistance from project to decrease input expenditure andnew
approaches andtechniquesto improve their profit margin.


6.0      Vulnerable groups
The SA identifiedpoor families, women, young males andlivestock owners as groups who are vulnerable
to risks arising from the project.




                                                     - 93 -

Poor families. This group includes families with little or no land. The basic socio-economic characteristic
of the family is its dependence on paid labor. Commonly children above 8 years are already included inthe
wage-earning category. The family is usually large with a highnumber o f children inthe younger age
groups. The family lives on subsistence farmingand the combination o f different livelihood activities o f
different family members. This group will be left out should the project place emphasis only on improving
agricultural productivity. Recognizing this the project has incorporated labor intensive project interventions
such as tree plantingandconstruction works that will offer poor villagers income-earning opportunities.
Improvements inagricultural and forest productivity and new employment opportunities will enrich the
livelihood strategies o f poor villagers.

Women. Women are engaged inagncultural activities, livestock management, and as wage labor. They
receive relatively less formal education. After the age o f 12-13 school attendance decreases markedly for
girls insome MCs (especially inpoorer MCs like Orqan). The survey found that women were excluded
from the development o fthe M C plans even though these plans had an impact on their economic andsocial
life. During focus group discussions with women groups, the SA found a strong demand for more
information about the project. Women expressed a highinterest to participate inalternative income
generating activities promotedby the project. This includes training for new income-generating activities.
Recognizing this the project has incorporated training for women officials to achieve greater access to the
women o fthe villages andensure participation o f women inthe project implementation.

Youngmen. Young men are a vulnerable category inthe project because o f their subordinate status inthe
village structure. The households inthe project area can be described as patriarchal and extended with
brides moving to the household o f their husband's family. The married couple and unmarriedchildren live
within the same extendedfamily house or landbelonging to the family.Income o f all familymembers are
pooledinto one householdbudget which is controlled by the male head o f the household (usually the
father). Landis owned exclusively by the heado f the family. Because o f the leading position o f the
patriarch inthe household, village level decisions are made largely between the patriarchs (referred to as
the old men o f the village). While this is not by itself a problem, the young menare concerned that the
project brings a unique riskinintroducingrapid changes to the village. Inthis context, they worry that their
voice will not be heard inany decision-making process. Inparticular, they are concerned that issues o f land
use, which they will inherit at a later time, will be decided without their input and consideration.

7.0      Social Risks
The potential social risks associated with the project are summarized below:.

CaBture of benefits bv elites. Within the villages there are uneven power relations between the rich landed
farmers and poor and landless farmers. Rich and powerful families are called zengin. The muhtur (village
head) tends to come from the zengin class and is a mano f considerable influence inthe village. There is a
riskthat the project emphasis onimproving landproductivity may bemanipulated bythe elite to their
benefit while neglecting the poor who tend to be landless. The project addressesthis potential risk by
ensuring effective participation o f stakeholders through the FCPCPS approach and by targeting the most
vulnerable groups inthe village. This includes designing activities that don't require land ownership such as
bee-keeping The project has learnt from the EAWRP that simply giving out bee hives to farmers is
insufficient. Most o f the farmers are involved inmultiple livelihood activities anddo not have the time to
rotate their hves during different seasons. Recognising this, the project will provide special training on bee
keeping andfacilitate village-level organization o f bee keeping. This may involve identifying individuals
dedicated to managing the hives for the other farmers on a profit-sharing basis. ,providing greater
wage-earning opportunities such as tree-planting and construction, and offering vocational training such as


                                                      - 94 -

wild tree grafting, pruningandsimple agro-processing.

Administrative cauacitv. This is a complex project involving many different interventions and the
participation o f many different stakeholders. While the project aims to institute protectionmeasures to
rehabilitate degraded lands, it also offers a suite o f benefits to the villages for accepting the changes to their
traditional mode o fpractice. Inthis context, coordination between agencies becomes an important
requirement to ensure timeliness o f project interventions. Livestock owners, for example, should not be
fenced out o f their grazing ground before being offered a substitute or benefits to switch to alternative
activities. The risk arises during implementation because o f the multiple agencies involved whose different
internal processes and procedures may result in some agencies lagging behindthe others and failing to
deliver the project benefits ina timely manner. At the same time, the sequencing o f interventions is also
dependent on the particular circumstances o f the MC. The project addresses this riskby ensuring closer
andeffective collaborationbetweenthe agencies especially at the provincial level. The project will also
provide training to the provincial level agencies on community mobilization andcommunication to ensure
effective local participation andbe able to respond effectively to the demands o f individual MCs.

Villagecultivation of forest lands. Inthe southeastern part o f the project area, significant portions of land
that fall officially under thejurisdiction o f the Ministry o f Forestry are either occupied by human
settlements or are being cultivated under usufructary and other tenure claims. The most common activity i s
the production o fpistachio (through the grafting o f wild pistachio trees) which forms an important source
of cash for the local communities. There is anecdotal evidence that lands under such claims are better
managed than those without. Insome MCs, villagers pay a collection tariff (a very small symbolic amount)
to the Ministryto collect the harvests. Notwithstandingthis, there are grave concerns among local
communities that the conservation focus o f the project will strengthen the Ministry's claim over these lands
and result inthe acquisition o ftheir lands andpistachio groves. InMCs where such contested land claims
occur, the project will work together with local communities to transfer long term management
responsibility to community member and strengthen the role o f community inprotecting the forest. To
better inform the project about potential conflicts and develop conflict resolution mechanisms, the P I Uwill
ensure that a social scientist be on its team.

Different urioritv of beneficiaries. This applies to Type I1MCs. The project beneficiaries, especially in
tobacco growing areas, have voiced concern that their main concern is their worsening economic condition.
The project emphasis on pollution reduction measures, inthis light, may not be adopted by all the
beneficiaries. The social assessmentidentified that the beneficiaries would like assistance to switch to
alternative crops as a response to the crisis within the tobacco economy. The project recognizes that there is
an opportunity to encourage the farmers to switch notjust to different crops but to more sustainable
agncultural practices. The project addresses this by providing training and extension services as well as
facilitate the beneficiaries' access to the direct income support for cushioning the impact o f the subsidy
removal under the WB financed Agricultural reform Implementation project (ARIP).




                                                        - 95 -

Livestock Owners. Livestock owners, particularly those involved insheep and goat management, are at the
focus of behavioral change inthe project. Within the villages there is already pressure from crop producers
on the livestock owners to reduce their sheep andgoat holdings. The project will help alleviate some o f this
tension by providing incentives to livestock owners to switch away from livestock or to adopt sustainable
livestock management practices. The project operational manual will specify conflict resolution measures
to ensure that potential conflict situations are resolved up-front and that livestock owners will participate
effectively inthe development o f Microcatchment management plans. The PIU social scientist will take the
lead inmanaging this issue and will emplace an independent monitoring and evaluation system. Insome
areas, the reinstatement o f pasture leasesto nomadic shepherds from provinces outside the project have
come under protest by crop producers who allege that their landresources are being degraded by the
seasonal movement o f these animals. The project will ensure that nomadic shepherds are not deprived o f
their legal access to pasture grounds.

8.0      Participation
Thisproject builds onthe success o fthe previous EAWRP which emphasizedthe strong participation o f all
stakeholders especially at the M C level. The EAWRP has also bred a greater appreciation and
understanding o fparticipation among the implementing agencies which hadtraditionally beenused to a
top-down culture o f doing business. The project will buildon this new awareness among government
officials, especially at the provincial level, to provide training on community mobilization and other PRA
techniques. This will make the agencies much more effective inensuring participation at the local level and
engaging with the communities in a more constructive manner. Inaddition, training will be provided for
women officials to achieve greater access to the women ofthe villages and ensure participation o f women
inthe project implementation. The project will also create at the local level MC Resource Management
Associations (MRMA)that will mobilize the community to participate inproject implementation andto
take up responsibility for post-project operation andmaintenance to ensure sustainability.

9.0       Safeguard Issues
The construction o f small dams inthe Type IMCsmay trigger the Bank's operational policy on
involuntaly resettlement (OP 4.12) through two possible scenarios:

 1.Possible acquisition o fprivate lands for small dam construction. The Type IMCs are located inareas
with limited water resources. It is anticipated that there will be a highdemand by the project beneficiaries
for the project to develop their water resources. The project will do this largely through the development o f
irrigation ponds and streams. Only inextreme water-scarce catchment areas without springs and only
seasonal streams, would the development o f a small dam be accepted. These dams have a body height o f
7.0-20.0 m and cover a surface area o fbetween 0.3      - 4.0 ha.The Government of Turkey has given a
guarantee that private lands will not be acquired for the construction o f small dams under the project. A
covenant will be included inthe legal agreement to reflect this. The project will also incorporate this
restriction into the operational manual and put inplace a monitoring and evaluation program to ensure
compliance.

2. Possible restriction o f access to grazing gsounds on public lands. The small dams mentioned above will
be built on the upper sections o f the participating microcatchments. These dams will be built mostly in
 steep gullies and flood infertile lands which are not usedby local communities for agncultural or grazing
purposes. Since the exact locationof these small dams will only be known duringthe implementation o f the
project, there is a small possibility that some traditional grazing grounds on public landsmay be flooded
resulting inthe changing o f land use and, therefore, restricting access to livelihood resources. The
 Government o f Turkey gives an assurancethat the small dams will only be constructed inpublic lands that


                                                       - 96 -

are not used for grazing purposes. A covenant will be included inthe legal agreement to reflect this
commitment. The project will also incorporate this restriction into the operational manual and put inplace a
monitoring andevaluation program to ensure compliance.




                                                   - 97 -

 Additional Annex 15: Procurement of Goods, Works and Services from Government
                                                 Agencies
              TURKEY: ANATOLIA WATERSHED REHABILITATIONPROJECT

The implementing agencies are proposing to procure materials, some agncultural inputs and services from
government agencies under the scope o fthe proposedproject. Below is the brief information about the
procurements inthis nature:

1.Forestry Seedlings:
Under the scope o f project; forestry seedlings (i.e. pine, cedar, acacia, fur) shall be plantedunder the
supervision o f General Directorate o f Forestation (AGM) ineach year for a period o f 7 years in5
provinces. The total quantity o f the seedlings to be used will be about 22 million.

The forestry seedlings are available inthe market for very small quantities where maximum few thousands
of seedlings are available at once, but with a questionable quality (mostly contaminated with diseases).
However, significant amounts o f disease free seedlings can only be supplied by the Forestw Nurseries that
are specialized in seedling production. These nurseries are operating under Provincial Directorates o f the
Ministry o f Forestry and they are the only available and reliable source o f supply.

2. FruitBearing Forest Seedlings:
Under the scope of project; fruit bearing forest seedlings (i.e almond, walnut, wild cherry) shall be planted
bythe General Directorate o fForestation (AGM) ineachyear for a periodo f 7 years in5 provinces. The
total quantity o f the seedlings to be used will be about 200,000.

The fruit bearing forest seedlings are available inthe market for very small quantities where maximum few
thousands o f seedlings are available at once, butwith a questionable quality (mostly contaminated with
diseases). Or, the requiredtype and/or species may not be available at all inthe market. However,
significant amounts o f disease free seedlings can only be supplied by the Forestry Nurseries that are
specialized in seedling production. These nurseries are operating under Provincial Directorates o f the
Ministry o f Forestry and they are the only available and reliable source o f supply.

3. FruitTree Seedlings:
Under the scope o fproject; fruit tree seedlings shall be provided to the farmers ineach year during a period
o f 7 years in6 provinces.

These seedlings are generally available inthe market but insmall quantities where maximumfew hundreds
seedlings can be available at once. First, Ministry o f Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA) will try to
procure the needs from the local market through National Shopping andLocal Competitive Bidding
procedures. Ifthe required amount andtypeharieties o f seedlings can not be procured from the market,
then remaining needwill be supplied by the Amicultural Seedling Production Directorates, whose primary
responsibility is production o f good quality, disease free seedlings, under Provincial Directorates o f the
Ministryo fAgriculture. This seemsto bethe main source o favailable andreliable supply.

4. Forest Tree Seeds:
Under the scope o fproject; forest tree seeds shall be planted under the supervision o f General Directorate
o f Forestation (AGM) ineach year during a period of 7 years in5 provinces. The total quantity o fthe
seedlings to be used will be about 100tones.




                                                      - 98 -

These seeds are generally available inthe market for small quantities where maximum few hundreds kilos
o f seeds can be available at once. First, General Directorate o f Forestation (AGM) will try to procure the
needs from the local market through National Shopping and Local Competitive Biddingprocedures. Ifthe
required typeivariety o f seeds can not be procured from the market, then remainingneed will be supplied by
the Forestrv Nurseries under ProvincialDirectorates o f the Ministryo f Forestry. This seems to be the main
source o f available andreliable supply.

Onthe other hand, sufficient amount o f seeds, sometimes, may not be available inthe Forestry Nurseries.
Insuch cases, villagers or workers will be hiredto collect the seeds from forest lands.

5. Agricultural Seeds:
Under the scope o f project; agricultural seeds shall be provided to the farmers ineach year during a period
o f 7 years in6 provinces.

These seeds are generally available inthe market for small quantities where maximum few hundreds kilos
o f seeds can be available at once. First, Ministryo f Agriculture and Rural Affairs (MARA)will try to
procure the needs from the local market through National Shopping andLocal Competitive Bidding
procedures. Ifthe required typeipattems o f seeds can not be procured from the market, then remaining need
will be supplied bythe Agricultural Production Directorates located under each Provincial Directorate o f
the Ministry o f Agriculture. This seems to be the main source o f available andreliable supply.

6. Bee Hives:
Under the scope o f project; bee hives shall be made available for villagers ineach year during a period o f 7
years in5 provinces. The total quantity o fthe beehives to be used will be about 360 units, where 1unit
contains 15 hives.

These bee hives are generally available inthe market for small quantities where few units can be available
at once. First, Ministryo f Agnculture andRural Affairs (MARA)will try to procure the needs from the
market through National Shopping and Local Competitive Biddingprocedures. Ifthe required amount and
type or race o fbees can not be procured from the market, then the remaining need will be supplied by
Production Stations located insome regions under the Ministryo f Agnculture. This seems to be the main
source o f available andreliable supply.

7. Digitized1/25000Scale Maps:
The digitizedmaps for the selected micro-catchments will be required to prepare implementation plans for
the micro-catchments. These maps have to be procured inthe early stages o f the project, lets say inthe first
three years. This type o f 1i25000 scale maps are available only at the General Headauarters o f
Cartography. This is the only source o f digitizedmaps inTurkey.

The total estimated cost o f digitized maps is about US$ 50,000

ConclusionandRecommendation:
Based on the above given reasons andjustifications, the Bank (OPCPR) agrees, on an exceptional basis,
with the procurement o fabove listed agricultural inputsand services from government agencies under the
scope o f the project, ifandwhen they can not be procured from private sources inlocal market. The above
underlined agencies are the Government agencies and they are not eligible accorhng to paragraph 1.8 (c) o f
the Bank's Procurement Guidelines. More specifically, they are not legally and financially autonomous;
they do not operate under commercial law; they are the dependent agencies o f the Borrower or the
Sub-Borrower i.e. implementingMinistries. However, because o f specific nature o f the project and when


                                                      - 99 -

there i s no private sector alternatives for these agncultural inputs and services, the Bank (OPCPR) agrees
the direct procurement from govemment agencies for the concerned agncultural inputs.

There are several reasons why I C B is not an appropriate method for supplyinginputs (seeds and seedlings)
for agricultural and forestry interventions and why govemment agencies have to be used as suppliers in
addition to the private sector companies. The reasons are given below under 3 categories: i)forest seedlings
for afforestation and erosion control activities on the state land, ii)fruit tree seedlings for agricultural
activities on the farmers' land, andiii)seeds for agricultural activities on the farmers' land.

A. Forest seedlings for afforestation and erosion control activities on the state land
These seedling can only be provided from the Nurseries under the Ministryo f Forestry.

    Turkey wants to conserve its biodiversity. Turkey has a very rich biodiversity andhomes a number o f
    endemic (means only grown inTurkey) species. The country is making serious effort to conserve this
    richness and wants to use its own species inforestry activities instead o f bringingnew and foreign
    species from outside.

    Genetic oollution is not desired. Turkey is also rich in genetic diversity and committed to protect this.
    Infact, successfully implemented a GEFproject (which was the first one inthe world at this size) to
    conserve this diversity in-situ. Bringingseedlings even for the same species means new genetic material
    that results ingenetic pollution that is not desired at all.

    Origin o f the seedling material is extremely important. Research indicates that success o f the
    plantations depends on several factors that include the origin o f the material and the quality o f the
    seedlings. Therefore, 125 nurseries were established inTurkey by the General Directorate o f
    Afforestation and Erosion Control under Ministryo f Forestry to improve the success o f the plantations.
    Eachnursery serves an area o f 200 km diameter and 100-150 m elevation range between location of
    planting and the nursery. For each planting are, the field staff inform the appropriate nurseries about
    the seedling needs a season inadvance. Nurseries collect seeds from the selected species from their
    service area, produce the seedlings, make them ready for the planting seasonand wait for the request
    for the transportation date. Supplying seedlings from one region to another region even inTurkey cause
    failures inplantations due to inappropriate origin.

    Buyinginbulk is not appropriate. There will be 6 provinces inthe Project anda total o f about 28
    micro-catchments (MCs) will be included where forestry activities will be conducted. M C s that are
    scattered ina province have their unique features interms of climate, soil, and topography that dictate
    the plantingtime. Duringspring and fall, ina M C when soil is inappropriate condition, terraces are
    made andas soon as favorable conditions occur, seedlings are planted. Incase o f delays due to a
    variety o f reasons i.e. late amval o f seedlings, problems inproviding labor, there is a substantial risk
    o f losing soil moisture. Inthis case, another rainy season has to be waited. While inMC A, the soil
    moisture is suitable for planting inMarch, inM C B, condhons occur only inApril. This could happen
    within the same province. Onthe other hand, provinces also differ widely interms o fecological
    conditions where planting times show great variation. Planting time is site-specific and seedlings are
    made ready for planting according to these local conditions. Therefore, buyinginbulk (millions) and
    making them survive untilthe right conditions occur for plantingis not possible. When the Nurseries
    are informed about the exact planting dates by the field people, seedlings are transferred to the MCs.
    The seedling reach to the planting area within 1-2 days following the request.

    Completion planting is needed inthe following years. Despite all the efforts, survival rates for the


                                                      - 100-

    planted seedlings are not 100%. There are factors beyondthe control o f the project staff that effects the
     survival rate: conditions inthe MCs are harsh mainly due to the elevation; quality is not perfect for
    every single seedling, imperfect operation always occur inmanual planting and inthat seasonweather
    conditions could be unfavorable, mainly drought hits the plantation. Therefore, after the first planting
    year, dead seedlings need to be replaced with new ones. Same genetic material needs to be supplied
    timely for this operation.

    Private sector inTurkev is not developed enough to seedlings for forestry activities. There are number
     o fprivate nurseries inTurkey selling forest species but as omamental plants for parks and gardens.
    They do not have the infrastructure to supply the species indemand timely, with the right origin, and in
     large quantities.

B.        FruitTree Seedlings for AgriculturalActivities
Depending on the scale o fthe need, availability, quality, and timeliness o f the delivery, procurement can be
done from: i)nurseries under Ministry o f Agriculture andRural Affairs (MARA), ii)agricultural research
institutes (MARA), iii)TIGEM; a state economic enterprise that produces seedlings for h i t tree species
and multiplies seeds for farmers mainly for some field crops that are not usually supplied by the private
sectors due to low profitability; and iv) private companies.

     Buyinpinbulk is not appropriate. There willbe 6 provinces inthe Project and a total o fabout 28
     micro-catchments (MCs) will be included where agricultural activities will be conducted. This is a
     participatory project where the decisions for the private land are made by individuals living inthe MCs.
     Duringspringand fall, ina M C when soil is inappropriate condition and weather temperatures are
     favorable, farmer arranges his labor, prepares his landand plants the seedlings. For fruit trees,
     temperatures have particularly important, early and late frosts need to be taken into consideration. All
     these characteristics show great variation with elevation and topography. As mentionedabove, MCs
     that are scattered ina province have their unique features interms o f climate, soil, and topography that
     dictate the plantingtime. Inother words, plantingtime is site-specific andseedlings need to be made
     ready for plantingaccording to these local conditions. Buyinginvery large quantities andkeeping them
     untilthe rightconditions occur for planting is not possible. Government nurseries andor privatesector
     are informed about the exact planting dates by the local agncultural people and seedlings are
     transferred to the MCs ina short period o f time and delivered to the farmers. It should be notedthat, in
     this participatory project, relationships depend on the trust.

     Private sector nurseries inTurkev is not developed enough to provide good quality, disease free
     seedlings. There is number o f small private nurseries inTurkey providing h i t tree seedlings but these
     are not certified. It means one should depend on the verbal guarantee o f the seller, since it is not always
     possible to detect diseases andidentify varieties visually. Inmany cases, hundreds o f seedlings that
     were planted turned out to be diseased, a mixture o f different varieties, different ages andthe result was
     a total failure. Insuch cases the cost o f this failure is very high, farmers lose their confidence inthe
     project staff.

     Private sector nurseries inTurkey do not have the infrastructure to supply good auality, disease free
     seedlings inbulk. Insome cases, the private nurseries are trustworthy but they do not have the
     infrastructure to provide the demanded species and varieties inbulk.Insuch cases, whatever is
     available is procured from these nurseries andthe remainingneeds are supplied by the government
     nurseries.




                                                        -101  -

C.       Procurementof Seeds for Agricultural Activities
Dependingon the scale o f the demand, availability, quality, andtimeliness o f the delivery, procurement has
to be done from: i)agricultural research institutes under MARA, iii)TIGEM; a state economic enterprise
that produces seedlings for fruit tree species andmultiplies seeds for farmers mainly for wheat, barley,
forage crops and pulses that are not usually supplied by the private sectors due to low profitability; and iv)
private companies.

    Varieties that are adapted to local conditions have to be used. Inmost o f the MCs, agricultural
    production is made under rainfedcondtions since irrigation is very limited. This means cereals (wheat
    and barley); pulses (lentil and chickpea) and forage crops (vetch, sainfoin) are the major crops for these
    conditions. Turkish agricultural research institutes developed a number of varieties for these crops that
    are adapted to local conditions (elevation, climate, soil and local quality preferences). Infact, Turkey is
    the gene center for these crops. Therefore, the varieties developed by the agricultural research system
    need to be supplied to the M C farmers and these are produced by the government agencies.

    Private seed sector has limitedinterest incereals. forage crops andpulses. Private sector inTurkey is
    the major actor invegetable, maize, soybean, and sunflower hybridseed (every year new seed needs to
    be purchased) production. These are mostly the distributors o f the international big companies.
     However, the interest by these companies for wheat, barley, forage crops and legumes is very limited.
     Since these are produced with standardconventional seeds (same seed could be used for about 5 years),
     the profitability is comparatively very low. Therefore, for these crops, the main seed supplier i s the
     government. However, ifthe companies can provide certified seed inthe amount requested, seed
    purchase is also made from them. For project purposes, the seeds for vegetables, maize and sunflower
     are mostly purchased from the private sector companies.




                                                    - 102-

     Additional Annex 16: Identificationand SelectionCriteria for Microcatchments
               TURKEY: ANATOLIAWATERSHED REHABILITATION PROJECT

This Annex describes the process used in selecting microcatchment areas for intervention. This process,
which involves three levels o f selection at the level o f the watershed, the province, andthe microcatchment,
has been well developed and successfully implemented inthe course o f the Eastern Anatolia Watershed
project.

(a)     Selection of watershedforproject funding: The main criterion is whether or not the river can be
classified as an international waterway. Ifso classified, it can not be included inthe project. Inthe event
that a watershed is not classified as an international waterway, then selection would be on the basis o f
severity o f natural resource degradation. The proximity o f a watershed to an area that had already
benefited from microcatchment rehabilitation would be taken into account to achieve a broader impact.

(b)     Selectionof Province: The maincriterion is location inrelationto untreated pockets o f
degradationwithin a watershed. The watershed could be either one that has already benefited from
microcatchment rehabilitation, or an unimproved watershedwhere the objective would be to capture the
synergies from dealing with several sub-catchments. The overall objective would be to avoid rehabilitation
works being too widely scattered over the country leading to excessive unit costs andreduced impact. In
addition, the capacity o f the implementingagencies at the field level would be taken into account in
selecting a Province. All agencies should be sufficiently staffed to carry out the planning and
implementation simultaneously inseveral microcatchments.

(c)      Selection of Microcatchments: The criteria used for the selection of microcatchments are as
follows:

        0     Severity or magnitude o f naturalresource degradation: has to be rated as severe, a cause o f
              poverty and already subject to flooding and landslides;
        0     Size o f microcatchment: 5,000 to 10,000 hectares;
        0     Location: adjacent to another microcatchment either one that has already benefited from
              microcatchment rehabilitation, or an unimproved microcatchment where the objective would be
              to capture the synergies from dealing with several microcatchments. The overall objective
              would be to avoid rehabilitation works being too widely scattered over a watershed leading to
              excessive unit costs and reduced impact.
        0     Accessibility o f microcatchment: adequate degree of access for contractorsltransporters;
        0     Level o f rural poverty: as demonstratedby rural out-migration andmeasured through
              estimated annual incomes;
        0     Riskofnatural disaster through flood and/or landslides: risk to be ratedhigh;
        0     Possibility o f reversing the natural resource degradation ina sustainable and economic way:
              investments should lead to sustainable rehabilitation o f degraded natural resources;
        0     Willingness o f microcatchment community to participate inthe project: prepared to make
              in-kindand/or cash contributions andtake responsibility for specific activities (e.g. rangeland
              management, conservation o f new plantations and use o f irrigation water); and
        0     Level o fpotential for introducing income raising activities: sufficient agricultural resource base
              to be used as leverage for better natural resource management.




                                                       -103-

MAP SECTIOK

