f ,,    <-v-6   -  -g--, 1
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12304-GUA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 24, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12304 GUA
Type: SAR
Department III
Infrastructure Operations Division
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a resticted ditibuton and may be used by repients o Aly in the performance of
their officiil dutes. Its contents may ot otherise be dbilosed wthout Wold Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Guyana Dollar (G$)
Official Exchange Rate Effective June 1, 1993
US$1.00 = G$125.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 Imperial Gallon (1G) = 1.20095 US gallon3
I Imperial Gallon (IG) = 0.00455 cubic meters
Million Imperial Gallons per day= MIGD
I MIGD = 0.0526 cubic meters/sec
1 foot (ft) = 0.3048 meters
1 mile = 1.6129 kilometers
1 acre = 0.4048 hectare
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIAOIINS AND ACRONYMS
CDB                Caribbean Development Bank
ERP                Economic Recovery Program
EC                 European Community
GS&WC              Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commissioners
GOG                Government of Guyana
GUYWA              Guyana Water Authority
EIRD               Human Resources Development
iDA                International Development Association
IDB                Inter-American Development Bank
MPWCRD             Ministry of Public Works, Communications and
Regional Development
ODA                Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
O&M                Operations and Maintenance
PMU                Project Management Unit
PPF                Project Preparation Facility
RDC                Regional Democratic Council
RWD                Regional Water Divisions
SIMAP              Social Impact Amelioration Program
UFW                Unaccounted-for Water
FISCAL YEAR
Januarj 1 - December 31



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
GUYANA
WATER SUPPY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDITANDPROJECTSUDMMARY ............................  ii
I.   TE   .SECTOR  .......................                           ................  I
A. CountrySetting ...................................... 1
B. Water Resources ...................................... 2
C. Sector Overview  ...................................... 3
D. Sector Investment Levels .................................. 6
E. Potential Private Sector Role  ...........              ..................  6
F. Financial Issues ...................................... 7
G. Previous Bank Group Ecperience .........                ................... 8
H. Sector Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement  ................ 9
H. TYJ, PROJECT, COSTS AND FINANCING .........................  9
A. Project Origin and Preparation  ............................. 9
B. Project Objecives .          ...................................  10
C. Project Scope and Complementarity  .........................  11
D. Project Description  ..................................   11
E. Cost Estimates ................................... 13
F. Financing Plan ................................... 14
m. THE BORROWER AND EXECUTING AGENCY .................... 16
A. Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development ...  16
B. Guyana Water Authority................................. 16
C. Proposed Reornization of the Water Sector  ...................  17
D. Financial Performance and Prospects  ........................  19
IV. PROJECT  MPLEMENTATION ........................                                     ...  25
A. Institutional Amngements ....................                                        25
B. Implementation Schedule ....................  27
C. Procurement .................... 27
This report is based on findings of an appraisal mission which visited Gu.vans in June 1993. The mission was composed of
Messrs. Roy Ramani, Task Manager and Engineer, Emmanuel Njomo, Fimacial Economnist, Rick Arbour (O&M
Consukant) and David Horsefield (Rehabiltation Specialist). Peer review was provided by Mr. Bernardo Gomez, Financial
Analyst. The rport was prepared under the supervision of Messrs. Peter Ludwig, Divi ion Chief, and Yoshiaki Abe,
Director. Mmes. Helna Issa, Silvia Delgado, Yvonne Escobedo, Mr. Alberto Zegap and Mr. Daniel Acha-Morfaw
assisted in the production of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be useu by re. ipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disc nse! vithout World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd)                                                          Page No.
D. lDisbursement ...................................... 30
E. Accounting and Auditing .       ...............................  31
P. Progress Reporting and Monitoring  ......................... 31
V. PROJECTJUSTIFICATIONAND RISKS  ...........                      ..............  32
A. ProjectJustcation  .         ..................................  32
B. Project Risks and Safeguards  .............................  34
VI. AGREEM1ENTS REACHED AND RECOMMEN'DATION ...............  35
VII. ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Description of Existing Water and Sewerage Facilities ....        ......  37
Annex 2:  Operation and Maienance Issues in the Water Sector ....            ...... 42
Annex 3:  Human Resources Development Issues in the Water ............ 48
Annex 4:  Summary of Key Legislative Provisions in Water Sector and Water
Resouces Management.  ............................ 53
Annex 5:  National Rehabilittion Strategy for Water Facilities  ....        ....... 60
Annex 6:  Detailed Project Costs .............................. 71
Annex 7:  Esimated Project Investments by Year .................... 72
Annex 8:  Detailed Financing Plan ............................. 73
Annex 9:  Details of Proposed Reorganization of the Water Sector ....         ..... 74
Annex 10: Financial Aspects of the Executive Agency ................. 80
Annex 11: Cumulaive Progress Completion Schedule .....              ...........    102
Annex 12: Thresholds on Types of Procurement & IDA's
Mandatory Prior-Review   ......................... 103
Annex 13: Procurement Schedule for Major Contcts ................ 104
Annex 14: Credit Disbursement Schedule ........................ 106
Annex 15: Operational and Monitoring Indicators ................... 107
Annex 16: Economic Analysis  .............................. 111
Annex 17: List of Documents in Project File  ..................... 113
Vm. CHARTS
Chart 1: Existing Oranizational Structure of GUYWA  ............... 115
Chart 2: Proposed Restnicturing of Water Sector Institutions ..........        ..  116
Chart 3: Proposed Financial Department (GUYWA) Reorgation   ........  117
Chart 4: Proposed Water Services Department (GUYWA)  ....              .........   118
Chart 5: Implementation Bar Chart  ........................... 119
MAP:
IBRD 25126



- iii -
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECINICAL ASSISTANCE
AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMAIRY
Borrower:         The Republic of Guyana
Executing Agency: Guyana Water Authority (GUYWA)
Credit Amount:   SDR12.5 million (US$17.5 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard IDA Terms, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing:      ODA (U.K.) and CDI
Project Objectives: The overall objectives of the project are to improve the quality and
reliability of potable water in selected regions in Guyana and enhance the
efficiency of water sector institutions. The proposed project, together
with other donor-financed projects in the sector, would: (i) initiate the
process of upgrading water supply facilities; (ii) establish appropriate
procedures and methods for ensuring proper system operation and
mantenance (O&M) and promote the involvement of the private sector in
water operations; (iii) enhance sector technical, financial and managerial
skills through trnng; and (iv) rationalize sector orgaation and
strengthen sector finances by instituting tariff reforms and improving cost
recovery.
Project Description The project consists of the following key concepts:  (i) Facilities
Rehabilitation, comprising some 45 major and 100 minor upgrading
schemes nationwide, and improvements to New Amsterdam distribution
systems; (ii) O&M Improvements, supporting a systemwide preventive
maiance program, standaon of electro-mechanical equipment
and contracting out of certain support activities to private sector on a pilot
basis; (iii) Human Resources Development, enhancing manpower skills in
the water sector; (iv) Institutional Strengthening of GUYWA, improving
the capabilities of GUYWA in management, financial and technical areas;
(v) Project Management and Evaluation, emphasizing the establishment of
a Project Management Unit; and (vi) Future Projects Preparation.



- iv -
Complementaiy sanitaton facilities will continue to be provided under
ongoing S"AP, UNICEF AND PAHO projects.
Benefits:         The project will improve the health and well-being of the general populace
of Guyana by reducing the risk of gastro-enteritis diseases normally
associated with the ingestion of water from contaminated sources and also
stemming from poor sanitation. Economic benefits under the proposed
project relte to the increased quantity and quality of water supply to
about 55% of the population and attendant health and human productivity
benefits. The various technical assistance and training programns wil lead
to improvements in administative efficiency, fiscal discipline and cost
recovery in the water sector. The project will particularly benefit women
and children (who traditionally cany water from long distant sources) by
improving their access to potable water and poor households who are
forced to buy water at high prices from vendors during service
interruptions (which are quite frequent).
Risks and         The proposed project is not expected to face any unusual risks. Like all
Safeguards:       operations in Guyana, the major risk is the shortage of qualified GUYWA
personnel to implement the project in a satisfactory manner. This risk
will be mitigated through the recmuitment of consultants and the
establishment of a systematic training program to mobilize qualified
personnel to operate and maintain facilities nationwide. The proposed
creation of a special Project Management Unit, assisted by expatriate
procurement and constrtction supervision specialists, will also serve to
minimize project implementation risks. A second risk is the possible
reluctance of the Government to approve, in a timely manner, the
requisite high tariff increases that will be needed to ensure the operational
effectiveness and financial viability of GUYWA. The project has been
designed to reduce this risk through phasing of tariff increases over a 5-
year period linked to GUYWA's operative efficiency. A third risk is the
possible resistance of customers to pay the increased tariffs due to the
widespread perception that water is a free good and in light of previous
poor and unreliable service. This risk will be mitigated through the
launching of intensive public awareness regarding the benefits of a safe
and efficient potable water supply on a sustainable basis. Also the
Govenmment has approved the requisite tariff increases for 1994-95.
Poverty Category: Not Applicable (See para 5.4 for genetal poverty impact)



Table 1: ESTIMATED COSTS
(US$ Million)
Component                          Loca    i      Feign      |     TO
A. Facilties Rehabilitation                             5.64           10.46           16.10
B. Operation & Maintenance                              0.75             .40            25
C. Human Resources Development                          0.49            1.16            1.65
D. nstitutional Strengthening                           1.18            2.40            3.58
E. Project Managamen, & Evaluation                      0.33            0.37            0.70
F. future Projets Preparation                           0.06            0.19            0.25
Sub-Total                                             8.45           15.98           24.43
PPF Refinancing                                      0.37             1.11           1.48
Base Cost (niid-93 prices)                           8.82            17.09           25.91
Physical Contingencies                             1.00            2.27            3.13
Price Contingencies                                1.24            2.68            3.92
Total Cost (Net of Taxes)                            11.06           22.04           33.00
Table 11: FINANCING PLAN
-______ _ -(US$ Million)          _
I                ~~~~~~Sources                                     
Local      Foreign     Total    % Cost
Sharing
IDA                                                      5.99        11.61      17.50     53.00
ODA (Overseas Development Admin.JU.K.)                     -          6.00       6.00     18.00
CDB (Caribbean Development Bank)                         2.07         4.43       6.50     19.60
Government                                               3.00          -         3.00     9.20
Total Financing Available                                11.56       22.04      33.00    100.00
Table III: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENtS
i____________   -_______   __________            US$    M illion       .     -
IDA FY             94         95          96          97         98    |   99         2000
Annual            1.8 a/      2.0         3.4        3.4         3.2        2.8        0.8
Cumulative        1.8         3.8          7.3       10.7       13.9   j   16.7       17.5
a/ Includes Repayment of PPF Advance and initial deposit to Special Account.
Rate of Return:        ERR - 20%



GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY AND TECHNCAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE SECTOR
A. Country Setting
1.1        Guyana, with an area of 83,000 square miles and an estimated curre1es population
of about 800,000 (1991) is located on the northeast coast of South America and bordered by
Venezuela, Brazil, and Surame. The policies pursued by the Government of Guyana in the
1970s and 1980s were characterized as cooperative socialism. They entailed nationalization of
foreign-owned enteiprises and expansion of the role of the pubL;c sector in the economy.
Worsening economic conditions after 1975 following the decline in the production and prices of
Guyana's main exports and widening public sector deficits, resulted in Guyana not being able
to service its foreign debts. Attempted reforms in the mid-1980s were not sufficient to deal with
the problems, leading to the curtailment of public investment and thereby exacerbating the
cumulive decline of the country's basic infrastructure.
1.2         Since 1988, Guyana has been implementing a medium-term Economic Recovery
Program (ERP) aimed at addressing serious domestic and external imbalances in the economy
and establishing the basis for renewed economic growth. The ERP has been supported by an
AIF standby arrangement and an IDA structural Adjustment Credit in June 1990 as well as by
similar assistance from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the Caribbean
Development Bank (CDB), and bilateral donors. Under the ERP, Guyana has undertaken far-
reaching adjustment measures and structual reforms, resuldng in a fundamental shift in
economic policies towards a market-oriented economy. However, external indebtedness,
estimated at $1.85 billion, remains high. Even though some debt obligations have been
cancelled and the entire stock of commercial debt has been reired, Guyana's debt service burden
continues to place a major constraint on the Government's ability to address the large social and
infrastructural needs. The Government has made a major effort to undertake a social program
(SIMAP or Social Impact Amelioration Program) to address the problem of the social cost of
adjustment which is being financed by several donors including IDA.
1.3        Administrative Set-up. Guyana's constitution sets out the legal framework within
which the main organs of Government-the Parl51ment, the Presidency, the Cabinet, the (10)
Ministries, and the Departments and the Regional Administrations--operate. Under the Local
Democratic Organs Act of 1980, steps were taken to decentralize the governmental structure;
10 Regions were created, each with a Regional Democratic Council headed by a Regional
Executive Officer. Subregional units subsequently cred include 6 town municipalities, 19
district councils, 33 vilage district councils and 75 Amerindian councils. The set-up was
established to enable the Ministies to limit themselves broadly to strategic planning, policy
control, provision of technical advice, overall monitoring and construction of some
infrastructure. The delivery of services such as primary and secondary education, health



- 2 -
services, agriculture extension services, and the operation and maintenance of roads, river and
sea defenses, irrigation and water facilities, are supposed to be the responsibility of the Regional
Administrations, even though the current government is actually pursuing the recentralization
of some of the above sectors (roads, for exaunple) for reasons of efficiency and economy.
1.4         Urban and Rural Development Patterns. Most of the population of Guyana
(about 90%) live along the narrow coastal strip (Regions 2 through 6). The current urban
population is estimated to be in excess of 35 % of the total population. The key urban centers
and other concentrated settlements with their current estimated population are:  Greater
Georgetown Capital area (210,000), Contiguous Suburban Area of Region 4 (60,000); New
Amsterdam (Region 6; 20,000), Linden/Wismar (Region 10; 30.000), Corriverton (Region 6;
22,000), Anna Regina (Region 2; 12,000), and Rosehall (Region 6; 15,000). The urban
infrastructure and services in these areas have deteriorated over the past several years because
of insufficient funding and maintenance. Even though Guyana's population slightly declined
between 1980 and 1990, this trend is expected to be reversed in the future due to the
Government's new economic policies.
1.5         Poverty. There is no reliable way to estimate the extent of poverty in Guyana
due to the dearth of reliable statistical data on household income levels, employment and
unemployment rates, or other social conditions. Nevertheless, poverty remains pervasive, with
at least 35 to 40X- of population below the poverty line according to rough estimates. The
absence of even the most basic socio-economic data makes it difficult to design social programs
which effectively targets the poor. The SMAP agency is trying to overcome this through
targeting their assistance to groups generaly considered vulnerable, specifically women and
young children and the unemployed. The proposed water project, will have a significant impact
on the urban and rural poor alike, given its national scope and through complimentarity with the
SIMAP project (para 2.5). Access of the poor population to potable water under the proposed
project would be improved through the adoption of a baseline tariff, prior to the planned 1996
tariff increases (para 3.14).
1.6         Health. Until the early 1980s, Guyana's health indicators comnared favorably
with those of other countries in the region. Economic decline has been accompanied by a
deterioration in the provision of health services. As a result, the crude death rate increased from
5.3 per 1,000 in 1988 to 7.1 per 1,000 in 1989 before declining to 6.2 per 1,000 in 1991; the
infant mortality rate increased from 44.5 per 1,000 in 1984 to 49.0 per 1,000 in 1986; and the
mortality rate of children one to four years of age increased from 3.4 per 1,000 in 1984 to 4.4
per 1,000 in 1986. Between 1979 and 1990, the maternal mortality rate increased from 0.4 to
1.4 per 1,000 live births, a 250 percent increase. There has also been a nationwide increase in
the incidence of waterorne diseases between 1989 to 1990 such as typhoid (16%), hepatitis
(62%), and amebiasis (350%).
B.  Water Resources
1.7         General. The word "Guyana" or its original Amerindian version "Guiana" means
"land of many waters". Guyana's rainfall is about 60 to 140 inches per year. Despite high
evaporation levels, it is able to support four large river systems (the Corentyne River, the



- 3 -
Berbice River, the Demerara River and the Essequibo River) as well as numerous small rivers.
There has been no in-depth assessment of the groundwater aquifers of Guyana. Available
hydrogeological information indicates that the coastal plain is underlain by water bearing
formations in three depth zones as follows: the "Uppere sand, the "A" sand (typically between
500 and 800 feet) and the "B" sand (below 800 feet), with no apparent hydraulic connection
between them. The "Upper" sand is known to be brackish on the coast and thus only the "A"
and "B" sands have beein exploited to date.
1.8         Water demand is for irrigation purposes, domestic consumption, commercial and
industrial use. Irrigation has the highest demand, primarily for rice and sugar cultivation.
Irrigation water is obtained from shallow but extensive reservoirs known as conservancies.
Groundwater is extensively exploited for domestic and industrial supply. Practically all the
potable water to the coastal population and about 50 percent of the Georgetown supply are
provided fro.n the "A" and "B" sands aquifers. The recharge conditions of these aquifers are not
known. However, the falling artesian pressure in these aquifers, particularly the "B" sand calls
into question the reliability of these aquifers for long term supply. Even though the "Upper"
sand aquifer has an enormous recharge potential, it is brackish in most areas. If, however,
exploited carefully, it could result in savings in both drilling and pumping costs. Except for the
relatively high iron content (about 1.5 to 2.5 parts per million for "A Sand" and considerably
less for "B" Sand), the quality of groundwater is good. The depth of extraction makes it safe
from surface pollution. However, contamination from the distribution system has been evident
in several cases.
1.9         Despite the existence of numerous river systems (Demerara, Berbice and
Essequibo rivers, for example), most surface water sources are not suitable for potable water
supply due to the need for complex chemical treatment and in many cases the surface waters are
organically polluted (humic and fulvic acids) by vegetation and untreated discharges. In
addition, salt water intrusion problems during dry weather have also been experienced. The only
major surface water scheme is the abstraction from the Lamaha Canal (part of the East Demerara
Conservancy) which provides 50 percent of the Georgetown potable water supply needs. Three
small river intake and treatment schemes are also in use in the bauxite area of Linden/Wismar
(Region 10) as are two similar schemes in Bartica (Region 7).
C. Sector Overview
1.10        Service Levels.  Guyana has traditionally had high access to potable water
services. It is estimated that nearly 95% of the urban population (representing about 32% of the
total population) and 93% of the rural population (68% of the total) have access to potable water
through house connections and standpipes. The only public sewerage system, namely, the
Georgetown sewerage collection system serves a limited area of about 7,500 connections
containing a population of about 50,000. Wastewater sanitation facilities, mostly septic tanks,
pit privies, etc., are used by about 90% of the urban population and 80% of the rural
population. Despite the high coverage, the water service levels in Guyana suffer from grave
deficiencies with most of the pumping stations and a significant portion of the distribution
network in incipient or actual failure. Water pressure is very low and the supply of water is



-4 -
extremely unreliable. Preventive maintemnce is non-existent and there is chronic shortage of
spare parts and supplies. The water losses remain high (about 50%, to be verified under the
proposed project). This situation, arising from a gross neglect of operation and maintenance
(O & M) over the past two decades, will be addressed through a systematic program of repair,
refubishment and replacement of the water systems as part of the proposed project. (See Annex
2 for a description of the O&M problems in the sector).
1.11        Sector Organization.  The current legislative framework establishing the
institutions in the water sector in Guyana has evolved in an ad hoc fashion over the years. As
a result many institutions were established, some with overlapping or potentially conflicting roles
and responsibilities. The Guyana Water Authority (GUa'WA) is currently the central water
agency in charge of sector planing and control. GUYWA is under the policy direction of the
Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development (MPWCRD). The
responsibility for waste water sanitation lies with the Minstry of Health. Prior to 1984,
GUYWA was esponsible for operating and maintaining potable water facilities in the regions.
GUYWA's opemtional responsibility was later delegated to the Regional Democratic Councils
(RDCs) under the Local Democratic Organs Act. This mandate was strengthened by the
Delegation of Functions Order of 1991 which was intended to clarify the respective roles of
GUYWA and the Regional Water Divisions (RWDs) operated by the RDCs. It delegated to the
regions the responsibility for opemtion and maintenance of the water facilities (including about
150 well-pump stations serving a population of about 407,000 with an estimated 70,000
connections, mostly located in the coastal regions of 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6) within their respective
jurisdiction, except where such functions are currendy being provided by other agencies (see
following para). GUYWA was supposed to control and monitor the activities of the regions and
provide consulting and contracting services for well drilling, while the regions in tumn were to
operate and maintain the systems and collect water tarffs. Unforunately, the above Order was
unclear about the legal ownership of the assets that were to be transferred. As a result,
GUYWA and the RDC's have been functioning to date along confused lines of responsibility and
accountability. The regionaization of the water operations has been unsuccessful todate due to
several political (improper allocation of funds), financial (inadequate budgetary provisions, low
tariff and poor cost recovery) and stafflng (lack of skilled personnel) problems. A key objective
of the proposed technical assistance and rehabilitation project is to strengthen GUYWA as a
national water agency and recentralize the regional water operations under GUYWA, to provide
more effective and efficient services to the consumers (Chapter  D).
1.12        In addition to the RDCs, the other operating entities in Guyana's water sector
include the following (see Annex 1 for details):
(a)   Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commissioners (GS&WC) System --that serves
an estimated population of 210,000 people in the capital city of Georgetown;
Estimated number of the water connections--33,300; sewer connections--7,500;
(b)   The New Amsterdam Town Council System--that serves an estimated population
of 30,000 people in the city of New Amsterdam; Estmated number of water
connections-4,000 (this system is temporarily being operaed under contract by
the private sector, financed under LOME M);



-  -
(c)   The Sugar Industry Labour Welfare Fund Committee (SILWFC) Systems--that
serve an esumated 70,000 people locatd on sugar estates in several regions
(principally Regions 3, 5 and 6); Estimated number of water connections-12,600;
(d)   The Linden Mining Enterprise (UNMNE) system--that serves an estimated
30,000 people in the bauxite area in Region 10; Eimat-d number of water
connections- 3,500.
1.13        Other institutions that are involved in the related aspects of the water sector and
water resources management are: (i) the hydro-meteorological service in the Ministry of
Agriculture, which monitors and assesses the quantity of Guyaa's surface water and ground
water resources and provides basic information for a variety of meteorological applications; (ii)
the Hydraulics Division, also in the Ministry of Agriculture, which advises the RDCs on matters
of sea defence, drainage, and irigation; and (iii) the Government Analyst laboratory at the
Ministry of Health, which monitors water quality. None of these agencits is fully capable of
carrying out its rspective mandate of managing these related areas of the water sector because
of lack of equipment or personnel. The coordinating roles of the above sector stitutions and
GUYWA for water sector planning will be initiated under the proposed rehabilitation project.
1.14        Sector Regulation. The regulary environment for the water sector is embodied
essentially in the GUYWA ACT of 1972 which empowers GUYWA to "control and regulate"
the collection, production, teatment, production distibuton and use of water, including the
supervision of surface water and ground waters in Guyana. In pmetice, GUYW A has not
adopted this sector-wide apprach to water resource man ent and has restricted its activities
to licensing borehole construction but not to regulating the quantity or quality abstacted. A
sudy of the reguatory requirements of the water sector was carried out under the prposed
water project with a view to establish GUYWA as the central regulatory agency. As regards
the approval of the rates of tariff charged the consumers, the Minister of MPWCRD as the
chairman of GUYWA's Board has the authority which is normally shared with the Cabinet. In
the past, political inteference has hampered the timely introduction of the requisite tariff
increases. Even though the current Goverment supports the need for the fnncial viability of
te water sector through direct cost recovery from the beneficiaries, pnce regulaton in the water
sector will benefit from an independent commercial approach involving the use of a different
mechanism (such as a public utilities commission). The latter will be the subject of a long-erm
privafization study under the proposed project.
1.15       Human Resource Constraints. As with other infastructure sectors in Guyana,
the development of the water supply sector has been considerably affected by the lack of
qualified human resources (Annex 3). In the past decade, the low wages associated with the
economic crisis in Guyana caused a massive emigration of qualified professionals to other
countries. The level of salaries still remains very low and it is therefore extremely difficult to
attact the necessary qualifed workers to fll the exisig vacancies in the sector. The total staff
turnover has been estimated at 20% in recent years. The siuatn has continued to deteriorate
as demonstated by the weakened managerial and technical abilites of GUYWA at present.
GUYWA's technical and operational capabilities will be strengthened under the proposed project
(see para 2.6).



- 6 -
D. Sector Investment Levels
1.16        Over the period of 1980 to 1990, Guyana received total extemal investment
funding of about US$8.5 million which compares poorly to the projected need of some US$21.5
million. The Govemment's contribution to investment during the above period is estimated at
US$2.5 million. Key donors in recent years include European Community (EC), Pan American
Health Organization (PAHO), the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the
United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF), and the Inter-American
Development Bank (IDB). EC has been the most active agency to date in both water and
sewerage sectors, under LOME I, II and m. Under LOME m, a new 2.0 MIGD (Imperial
million gallons per day) water treatment plant was constructed in New Amsterdam (Region 6).
In addition, GS&WC and GUYWA also have benefitted from the above program in terms of
sewerage equipment purchase and central workshop improvements, respectively. Water systems
in Linden and Wismar (Region 10) benefitted from CIDA's assistance during 1980-83. PAHO
has been providing, in addition to smal capital works, development and support of training
programs in the water and sewerage sectors as they pertain to public health. The assistance
from UNICEP includes the provision of community taps in rural areas, purchase of spare parts
for pumps and the provision of a suffac' water supply scheme for the town of Mahdia (Region
8). IDB has recently approved a loan tu carry out a remedial maintenance progrm (1993-97)
for Georgetown (total cost--US$15.0 million, approx.) which would also include management
assistance to GS&WC.
1.17       The Government's capital expenditures in the sector for the period 1990-92,
allocated through GUYWA's budget, amounted to about US$3.0 million, including external
sources. This is deplorably low compared to the actual capital needs. Similarly, the operational
expenditures for the regional water systems (about US$0.25 million for FY92), channelled
trugh a block grant to the RDCs, have been totally inadequate to meet the actual needs.
E. Potential Private Sector Role
1.18       Private sector participation in the operation of water faciiities has so far been
limited. (Some facilities are run by SILWFC and INMvINE which are parastatals although their
status might soon change). There are certain support services that could be performed by the
private sector on contractual basis. These activities (elaborated in Annex 2) might include: (i)
daily operation and maintenance of well pumping facilities; (ii) well drilling and rehabilitation
of distribution networks; (iii) hook-up services; (iv) leak dettection to reduce unaccounted-for
water; and (v) vehicle maintenance. In addition, other services such as motor rewinding, pump
overhaul, preventive maintenance, etc., can be undertaken on a needs basis or on the basis of
short-term contracts.
1.19       Private sector participation in the GUYWA's O&M programs offers opportunities
to leverage O&M resources by utilizing contractors with existing skldls and equipment. It is not
a panacea to maintenance problems in that the process must be managed, just as any other aspect
of maitenance. Contracts should be performance-based and an effective regulatory frame work



-7 -
is an important prerequisite. As part of GUYWA's O&M strategy, the potential of both long
and short term private sector participation will be evaluated under the proposed project. The
initiation, under the proposed budget, of a pilot contracting program in the operation of selected
pumping stations wil be undertaken as a first step toward involving the private sector in
GUYWA's operations.
F. Finandal Issues
1.20        Tariff Levels. As indicated in the table below, the tariff levels in the country are
too low to provide adequate cost recovery in the sector. This situation is further exacerbated
by the failure to adjust tariff levels in line with infaton and changes in the exchange rate, as
the value of the Guyana dollar depreciated over the last several years. There are at least seven
tariff regimes (ranging from flat rate charges to size of service connection charges and metered
charges) operating in the country, based on different charing principles. The financial situation
of GUYWA and GS&WC, the two main sector insWttions, is very poor. Arrears are high and
the financial statements of both institutions have not been externally audited since the mid-1980s.
The situation in the regions is worse, since no separate records exist of the expenditures of the
regional water divisions run by the RDCs. Water is provided to SILWFC members free-of-
charge. LINMINE customers are charged a nominal tariff without expectations that the revenue
collected will fully cover the cost of providing the services.
1.21        A tariff study financed under a Project Preparation Facility advance (PPF 766-
GUA; see para 2.2) has established a uniform tariff policy to be applied in all regions as well
as an appropnate tariff structure and has proposed tariff levels over the project penod.  As
input to the study, the regions updated their customer ledgers in April 1993. In addition,
GUYWA updated the water supply assets inventory in the regions. The IDB will finance a
paralel tariff review for the city of Georgetown, under its remedial program (para 1.16). The
World Bank and IDB have been coordinating closely the two studies to ensure a consistent tariff
policy strategy for the sector.
Georgetown              1100              metered           metered
New Amsterdam          200400              1,900            1,900+
Regionsi                 75              150 - 300            600
IINMINE                192-240             400        _
SILWFC                  0-66                --
E/ Rates in effect since 1972.
1.22        Billing and Colection. In Georgetown, metred customers are charged monthly
for water and payments are recorded on a Property Record Card (also known as customer
ledgers). Combined bills for local taxation and water charges are prepared annually and billings



- 8 -
take up to three months to be prepared. In New Amsterdam, the billing and collection system
is based on a manual card system. Customers are billed annually and payments can be made
in four equal installments. Disconnections are supposed to be made for non-payments, but the
actual disconnections are rare in practice. In the case of SILWFC, water is provided free of
charge to workers in the sugar estates while other SILWFC (i.e. non-members with property
adjoining sugar estates) customers pay only a nominal charge. Billing and collection problems
for SILWFC are thus insignificant. In the case of LINMINB, it is understood that there exists
resistance to pay the taiff charges that were instituted in 1988 which the company has been
trying to address through public awareness campaigns with limited success. In the case of
GUYWA, even though bills (for consulting and contracting services) are usually submitted
promptly after service, GUYWA's co}lection performance remains poor due primarily to the
Government's inability to provide adequate funding to the regions to pay for GUYWA's
services. The billing systems in the regions are only partially operational, with bills not being
prepared and delivered to customers. The billing and collection issues of Georgetown will be
addressed under the IDB project. Those of New Amsterdam will be covered under the
proposed. The problems of SILWFC and LINMINE (which are quasi-private agencies) are not
considered a priority given the higher magnitude of the regional biling and collection problems.
The latter will be addressed through a recentraization of the billing system which is being
supported under the proposed project.
1.23        Financial Strategy for Rehabilitation. A national rehabilitation strategy for the
regional water supply facilities has been developed under the PPF with GUYWA's assistance
(Annex 5). The estimated total rehabilitation costs would be about US$60-70 million for the
public regional water systems and US$30-35 million for the GS&WC system. The proposed
project would cover about 25% of the rebabilitation needs for the regional systems. It has been
recommended that the overall rehabilitation program for the water sector be implemented over
a 10 year period with external donor financing and improved mobilization of local resources.
The proposed project will support a cIcial portion of this statgy over the initial 5-year period.
Donor coordination in this regard will be critical in ensuring availability of funds and
maintaining consistency of the agreed rehabilitation policy.
G. Previous Bank Group Experience
1.24        IDA's portfolio of projects for GUYANA is very recent and remains small. The
proposed project is the first Bank Group operation in the water sector in Guyana. Nevertheless,
the project has been designed to benefit from recent Bank Group operations and studies in
Guyana. One of the issues identified under the Economic Recovery Program approved in June
1990 (and subsequently addressed by other bilateral and multilateral donors) was the advanced
state of deterioration of Guyana's infrastructure facilities and the need for urgent rehabilittion.
An Infrastructure Strategy Review undertaken by IDA during 1991-92 assessed the extent to
which the deteriorated state of the infastructure adversely affected the prospects for sustained
economic growth and the rapid expansion of the private sector. The Review also identified the
following additional constraints to infiastructure development: (i) weak institutional capacity;
(ii) lack of skilled manpower, (iii) requirement for a large investment beyond Guyana's resources
and absooive capacity; (iv) poor maintenance of facilities; and (v) inadequate cost recovery.



- 9 -
On March 25, 1993, DA provided $26 million (Credit 2477-GUA) equivalent for an
Infrstructure Rehabilitation project to support the rehabilitation of sea defenses and roads. The
proposed Water Supply Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation project addresses similar issues
in the water supply sector. The human resources development component Of the proposed
project is designed to benefit from the approach of the Public Adm tration Reform Project
(Credit 2480-GUA) approved on March 30, 1993, in addressing the issue of staff recruitment
and retention measures. Limited investnents in the water and sanitation sector--aimed at
improving the health of poor communities-are included under the ongoing IDA-funded SI!W"
(Social Impact Amelioration Program; Credit 2358-GUA). These SMAP investments are being
carried out in coordination with GUYWA. In light of the slow project implementation
experience with most donor-financed projects in several sectors, all IDA projects should include
special measures to failitate project execution, as in the case of the proposed water project.
H. Sector Strategy and Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.25       The overall GOG's atrategy for the development of water and sanitation sector in
Guyana calls for: (A) rehabilitating and/or replacing the existing facilities to improve water
service levels in terms of quality, quantity and reliability; (B) strengthening the water sector
institutions (principally GUYWA and GS&WC) so that they are able to satisfactorily operate and
maintain sector facilities; (C) promoting the role of the prvate sector in water operations; and
(D) improving the sector finances and financial management practices to enable the sector
eventually to attain self-sufficiency. As highlighted in the earlier section on Bank Group's
Country Assistance Sttegy (pam 32), IDA's involvement in infrastructure rehabilitation aims
to address key bottlenecks constraining growth. The proposed project accomplishes this goal
in the water sector within the context of the above GOG's overall strategy. The project was
designed in close coordination with other donors, in particular the project cofinanciers - CDB
and ODA. The priority given under the proposed project to water system rehabilitation and
maintenance as well as to strengthening GUYWA's financial and insdtutional capacity is fully
consistent with the Bank Group's and GOG's developmental objectives for the infiasucture
sector.
H. THE PROJECT, COS1S AND FiNANCING
A. Project Origin and Preparation
2.1         As noted earlier, an IDA bIfastructure Review mission visited Guyana in
F,ebaay 1991 at the request of the Government, to assist in reviewing key investment needs in
the various infrstructure subsectors (energy, transport and water) and to recommend a cohesive
strategy for the selected projects. The mission's recommendations also took into account the
ongoing and planned activities of various donors in Guyana. Following fiuther dLscussions with
the Govemment, IDA recommended key project areas--such as the proposed water rehabilitation
project-in which IDA would have a comparative advantage in assisting the county. Faced with
an eslating threat of cholera and other water-borne diseases, the Government requested the



- 10-
Bank to help prepare-on "fast-track" basis-a national water project, which would benefit a
majority of the country's population over the short-to medium-term.
2.2         Folowing the identification (May 1992) and the first preparation missions
(November 1992), IDA granted a PPF advance (766-0-GUA) advance of US$958,000 to the
Govemment to finance consultant services that would help initiate the undertaking of project
preparation studies in the technical, financial and institutional areas. These studies were
completed in September 1993. To further advance project preparation, IDA approved in July
1993 a second PPF advance (766-1-GUA) of US$525,000, and the Japanese Government, under
its Policy and Human Resources Fund program, provided US$485,000 grant (Tmst Fund No.
23020) to the Govemment. The above funds wil have been fully utilized by early 1994.
2.3         Several meetings with the key donors in the water sector were held during project
preparation to ensure consistency of policy strategy and an active coordination among the
agencies. Project design also benefitted from the participation of the cofinanciers of the project,
namely the Overseas Development Administration (ODA/U.K) and the Caribbean Development
Bank (CDB).
B. Project Objectives
2.4         The oveall objectives of the project are to improve the quality and reliability of
potable water in selected regions in Guyana and enhance the efficiency of water sector
institutions. The proposed project, together with other donor-financed projects in the sector,
would: (i) initiate the process of upgrading water supply facilities; (ii) establish appropriate
procedures and methods for ensuring proper system operation and maintenance (O&M) and
promote the involvement of the private sector in water operations; (iii) enhance sector technical,
financial and managerial skills through training; and (iv) rationalize sector organization and
strengthen sector finances by instituting tariff reforms and improving cost recovery.
C. Project Scope and Complementarity
2.5               The proposed project encompasses a national scope in respect to addressing
the systemwide operation and maintenance problems, and the human resources development
issues. The capital area of Georgetown is, however, excluded from the above scope in light
of IDB's current involvement with GS&WC. Other systems operated by LNMINE and
SILWFC, which are quasi-govermental agencies, will also be excluded under the proposed first
rehabilitation project. Given that 90% of the total Guyana population live along the coastal belt,
the physical components of the project would primarily focus on the rehabilitation needs of those
areas (Regions 2,3,4, 5 and 6, for example) where problems have been severe. The interior
regions would also benefit from the project under the proposed nationwide O&M component (see
following para). The overall scope of the project will cover about 55% of the total population.
The proposed project will be complementary to the ongoing IDA-funded SIMAP project, which
emphasizes, among other things, the provision of sanitation facilities in the small and dispersed



- 11 -
mral and semi-urban communities.  The complementary needs for sanitation facilities
(community pit latrines, etc.) will also be met under various programs financed by the Ministry
of Health and PAHO. IDA will continue to actively coordinate with IDB to ensure project
complementarity as well as consistency in matters related to institutional and cost recovery
policies being proposed. Coordination with other donors - EC, PAHO, ODA, CDB, UNICEF
and CIDA - will continue to be sought to maximize ionor participation and avoid duplication
of efforts.
D. Project Description
2.6         The proposed project, to be executed between 1994 and 1999, would consist of
the following components (see IBRD Map 25126 for project locations):
Pat A.   Facilities Rehabilitation (US$15.75 nillion or 66% of project scope). This
includes: (i) major rehabilitation ("Tier" } Rehabilitation Schemes; see Appendix
1, Annex 5) of about 45 existing water facilities -- well pumping stations,
treatment plants, transmission and distribution network, etc. -- located in the
densely-populated metropolitan areas of Region 4 (Eccles and LBI locations) and
in the concentrated urban centers of Rosehall and Corriverton (Region 6), Anna
Regina (Region 2), Pouderoyen (Region 3) and Bush Lot (Region 5); (ii) minor
rehabilitation ("Tier 2" Schemes; see Appendix 2, Annex 5) or emergency repairs
of some 100 well pumping stations located mostly in semi-urban and rural areas
nationwide; (iii) upgrading of about 40 km distribution fines and provision of
about 4,000 house connections for the New Amsterdam water system (as
complementary to the proposed rehabilitation by EC of the New Amsterdam
major distribution mains under LOME IV); and (iv) related detailed engineering
and design (about 60 man-months).
Part B.   Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Improvements (US$ 2.15 million or 9%
of project scope). This component emphasizes the adoption of routine O&M
programs for systemwide and equipment facilities - pump stations in the coastal
areas and hand-operated facilities in the interior areas -- and the role of private
sector in the operational activities of GUYWA. Component scope includes: (i)
provision of 3 new divisional workshop facilities and improvements to the
existing central workshop (at LBI location); (ii) purchase of transportation and
utility vehicles, (15 to 20) and communication equipment (radios/transmitters);
(iii) purchase of spare parts (engines, pumps, motors and electrical control panels,
to be standardized where needed), water meters, emergency chlorinators, safety
equipment and supplies (piping, chemicals, lubricants etr,.); (iv) O&M pilot
contracts for the operation of well pumping stations (about 5); and (v)
establishment of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and Standard Maintenance
Procedures (SMP) to be adopted systemwide.



- 12 -
Part C.   Human Resources Development (HRD) (US$1.65 million or 7% of project
scope). This component is primarily aimed at planning and enhancing the skills
of the manpower required in the water sector, with the specific objective of
meeting GUYWA's training and long-term recruitment needs. The HRD
component includes: (i) preparation and implementation of training programs
over a 5-year period (managers, technicians, craftsmen, etc.); (ii) purchase of
training equipment and supplies (2 transportation vehicles, audio visual
equipment, desktop computers, etc.); (iii) about 20 university fellowships (at the
University of Guyana) and 75 technician scholarships (at various technical
institutes in Guyana); (iv) overseas short-term training visits; (v) development
of water quality testing skills and training services (including purchase of
laboratory equipment); and (vi) consultant services of a Training Advisor and a
Coordinator (about 18 man-months foreign/60 man-months local).
Part D.   Institutional Strengthening Program of GUYWA (US$3.58 mfilon or 14% of
project scope). This component will focus on building the institutional capacity
of GUYWA in line with the proposed restructuring and reorganization of the
water sector. The related technical assistance programs will assist GUYWA to
improve its organiztional, managerial and financial capabilities and emerge, over
a period of time, as the national agency with a clear focus, direction and effective
regulatory role the water sector. The technical assistance programs will also
assist GUYWA with the establishment of financial, accounting and management
systems (bi1ling and collection) and improved cost recovery schemes.
Specifically, the component includes: (i) management and 'twinning' assistance
to GUYWA (about 80 man-months foreign) through an operating water utility;
(ii) purchase and instllation of financial and commercial accounting management
systems (including computer hardware/software) and associated training
programs; (iii) consultant assistance (5 man-months, foreign) to GUYWA for the
implementation of management information systems; (iv) contractual hiring of 15
to 20 technical specialists (including overseas Guyanese) on short-term
consultancy basis to assist GUYWA with day-to-day operations; (v) refurbishment
of GUYWA's offices (Headquarters/regions) and office equpment; and (vi)
institutional/legal studies on water resources management and private sector
capabilities and role in the water sector, and auditing services for the prepation
of annual externa audits of GUYWA during the project implementation period.
Part E.   Project anment and Evaluation (US$0.70 million or 3%  of project
scope). This component will focus on the establishment and maintenance of a
special Project Management Unit (PMU) reporting to the Chief Executive Officer
of GUYWA. Included in this component are: (i) the stafflng of the PMU
Personnel including the Manager (60 man-months/local), Accountant (60
mm/local) and support (secretary, driver) services, hired on consultancy basis; (ii)
consultant services of a Procurement (contract) Advisor (about 48 manmonths



- 13 -
foreign); (iu) PMU's adminison; and (iv) project impact evaluation studies ;6
manmonths/foreign and local);
Par F.   Futte Projects Prepartion (US$0.25 miHlion or 1% of project scope). This
includes the preparation of the subsequent phases of rehabilitation (Annex 5) and
new projects in the water sector (about 25 mm/local and foreign), to be agreed
during project implementation.
2.7         A fuller description of the afore-noted project components, together with an
outline terms of reference for key consultancy services, is available in the Project Files (Annex
17).
E. Cost Estimates
2.8         The total cost of the project, net of taxes, but including physical and price
contingencies, is estimated at US$33 million equivalent, of which about 67% represents the
foreign exchange component. Base costs are expressed in June 1993 prices and escalated for
(i) a physical contingency factor of 10 to 15% depending on the type of component and level
of preparaion of details, and (ii) price contingencies projected at 4% per year for foreign
inflation and 9% for local ination. Detailed project costs are presented m Annex 6 with the
summary cost shown in Table 1. 1 below. Additional cost data for each project component are
available in the Project-Files (Annex 17). Esmated annual phasing of project investments is
indicated in Annex 7.
2.9         Cost estimates are based on unit costs of recent contracts for similar civil works
and equipment (SJEAP project, for example). The estimats for physical components have been
based on advanced engineenng for a significant scope of the rehabilitation schemes and a
detailed review of the O&M component undertaken as part of the PPF-finamced studies. The
scope of the technical assistance programs (institutional strngthening of GUYWA and HRD
program, for example) are derived from the recommendations of the isional and financial
studies funded under the PF. The cost of the technical assistance services is based on the unit
cost of ongoing consulting assignments under the PPF (average US$15,00/manmonth for
foreign and US$5,000/manmonth for local conmltants).



- 14-
Table Il-l: Summary Project Cost
;~~~~~~~ a                 -      _ 5.6    10.46   16.107    704   1382012            65
B. Opo &   _   ~ ~h_f--              0.75    1.40    2.15       94    15 269         65
C. Hun Raonu DavdapmeW                    0.49    1.16    1.65      61   14S   206       70
D. GUYWA 1n6otmStalugPmvoro               1.18    2.40    3.58     148   300   448       67
E. Proo Maasoiai& Bvahuiat                0.33    0.37    0.70      41    46    87       53
P. Puta . P roeabraon                     0.06    0.19    0.25       8     24   31       77
Sub-Tota                                8.45   15.98   24.4      1055   199S  3053      66
mPF ReftwwfS                            0.37    1.11    1.48       47    138   185     100
Boo Coat (.md-93 prioce)                 8.32   17.09   25.91    1102   2136  323S      68
Phyi Conindne                         1.00    2.27    3.13       eS   284   372       68
PriceCanticgonol                       1.24    2.68    3.92     150   335   485       67
T*W Cost(NetofTam)                      11.06   22.04   33.00    1340  2755  4095       68
F. Thiancing Plan
2.10          The required total financing, including the PPF, is about US$33.0 million
equivalent. The proposed IDA credit to the Govemment of US$17.5 million equivalent
(standard terms with 40-year repayment period) would finance about 53% of total project costs.
The rmainder of the financing plan (for US$15.5 million) entails the following: (i) US$ 6.0
million equivalent from the Overseas Development Adminion (ODAIU.K. Government),
as grant to the Government; (ii) US$6.5 million from the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB),
as loan to the Government (2% interest rate; 30-year loan with 10 years of grace); and (iii)
US$3.0 million from the Government of Guyana, through its budgetary allocations (over the six-
year project period) to GUYWA (there is also a possibilty that in the latter years of project
implementation and with improved cost ,ecovery in the water sector, user contributions can be
used to pardy offset Government's allocation). The consolidated project financing plan is
presented in Table 11.2, with details provided in Annex 8.



- 15 -
Table U-2: Summary Financing Plan
A. "'acibities Rebabiitation Program       21.28        9.30  3.97  6.00  2.01
B. Operations & Maintenance Improvements    2.60        1.65  0.20   -    0.75
C. Human Resources Development              2.08        1.97   -     -    0.11
D. GUYWA Institutional Strengthening Program  4.40      1.99  1.83  0.50  0.08
E. Project Manageniut & Evaluation          0.83        0.78   -     -    0.05
F. Future Projects Prepamation              0.33        0.33   -
PPF Refnancing                          1.48         1.48   -     -
Total Cost                               33.00       17.50  6.00  6.50  3.00
2.11        GUYWA would receive from the Government the proceeds of the IDA credit as
well as those of ODA and CDB as a grant in the form of Government contributions to
GUYWA's equity. This is justified, given GUYWA's extremely weak financial condition;
GUYWA would need the Government's equity participation and support until it can attain
financial sustainability through phased increases in tariff rates, improved semces and revenue
collection (pam 3.14). Additionally, a substantial portion of the assets that GUYWA will take
over from the RDCs under the recentalization scheme could be classified as economically non-
performing (due to their highly dilapidated state) and would warrant a big capital injection (in
the form of government grant or equity) in order to restore them to satisfactory performance
levels. The proceeds of the IDA Credit would be made available to GUYWA by the
Government under a subsidiary grant agreement satisfatory to IDA. It is expected that both
the ODA grant and CDB loan will become available by March 1994. Given that the project
includes several discrete contracts - coreonding to various locations - that will be amenable
to a phased execution, any unforeseen delays in obtaining the above complementary funds would
not adversely affect the start-up of the proposed project, but would only mean carrying out the
delayed rehabilitation works later during the project period. Agreement was reached during
negotiations regarding the timely allocation of the Govermment's contributions to the project in
the required amounts (see Appendix, Annex 9 for estimated annual amounts). The Government
also agreed to deposit its cash contribution to the project in a separate account - on a quarterly
basis - in a bank acceptable to IDA. Completion of the subsidiary agreement between the
Government and GUYWA is a condidon of credit effectiveness.



- 16 -
m. THE BORROWER AND EXECUTING AGENCY
3.1         The Governnent will be the borrower of the proposed credit and GUYWA, the
executing agency. MPWCRD will have the oversight responsibility for project execution. A
description of MPWCRD and GUYWA follows.
A. Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development
3.2         MPWCRD is the Govemment ministry with responsibility for establishing the
policy framework in the water sector. The Minister of MPWCRD has discretionary power
under the Guyana Water Authority Act (Annex 4) to direct GUYWA as to the policies to be
undertaken in the performance of its duties and it has become the practice for the Minister to
act as Chairman of GUYWA. IThe Minister is also, at present, the Chairman of GS&WC.
Since the functions of GUYWA to operate and maintain national water systems were delegated
to the RDCs in 1984, (para. 1.11), the resulting relationship between MPWCRD and GUYWA
t-.s brought no specific benefit to the provision of water services to the citizens of Guyana,
except for limited capital works schemes executed by GUYWA. At the same time the
deteriorating levels of water services throughout the country, attributable to the dismal
performance of RDCs, have led to governmental (SIMAP for exaunple) and non-governmental
agencies seeking improvement in the water sector but with no overall planning framework.
Cognizant of the above deficiencies and of the need to revamp the water sector, MPWCRD has
std   focussing on the requisite institutional changes in the sector.
B. Guyana Water Authority
3.3         Since the regionalization in 1984 of the water sector, GUYWA has assumed a
passve role in the sector, its role having been limited to the provision of maintenance services,
equipment repair and rentals, well drilling and technical advice to Regions. GUYWA has a staff
of about 90 (see chart 1 for GUYWA's existing organization).  GUYWA's three main
departments - Engineering, Finance and Administion - support the main activities of well
drilling and repair, and provide operations and maintenance advice. The latter is a crisis
management operation rather than a planned maintenance service. A central plant and equipment
workshop and stores (at "LBI" location), operated by GUYWA, provide a limited service to the
RDCs. All services, including well dhilling, for both the public and private sector are charged
for, but with government subsidy. GUYWA acts therefore as a subsidized quasi-monopolistic
consulting and contating oranization. The Government's budgetary allocations for capital
works expenditures in the water sector are channeled through GUYWA's budget. GUYWA
currently employs only four qualified engineers (against ten slots), three of whom are seconded
to foreign-aid funded projects. The inadequate financial resources, extremely low salaries and
lack of qualified staff, have led to no planning and regulatory control of either quantity or



- 17 -
quality of water services. GUYWA has a supervisory Board of nine members, with the Minister
of MPWCRD currently being its Chainnan. In addition to the Chairman (the Minister), the
Board of GUYWA has only one executive member, namely the General Manager.
C. Proposed Reorganization of the Water Sector
3.4         Rationale. In the context of Guyana, the size of the water sector is relatively
small. The limited technical skills available in the Guyana water sector require consolidation,
strengthening and direction. As noted earlier, the regionalization of water services - since 1984
- has not been successful to date. The water sector, if recentralized, can develop coordinated
business and sectoral plans for the optimum use of the nation's water resources.
Recentralization would also provide the opportunity for improved manpower planning and
taining programs with opportunities for staff promotion. In addition, GUYWA could benefit
from the use of a centralized accounting and billing system based on a commercial approach.
For the above reasons, the Government has agreed to recentralize the water sector and
restructure it as needed.
3.5         Restructuring of the Sector. The proposed new structure is indicated in Charts
2 through 4 and detailed in Annex 9. Studies have been carried out under the PPF to assist the
Government with the agreed restructuring of the sector. The key changes to the existing
organizational structure are noted below:
(a)   Policy Planning: A National Water Council is proposed with representation from
interested water users in the private and public sectors, e.g. industry, health,
agriculture, etc. Its role will be to give broad sectoral advice to the Minister
enabling him to develop a policy framework for the industry. The Minister will
also have within MPWCRD a qualified advisor with broad knowledge of the
water sector (this advisor is currently in place in an informal capacity).
MPWCRD's role will then be to set the water sector's needs and programs in the
national context. It will do this through consideration of an Annual Business
Plan, submitted by the restructured GUYWA, and in the context of a National
Plan in consultation with the Ministry and all other interested and affected
organizations.
(b)   Executive Management:  The Minister, while remaimng chairman of the
GUYWA board, will delegate his executive functions to a new vice chainnan who
will also be the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of GUYWA. The CEO, who will
replace the current acting General Manager, will be supported by an expatriate
management team (to be financed under the proposed ODA grant) to guide
him/her in the daily activities of the new GUYWA organization. The team will
consist of three personnel (Management Advisor, Financial Advisor and Technical
Advisor) and is expected to assist GUYWA for a period of at least 2 years during
the difficult transition period. The GUYWA Board will be increased in size from



- 18 -
the current 9 to 12 directors to accommodate additional representatives from the
private sector and other parties concerned. Agreements were reached during
negotiations that the Govemment, by no later than June 30, 1994, would
reconstitute and thereafter retain the Board of Directors of GUYWA and then
membership and composition satisfactory to IDA. The executive management of
GUYWA will be led by the vice chairman/CEO and will also include the
Directors of the new Water Services Department and Finance Department,
Personnel and Training Officer, and Chief Administrator. If no suitable
Guyanese candidates are available to fill the positions of the Directors of Finance
and Water Services Department, the members of the expatriate management team
will fill the above positions until permanent arrangements can be made.
(c)   GUYWA's New Organizational Structure: With the proposed take-over of the
RWDs by GUYWA, a new structure (Charts 2 through 4) will be established at
GUYWA. The centerpiece of the reorganization is the newly-formed Water
Services Department with four operating Divisions serving the coastal
communities and one additional Division serving the interior regions. The Water
Services Department will have the responsibility for the operational management
of the central workshops, drilling team and support staff (65) and staff of the 5
new Divisions (560). Divisional Managers will be appointed to strengthen day-to-
day operational management.  Water resource planning, regulatoly and
monitoring functions will be developed within a newly created Water Resources
Unit (initial staff 3). The existing Finance Department (revised staffing-50) will
be strengthened to take on customer accounts, with a centrally-based billing and
collection service, financial planning and the exisdng general accounting and
purchasing functions. Stores would be again brought under the financial
department's control as will be the development of computer systems. In view
of the seven-fold increase in the GUYWA work force (from the current 90 to the
proposed 720, many of whom will be absorbed from existing RWDs) and the
need for a major human resource training program, a new Personnel and Training
Unit will be created (initial staff-9). A new Administrative Unit (revised staffing-
15) will take on the inportant function of public relations in addition to its usval
duties. A new National Sector Planning Unit (staff 3) will be established to
formulate the National Plan referred to earlier and a sepaLate new Internal Audit
unit (stafflng-2) will report directly to the CEO. It was agreed during
negotiations that GUYWA would retain a management team comprising the CEO
and key Departmental Directors, whose experience and qualifications will be
satisfactowy to IDA. A new CEO was nominated in October 1993 who will
assume offlce in early January 1994. He attended the negotiations in Washington.
3.6        lImplementation Strategy for Reorganization. The Delegation of Functions
Order of 1991 was rescinded on October 5, 1993, paving the way for the recentalization of the
water sector. The staff employed in the RWDs will be brought under the management of
GUYWA according to an agreed action plan (Appendix, Annex 9). It is crucial that the



- 19 -
implementation strategy allows for a smooth transition from existing arrangements to the new
structure. Agreeme2it was reached during negotiations that the Government would substantially
complete the reorganization of the water sector by August 31, 1994 in accordance with the
action plan, referred to earlier. MPWCRD is currently taking measures to seek qualified
Guyanese candidates to fill in the key positions of the Directors, the Personnel and training
offlcer and the Chief Administrator. To ensure the appointments of qualified candidates and as
a short-to-medium term arrangement the Government would place some of the key GUYWA
professionals on a consultancy basis, with financing under the proposed credit and under the
CDB loan. During the reorganization period, the Administrative Unit will commence its public
information role, explaining to both staff and the potential customers the reasons for the change
and the new emphasis being given to the provision of an improved water service. Both the
Water Resources Unit and the National Water Sector Planning Unit will be established toward
the end of the reorganization period.
3.7         Long-Term Institutional Strategy. While the medium-term institutional strategy
for the water sector is to consolidate and recentralize the scattered regional public water facilities
along the lines noted above, the longer-term strategy will be to pnvatize the core activities of
the sector. Although the Government is not against eventual privatization of the sector, it
prefers to currently focus attention on the most urgent rehabilitation and recentralization needs
in the sector. The above stance makes practical sense, given that GS&WC is poised to receive
management and rehabilitation assistance for the period 1994-98 under the proposed IDB pruject
(para. 1.16), and that a future consolidation of GS&WC and GUYWA operations may be
essential to attract prospective commercial operators (who would not be otherwise interested in
operating only the scattered and mostly rural regional water facilities of GUYWA). MPWCRD
has agreed to launch a study [part D(v2, para. 2.6] in the latter half of the project
implementation period (around mid-1997), on the possible modalities of privatization of the
water operations. Agreement was reached during negotiations that the results of the above study
would be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1997 for its review and comments, and that an
implementation action plan would be made available by June 30, 1998. Terms of Reference for
this study will be agreed closer to the commencement of the above study. This study would also
recommend, as appropriate, the future institutional status of LINMINB - and SILWFC - operated
water systems.
D. Financial Performance and Prospects
3.8         Background. The delegation of the provision of water services in the regions
to the Regional Democratic Councils in 1984 essentially stripped GUYWA of its water supply
operational responsibilities. After the delegation, GUYWA found a niche for itself performing
maintenance services, equipment repair and rentals as well as specialized services such as well
drilling for water sector ageticies and the private sector. With the agreed recentrlzation of the
provision of regional water services and the takeover of the regional water facilities by GUYWA
as part of the proposed project, there will be very little resemblance between GUYWA's past
and fuure financial performance. Past performance (i.e. through 1993) reflects GUYWA's



- 20 -
current activities and therefore is less relevant to GUYWA's future role as the national operating
agency for the RDCs' water services. GUYWA's future performance, especially from FY 1995
onwards (FY 1994 being the transitional year) will reflect better GUYWA's new role.
3.9         Past Performance.  GUYWA's financial performance (Annex 10) steadily
deteriorated between 1988-92. It incurred a net loss G$0.4 million in 1988, increasing to G$l
million in 1989 and deteriorating further to G$15. 17 million in 1992. Despite the poor financial
performance, GUYWA's liquidity position remained strong and cost recovery perfortnance
evaluated on an accrual basis was generally satisfactory. GUYWA's accounts receivable
increased by nearly twenty-fold from less than G$1 million in 1989 and 1990 to G$21.7 million
in 1992. The March 1993 pre-appraisal mission discussed with the Govenmuent, GUYWA's
arrears situation and a plan for their clearance was discussed during appraisal. Arrears to
GUYWA - and the RDCs - would not be written off, although they will not be carried over in
the financial statements of the restructured GUYWA. GUYWA would assist the RDCs to collect
the arfears of domestic consumers in the regions (which will be turned over to the Treasury)
prior to completion of the agreed recentralization scheme. Pollowing recentralization, the
responsibility for arrears collection in the regions would revert to Government. In addition the
settling of the water-related arrears and liabilities of the RDCs to Guyana Electricity Corporation
and to other entities would be responsibility of the Government of Guyana. The Government
has proposed a plan agreed to during negotiations entailing the use of the budgetary mechanism
of setding the arrears from the Government agencies by June 30, 1995. Arrears owed to
GUYWA by large private customers will be handled by a collection agency. These
arrangements would enable the restructured GUYWA to begin its operations without any
outstanding accounts receivable.
3.10        On a consolidated basis, the financial performance of the RWDs also steadily
deteriorated over the 1989-1992 period so that by 1992 cost recovery levels were virtually
negligible. Cost recovery, excluding depreciation, declined from 10.4% in 1989 to only 3.4%
in 1992. This deterioration in cost recovery levels occurred because no tariff increases were
implemented during this period of high inflation. Total operating revenues increased by an
average annual rate of only 7%, from G$3.3 million to G$4.0 million, while total operating
expenses increased by an average annual rate of over 55%, from G$31.5 million to G$118.3
million. Since the average annual inflation rate in Guyana over this period, as measured by the
Consumer Price Index, was 95%, operating and maintenance expenses declined in real terms.
This decline in real expenditure levels was largely responsible for a rapid dilapidation of the
water infrastmcture and the associated erosion of customer service levels. The decline in cost
recovery occurred despite extremely low maintenance expenses and the failure to account for
depreciation expense in calculating operating income.
3.11        Prior to completing the balance sheets, the RWDs and GUYWA undertook a
review of the fixed asset inventory. The field work for this review was completed in August,
1993. The asset registers will be fully updated before the regional water assets are transferred
to GUYWA. Furthermore, the valuation of the regional water assets, to reflect their current



- 21 -
market values, would be completted before the assets are taken over by GUYWA. The take-over
is expected to be substantially completed before the beginning of the new fiscal year.
3.12        Billing ancl Collection. The bilLing system of GUYWA was satisfactory to meet
its needs. Its financial statements included details of its accounts receivable including the
number of reminders that had been sent to delinquent customers. Nevertheless GUYWA's
collection experience was very poor primarily due to inadequate Government budgetary
allocations to GUYWA's major customers - the RWDs and GS&WC. Collection of water bills
in the regions was practically non-existent. Collections were made only from those customers
who voluntarily made payments at the RWD collection offices or local authority offices during
designated collection periods. Because of the low tariffs, customers were reluctant to incur the
transportation expense (which could amount to over 10 times the annual water bill) to pay the
amounts owed for services that had not been received on a regular basis. No records of overdue
accounts existed and insufficient efforts were made to reconcile tne property record card where
payments were recorded and the cash received. Limited data on receivables from 3 regions
indicated that only about 50% of the water tariffs were collected in 1992.
3.13        The poor collection performance in the regions was due to a number of factors.
First, the Property Records Cards were not reconciled when cash payments were recorded.
Often they were poorly organized, incomplete, out of date and inaccurate. Consequently, they
could not form the basis of any nigorous billing and collection system even if the regions wanted
to have one and besides they were not capable of maintaining one. Second, there was very little
incentive to properly undertake billing and maximize collection since the regions were required
to transfer all tariff revenues to the Government's consolidated account; in addition, incentive
to pay was generally lacking since there is a widely held perception that Government services,
including water should be provided free of charge. Third, tariff levels have eroded over the
years to such a point that even if all tariff revenues had been collected, they would have
generated funds that were minuscule compared to the true cost of operating and maintaining the
systems. Fourth, staff in the water divisions in the regions, like most staff employed in the
public sector in Guyana were poorly paid, trained and motivated. The accounting and financial
management study financed under the PPF included the design of a customer billing and
collection system. The study has been completed. The draft final report was discussed at the
Bank in September, 1993. During negotiations, agreement was reached on a central billing and
collection system, including forms, reports, ledgers and an operating manual, and the timing for
its implementation. The implementation of the new billing system would be completed by June
30, 1994.
3.14        Tariffs. As noted earlier, one of the fundamental problems with the water sector
in Guyana is the extremely low levels of tariffs. At G$75 (or about US 60 cents equivalent) per
year for domestic customers, G$300 per year for commercial customers and G$450-600 per year
for industrial customers, regional tariffs are too low to assure: the financial viability or
sustainability of the sector; an adequate operation and maintenance program for the sector; and
an adequate remuneration of sector personnel. A tariff study, coordinated with IDB, was
financed under the PPF to develop a new uniform tariff policy. The study has been completed



- 22 -
and the draft final report was reviewed at the Bank in August, 1993. A framework for a tariff
policy, including specific tariff levels, as well as an applicable charging mechanism was
discussed and agreed with the Goverunent during pre-negotiation meetings held at the Bank in
September, 1993. It was agreed that future tariff increases should be linked to service levels
and tangible improvements in service and to specific tagets for improving the operational
efficiency of GUYWA. It was also agreed that there should be two tiers of tariffs: the first tier
(Tier 1), for the beneficiaries of the major rehabilitation component of the project (affecting
some 45 stations in Region 4 and major municipalities; see para. 2.6) and the second tier (Tier
2), for the reminder of the eustomers who would be benefitting from the minor rehabilitation
component (affecting some 100 stations located in mostly semi-urban and nrral areas nationwide;
para. 2.6). Based on the tariff study and the agreed policy framework, the Cabinet approved
a revised tariff structure for GUYWA in October 1993.
3.15        The new taiff levels will be as follows: Water tariffs for all domestic customers
would be increased to G$1200 per annum in 1994 and 1995 (representing a 16-fold increase over
the current level) and to G$2,220 in 1996. The Government would be required to develop a
baseline tariff prior to the tariff increase in 1996 to ensure the continued access of the poor to
potable water. The tariff of customers of facilities undergoing major rehabilitation (Tier I
scheme beneficiaries) would be increased to G$7,000 per annum in 1996 and 1997. Each tier
contains four main customer categories: domestic, commercial, industrial and institutional.
Future tariff increases, especially for domestic customers, would be based on affordability
analysis to assure continued access to water by the poor residing in the project areas and to
minimize incentives for illegal connections and non-payment. It might also entail a measure of
cross subsidization between high and low income customers. It is intended that Tier 2 service
levels would be upgraded to ller 1 levels in due course, as the Government secures additional
funding and undertakes a full rehabilitation of Tier 2 service systems under subsequent phases
(see Annex 5 on National Rehabilitation Strategy). Concurrent with the approval of the tariff
increases the Government has also launched a multimedia campaign to sensitize the public of the
need to pay for water services.



- 23 -
3.16       The proposed tariff levels for 1994-1997 would be as follows:
Table m-1: Proposed TaWiff Levels
TARIMF  (G$/YFr.)___ _ 
Domestic                                             7,000l
Commercial                                          56,000
Industrial                                         105,000
Institutional                                       56,000
lTer 2:
Domestic                                  1,200      2,220
Commercial                                8,400     15,540
Industial                                14,400     26,640
Insttutional                              8,400     15,540
Ave. Connection Fee Tier 1&2             3,500       4,160
TARIFFS (US$/Yr. Equivlent)
Tier 1:
Domestic                                             56.00
Commercial/Industrial                               448.00
Institutional                                       448.00
Tier 2:
Domestic                                   9.60      17.76
Commercial                                67.20     124.32
Industrial                               115.20     840.00
Institutional                             67.20     124.32
Ave. Connection Fee lSer 1&2             28.00       33.28
3.17             These tarffs are based on the assumption that fully rehabilitated facilities
under iler I will be operated for 12 hours per day whereas facilities undergoing only minor
rehabilitation under Tler 2 will be operated for 8 hours per day. Details regarding the other
underlying assumptions for the tariff calculations are contained in Annex 10. These vety
substantial tarffs are unavoidable even for domestic consumers because: (i) there is a limited
scope for cross subsidization due to the small number of commercial and industial customers
and the absence of cruise ships; (ii) there exists limited scale economies due to high number



- 24 -
(about 145) of small systems, which serve a highly dispersed population particularly in the
coastal areas; and (iii) the exclusion of the Georgetown Water system which could have enabled
the spreading of GUYWA's fixed costs over a larger customer base. The implementation
arrangements for the agreed tariff increases for 1994 were completed pnor to Board
presentation. It was agreed during negodations that tariff increases for 1994 would be effective
as of July 1, 1994. From 1995 henceforth, the Goverment and GUYWA will agree with IDA
annually on the level of tariff to be implemented in the following year taking into account the
changes in the cost of living and value of the Guyanese Dollar. Such agreements will need to
take place before the Government's budget is submitted to the parliament annually.
3.18        Given the current 0 & M problems in the Guyana's water sector, IDA, ODA and
CDB have concuffed with the Govenmment that the use of individual consumption metering
would not be viable for GUYWA's consumers in the short - to medium - term. In light of the
highly deteriorated state of the water systems in the regions, it is unlikely that the pressure in
these systems can be maintained at a level sufficient to operate meters without problems during
the first few years of rehabilitation. Besides, the cost of metering and the associated needs for
meter maintenance arrangements would vastly exceed - at least in the medium term - the benefit
of individual metering. Nevertheless systemwide metering wil be introduced in New
Amsterdam on a pilot basis. The limited physical boundary (service population: 20,000) of the
New Amsterdam system, together with the recently-completed new water treatment plant under
BC financing, would provide a good pilot testng ground for individual consumption metering.
GUYWA would evaluate the experience with the above system (which will be discussed
periodically with IDA, ODA and CDB). Based on the evaluation, a decision will be made by
the end of the project period regarding the introduction of a meter-based tariff system in the
subsequent years (under future projects). Zone metering and insllation of production meters
at the pumping stations will, however, be employed to measure the unaccounted-for water in the
network.
3.19        Affordability. GUYWA's customers would experience considerable tariff shock
during the implementaton of the proposed project as the sector gradually moves toward financial
seff-sustanbility. Given the rule of thumb that 3%-6% of gross household income could
reasonably be expected to be expended on water and sewerage services, an affordable tariff
should start at about G$2,300 per annum which is more than the G$ 1,200 tariff agreed with the
Government for 1994. This amount is equivalent to about 3 % of the income of a household with
aggregate earnings of about GS$76,300 per annum assuming 2 wage earners. The agreed tariff
for domestic customers under Tier 2 will start from 1.6% of average household income in 1994
and increase gradually to about 2.7% of average household income in the year 2000.
3.20        Tle Government is convinced that the agreed substantial tariff increases are
necessary gradually to move the sector toward financial self-sustainability. Nevertheless, the
obstacle to ariff increases is more likely to be due to a lack of willingness to pay rather than
due to affordability constraints. As the resistance to the INMINE tariff increases clearly
attests, there is a widely held perception in Guyana that govermment services, including water
should be provided free of charge. Also, willingness to pay has been adversely affected by the



- 25 -
generally low level of service provided in the sector and the skepticism of consumers about
receiving improved service levels. That is why the proposed increase in tariffs are being clearly
and directly linked to tangible service improvements and a public awareness campaign are an
integral part of the Government's tariff action plan.
3.21        Financial Projections.  Financial projections have been prepared for the
reconstituted GUYWA for the period 1994 - 2003 (Annex 10). GUYWA's opemting revenues
are expected to increase from G$52.1 million in 1994 to G$1,161 million in the year 2000.
However GUYWA will consistently make losses, albeit at a declining rate, with the projected
gross income (excluding depreciation) ranging from negative G$341.9 million in 1994 to
negative G$129.1 million in the year 1999. Gross income will turn positive staring in the year
2000 and remain so thereafter. Net income during this period remain negative and will range
from negative G$385.3 million in 1994 to negative G$174.8 million in the year 2000. These
losses would necessitate Govemment's operational support of G$230 million in 1994 declining
steadily to about G$50 million in 1999. No additional operational support is envisaged in the
year 2000 and beyond. The actual level of operational support required will depend on the level
of tariff increases and improvements in the collection efficiency. Agreement was reached during
negotations on the opcutional support that wi}l be provided to GUYWA by the Government
during 1994. From 1994 onwards, agreement will be reached annually, prior to the presentation
of the Government's budget to Parliament, on the level of operational support to be provided
to GUYWA during the following year (see Table 9, Annex 10 for estimated annual levels of
operational support). The Govenmment's operational support to GUYWA would be deposited
monthly in GUYWA's operations account as is customary. In light of GUYWA's huge financial
losses, agreement was reached during negotiations that GUYWA would not incur any long-term
debts during the project period without prior approval by IDA. GUYWA's total fixed assets are
projected to increase from G$1.3 billion in 1994 to G$7.6 billion in the year 2000. In light of
GUYWA's tight financial situation, its huge investment needs wil be closely monitored. To this
end, agreement was reached during negotiations on GUYWA's three year investment program.
Starting in 1994, agreement will be reached annually with GUYWA and the Government of
GUYWA's three-year rolling investment program.
3.22        Financial Performance. On the basis of the tariff levels agreed, GUYWA is
expected to recover about 17% of O&M costs in 1994, increasing steadily to 100% of O&M
costs in 1999. Full cost recovery - including capital costs - during this period would increase
from about 12% about to 87%. In light of the losses that GUYWA is expected to incur during
this period, return on net fixed assets is projected to range from -73.8% in 1994 to -3% in the
year 2000. The current ratio is projected to range from 1.7 in 1994 to 4.2 in the year 2000 and
receivables measured in days (of tariff billings) decreases from 75 days to 50 days dunng this
period. During negotiations agreement was reached that the Govermment will setde future
arrears due from Government agencies through the budgetary mechanism. Payables are expected
to be maintained at constant 45 days during the entire project period.



- 26 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional Arrangements
4.1         Project Management. As noted earlier, GUYWA will be the executing agency
of the project. In order to manage the day-to-day implementation of the project and coordinate
the activities of the donor agencies involved (IDA, ODA and CDB), a Project Management Unit
(PMU) reporting directly to the CEO of GUYWA would be established (anticipated timeframe -
December, 1993) prior to project start. Key staffing of PMU would include a Project Manager,
a Project Accountant and support personnel The functions of the PMU would be to: prepare
the project operational and financial plan for each year; monitor the availability of funds for
project execution; ensure effective collaboration and coordination among the various cofinanciers
with regard to contract execution and financing; undertake bidding of civil works, and goods and
procurement of consultant services in consultation with the CEO; maintain detailed project
accounts (by funding source) and records of related transactions; prepare project progress (paa.
4.  1) report and arrange for the submission of the audit reports in coordination with GUYWA
(para. 4.10); and identify implementation bottlenecks, if any, and ensure that timely correcve
actions are taken as needed. In light of the key role to be played by PMU, IDA has agreed to
finance the salaries of the key PMU personnel - on a consultancy basis - to ensure recmitment
of qualified staff. The terms of reference for the key PMU staffing were agreed at appraisal
with the cofinanciers and GUYWA. It was agreed that the existing Project Coordinator's Offlce
- established under the PPF - would be strengthened to form the PMU. The Project
Coordinator, hired under the ongoing PPF, would function as the Project Manager on an interim
basis, while search is underway to locate a more-experienced candidate. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that GUYWA would maintain for the project period a PMU with staffing
satisfactory to IDA. In line with the national rehabilitation strategy (Annex 5), the longevity of
the PMU is expected to be beyond the project period (about 10 years) to facilitate the overall
completion of the requisite rehabilitation schemes.
4.2         Technical Implementation. PMU will be directly responsible for the execution
of the rehabilitation component (Part A of the Project; para. 2.6). To assist the PMU with
project execution, the following consultants would be appointed prior to project start: (i) a
procurement specialist with skldls in the areas of bid evaluation, bidder selection and contract
negotiations; and (ii) an engineering and design firm for carrying ,jut, design, construction
supervision, payment certification, and progress reporting activities. The terms of reference for
the above consulting services were discussed at appraisal and agreed at negotiations. As is
customary, the procurement of ODA-financed goods and services contracts (see para 4.5) will
be through procurement agents (such as Crown Agents) who will liaise closely with the PMU.
4.3         The day-to-day implementation of all technical assistance programs--related to the
operations and maintenance (Part B of the Project), human resource development (Part C) and
institutional strengthening (Part D) components -- will be the direct responsibility of the
respective Departments of GUYWA, namely the Water Services Department [Part B (iv) and



- 27 -
(v); para. 2.6], the Finance Department [Part D (i), (iO), (iv) and (vi); para. 2.61, the Personnel
and Training Unit [Part C (i) and (i6i); para. 2.61 and the Water Resources Unit (Part D (vi);
paa. 2.6] who will be the beneficiaries of these programs. The PMU will, however, facilitate
the selection of consultants (except in the case of ODA-financed management assistance)
involved in technical assistance and also administer their contracts (arranging for payments, for
example).  The terns of reference for the above consultants' services were agreed at
negotiations. Assurances were obtained at negotiations regarding the selection of qualified
consultants, satisfactory to IDA, to provide the above services. Supervision of the ODA-
financed management assistance to GUYWA (part D(i); para. 2.6) will be the responsibility of
their field office in Barbados, namely the British Development Division in the Caribbean
(BDDC). As part of the above management assistance, ODA would seek a "twinning'
arrangement for GUYWA with a water utility to carry out the requisite operational
improvements (distribution, pressure zoning, reduction of unaccounted-for water etc.).
B. Implementation Schedule
4.4         The overall project will be implemented over the six-year period 1994-99 (see
Annex 11 and Chart 5 for implementation details for each component). Given the advanced
status of preparation of the physical rehabilitation components, and the O&M component,
bidding for the first year civil works and goods (pumps, motors etc) contracts can be undertaken
before Februay, 1994. In light of urgency of rehabilitation of physical facilities, an emphasis
will be made to accelerate their execution within a 4-year timeframe. The implementation of
the technical-assistance related components (HRD, institutional strengthening), will, however,
pan a longer period (about 5 to 6 years).
C. Procurement
4.5         Table IV. 1 below provides an overview of the procurement arrangements under
the project. Procurement of the cofinanciers' contracts is designed on a parallel-financing basis
and would follow the respective guidelines of the individual cofinancier. (See Annex 8 for items
to be financed by each agency) For IDA-financed contracts, procurement will be carried out
in accordance with the following: (a) "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, May 1992" for civil works and goods; and (b) "Guidelines: Use of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981" for
consultants' services. For international competitive bidding (ICB) contracts, the use of the
World Bank's "Standard Bidding Documents" will be mandatory in the case of civil works and
goods procurement and, "Standard Form of Contract", for consultants' services. Even though
a country procurement assessment review for Guyana is not currently available, a review of
existing local contracting procedures practised by GUYWA was made under the PPF. The local
competitive bidding (LCB) procedures used by GUYWA are rather cumbersome and highly
prone to administrative delays, particularly in light of the extremely low contract approval limits
for the General Manager of GUYWA and its Board. To facilitate the execution of the proposed



- 28 -
project on a "fist-track" basis, the threshold limits for contract approval by GUYWA and its
Board should be substantally increased. Bfforts were undertaken as part of the ongoing PPF
to assist GUYWA with the establislunent of improved bidding and contracting procedures which
would also be aimed at limiting approvals within GUYWA Board's authority. A registration
procedure for contractors will be introduced at GUYWA to assist with the process of qualifying
e}igible contractors. This is important given that there has been no major capital works activities
in the water sector in Guyana over the past several years due to a severe economic decline.
Tabi, IV.1: SUMMARY OF PROCUREMEN ARRANGEMENIS
(US$ million equivalent)
Civil works        2.5       5.0       0.6a1      4.0        12.1
_____ ________   (2 0)    (4)      (0.5)       (0)       (6.5)
Materials&         4.0       0.5        0.4W      6.5        11.4
Equipment         (3.8)     (0.4)      (0.3)       (0)       (4.5)
Consultant          -                   4.2        2.3        6.5
Services                               (4.2)       (0)       (4.2)
TaiDning           -                    0.8                   0.8
(0.8)                (0.8)
O&M Conwact              -              -          0.7?      0.7
Services                                           (0)        ()
Misc.( PF-         -                    1.5                   1.5
Refinanig                              (15S)                 (1.S)
Note: Figures in parenthesis indiate the amounts financed by IDA
pI Local shopping
b/ ODA, CDB and Government of Guyana
ct Refers to operion and maintenance of selected pumping stations (about 5) by pnvate contractor.
4.6           The IDA-financed components would be procured as follows (Annex 12):
(a)    Goods (Equipment, materials and supplies): ICB procedures will be followed
for contracts (pumps, motors and other electromechanical components, pipes,
vehicles etc) estimated to cost US$100,000 or more; LCB procedures (see para
4.5), will be used to award contracts less than the above limit, subject to an
aggregate value of US$400,000. However, for contracts below US$25,000 in
value, local shopping (for the purchase of small pipes, building materials, O&M



- 29 -
supplies, tools etc.) would be permitted on the basis of at least 3 price
quotations, up to an aggregate value of US$300,000. For the purpose of bid
comparison, a margin of preference may be granted for goods manufactured in
countries belonging to the Caribbean Communty (CARICOM) including Guyana
in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. Procurement of several electro-
mechanical items -including spare parts - will be financed by ODA which will
also provide training assistance to GUYWA with their installation needs
(particularly for the minor rehabilitation schemes planned for some 100 pumping
stadons). The need for standardization of equipment will be given a paramount
consideration under ODA!s procurement.
(b)   Civil Works: ICB procedures will be followed for contracts (major metro area
pump house rehabilitation, pipe laying, site infasucture etc) estimated to cost
US$500,000 or more. Prequalifiation will be sought in the case of the Eccles
(Region IV) Rehabilitation contract (valued in excess of US$ 2 million) to ensure
the participation of eligible contractors with specific experience in the
rehabilitation of major water tratment, storage and transmission works. LCB
procedures will be used for all civil works contracts with values less than the
US$500,000 limit subject to a maximum aggregate value of US$4.0 million
(several municipal rehabilitation works, regional workshops, site drainage, etc.).
For contracts (mostly small site works, building rehabilitation etc.) less than
UJS$25,000, however, comparison shopping (minimum of 3 quotations) would be
permitted subject to an aggregate value of US$500,000 for such contracts. If
foreign bidders wish to participate, they should be allowed to do so in accordance
with local procedures. For the purpose of bid comparison under ICB, a margin
of preference of 7.5% may be granted to local bidders in accordance with IDA
guidelines.
(c)   Consultant Services: Consultants will be recruited in accordance with the
guidelines referred to in para 4.5. In qualified cases, the same consultants who
had canried out design studies under the PPF may be continued if, in the opinion
of GUYWA, the firm has performed satisfactorily under the PPF, and is
technically qualified to assist them with the implementation of the project and that
the above arrangement can facilitate the "fist-track" implementation of the
project.
Annex 13 provides an overview of the scheduling of the key contracts under the project.
4.7         Prior-Review  Threshold.   IDA  would  prior-review  all procurement
documentation (bid documents, bid evaluation and award recommendation and drft contract)
for contracts valued at US$100,000 or more for civil works and US$25,000 or more for
materials and equipment. All other procurement documentation will be retained by PMU and
subject to post-review by IDA. The review process would cover about 90 percent of the total
contact value under the project. In the case of consultants' services, prior-review will be



- 30-
required for (i) all consultants' contracts with firms above the US$50,000 threshold, and for all
individual assignments; (with the aggrgate value of such contracts not exceeding US$ 500,000
total); (ii) terms of reference for all conrts, egardless of their value; and (iii) single-source
contracts, regardless of their value; and (iv) amendments to contracts in excess of US$so,000
and above.
D. Disbursement
4.8         Disbursements of the IDA credit would be as follows:
(a)   Civil works--80% of total expenditures.
(b)   Goods--100% of foreign expenditures of imported goods (CIF); 100% of the ex-
factory cost of locally manuftd goods; and 75% of other local expenditures.
(c)   Consultant services and training programs-100% of total expenditures (net of
taxes).
The proceeds of the credit will be disbursed during a six-year period (Annex 14), which closely
follows the Bank's standard disbursement profile (August 1993) for all sectors in Guyana. The
credit closing date will be December 31, 1999, i.e., six months after the estimated completion
of the project execuion. Retractive financing in an amount not exceeding US$0.5 million
would be provided in respect of payments made for expenditures after October 2, 1993 that
would facilitate an early start-up of urgently needed rehabilitation schemes in the affected areas
(procurement and installation of pumps, motors and generators and piping). Retroactive
financing will be within the maximum period of twelve months prior to the expected date of
credit signing. IDA approval would be sought for all retroactive contracts to ensure conformity
with the IDA procurement guidelines. In order to accelerate disbursements and to facilitate
direct payments to contractors and conutant, a Special Account would be opened in a bank
acceptable to IDA, with an authorized allocation of US$1 million (equivalent to cover about four
months of estimated average disbursements). Records of Special Account proceeds and outlays
wilU be available for review by IDA supervision mission and subject to annual audit (para 4.10).
Upon presentation of withdrawal applications, IDA would replenish the Special Account.
4.9         Documentation of Expenditures. For civil works contracts valued at less than
US$100,000, goods contracts valued at less than US$25,000 and for consultants' contracts (with
firms) at less than US$50,000, disbursements would be made against Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs). Non-contract expenditures such as training would also be made against SOEs upon
IDA's specific authorization. All documentation pertaining to SOEs would not be submitted to
IDA, but woulW be retained by GUYWA for periodic inspection by IDA missions and audit
purposes (pami 4.10)



- 31 -
E. Accounting and Auditing
4.10        GUYWA's accounting practices are generally satisfactory and follow generally
accepted principles applicable to a water utility. There have been, however, chronic delays in
the auditing of GUYWA's financial statements (due to bureaucratic problems), a situation faced
by other government corporations as weli in Guyana. GUYWA's audit backlogs, dating back
to FY 1988, are currently being cleared by auditors, financed under the PPF. To avoid a
recurrence of the above situation, the proposed IMA credit would finance the external auditing
of GUYWA's accounts during the project implementation period. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that GUYWA would appoint independent auditors satisfactory to IDA and
that it will submit an audited statement on its finances for each fiscal year not later than five
months (May 31) after the end of each fiscal year, stating with the audit report for the twelve
months ending December 1993. The Government would ensure that the above audit would also
cover the Special Account (pam. 4.08) and the SOEs providing a separate opinion on each.
F. Progress Reporting, Monitoring and Evaluation
4.11        GUYWA would prepare semi-annual progress reports cove, .g ohysical progress,
costs, disbursements, organization, administrative and financial aspects, .aining and other
pertinent information, identifying constraints and proposed remedies and submit these to the IDA
every six months. These reports wiUl include actual and forecast monitoring indicators and
execution targets on the basis of the indicators set forth in Annex 15. Progress reports would
not only describe past achievements and compare them to appraisal projections, but also should
provide a critical assessment of problems and issues arising during project execution. In
addition to monitoring the physical and financial progress of implementation, GUYWA would
be required to undertake periodic impact evaluations using such indicators as: incidence of
water-borne diseases, especially affecting children, time saved by women, awareness of health
education, and use of new facilities Funds for the impact evaluation studies are included under
the project. The format of the project progress reporting system and an 'verall supervision
strategy including at least one joint review per year involving IDA and cofinanciers was agreed
at apprisal. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Government would review
project progress with GUYWA and the donors annually - by no later than September 30 of each
year - and assess the institutional, financial and physical performance under the project,
including the need for remedial measures. It was also agreed during negotiations that GUYWA
would submit to IDA semi-annual progress reports (due August 31 and February 28 for
preceding six months), starting with the progress report for the six months ending June 30,
1994. Compilation of these reports would be the responsibility of GUYWA through the PMU.
A project completion report would also be prepared by GUYWA and submitted to IDA no later
than six months after the closing date of the IDA credit.
4.12        Mid-Term Review. GUYWA and IDA and the other donors (ODA and CDB)
will conduct a mid-term review by September 30, 1996. Agreement was reached regarding this
during negotiations. The mid-term project review will assess progress in implementing the



- 32 -
different project components, GUYWA's capacity to implement the project and the affordability
of the users. An assessment will be made of the progress in institution building and of
GUYWA's financial performance. The specific set of indicators, included in Annex 12 will
monitor: (a) progress in undertaking the major rehabilitation works; (b) current ratio; (c) trends
in accounts receivable; (d) cost- recovery performance; (e) levels of subsidies; (f) ratio of
salaries to total operating expenses; (g) ratio of Head Office Administration overhead to total
operating expenses; (h) average cost per connection and number of employees per thousand
connections. During the mid-term review, the criteria established to monitor GUYWA's
financial performance will be reassessed. The discussion and analysis of problems identified in
the past will lead to formulation and adjustments, and if necessary, plans for immediate action
satisfactory to IDA.
V. PROJECT JUSTI}ICATION AND RISKS
A. Project Justification
5.1         The project has been designed to improve the quality of life for women and
children in the regions by undertadng environmentally sound physical investments and enhancing
productivity within a financially viable and economicaly sustainable ftamework. The project
will help reduce the incidence of watetbomne diseases (typhoid, gastro-ententis, cholera, etc.)
which has increased by about 300% over the last 10 years in Guyana, particularly in the project
areas adjoining Braz and Suriname. Furthermore, the project aims at strengthening GUY WA's
capacity to effectively plan and execute projects and manage the water sector. The project will
aso begi the process of manpower planng and strengthening the human resource capaities
in the sector through the judicious use of expariates, including overseas Guyanese nationals and
an aggressive rmining program to improve local capabilities to manage and operate the water
sector.
5.2         The direct benefits of the project include increasing the reliability and safety of
water supply services to an estimated 407,000 inhabitants (about 55 % of the total population)
through the improvement in physical facilities nationwide, either through replacement or
rehabilitation, and through the rationalization of water sector investments. Reliability wiU be
improved trough the expansion of system storage and standby pumping capabilties. Water
service will be progressively improved from the current intermittent service of less than three
to four hours a day with uncertain pressure to 12 hours a day with adequate pressure for the
major interconnected urban schemes, and to 8 hours for the semi-urban and nial areas.
Improx,d reliabiy will help eliminate the need for customers to break into the system when
water is not available thus limiting back-siphonage, system contamination, and leaks. With
improved reliability, the chronic problem of poor or non-existent service to outlying customers
wiUl be completely eliminated.
5.3         Impact on Women and Children. In most developing countries like Guyana,
providing water for the family is generally the responsibility of women and children. During
service interruptions, women and children must walk to the pump house or an altemative source



- 33 -
of supply to fetch water. In the case of Guyana, women and children report spending up to 4
person-hours a day collecting water. Unformately, in the process of obtaining the water for
the family, these women and children are often exposed to high-speed vehicular traffic, resultng
in water related trafflc accidents and fatalities with distressing frequency. Police reports indicate
that water related traffic fatalities per annum are about 4 per year per coastal region. Improved
water supply availability would elminate these injuries and fatalities and would have a positive
and direct impact on the quality of life of women and children in the regions. Other benefits
include time and energy savings and productivity gains due to health improvements. Increased
water reliability would allow women to provide a cleaner environment in their homes, to wash
their children more often, to wash their own and their children's hands after defecation and to
keep food areas clean. About 20% of the total number of current pump operators are women.
The proposed project includes training programs (under the HRD component) that would be
specifically aimed at recruiting women for: (i) various levels of operation and maintenance of
water facilities; and (ii) scholarship and fellowship programs at the university and technical
institutes to pursue technical/financial courses in the water field.
5.4         Poverty Impact. The project is primarily under the Infrastructure and Urban
Development Program Objective Category (POC) of the Bank Group. Although the project is
not part of the core poverty program, it will have a beneficial impact on those poor households
or elderly persons who are forced to purchase water from vendors during service internrptions
at very high prices. Improvement in health status arising in particular from a reduction in
intestinal disease morbidity, would help to break the vicious cycle of disease and malnutrition
experienced by the poor, lessening the high infant mortality prevalent in the regions, and
contribute to higher labor productivity in agriculture. In addition, the poor are likely to be the
major beneficiaries of the employment to be generated through the implementation of the project.
5.5         Environmental Impact.  The project would contribute to improving the
environment. It is rated category "B" under the Bank's Environmental Assessment Operational
Guidelines. The project components include institutional strengthening, rehabilitation of water
supply systems in the regions, and the provision of a technical assistance program and
institutional facilities to enable GUYWA to carry out its mandate more effectively. The project
components would generally constitute a substantial positive enviromental impact. The
construction to be financed under the project would not employ any processes, materials or
procedures that would be damaging to the environment. The main materials to be incorporated
in the works would be concrete cement, local river sand, and stone and plastic piping. The
volume of materials required would be small, and would not have a significant indirect negative
environmental impact. No toxic or hazardous material would be used or involved, and there
would be no significant residuals. Construction work would not entail major earthwork nor
cause risk or damage to ecological or natural resource assets.
5.6         Operation and maintenance activities under the project would not cause
environmental damage. The principal inputs would be electricity and diesel for pumping (low
horsepower requirerv'nts). The water supply component would contribute to an improved
extraction of groundwater resources through improved designs relating to the appropriate sizing



- 34 -
of pumps and a careful spacing of wells. The review of the water resources to, be undertaken
as part of the project would be useful in optimizing the use and safeguarding Guyana's ground
water resources without contamination and subsidence problems.
5.7         Economic Rate of Return. The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project
is estimated to be about 20%, corresponding to about 65% of the total project cost for the
physical components. The cost and benefit streams are presented in Annex 16. The above
estimate would understate the true economic rate of return, because it does not include intangible
benefits (such as productivity and health benefits etc) which are not easily quantifiable.
5.8         Benefits arising from the institutional strengthening of GUYWA include a faster
rate of implementation of sector investment, greater cost effectiveness and increase in
sustainability of both existing and rehabilitated schemes through better design, management and
supervision. Some rural employment generation may also accrue from private sector
involvement in the rehabilitation of water facilities to be financed under the project.
B. Project Risks and Safeguards
5.9         The proposed project is not expected to face any unusual risks.  Like all
operations in Guyana, the major risk is the shortage of qualified GUYWA personnel to
implement the project in a timely manner and operation and maintain project facilities
satisfactorily. This risk will be mitigated through the recruitment of consultants to assist with
project supervision and the establishment of a systematic training program (under the HRD
component) to mobilize qualified personnel to operate and maintain facilities nationwide. The
proposed creation of a special Project Management Unit, assisted by expatriate procurement and
construction supervision specialists, will also serve to minimize project implementation risks.
A second risk is that, despite the Government's recent approval for a 16-fold tariff increase for
1994-95, there remains a possibility of Government's reluctance for timely tariff increases in the
future. The project has been designed to reduce this risk through phasing of tariff increases over
a 5-year period linked to GUYWA's operative efficiency. A third risk is the possible resistance
of customers to pay the increased tariffs due to the widespread perception that water is a free
good and in light of previous poor and unreliable service. This risk will be mitigated through
the launching of intensive public awareness campaigns regarding the benefits of a safe and
efficient potable water supply on a sustainable basis. Fund have been provided under the project
to undertake such campaigns.



- 35 -
VI. AGREEMNTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1         During negotiations, agreements were reached on the following:
(a) With the Government:
(i)  to provide for counterpart funds for project execution in a timely manner
and to deposit quarterly allocations in a special bank account (para. 2.11);
(ii)  to reconstitute the GUYWA Board by June 30, 1994 and maintain its
membership and composition satisfactory to IDA (para. 3.5 (b));
(iii)  to substantially complete the reorganization of the water sector by August
31, 1994, in accordance with an agreed action plan (para. 3.6);
(iv)  to cause GUYWA to submit by December 31, 1997 the results of the
privatization study in the water sector for IDA's review and comments,
and to prepare an action plan, by June 30, 1998, to implement agreed
recommendations (para. 3.7);
(v)   to settle water-related arrears and other liabilities of the RDCs to the
Guyana Electricity Corporation and others, and use the budgetary
mechanism for settling the arrears of Government agencies to GUYWA
by June 30, 1995 (para. 3.9);
(vi)  to develop a baseline tariff prior to the 1996 tariff increase to ensure
continued access of the poor to potable water (pam. 3.15);
(vii)  to make the agreed 1994 tar  effective as of July 1, 1994 (para. 3.17);
(viii) to agree with IIDA annually on the tariff to be implemented in the
following years, starting in 1995 (para. 3.17);
(ix)  to agree annually with IDA on the level of operational support to be
provided to GUYWA in the following years starting in 1994 (pama. 3.21);
(x)  to submit annual audits of the Special Account and SOEs, no later than 5
months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.10);
(xi)  to conduct annual project reviews (para. 4.1 1) and a mid-term review with
IDA to discuss project performance and monitoring indicators (para.
4.12);



- 36-
(b) With GUYWA:
(i)   to establish a central billing and collection system, by June 30, 1994
(para. 3.13)
(ii)  to not incur long-tenn debt during project period without prior approval
by IDA (para. 3.21);
(iii)  to agree annually with IDA on a three-year rolling investment program
starting in 1994 (para. 3.21);
(iv)  to ensure that the average level of future accounts receivable should not
exceed 75 days billings (pam. 3.22);
(v)   to establish and maintain a Project Management Unit with staffing
satfactory to IDA (pam. 4.1);
(vi) to submit annual audits of its financial statements, no later than 5 months
after the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.10);
(vii)  to submit semi-annual project progress reports, due August 31 and
February 28, for proceeding six months (para. 4.11).
6.2   Completion of the execution of a satisfactory subsidiary agreement between the Ministry
of Finance and GUYWA is a special condition of credit effectiveness (pam. 2.11).
6.3   With the above conditions met, the proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for
an IDA Credit of SDR 12.5 million (US$17.5 million equivalent) to the Republic of Guyana for
a period of 40 years, including a grace period of 10 years, on standard terms.



-37-                           ANNEX 1
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Description of Existing Water and Sewerage FaciLities
Operating Entities
1.          The Guyana water facilities currently fall into the following systems based on the
operating entity:
(a)   Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commissioners System (GS&WC) - that serves
an estimated population of 210,000 people in the capital city of Georgetown.
(b)   The New Amsterdam Town Council System - that serves an estimated popuation
of 20,000 people in the city of New Amsterdam.
(c)   The Sugar Industuy labour Welfare Fund Committee (SILWFC) Systems - dtat
serve an estimated 70,000 people located on sugar estates in several regions
(principally Regions 3, 5 and 6).
(d)   The Linden Mining Enterprise (LINMINE) system - that serves an estimated
30,000 people in Region 10.
(e)   The nine Regional Water Divisions (RWD) of Regional Democrtic Councils
(RDCs) - that operate systems serving an estimated 407,000 people.
Except for LINMINE and SILWFC systems, each of these systems is faced with varying degree
of deficiencies providing potable water services to consumers. Deficiencies are managerial,
technical, institutional and fiancial, depending on the operating entity.
Georgetownm Water and Sewerage Systm
2.          In Georgetown about 50% of the water supply is drawn from 11 wells. Three of
the wells are located in the Shelter Belt Treatment Plant area while the other 8 wells are located
in 7 pump stations around the city. The remaining 50% of the city's Water Supply is provided
by surface water obtained from the East Demerara Water Convervancy via the 12 km long
Lamaha Canal. About one half of the length of the canal is through a highly populated area,
so that the surface water is highly contaminated when it reaches the treatent plant. Total water
production of the Georgetown system was estimtd at 17 million Imperial gallons per day
(MGD) in 1988 compared with an estimated demand of 25 MIOGD. The Shelter Belt Treatment
Plant was built about 45 years ago and has a nominal capacity of 10 M[GD. It has been



-38-                           ANNEX 1
partially upgraded by the European Community (EC), however, it remains presently incapable
of producing water meeting acceptable health standards. It is currently being operated at 13
MIGD, i.e., 3 MIGD beyond its rated capacity. Several problems have been experienced with
the operation and maintenance of the GS&WC system in particular regard to the water treatment
needs. This has been exacerbated by the recurring financial problems of GS&WC and its
inability to pay for treatment chemicals such as alum, lime and chlorine.
3.          There are an estimated 33,000 house connections in Georgetown, all unmetered.
In 1988 there were an estimated 300 commercial meters in service.
4.          The Inter-American Development Bank (1DB) recently approved a loan to
rehabilitate the Georgetown water and sewerage systems. A master plan study for Georgetown
is currently under way -financed by IDB- to determine the long term investment needs in water
supply, sewerage and drainage areas.
Sewerage Facilities
5.          Georgetown is the only area with substantial and functioning sewer services. The
main sewerage system covers about 1,160 acres (about 470 ha.) in central Georgetown and
serves about one-third of the city's population. The sewerage system has not been extended
since it was originally constructed over 60 years ago. There are 24 pumping stations on the ring
main, which have recently been refurbished with EC funds. However, they cannot function
properly because of frequent power outages, and few of the pumps feeding the ring main are in
good working order. The remainder of the city is served by septic tanks without leaching beds,
and pit latrines which discharge into adjacent ditches and storm drainage channels. Collected
sewage is discharged, untreated into the Demerara River estuary.
New Amsterdam Water Supply System
6.          In New Amsterdam the water supply is drawn from 2 wells located on the site of
the recently-completed 2 MIGD water treatment plant under EC financing (LOME III). The
plant is being operated and maintained by a private contractor under a short-term 6-month
services contract, also financed by EC.
7.          The New Amsterdam water distribution system contains about 40 km of PVC
branch mains having diameters up to 4 inches. Designs have been completed under EC funding
for a complete replacement of this system.
8.          There are an estimated 4,000 households in New Amsterdam all of which have
individual house connections. The distribution system is highly dilapidated. This will be
rehabilitated under EC funding (LOMB IV) and under the proposed IDA project.



- 39 -                         ANNEX 1
SILWFC Water Systems
9.          The water supply systems operated by SILWFC in the sugar estates (Regions 4,
5 and 6) comprise 22 wells with an estimated 12,611 connctions.
10.         Most water provided by these systems is made freely available to sugar estate
workers and their families. The SILWFC systems also supply (for a small fee) a number of
non-sugar estate workers whose properties lie adjacent to estate housing areas. SILWFC
estimates it produces 5 MIGD on average and that wastage is around 40%. Most borehole
pumps are provided with two altemative drive units, either electric or diesel. SILWFC facilities
are very old, some are over 30 years of age and the many years of poor maintenance (due to
shortage of spare parts during periods of stringent exchange control) have taken their toll.
LNIUINE Water System
11.          The water systems in the bauxite-producing area of Linden/Wismar in Region
10 are operatd by LINMINE. It comprises three river intakes and treatnent plants in
MacKenzie, Wismar and Wisroc, boreholes and treatment plants at West Watooka and AmeLia's
Ward, and a surface water intake and treatment plant at Ituni. Even though LINMINE's
facilities were modernized with exteWnal assistance in the 1980s, they show signs of deterioration
due to lack of adequate maintenance. This has become more apparent with the decline in the
price of bauxite. These are about 3500 connections in the LNhMINE system. The system
provides an average supply of 4.6 MIGD.
Regonal Water System
12.         Regions I through 6 are siuated along the narrow coastl strp (Regions 4 through
6, being most populated coastal strip) and Regions 7, 8, 9 are in the interior part of the country
which is sparsely populated. Most water facilities are concenad along the coastal strip
(approximately 400 km long and 20 km wide). The water supply in the regions is drawn almost
exclusively from wells. There are an estimated 145 well pump stations of which 8 are
associated with treatment plants (for iron removal) in Region 4 (7 "Montgomery" plants plus
Timeri). In addition there are 2 surface water intkes and teatment plants at Baitca in Region
7. (Region 10 is served by LINMIN).
13.         The 7 "Montgomery" water tetment plants in Region 4 were constructed for
GUYWA in 1973 with USAID financing. The 3 East Coast plants have design capacities of 2.6
MIGD, and the 4 East Bank Demera plants have design capacities of 1.9 MIGD. The eighth
water treament plant in Region 4 is smalaer than the 7 Montgomery plants and is located at
Timehri. It was constructed during World War II by the U.S. Air Force. The "Montgomery"
plants were the subject of a 1992 study financed by CIDA which recommended extensive
improvements.



-40-                           ANNEX 1
14.         The regional water systems are varied with each tailored to meet local conditions.
For instance, the system at Bartica has two pumps to lift water from the Mazarani River. The
water is treated at a plant that was installed in 1982 and which although in apparent good
condition, is not being used because of lack of treatment chemicals. At Matthew's Ridge, the
small system developed by a mining company now serves a fanming community of about 2,000.
Hand pumps are installed in 61 communities and windmills in 32 communities, primarily in the
livestock regions of the southern Savannah.
1S.        It is roughly estimated that about 407,000 population is served by the regional
water systems. The estimated total connections are about 70,000.
16.         Under the proposed water project, about 45 pumping stations will be rehabilitated
according to a pnoritized program. At the other facilities (about 100) short-term repair
maintenance measures will be undertaken until additional funds are available to completely
rehabilitate the stations (See appendix 1, Annex 5 for further details).
Overall Condition of Physical Facilities
17.         The water supply and sanitation systems have suffered from inadequate planning,
design, construction, operation and maintenance. In addition, erratic commercial electric power
supply, lack of effective standby capacity, water stomage, spare parts, and equipment,
transportafion, communication, and security have all contributed to the deterioration of service.
Inadequate opeing budgets have resulted in a lack of sufficient diesel fuel purchase and
insufficient purchase of water treatment chemicals and chlorine. (See Annex 2 for further deails
on O&M problems)
18.        It is estimated that leakage of water from the distribution systems in the regions
may exceed 50%. (A major problem in trying to assess the 'unaccounted for water' (UFW) is
the lack of reliable information on water production and consumption levels). This high rate is
due to improper design and installation, vandalism and shortage of packing materials and pipes
for repair of broken pipes. Vandalism occurs as people break water mains to obtain water
during service interruptions. As a result, when water pressure is restored, excessive leakage
occurs and flows do not reach outlying customers. A detailed stdy on UFW control for the
regional facilities will be undertaken as part of the proposed water project. A poLicy of bulk
metering all the water supplied though the distribution systems in the regions will be adopted.
Since individual metering is not available nor is desitable in the residential areas (due to the
prohibitive cost of metering, meter-reading and maintenance in the context of Guyana's water
sector), trial areas will be established for periodic con"imption metering to facilitate UFW
estimates.



-41-                           ANNEX 1
Water Treatment Issues
19.         Underground Waters. The majority of water in Guyana is supplied from deep
underground aquifers and is not chlorinated. This is understood to be due to the fact that the
water is likely to be free from microbiological or biological contamination at the borehole pump
and that majority of the population seem to boil the water before drinling. It has also been
observed that oxidation by chlorine will produce discoloration (due to the formation of
precipitates of iron) of the water by iron which is present in solution, a situation which will
warrant additional treatment (sedimentation and filtration), considered expensive for the peri-
urban and rual communities of Guyana.
20.         Chlorination at the seven 'montgomery' plants in the metropolitan Region 4 had
ceased despite the fact that these plant had originally included water treatment processes designed
to overcome any discoloration problems. It was understood that this downgrading of the plants
capabilities was the result of cash problems affecting maintenance and the purchase of chemicals.
The reduction in the maintenance of the pumping plants together with the downgrading of the
capabilities of the Montgomery plants is a matter of serious concem. Unless it is reversed it
wil eventually niut the water supply of large areas of the coastal strip in danger. This problem
will be addres,d under the proposed rehabilitation project. A similar situation with regard to
the GS&WC ystem area will be attended under the recently-approved IDB remedial project.
21.         Even if underground water is safe at the borehole pump, the present condition of
the distribution network could cause contamination and it is conceivable that chlorination would
be needed in response to an epidemic (such as the current cholera threat). It is recognized that
the installation of chlorination plant at each borehole may not be a sensible use of resources at
this stage but GUYWA should have, and maintain, trailer mounted emergency chlorination plants
which could be rapidly installed wherever needed. These units will be provided under the
proposed project.
22.         Surface Supplies. As noted earlier, the major surface water abstractions in
Guyana are at:
-     Shelter Belt, Georgetown for GS&WC.
-     Bartica for Region 7
-     Linden (4 plants) in Region 10.
The above facilities provide for sedimentation, filtration and disinfection to varying degree of
treatment efficiency. The Shelter Belt and Bartica systems have been subject to frequent plant
breakdowns (due to poor maintenance) and inadequate levels of treatment (resulting from the
non-affordability of the agencies for the purchase of chemicals such as alum and chlorine etc.).
The above situation should improve under the remedial programs being financed by IDB (for
Georgetown) and by IDA (under the proposed Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation project).



- 42 -                          ANNEX 2
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Issues in the Water Sector
Existing Regional and GITYWA Repair Facilities
1.          The cunent organizational structure for operations and maintenance in the water
sector assigns responsibility for O&M to the Regional Water Division (RWD) administered by
the Regional Democratic Council (RDC), and GUYWA. The Georgetown Sewer and Water
Commissioners (GS&WC) and New Amsterdam Town Council are directly responsible for O&M
of their own municipal systems (the O&M of new Amsterdam System is currently under
temporary contractual arrangements with an overseas contractor until GUYWA can take over
the operations of the system). GUYWA performs maintenance for the regional water divisions
on request basis through their centrl LBI workshop. While the operations and maintenance
organization is decentralized, the allocations of funds, which has been insufficient in the past to
support an acceptable level of operation and maintenance activity, is decided centrally by the
Government. This has resulted in little or no maintenance being performed at the regional as
well as municipal level facilities and at the LEI workshop.
2.          The regional facilities are characterized by:
*     No spare parts or supplies.
*     No tools to perform maintenance.
*     Operators assigned to each facility performing primarily security functions as
opposed to operations and maintenance functions.
*     Little or no skiled maintenance abilities.
*     Lack of knowledge of the system and equipment installed.
*     Little or no O&M support from regional RWDs.
3.          The LBI workshop provides maintenance support to the regions (for a fee) for
overhaul maintenance, materials, spare parts. But it is unable to provide any of these on an
effective basis. The workshop includes:
*     Welding shop
*     machine shop
*     Motor rewind shop
*     tool room
*     Unsecured large material storage area
*     Secured Warehouse material storage area



- 43 -                           ANNEX 2
No provisions for vehicle repair are included at LBI such as vehicle hoists, tools
or repair bays. Vehicle maintenance is currently contracted out to the vehicle
dealership.
Status of Existing Equipment and Systems
4.          There is currently no evidence of an active maintenance program other than on
an emergency basis. The lack of maintenance is reflected in the physical condition of the
electrical and mechanical systems which are characterized by the following:
*     Multiple pieces of equipment and systems are inoperable, including engine
generators, motors, well and booster pumps, valves, water meters, disinfection
equipment and control systems.
*     Extensive cannibalization of electrical and mechanical systems in order to
maintain at least partial operation of some the equipment.
-     Extensive corrosion and resulting deterioration of electrical and mechanical
systems including control, motor, pumps, piping and valves.
*     Little or no preventive maintenance performed.
*     Little or no corrective maintenance performed.
The lack of any maintenance program has resulted in a gradual deterioration of the water supply
and distribution system to its present condition of near total collapse. The reason for the current
situation is the lack of an institutionalized operation and maintenance program in the water sector
and the lack of material and human resources to support an operations and maintenance program.
hsues Related to the Lack of Performance
5.          The poor performance related to O&M in the water sector is the result of multiple
fiLctors which include:
o      Low salaries.
*     Poor worldng conditions.
*     lack of skills.
*     No fonnalized training program.
*     Inadequate tools, materials and supplies.
*     lack of transportation.
*     No communications systems.
*     Low employee morale.
A long term strategy and commitment to the implementation of an institutionalized maintenance
program are as important as the financial and organizational issues. Without this commitment,
investments in capital expenditures will not be protected. These issues are being addressed
under the proposed rehabilitation project.



- 44 -                          ANNEX 2
Recommended Strategy for Operations and Maintenance
6.         Inlstitutioual. Facility operation and maintenance requires a planned approach
which includes the identification of maintenance activities, defining the human and material
resources necessary to carry out the activities and the organizational structure necessary to
implement a maintenance program and provide the resources necessary to support it over the
long term. In order to implement such a program, it is recommended that the regional
maintenance functions be centralized under the responsibility of GUfnVA, with the exceptions
of those facilities and/or areas that are currently independent (SILWFC and GUYMINE
systems). This will result in a centralized responsibility for system O&M with the necessary
resources to accomplish the goals. The proposed reorganization of GUYWA (see Annex 9) will
address this issues. Functional description of the proposed O&M divisions are currently being
agreed with the Government.
7.          The LBI workshop should be strengthened so that it can continue to provide in
an efficient manner, electical and mechanical overhaul support for facilities at the regioial
level. It would also provide machine shop services, using existing and new equipment, the later
to be purchased under the proposed project. As in the past, it would continue to provide
electrical and mechanical preventive, corrective and emergency maintenance at the local level
(Ior Region 4) and on occasion at the regional level particularly in the case of emergencies.
8.         It is recommended that four regional O&M facilities be established in the four
geographic operational divisions, to be newly established under the proposed recentraliztion of
GUYWA (Annex 9). The staff of the above new facilities would be responsible for the well and
plant operations within the regions. They would maintain a local on-site warehousing operation
with inventory suitable to meet all maintenance activities. A preventive maintenance program
will be emphasized for the entire regional systems.
9.          Any successful O&M program relies on the development of human resources in
order to acquire the skills necessary to support the program. To protect any future capital
imvestment, GUYWA must implement a formalized training program to develop the human
resources necessary to support the O&M program. The proposed O&M training will embrace
the following key parameters:
*     Levels of proficiency should be established for operators and skilled craftsmen.
*     Certification is a condition of employment and promotion.
*     Salaries can be linked to levels of certification (which can become a means of
raising public sector wages to the same level as private sector wages). This also
has the effect of expanding the available skilled labor pool which GUYWA can
recruit from if wages are on par with private sector wages.



-45 -                           ANNEX 2
*     Potential exists to establish training partnerships with Govenmuent Technical
Ilstitutes and LINMNE or other private sector programs that are currently
involved in taining activities.
*i    Other established training programs should also be considered, particularly in the
Caribbean area.
The above parameters have been taken into serious consideration in the design and
implementation of the Human Resources Development component of the proposed project.
10.         StandardizationPolicy. Particular attention should be given to the specifications
in the area of electical and pumping equipment strdiation to reduce spare parts inventory.
If possible all pumps of a single type, for example, line shaft turbines, should be by a single
manuficturer. Where possible pump selecton should utilize the same models of pumps so that
spare impellers, shafts wear rings etc. will fit more than one well pump location. Another
consideration to enhance standaon and maintenance support is to require equipment
supplier to have local or regional representation of stocking distributors for example, in Guyana
or within the Caribbean area. If a proposed supplier does not meet this criteria, they could
optionally provide spare parts for the anticipated life of the equipment as part of the bid.
11.         Safety. There exists a need for a formalized safety program within GUYWA that
should be addressed as part of the O&M and training elements of the project. The rs  of
accidents resultiDng in injuries, lost time or fatalities is high. The high risk is due to the broad
r=nge of equipment, systems, and activities that occur during the normal perfornlce of
operations and ma ce, coupled with the lack of a formal safety program. Safety programs,
even formalized programs within an agency, are frequently ineffective because of the way they
are suctured. In this case, they are viewed as punitive in that discipline is the result of
violations of policies and procedures. A second and more successful approach is to involve
those who are directly affected, i.e. those perfonnming operation and maintenance activities, since
they are the ones involved in accidents, and are in the best position to prevent them if provided
with the right tools, traing and equipment to perform  their assigned tasks.  The
recommendations are based on this approach.
*     Create a staff safety office in the Operation and Maintenance oaizaton.
*     Create a system-wide centr safety committee.
*     Create safety subcommitts at each regional O&M facility.
The objectdves of the safety office and committees are:
e     Protection of GUYWA's human resources assets.
*     Reduction of O&M costs through the reduction of lost time due to accidents,
improved productivity, reduced insurance costs and reduced remaining costs.
*     Improved morale.



-46-                            ANNEX 2
The role of the safety office staff is to assist in the development of a comprehensive safety
program, supported by commitee participation. Thus, the Safety Office would develop policies
and prooedures, provide resources to support the committees, adminster safety taining and be
responsible for global issues such as Emergency ReWonse Plans. Ibechical assistance would
be provided to the Safety Office, under the project by the O&M, Trining, and Public
Information Specialists.
12.         Private Sector Participation.  Private sector participation in utility O&M
programs can be an attractive option to developing additional resources within the utility. When
considering private sector participation, however, several issues must be considered. Any
maintenance activities performed by a private contractor must be performance-based which
means that the contractor must have the skldls and equipment necessary to perform the
ce to established performance standards. Second, the contractor is in business to make
a profit, and should be allowed to do so, but not at the expense of performance. Finally, in
order to attract qualified contractors, there must be an incentive to ensure that they con provide
the exected level of performance and sdll make a profit.
13.         Potential Private sector partcipation for O&M activities in the Guyana water
sector can be as follows:
*     Long term contract for the operation/maintenance of facilities, a group of well
sites for example.
X     -Short term conta services to provide specialized O&M services.
14.        In the case of long term contract maintenance, a Request for Proposal is
distributed to potntal contractors specifying not only the materials and supplies and tasks to be
completed, but also the level of performance expected. Evaluation criteria such as experience,
equiment available, equipment and labor rates and previous perfomance are examples. This
type of contract is particularly suited when GUYWA does not have the skills or tools to perfrm
the tak. Potenial areas for this type of contract are:
*     Daily operation and routine main ce of regional well pumping facilities by
experienced contmactors (local or foreign).
*     Well drng, which is currently performed by GUYWA. This type of operation
is capital - and labor - intensive. Serious consideration should be given to the
development of additional pnvate well drilling contractors. This also provides an
additional incentive for the contractor to become a distrbutor for pumping
equipment, and the ablit to provide both short - and long-term maintenance.



- 47 -                          ANNEX 2
*     Distribution system which requires construction skills and equipment, is also
capital intensive and is frequently more cost effective when done by a contractor
specializing in underground constmction activities.
*     Hookup of new services.
*     Vehicle maintenance over the long term. Currently, vehicle maintenance facilities
do not exist within GUYWA. Because of distances involved and the cost of
capital improvements at LBI and each of the regional facilities, contract
maintenance is probably more cost effective. Light maintenance, such as oil
changes, could be performed at the regional O&M facilities.
15.         The other possibility involves the utilization of local contractors for example, to
provide short term maintenance. Typically, this type of maintenance is performed on a time and
material, low bid or time and material not to exceed a maximum price basis. Potential areas for
this type of contrct are:
*     Motor rewinding
*     Pump overhaul
*     .predictive maintenance services
*     Iight electrical and mechanical construction
*     SMachine shop services
*     Instrumentation calibration and repair
*     emergency repair and construction
16.         Private sector participation in the GUYWA O&M program offers opportunities
to leverage O&M resources by udlizing conuactors with existng skills and equipment. It is not
a panacea to maintenance problems in that it must be managed, just as any other aspect of
maintenance. It must be performance based rather than simply evaluated on a low bid basis.
As part of GUYWA's long-term O&M program strategy, the potential of both long and short
term private sector participation will be evaluated under the proposed project together with the
initiation of a pilot contracting program in this area.



- 48 -                   ANNEX3
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILffATION PROJECT
Human Resources Development Issues in the Water Sector
Background
1.         In the Guyana water and sanitation sector, there are wide demands for professional
and sldlled personnel by many public agencies and private enterprises. Major demands for
manpower are placed by the Guyana Water Authority (GUYWA) and the Georgetown Sewerge
and Water Commission (C-S&WC). Also the Regional Democratic Councils have primary
reonsibilities in the provision of drinkdng water in their area of jurisdictions and accordingly
have their own independently operated systems and personnel. (rhe regional systems are,
however, being recentralized under GUYWA under the proposed project).
2.          Currently more than 1,000 people are estimated to be employed in the water and
wastewater sector in Guyana in public and quasi-public agencies and private enterprises.
GUYWA employs about 100 (see Appendix 1) and the Regional Councils have about 600 (see
Appendix 2). The GS&WC has a current staff of about 325. The New Amsterdam water
treatment plant with a staff of 15 is currently operating under a contract arrangement. Public
agencies (agriculture and health), corporations and private enterprises also draw upon the same
professional and skilled work pool, having similar requirements as the water sector for their
operatons. An exact count of these workers is not available but is estimated to be about 200.
Thus the total employed in the national water sector should be about 1,200. A major part of the
workforce are pump operators and laborers but the critical demands are for technical and
management staff.
3.          Existing water facilities are currently understaffed in certain regions. GUYWA's
total staff is about 40 percent below authorized staff positions, while GS&WC staffing is about
10 percent below. Regional staff vacancies would vary within the norm of the national statistics
for understaffing (10-20%). GUYWA has a current vacancy list of 55, while the regional
councils is estimated at 60. With the 35 vacancies in GS&WC, there is a need to fill some 150
slots in the public water sector.
4.          In addition to the need for the new input of workers to fill existing vacancies,
there is an immediate requirement to upgrade the skills of exisng staff. These requirements
range from managers to pump operators to clerical staff.



- 49 -                  ANNEX 3
S.          At present, GUYWA does not have a formal human resources development
OM) program. Adhoc training has been the mode for several decades with out-of-country
tours and attendance at short-courses, usually under UN sponsorship. These overseas activities
have been confined mainly to top managers with minimal participation by middle management
or field staff. The recent training programs have mainly included three GUYWA engineers who
were sent overseas for I-year academic courses at Delft, Netherlands, under UN sponsorship
and completed courses in hydrology, hydraulic and water quality management. Cufrently, a
GUYWA employee is attending a 6-month laboratory technician training course at the University
of Guyana.
6.          As with other infrastructure sectors in Guyana, the development of the water
supply and sanitation sector has been considerably affected due to the lack of human resources.
In the past decade, the low wages associated with the economic crisis in Guyana caused a
massive migration of qualified professionals to other countries. The level of salaries still
remains very low and it is extremely difficult to attract the necessary qualified workers to fil
the existing vacancies in the sector. The total staff turnover has been estimated at 20% for the
recent 3 to 4 years period. The situation continues to decline as can be seen clearly in the
weakened managerial and technical abilities of GUYWA at present.
7.          The assessment of the current manpower situation in GUYWA and the Regional
Councils indicates the need for a HRD program to forestall furlter deterioration of the
management and operation of the water sector. The approach is to implement "fast track" short-
tern activities to address urgent training needs, while simultaneously mounting long-term
sustainable HRD program in the water sector, administered by the Personnel and Trinng
Department of GUYWA (to be forned as part of the proposed resucturing of the water sector).
8.          Potential Training Institufions.  Guyana is fortunate in having a good
educational system, developed over several decades of efforts, since independence. This system
reaches into the tertiary level at the University of Guyana, with undergraduate and post graduate
programs. There are about 300 students involved in all programs. The University of Guyana
offers a 4-year academic program in engineering, as well as other disciplines. Engineering is
under the Faculty of Science and Technology. Other courses relevant to the water and sanitation
sector are in environmental health in the Faculty of Health Sciences and laboratory technicians
at the Faculty of Natural Sciences. The Civil Engineering program includes courses in Water
Resources, Water Supply and Public health. The annual output of the Civil Engineering
program varies between 10 and 15 graduates with baccalaureate degrees. A total of about 50
graduates complete their courses annually from the engineering programs (Civil, Electrical,
Mechanical and Mining).
9.         In addition to the engineering disciplines, the University graduates environmental
health (ER) personnel, who are employed generally by the Ministry of Health, Regional Health
offices and health related industries. EH personnel are involved with the health agencies in
community level projects with inputs from national agencies such as SIMAP and GAHEF.



- 50 -                   ANNEX 3
10.        In addition to the University of Guyana, there are several technical institutes,
graduating students with many skills suitable for the water supply sector. These include the
Georgetown and the New Amsterdam Technical Institutes, where students undergo a 2-year
formal training program in gaining technical skills in a range of subjects. Technical training
programs are also conducted by the Linden Mining Enterprise (LINMINE) at Linden for their
own apprentices in mining operations. Several major public and private corporations also sustain
in-house technical training for young apprentices. According to the national Board of Industrial
Training (Ministry of Labor, Human Services and Social Security) there are 211 apprentices
registered with them in 1992 from public and private agencies.
11.        In the Caribbean region there are several educational and training institutions that
can provide support to the development of professional, technical and management personnel in
the water sectors. These include the 4-year engineering programs at the Trinidad campus of the
University of the West Indies and the College for Arts, Sciences and Technology at Kingston,
Jamaica. For management-related education, the Institute of Management and Productivity at
Barbados provides academic (4-year) programs in basic business administration and management.
Until recently the Caribbean Development Bank Training Unit at Barbados used to hold short-
courses in project preparation, appraisal, implementation and management related to water
sector. This operation is soon to be transferred to St. Lucia.
12.         Other training support groups are available in the periphery of the Caribbean.
These include the Regional Water and Sanitation Network (RWSN) at Guatemala City which is
part of the International Training Network for the Water and Wastewater Management (ITN) and
of the University of the University of Florida Trining, Research and Education for Environment
Occupations Center at Gainsville, Florida. All of these groups can provide valuable support in
the training of Guyanese professionals in the water sector.
Role of Women in Water Sector
13.        It is estimated that about 55 to 60 percent of the population in Guyana are woman.
It is vital that women must be deeply involved in all aspects of water provision as well as usage.
As it is women who retain responsibility for home care, access to water must be provided with
women in mind. In a labor force which cannot adequately respond to manufacturing and service
needs, it would be wasteful to overlook the prevailing group of women as available and potential
workers. Presently, about 25 percent of the water wel pump operators in Guyana are women.
Women should be encouraged to train and work at all levels in the institution concerned with
the provision of community water. This wil be attended to under the proposed water project.
14.         Few women have gone to the university in water engineering (and only one
engineering professor is female) and are thus unprepared for the work in the water sector.
(GUYWA presently has one female engineer). However, there remain very few qualified
engineers willing to work in the water sector and thus, both men and women will need to be



- 51-                   ANNEX 3
encouraged to attend the university to study engineering. Pioneering work could be done to
encourage women to attend the university and to be accepted in the engineering profession.
15.        For ninety percent of the women in Guyana, questions concerning water will be
addressed by figuring out how to improve the existing service. For these women, once this goal
is firmly in place, finding ways to involve them as employees in the water sector will enhance
their life by providing some economic stability and freedom. However, ten percent of the
population of Guyana continues to live in isolated, rural conditions. (This is where the
Amerindian population is concentrated). Again, many of these communities were once served
by pumps and local water systems which are now defunct. These people will profit by a
community development approach to water and public awareness. It is important, however, that
this approach be carefully conceived to meet their needs. Coordination with other agencies such
as SNAP and UNICEF should be sought in this regard.
Public Awareness/Public Relations
16.        Public campaigns will have to center in two areas:
(a)   The sphere of information about good drinking water
(b) The sphere of information about training and employment possibilities
(particularly for women).
Information campaigns will be made easier by the fact that Guyana is a highly literate country
(estimates run from 85-93 percent literacy rate) and that most people have electricity and access
to radio and television as information sources.
The first sphere must address three issues:
(a)  that clean water is obtainable and one must pay "for the delivery of clean water".
This is a highly sophisticated country where people understand both the
importance and the reality of clean water. Experts indicate that a water program
that does not provide access to pure and dependable water will fail. Until the
breakdown of the water system, the majority of people in Guyana had clear, clean
water running into their houses. They are looking for a restoration of this
service, not a new product. Most rural families pay up to G$200-500 a week for
drinking water because they will not drink the untreated water;
(b)  that until pure water is provided to the home, water for human consumption must
continue to be boiled or treated. There has been some education on this, but
present statistics show an increase in diarrheal diseases; and
(c)  that if water service is to be provided to the communities, the communities must
clearly understand the importance of a "protected" system. As it stands now,



- 52 -                   ANNEX3
often people either break into the system or remove pieces of the piping where
water is not being pumped. Unless the people protect the integrity of the system
in their community, water losses will continue to be high.
The second sphere centers on possibilities for tmaining and employment for women. Given the
culture of Guyana, men and women will need to be educated on the necessity for economic
independence for women as well as on the possibilities for women to be active participants in
a labor force which has not traditionally been the case. The emphasis here could well be on the
waste of human resources in a country that has a shortage in the labor pool. The HRD
component of the proposed rehabilitation project is being aimed at addressing the above issues.



-53 -                            ANNEX 4
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABATION PROJECT
Summary of Key Legislative Provisions
in Water Sedor and Water Resources Management
The Guyana Water Authority Act
The Guyana Water Authority was established in 1972 by the Guyana Water
Authority Act and was set up to take over and administer, with immediate effect and to the
exclusion of any body, aU sewage and water services in those areas of Guyana previously
operated by the Pure Water Supply Division. GUYWA was also mandated to provide water and
sewerage services to those areas that were not within any existing fresh water supply systems.
The principal functions of GUYWA as defined in the Act are as follows -
-To control and regulate the collection, production, treatment, storage
uransmission, distribution and use of water (including the supervision of
surface waters and ground waters in Guyana) and to make orders with
respect thereto;
-     To construct, acquire, provide, operate and maintain waterworks and to
develop and make available supplies of water to the public;
-     To construct, acquire, provide, operate and maintain sewage works and
to receive, rat and dispose of sewage;
-     To make agreements with any person with respect to the supply of water,
or the reception, treatment and disposal of sewage;
-     To conduct research programs related to their functions under this Act
-     To dissemiate information and advice with respect to the collection,
production, transmission, treatment, storage, supply and distribution of
water and to the treatment and disposal of sewage;
-     To advise the Minister on matters relating to the collection, production,
transmission, treatment, storage, supply and distribution of water and to
teatmnent and disposal of sewage;
To perform such other functions, not inconsistent with the Act, as may be
assigned to them from time to time, by the Minister;



-54-                            ANNEX 4
-     To carry on such other activities as may appear to the Authority requisite,
advantageous or conducive for or in connection with the performance of
their functions under this Act.
There are other areas of authority provided to GUYWA by the Act;
1.   GUYWA may delegate to any local authority or other body, if it thinks
advisable, the power to carry out on its behalf all or any of its function.
2.    GUYWA may also acquire, if the Minister considers it to be in the public
interest, any existing water or sewerage system administered by other
authordties and bodies.
3.    GUYWA has the power to give directions of a general or special character
to any authority or body, in connection with the provision of water or
sewerage services.
The Guyana Water Authority (Delegation of Functions) Order 1991
The Order, authorized by the Chairman of the Authority, was made under the
powers conferred upon the Authority by Section 8 of the Guyana Water Authority Act
Although made in August 1991 it was deemed to have come into operation in
December 1984.
The Order transferred to the Regional Democratic Council (RDC) the right to
provide sewage and water services, make and renew connections and charge for the services.
The Georgetown Sewage and Water Commissioners, the New Amsterdam Town
Council, the Guyana Mining Enterprise Limited and the Sugar Industry Labor Welfare Fund and
Committee were exempt from the Order. They were judged as other agencies serving their own
areas.
The RDC are to be accountable to the Authority for the use of the assets of the
Authority. They can only operate their sewage and water systems, impose rates and establish an
annual budget for the Water and Sewage Unit in consultation with the Authority.
The Authority is required to provide an inspectorate to monitor the operation and
maintenance and recommend methods for implementing services and maintaining and preserving
assets. It shall also carry out a comprehensive review of the systems and report to the Minister.
The Local Democratic Organs Act



- 55 -                           ANNEX 4
In the early 1980's the Govemnment decided to adopt a policy of  istrative
decentralization. The Local Democratic Organs Act (No. 12 of 1980) established new regional
systems for water supply in 1984.
Bach of the Regions is governed by an elected Region -I Democratic Council
which is its principal decision-making body. In all Regions the chief official is the Regional
Executive Officer, but below this although the structures and methods of working are different,
they are essentially variations on the same theme whereby, as far as water is concemed, a
superintendent, reporting to a Regional engineer, is responsible for the functioning of pumping
stations and line maintenance.
These different working arrangements are however not of any great significance;
what is important is that whilst GUYWA are responsible for providing technical support and
advice to the Regions, in practice operaional efficiency and quality of service are vested in the
Region.
The Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commision
The Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commisson was established under the
Georgetown Sewerage and Water Act. This body consists of a total of eight members comprised
as follows:
Seven persons appointed by the Minister, of whom three at least shall be
elected members of Georgetown City Council and shall be nominated by
that Council and
-     The Mayor of Georgetown for the time being.
The functions of the Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commission are as follows:
-     The Sewerage system of Georgetown and the pipes, mains, weirs, pumps
etc. used or intended to be used for the supply of water to Georgetown for
domestic purposes are vested in the Commissioners who shall care,
inspect, maintain, repair, work and manage them.
In addition, the Minister may cause the Commission to carry out certain functions
as follows:
To cause to be constructed such underground main drinag sewers in the
streets of Georgetown, colecting sewers and house sewers as are
necessary to complete the construction of the sewerage works of
Georgetown and for the conveyance and disposal of the sewage thereof,



-56 -                            ANNEX 4
To cause to be laid down, installed, erected, and constructed all such
works, pumps, machinery, appliances and accessories as may be requisite
for the effective operation and working of the sewerage system and for the
proper conveyance and disposal of the sewerage of Georgetown;
To employ a resident engineer, who shall be the officer in charge of and
responsible for the construction of the wors mentioned above.
-     To employ all such engineers, superintendents, officers, tradesmen,
workmen and laborers and enter into such contracts in or about the works
as may be deemed necessaiy or expedient.
The Municipal and District Councils Act -1969
The New Amsterdam Town Council is established under the Municipal and
District Councils Act and is charged with responsibility for providing the town of New
Amsterdam with a supply of water, proper and sufficient for sanitary and domestic purposes,
for extinguishing fires and for private use. In discharging its responsibility, the Council may do
the following:
Construct, lay down and maintain waterworks and may do any, or execute
all works, matters and things necessary for and incidental to the purpose
of this section
lTe Council shall provide and keep in any waterworks constructed or laid
down by it, a supply of pure and wholesome water and the water so
supplied shall be constantly laid on at a pressure sufficient to convey it to
the top story of the highest dwelling-house within the Town or at such
other suitable pressure as may be directed by the Council.
The Eat Demerara Water Conservancy and The Boerasirie Water Commissioners
The East Demeram Water Conservancy Board of Commissioners was established
under the Bast Demeram Water Conservancy Act. It consists of the following nine
Commissioners.
The District Commissioner (now District Development Officer)
Two members of the Georgetown City Council, and
Six persons elected by the proprietors of certain specified plantations
mentioned in the first schedule to the Act.



- 57 -                           ANNEX 4
T'he Boerasirie Water Commissioners are appointed under the provisions of the
Boerasirie Creek Act. These Commissioners are four in number and are appointed in the
following manner
One Commissioner is appointed by the Minister, and
The other three Commissioners are elected by proprietors of the
plantaions mentioned in the schedule to the Act.
In the case of both the East Demerara and Boerasirie Conservancies,
Commissioners, the functions of their respective Boards of Management are similar and enable
them to do the following:
Apply for and hold any grants of statelands authorized to be issued to
them by the Minister
Hold lands for the construction of all necessary works for conserving and
distributing the waters of the Lamaha, Laluni Maduni and Boerasarie
Creeks and for such works as may be approved of or directed by the
Minister, and generally for the purposes of this Act.
Construct and maintain all such weirs, sluices, locks, kokers, dams,
canals, waterways or other works both in the said creeks and otherwise,
as may be expedient for the conservation and distribution of the waters of
these creeks, and all such works as are approved of or directed by the
Minister.
-     Regulate the supply and distribution of water from the appropriate creeks and the
means of takdng or receiving the same, and for what purpose.
The Guyana Sugar Corporation
This Corporation does not control any portion of the water resource of the country by any
Act of Parliament. However, the Corporation owns large acreages of land which it has primarily under
sugar cultivation. Sugar cultivation requires efficient water control and thrives best when irrigation water
is regularly available to it from some guarateed source of supply.
Because of the system of enfranchisement of the proprietors under the Acts governing the
management of East Demerara and Boerasirie Water conservancies which provided for the proprietors
to elect the majority of the Commissioners on the Board of these conservancies, Guysuco being the
largest landed proprietor in the areas served by these conservancies, was always able to elect all the
Commissioners, other than those appointed by the Minister, to represent them on the Boards and was thus
able to control the management of these two water conservancies.



-58 -                            ANNEX 4
The Mahalca/Mahaicony/Abary-Agricultural Development Authority
This Authority was created under the provisions of Act 27 of 1977 known as the
Mahaica/Mahaicony/Abary-Agricultural Development Authority to exercise all those powers, an- cany
out the functions of those agencies that are responsible for the development of land, for agricultural and
residential purposes, within the project area
The Mahaicahaicony/Abary-Agricultural Development Authority, under the provisions
of the Act which created it, was able to exercise in its project area, those functions conferred on the
following agencies under the appropriate Acts:
(a)   The Central Authority under the Town and Country PLanning Act, for the entire
area, except those which under the Act are administered by a Local Government
Authority or any area designated for the purpose, by the Centr Authority.
(b)   The Central Board of Health under any law for the time being in force, for the
entire project area, except for those areas contained therein which are administered
by a Local Government Authority, or any other area designated for the purpose by
the Central Authority.
(c)   The Guyana Water Authority under the Guyana Water Authority Act, except for
the provisions related to the construction or alteration of any sewage works or
waterworks by the Authority, under Section 20 of the Guyana Water Authority
Act.
The Sugar Industry Labor Welfare Fund Comnittee
The Sugar Industry Labor Welfare Fund was established by law in 1947 to provide for the
improvement of social and public health conditions of workers in the sugar industry with special reference
to housing, sanitation and potable water supply. Responsibility for administering and controlling the Fund
is vested in a Committee appointed by the President for a term of two years and comprising two public
officers, tbree persons nominated by the Guyana Sugar Producers' Association and three persons
nominated by the Trade Unions concerned with the welfare of workers in the sugar industry.
The Committee administers 21 water supply systems and these supply potable water to
sugar estate workers free of charge. SILWFC formerly operated 33 wells but 13 of these were handed
over to GUYWA in 1974.
This transfer of assets and responsibilities was effected under the Guyana Water Authority
(Acquisition) Order 1974. The 1972 Act empowered GUYWA to take over the assets of other water
supply organizations if this was in the public interest. It was the intention of GUYWA to take over the
rest of the Sugar Industry Labor Welfare Fund Committee's water supply system but this process was
halted mainly because of trade union pressure. They felt that GUYWA was not running the systems it



- 59 -                           ANNEX 4
bad taken over at all effectively and that sugar workers were suffering as a consequence. As a result of
the pressure that they brought to bear on the industry this process of transferring assets to GUYWA was
effectively halted. The systems handed over by the SILWFC to GUYWA are now part of the regional
water supply structure.
The SILWFC operates independently of GUYWA. It would however need to go to
GUTYWA if it wanted a new well drilled, both to get permission to do so and also to use GUYWA's
drilling facilities for this purpose. However, no new well has been required since 1975.
The Food and Drugs Act, Chapter 34:03, 1971
The Government Analyst is in the process of re-establishing a sampling and analytical
program for water. The mission statement for the Government Analyst Department includes the phrase:
i.. to ensure the provision of wholesome food, drugs and potable water".
The term "potable water" is defined in the Regulations made under the Food and Drugs
Act in 1977, where it is stated that:
"Potable water" means water which is clear, colorless, wholesome and free from any
pathogenic micro-organism and chemical contaminant".
The Government Analyst is of the opinion that there is need for clarification in the Act,
probably by Regulation, of his Department's role in the testing of potable water.



-60 -                          ANNEX S
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND RERABILITATION PROJECT
National Rehabilitation Strategy for Water Faciities
Integrated Strategy
1.          A national rehabilitation strategy for water facilities in Guyana is essential for
revitalizing the nation's dridnking water infrastructure. Many years of neglect have left most
water production, treatment and distribution facilities in a state of incipient or actual collapse.
To redress this situation an integrated strategy has been developed which encompasses the
following key areas:
Physical
(a)   Restoration of pumping capacity and availability of alternative power to provide
adequate pressure in water distrdbution systems.
(b)   Maintenance of electro-mechanical facilities and availability of spares and standby
units.
(c)   Proper operation and upkeep of existing water production facilities to ensure safe
water supplies nationwide.
Thuacial
(a)   Mobilization of internal and external (bilateral, multilateral, NGOs etc) resources
necessary to implement rehabilitation schemes.
(b)   Improved cost recovery from the beneficiaries.
Istitutonal
(a)   Prioritization of nationwide rehabilitation schemes by GUYWA and the Ministry
of Public Works, Communications and Regional Development (MPWCRD).
(b)   Implementation of the schemes by a special Projt.t Management Unit (PMU)
attached to GUYWA and reporting directly to the General Manager of GUYWA.
(c)   Public awareness campaigns - particularly aimed at children and women - for the
involvement of the local community.



-61-                         ANNEX 5
(d)   Periodic monitoring and evaluation of the rehabilitation progrms and revision of
stategy as needed (by MPWCRD).
Implementation-Related
(a)   Adoption of a phased-approach in line with available fimancing and
implementation capacity of GUYWA (rehabilitation to be completed within a
desirable 10-year time frame, beginning 1994).
(b)   For "fast-track" implementation, the "project cycle" for each facility - from
bidding to completion stage - should not exceed 12-month period, coinciding with
GUYWA's budgetary cycle.
(c)   Active donor coordination in regard to the mobilization of funds and consistency
of policy approach and implementation.
It is proposed and all rehabilitation projects in the water sector in the regions follow a consistent
approach based on the above strategy, irrespective of the source of funding and agencies
involved.
2.          Needs Assessment. To determine the physical rehabilitation needs of the publc
water sector in the regions, it was necessary to conduct surveys regarding the condition of the
facilities. Given the concentration of the population in the coastal regions (particularly Regions
2 though 6), emphasis was placed to obtain the needed information on production facilities
(about 145) in these regions. Regions 1 and 9 contain no urban centers and Region 8 is
considered to have one concenirated population area i Mahdia which was included in the
survey. The survey forms obtained for each region contained a preliminary indication of relative
priorities witbin the region. Based on the above survey, a list of major rehabilitation schemes-
involving some 45 stations - was drawn up to be included in the proposed project. (See
Appendix 1 for this list). The remaining stations (about 100) will receive repair maintenance
until funds are made available to rehabilitate them fully.
3.         RehabDitation Costs. The estimated total rehabilitation costs for the identified
public regional water systems will be about US$60-70 million of which about 65% is attributable
to urban systems. it should be noted at this point that in four regions (Regions 3,4,5 and 6) a
significant portion of the rural population is served by the Sugar Industry Labor Welfare Fund
committee (SILWFC) with a combined total population estimated at about 70,000 people. It was
reported that these SILWFC systems have not been receiving adequate maintenance and repair
during the past few years, and it is possible that in the future the rehabilitation needs of these
facilities will have to be addressed. SILWFC systems were not included in the recently-
conducted survey, nor were the facilities in Region 10 operated by GUYMMIN.



- 62 -                        ANNEX S
4.          Recommended Phasing. The estimated global cost of the rehabilitation program
(above para ) far exceeds available external funding. For this reason, it is recommended that
the overll rehabilitation prgram be expanded over a 10 year timeframe to suit the anticipated
availability of funds. The proposed project, which would constitute the first phase of major
rehabilitation would cover approximately 45 facilities. As noted earlier, minor rehabilitation of
the remaing some 100 pumping stations will also be caried out as an urgent maintenance
measure under the proposed project. The propoed project is being cofmanced by the Overseas
Development Administration (U.K.) and the Caribbean Development Bank (CDB). The cost of
the physical rehabilitation component of the above project is approximately US$16 million. It
is intended that the above project would act as a catalyst to mobilize external resources as well
as internally-generated funds (by improving water revenues) in the sector. Improved cost
recovery, billing and accounting systems and tariff sttucture are an integral part of this project.
5.          It is clear that the success of any strategy in the water sector depends on the
willingness and ability of the people to pay. For many years the Guyanese people have suffered
from grossly inadequate service, and many older citizens remember earlier days with excellent
service. From the recent experience in New Amsterdam, people are willing to pay increased
water rates if they see tangible improvements in service. Tnerefore, it is essential that the
proposed rehabilitation project lkck-stat the needed improvements and create conditions
conducive to appropriately increasing tariffs as the service levels are improved.
6.          Design Criteria. The rehabilitation schemes will be designed on the basis of
appropriate design and service level criteria presented in Appendix 2. These criteria have been
developed to minimize the O&M problems experienced in the past and to improve the declining
service levels in the sector.



ANNEX 5
63                                         Appendix I
List of Major Rehabilitation Schemes
ISYSTEM NAME    RlEGION T EXIST. PUMFING STATIONS        SERVICE AREA             COME
I_______ NUMBER            NAME             POPULATION    I         COMMENTS
LIBI              4          a         Sparendaam            ea0.0o       RehabilitatIon of the existing
Better Hope                       treatment plants at Better Hope.
Vryheid's Lust                     Mon Repos and Friendship will
Success                          piovide all of the necessary
La Bonne Intention                   water supply for this service are
Mon Repos
Lusignan
Friendship
ECCLES             4         4           Eccles              S2.000       Rehabilitation of the existing
Covent Garden                       treatrnent plants at Eccles,
Golden Grove                       Covent Garden and Grove will
New Hope                          provide all of the necessary
water supply for this service area
ROSE HALL          6                      Fyrish             38,000       Williamsburg well has recenty
Albion                          been upgraded by GUYWA.
Williamsburg
Rose Hall (old)
Rose Hall (new)
Port Mourant
Letter Kenny
Whim
ANNA REGINA        2         7         Walton Hall           15,600
Daineistown
Lima
Henrietta
Anna Regina
Land of Plenty
_________  _________    Queenstown   _
POUOEROYEN        3         6          Pouderoyen            21,300       SIMAP is funding rehab. of the
Best/Hospital                      Windsor Forest well to a
Nouvelle Flanders                   standard that will be consistant
Windsor Forest                      with the rehab. proposed under
Pakistan                        this program
__ ____________   _________    _________  Fellowship  _
BUSH LOT           5        a           Eldorado             15,000
Seaffeld
Kingelly
Trafalgar
Bush Lot
Ft Wellington
CORRIVERTON        6         6           No.69               25.000
No.73
Springlands
Oueenstown (SLWFC)
Line Path (SILWFC)
Crabwood Creek
TOTAL                       4 5                             207,200



PUMPING STATION & FACLllY U81ING FOR MINOR REHABLITATION PROGRAM
,  . ,        Ebinie     ...              .           nae-.                                 Enstated
Station                     SentoesAree Statbn                      Service Area Staton                     SsMce Area
Number  Statio   ae                     Number  Staton name         Poculation  4Number  Staion nane        Poulation
EGN                                    GON  (cont.d)                         REGION
1.1 Mabwuma 1*,                         4.5 Soesdyke                3,733      e1  No. 53                    2446
1.2 Barbns *                1.100       4.6 Cane Grove              1.868 &2 Cumberland                      3.009
1.3 Waaina *      -                     4.7 Victoda                 4.669       83 Leosbiolden              2.021
I4EGION                                       4.8 UIty                    1.w         8.4 John (SLWFC)            3,757
21 Auoaa                    1,619       4.9 Enterptise              3.563        5 Mbkudrl                   3.205
22 Bounty Ha B              3,118      4.10 Mocha                   2210        86 Bush Lot                  3,031
23 Chadty                   3.3t#      4.11 Supply                 2162        &7 Adventtwe                 3031
24 Cullen                   1.921      4.12 Helena #1               2.162       8.8 Adelph (SLWFC3           3.009
25 Good Hope                1.619      4.13 Tlmehr BoosteW StaL     1,06B       6.9 Altdon (SLWFC)           a.57
26 Ondemeehbig (nev4        1,921      4.14 Land of Canaan          1.525      6.1 0 Belvedre (SLWFC)       3.757
2.7 Huiat TOeren            1,921      4.15 Caledonia               1.525      8.11 Tan (SLWFC)              .757
2.8 Rlveratoi               1,921      4.16 Timehr #4               1,066      8.12 No. 63                  2446
259 Zoro                    1.9        4.17 KIuruKuru *               500      6.13 No. 47                  2.448
REGION .                                     4.18 KAJru Kururu              900      8.14 Bengal                  2,448
3.1 Vergenoegen             3,823      4.19 Tinehti Reservoir       1.066      8.15 Cronarty                3,031
3.2 Rbhnond Hil U           1.599      4.20 TimehriWTP              1,068      8.16 No. 39 (Gibrfter)       1.13B
3.3 Canal No.1I Polder      2.30       4.21 Yarrawkebra               300      8.17 Candleld (SLWFCQ        3.009
3.4 BeiieVue                2.83       4.22 CAD weD                 1.066      8.18 Ade1phi                 3.ao9
3.5 Canal No. 2Polder       283        4.23 Timehri #5              1,066      8.19 Sheet Anchor            3.009
3.6 Noltgedadit WI          1.98       4.24 Srhaven                   261      820 Yakusai                  2.242
2.7 Caledonia WI            1 95       4.25 President's Colleae *     500      8.21 Eversham                2.446
3.8 MarlXs Fleasure WI      1.955 IREGION !                                    6.22 No. 57                  2,446
3.9 Le Grange               2309        5.1 5CEdward                4,121      6.23 Joanna                  1.790
2.1  KIngston LI             1.599       5.2 Nlovar                  Z.455      8.24 Lochaber                1.52
3.11 Hyde Pek                1.5I        5.3 Woodly Park             4,121      8.25 Gangaram                3.09
3.12 Hubu                      74       5.4 Ithaca                   1,195      6.28 Sisters                 1,497
3.13 BelleLu                 28         5.5 Rosignol                 4,121      6.27 Palmyra                 118
3.14 Sucocese U              1,599       5.6 Nlo. 7                  4,121      6.28 No. 19                  1.1
3.15 Amesterdern U           1,599      5.7 Calcutta                  455       629 Edinburgh (SLWFC)        1.49?
3.16 Parika                  1582       5.8 Cottage Hosp tal        2314       6.30 New Forest *              500
3.17 L' Oratoire             2,309      5.9 Bygeval                   521       6.31 Orelia                    500
3. 8 Fann                    3    |    5.10 Pebecca's Rust            80        8.32 Mara                       17
REGION 4                                     5.1 1 Strangroen               830 REGION
4.1 Conbrook                5,532      5.12 Mortice                   885       7.1 Bartica WrP             8.223
4.2 Haslington              4.69       5.13 Dehoop                   670        7.2 Bartica Pump Station    6.22
4.3 Enmore                  7.187      5.14 Perserverence            830        7.2 Banica Ptmp Station     B.22
4.4 Melanie                                                                        I _ .   .
Staion Name        This is the individual pumping stationflcility name for all stations that have been Inspected
under the Fixed Asset Evaluation Study excludng hose stationffaclities that mre induded in
the Major Rehablitation Progranm.
Population         1981 Census: ThNsis Ithe eshnated sevioe area population based on both the 1981 Census
and Inornmation provided fomr both GUIYWA and the Regional Superintendants on distribution                  Ii
system srce hmita for Individual pumping stations.
PopLiation esnated as no Census ords are ulalge Xe



- 65 -                   ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
Design Guideines for Water Pump Statons,
Treatment Plants and Distribution Systems
The following design crteria are intended to facilitate a consistent technical
approach toward addressing the many deficiencies st currenly exist in Guyana's public water
supply facilities. These criteria will be reviewed and refined as needed dunng the
implementation of the proposed project, as additional information becomes available to
GUYWA.
The proposed project represents Phase I of the recommended 10-year
rehabilitation progmam needed to rehabilitate the nationwide water supply facilities, operated by
the RDCs. The project distinguishes two types of rehabiitation schemes: major or "Tier 1
Schemes" (including Region 4 metro area and high-density settlements including municipalities)
and minor or "nier 2 Schemes" (including mosdy rural areas). It is anticipated that during
subsequent phases (to be financed under future projects), the "Tier 2" schemes will be further
upgraded to equal the higher service level of -ier 1 schemes.
1.    Design Horizon - minimum
*     Mechanical Equipment - 15 years
*     Structures and non-mechanical items - 30 years
2.   Population Projections
*     Based on 1991 census and rates of growth projected by State Planning.
*     For design use population projected in 15 years with capability for future
expansion
3.    Water Production and Service Levels
o     Design flows Water Treatment Plnts and Pump Stations
average day  (ADF)       60igpcd    or    270 liters/cap/day
maximum day (F)          90igpcd    or    400 liters/cap/day
peak rate    (PDF)      120igpcd    or    540 liters/cap/day
*     Hours of Opeatkon
Tier 1      -           minimum 12 hours of service per day at
PDF
Tner 2      -           minimum 8 hours of service per day at PDF



- 66 -                   ANNEX S
Appendix 3
4.    Water Storage
*     In Phase 1, no new storage will be provided. Only rehabilitation of
existing ground and elevated storage in the LBI and Eccles (Region 4
Metropolitan) systems will be undertaken.
*     In subsequent phases, as interconnected systems are strengthened and
treatment and supply facilities are consolidated, ground or elevated storage
(6 to 8 hours capacity at ADF) will be provided.
*     All schemes to have storage or some other redundancy (e.g. duplicate
power supply, pumps, etc.)
*     Schemes with ground storage reservoirs to have multiple pressure pumps
(1 standby) or be interconnected with another scheme.
5.    Water Loss (tentative until field information is made available under the proposed project)
based on the assumption that under Phase 1, distribution systems will be repaired rather than
replaced:
*     Present time      -     50% of water production (systemwide)
3    In 5 years         -     35 % of water production (systemwide)
*     In 10 years       -     25 % of water production (systemwide)
6.    Fire Protection
*     Under Phase I, no hydrants of fire connections will be provided. In
subsequent phases, hydrants or other fire connections to be included only
for distribution systems (networks) accessible to fire fighting equipment.
7.    Water Pressure (minimum requirements after rehabilitation or reconstruction)
*     Distribution systems (pumping requirements) are to be designed to achieve
the following pressures at the extreme ends of the system:
o     Pmin = 40psi (at ADF)
Pmin = 30psi (at MDP)
Under Phase I, the existing distribution systems will not be continuously
pressurizing and will be repaired (for the most part) rather than replaced.
Accordingly, the above noted pressures may not be attainable in each
case.



- 67 -                    ANNEX 5
Appendix 3
8.    Disinfection
*     In Phase I, disinfection will not be provided other than at the LBI and
Eccles systems treatment plants that previously provided disinfection.
Portable chlorinators will, however, be made available to meet any
emergency needs.
*     In subsequent phases, as interconnected systems are strengthened and
treatment and supply facilities are consolidated, disinfection to produce a
detectible residual at the extreme ends of the distribution systems witl be
provided.
9.   Iron Removal
*     To be provided only at Friendship (ECD) and Eccles. Convent Garden,
Golden Grove (EDB) where iron removal was originally provided.
*     To be provided in subsequent phases for other locations where indicated
necessary be chemical analysis.
10.   Corrosion Resistance
i     As a minimum, for wells the following materials to be used:
Tier 1 - Water Tratment Plants: Stainless screens/strainers, stainless steel
flanged columns and attachments, fiberglass well pump with zincless
bronze bowls and stainless steel trim.
*     Tier 1 and 2 Regional Pump Stations: same as above except that well
pumps can be cast iron with vitreous enamel-coated bowls and stainless
steel trim.
*     Station piping and fittings, steel or ductile iron, epoxy-lined.
e     Pressure pumps to be corrosion resistant.
*     Station, plant and network valves to be epoxy lined or otherwise corrosion
resistant.
*     Distribution network piping and fittings to be heavy-duty PVC.
*     Transmission main piping to be continuous butt-fused HDPR or PVC.
*     Extemal coatings for exposed metal to be resistant to ambient salt spray.



- 68 -                   AMNEX 5
Appendix 3
*    Il Taks (reservoirs) to be lined, and coated and cathodically protected.
11.  Power Supply
v     Commereial electric supply to be considered standby.
*     For treatment plants diesel-powered engine-generator sets to be provided,
each sized for all plant requirements. Engine generator sets to be rated
for continuous duty.
hTransforners and electrical panels to be prtected from weather.
*     Engine-generator sets and controls to be housed in weather-proof
enclosures.
a    .Automatic transfer switches and appurtenanc  to be provided; surge
protecion and cut-off to be provided at each pumping station.
*    For Tier 1 Regional pump stations at least one engine-generator set to be
provided at each station. For Twer 2 stations a portable generator (to be
stationed at the Regional mafntenance facility will be brought to site when
required.
3     Fuel storage capacity to be provided for two weeks operation at full load.
12.  Metering
*     All treatment plants and pump stations to have a meter for bulk raw water
production and automadc flow totlizer. Treatment plants also to have a
meter for bulk treated water production.
13.   Electrical Controls
*     To be standardized where desirable and economical
e     To meet NEMA standards (or equivalent)
14.  Pump Selection and Motors
o     Based on system head/capacity/operating points
*     To be non-overload pump curve
*     To be rated for ambient air and water temperatures.



- 69-                     ANNEX S
Appendix 3
e     Motor selection to consider service factor, code (stating) requirement,
insulation, internal motor protection, enclosure requirements and high
efliciency.
*     Well pump preferred to be submersible turbine type.
*     Type and size to be standardized where desiable and economical
15.   Factory Testing
e     Certified factory tests to be conducted on all pumps and engine-generator
sets.
16.   Performance Testing
*     To be performed on all pumps and engine-generator sets installed.
*     Tests to include vibraion, alignment, pump performance, engine-generator
performance and wire-to-water efficiency.
17.   Valves
*     Wedge type gate valves to be used for stations, plants and networs.
*     Check valves to be slow closure.
18.   Thrust Blocks
*     Blocks or other effective motion restnt to be provided at all pipe bends
in pressurized lines.
19.   Pipelines
*     To be designed to resist external loads, breakage and internal pressures
(including suge pressures)
*     Use of Polyethylee (IDPE) pipe for tmnsmission mains and PVC for
secondary distribution network and senice connections
*     Across ditches, canals and streams adequate anchorage and support to be
provided.
20.   Spame Parts and Equipment



- 70 -                   ANNEXS
Appendix 3
Three years of spares to be provided.
Tool sets to be provided with equipment
21.  Instnumentation
*     All equipment to be corrosion resistant.
*     Supervisorv control (relay based) system to be provided.
22. 0 & M Manuals
*     To be provided for each scheme covering all elements.
23.   Mfiscellaneous Items to be Provided at Each Scheme
*     Paved access road for heavy duty loading
*     Security fencing and lighting
*     Staff office with furnishings
*     Lavatory/wash-up facilities
*     Plant service water
*     Safety equipment and first aid sets
*     Chlorine cylinder storage shed (where disinfection is used)
*     Telephone or radio communication equipment (desirable)
t



t9       V60V
set      Z6 C
ZLE      LT*
L9       oczv
OOT      SBT
TE       sz .0
La
9        90,
TT-
-S6    Ilt-
-S         sz
att      es
S6       ot
ST                  s
-S
06       CT
_S6        tv       SC,
S6       t6T,    Ss,
9oz
S6       95        St
St
S6       9         SO'
-S         6T-      ST'O-
-S9        CT       OVO
SL       OOT       01310
69Z
06       CT
ST  C9                                                  MW Ml-,--
S6       OOT
S6       tlt       9 -n
0      1. 0                                           F4 4"ff
"ll,    MI, `7
VTOZ-                               MEMI-I
S9       OOT
S9       OST       Os
S9       T99
S9       I'VOT    SE-1
IAl  ....



TVIO   6TIZ   Vs's   scle   Es 19   LT's
SO'O.  LV'O   LP'T   OT'T   LS'O-  6T'O
EO'-O  OZ'0 - T8'Q   VO'O   ZL'O   LS'O
IZIO   ESIT   9Z*9-, V-V- .9   ts.s   ov v
------------- Ili
TO'O-  60'O. OT'O   9910   00 .0   0010
CO'O.- OVO-, CVO  ET'O   ET'O   ET'O
00*0- TO'O   Z0.0   Colo   COIQ   zolo
OO'0   TQOO zolo              zolo   Z0.0
zolo   s 10   tolo-  LOIO   LOIO I LOIO
TO'Q   C 10   11010 .-.. vo I 0 volo   volo-
00'0-  6Z*O,  VV'O.  SS'O   WO   SC'T   SS             g
0010   90'    ET'O   8O'O   co-o   zo-o   ze-o 11.11
0010 I 0010   0010   0010   a 10   etlo   09
0010   STIO                                                                            gfN&I-g
STIO,  ST'O   ST'O   ST'O
OOIQ. 0010   0010   0010 Isolo   9010
0010  -0010  '0010   tolo   9T.(   9T'O
0010   solo   9TIO   TEIO   tvlo   tslo
9T'O   LVO   vz.o   eclo   WO   9clo
LOIO.  LOIO   LO'Q   LO'O ILO.(   illo   stplo
.0             .0
0010   polo   10.10   tolo Ivo         zolo   OT
0010   0010   TO'O   ZC'O ,T 'O  -...TQ'.0 5  0
ZOIO.. zO#O   EO-0  -EO-O   El                 Fo-l
OOIQ-- 0010   0010-  ZOOO   solo   tolo   0
Solo   so'O  .-ZT'O  -...9T'O   VVO   9T-0
-------- ------------
001.0  0010   TZOO   SCOO   0810   LL-0
0010   0010   0010   zolo   solo   tolo
OO'0   OO'0   ET'O   c 10   ET'O   ET'O   OS'
001Q.- 0010   solo   lpzlo .           vzlo
0010-. 0010   00.0   00-0              celo
0010   0010 -00.0        .0            VT'O
00-0   sp-O. -ST'S            -OCC   OVT    L !9L
v0*0   tz .0   Vz.O
-OOIQ-                                  ZTIO
0010   0000   rZIO. 0910 1Selo   orlo
0010   00lo   aTle   *9'T I60'T I SSIQ   WS
OO'0   t9*0   TS'Z   rG,z   L9'T         .0   s
---- - ------
mg



00
00'r   QS*9   OQ 19
OT
010   QO-O   0019   al
solo
zolo                    OTIO
cylo
Colo                    szlo
7- o-   re    bb- LI
Oslo
0010
Colo,
EBIT
TT 10  _nn-n__ Wo   L46'T
SSID
zolo-                   OTIO
90*0
r 00
zolo
LOIO                    56*0
stlo  -0010  -OZ-1-0  --s9*l
ZTIO
9910 
gz-o   VLIO
zolo-                   groo
TVIO
00'9   1.6 -f-  OV 6
Salt   so.
OLIT                    T6'
OZIT, 1 60. s
-,k 44.-J4 19
:10-111:1W -MI-S"Ill. .01



- 74-                     ANNEX 9
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Detils on Proposed Reorganization of the Water Sector
Introduction
1.          The major theme of the proposed reorganization of the water sector is that central
control and order is brought to the financial and technical operation of the sector and this should
be achieved as quickly and as smoothly as possible. There is also a need for a clear demarcation
between the policy role of the Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Rural
Development (MPWCRD), and the executive functions of the Guyana Water Authority
(GUYWA). It is also intended that GUYWA be nurtured as the national planning and
monitoring agency. The agreed restructuring of the water sector will be along the following
lines (see charts 2 through 4 for details).
National Water Council
2.          At sectoral policy planning level, an advisory National Water Council wil be
established by Ministerial Order. The members of the Council shall be appointed from
organizations and be such people as have had experience of, and shown capacity in matters
relevant to the water supply sector in Guyana. Ministries and organizations represented could
include, for example:
The Ministry of Health
The Ministry of Agriculture
The Conservancies (East Demerarara Conservancy, for example)
The Sugar Industry Labour and Welfare Fund Committee (SILWFC)
The Linden Mining Enterprise Limited (LINMINE)
Rpresentatives appointed by the Municipal Authorities (Georgetown, for example)
SIMAP Agency
Representatives appointed by the Regional Democratic Councils
Non governmental organizations (such as the Beacon Foundation)
The advisory National Water Council should meet not less than once and not more than twice
per year and will provide a forum for policy development.
3.          The purpose of the National Water Council will be to advise the Minister of
MPWCRD and any other Minister, on wa- rs relating to the national water policy and on the
coordination requirements of all agencies and organizations involved with the demand for and
use of the nation's water resources. The Council shall also advise Ministers and statutory water
and sanitation undertaldngs on matters of common interest. It shall promote and assist efficient
performance by the statutory water bodies of their functions.



- 75 -                    ANNEX9
4.          The Council will be subject to the control of the Minister of MPWCRD. The
Minister may give to the Council directions of a general character as to the exercise and
perfomance of its functions. The Minister may also give directions to the Council to
discontinue or limit any particular activity.
The Ministry of Public Works, Communications and Rural Development
5.          The Minister will retain his role as Chairman of GUYWA but will devolve the
day to day management of the Authority to a new Deputy Chairman/Chief Executive officer.
He will also act as Chairman to GS&WC.
6.          The Minister will have a personal adviser on water sector matters within the
MPWCRD who shall have wide expenence on the sector and who can assist both the Minister
and GUYWA during the reorganization of the institutions.
7.          Ministerial control would be best served by the formulation and confirmation of
a National Water Plan and a Water Services Business Plan. The National Water Plan should
address the immediate and medium term needs for all areas of Guyana. It will place these needs
in a long tenn, twenty year perspective and address technical, engineering and financial matters
and human resources needs. Ultimately, on a five year basis, the long term needs will be
reviewed every year. The Water Services Business Plan will be produced annually. It will be
set in the context of a five year capital investment program covering service provisions and
resulting operating costs. It will be producte on a national and divisional basis and identify
current and forecast shortfalls in levels of service and human resources. It will identify training
needs as a matter of priority and routine. It will be part of an annual consultative programming
cycle with all Municipal Authority, Regional Democratic Councils and other interested parties.
Both the National Water Plan and the Water Services Business Plan should be agreed annually
with the MPWCRD.
Guyana Water Authority
8.          As noted earlier, GUYWA will be restructured to assume the role of the national
water authority. It wi1l contain a number of Departments with strong, well managed Financial
and Water Services Departments. The revamped GUYWA, with initial external support, will
be responsible for national water planning, national water resources management and will
provide water services for all parts of Guyana (with the exception of Georgetown and the water
service responsibilities of LWIMINE and SILWFC). Once its new structure is in place and
running effectively (including its financial viability) it may be sensible for GUYWA to undertake
a study to explore options of water services management, including privatization schemes
(leasing of assets for operations, etc.). Such a study has been included in the proposed
rehabilitation project.
9.          The Board will be reconstituted to reflect the business aspect of the newly
organized central authority. A possible structure with 12 members (expanded from the current
9 members) could be: Chairman Minister, MPWCRD or his representative); Deputy Chairman



- 76 -                   ANNEX9
- CEO of GUYWA; 3 Representatives from the Regions; I Trade Union Representative; I
Representative from Ministry of Health, I Representative from Ministiy of Finance; I
Representative from Guyana Electricity Corporation; and 3 Representatives from the private
sector. Every effort should be made to ensure that women's importance in the water sector is
represented at Board level.
10.         Present staff numbers include approximately 95 employees at GUYWA, 550
employees in the water departments of the coastal belt Regional Democratic Councils and 20
employees in the interior (Regions 1, 8 and 9); a total of about 665. Precise figures are not
available due to split responsibilities in the Regions between the water and other sectors such
as highways, the use of temporary employees and unfilled vacancies. The proposed combined
structure will employ about 720. In addition to executive senior management at Director level,
the restructured GUYWA head offtce will require about 100 staff with additional technical staff
in the new Water Service Departmenti, including in particular a distribudon engineer, treatment
engineer and junior engineers. A new customer accounts manager and staff together with
financial planners and computer staff in the strengthened Finance Department and new staff in
the National Sector Planning Unit, Water Resource Department, Personnel Department and the
Public Relations Tnit of the Administrative Department. The current GUYWA operational staff
of about 55, employed on driling, operational maintenance and in the central workshop and
stores will remain. The new divisional offices, workshop and stores will emplky the. re-
assigned Regional Democratic Council water deparment staff with additional new management,
a total divisional work force of about 565.
11.         The existing Finance Department will require considerable expansion and
strengthening. It will contain qualified staff with skills in customer accounting, financial
accounting, economics and financial planning. It will prepare all financial aspects of the national
and annual business plans, tariffs and charges and produce annual departmental and divisional
budgets. In particular it will bill and collect revenues from customers and wiUl contain the
Authority's computer unit. The anticipated number of staff of the expanded Financial
Department will be 48 compared to 8 at present in GUYWA. A recommended structure is
shown in Chart 3.
12.         The new Water Services Department will be structured to take over the operations
and maintenance functions of the water service, presently cared out by the Regional
Democratic Councils. The operating structure will reflect the geographical realities of water
supply with the emphasis of the Department being the servicing of the populated urban and per-
urban coastal strip. It is proposed that four operating Divisions, Berbice, Demerara/Mahaicony,
West Demerara and West Essequibo (including Bartica) be established (see map). A separae
Interior Division will cover all interior areas where water supply is provided by simple systems
such as hand pumps, etc..
13.         The Water Services Department will contain the existing technical staff of
GUYWA as well as the operations, maintenance and revenue staff from the Regions but located
in the new Divisional areas. The revenue staff while reporting to the newly appointed Divisional
managers will have direct line responsibility to the customer accounts manager of the Finance



- 77 -                    ANNEX 9
Department. The Water Services Department will continue GUYWA's present services of well
drilling but will have direct responsibility for provision of the main core business activity of
water supply, treatment and distribution. Under an executive engineer, operations and
maintenanei, will be a distribution engineer and a treatment engineer with specific
responsibilities for the successful implementation of these services in the Divisions. In addition
a qualified mechanical and electrical engineer will have responsibility for the routine
maintenance of all fixed and mobile plant throughout the areas of operations. An executive
engineer, new works, will have responsibilities for the design of new systems acting through a
chief design engineer and for the development of both construction and operating contracts
through a new contracts engineer. The latter shall be responsible for developing contracts with
the private sector in collaboration with the executive engineer, operations and maintenance.
There will be a small team of three/four engineers ith two/three technical assistants and
draftsmen.
14.         The National Sector Planning Team, to be newly formed, will bring together the
proposals from the agreed Annual Business Plan, with requirements for the hinterland areas
proposed by Regional Democratic Councils and, in particular, local communities. It wil
provide a technical apprisal service. for ex-trnally proposed projecL brought forward by non-
governmental otaizatons (SWAP, Futures, Beacon Foundation, etc.). It will coordinate with
al interested parties to conduct a survey into requirements for both water and samtation, idenify
and prepare proposals and publish its results. Following further consultations, it will produce
the National Water Plan. This shall be reviewed annually. It will comprise two water
engineers/planners with clerical support.
15.         The Water Resources Unit, also to be newly created, will identify all sources of
pnvate and public water supplies for domestic, commercial, industrial and agricultural use. It
shall, in consultation maintain a register, to be required by regulation and order of the location
and naue of the source, and current maximum volumes of water abstracted. In due course,
subject to the agreement by Government to legiate for water resources, the Unit shall in
consultation with the Financial Department, establish an equitable charge on water abstractors
for the service it and other involved units of the Authority provide. GUYWA, under its Act,
has powers to 'control and regulate the collection, production, treatment, storage, distribution
and use of water (including the supervision of surface waters and groundwaters in Guyana) and
to make orders with respect thereto." In practice GUYWA has not adopted this wide approach
to water resource management and has restricted its activities to licensing borehole construction
but not to regulating the quantity or quality abstracted.
16.         The Water Resources Unit will also establish a monitoring system initially of
groundwater aquifer levels and quality and ultimately of surface water resources. It shall
establish potable water quaity standards and a routine sampling program of water in distribution.
The results of the sampling program shall be maintained in a Register, required by Ministerial
Order and shall be published in stat    form in the National Plan and Annual Report of
GUYWA. The sampling program will be developed in collaboration with the Ministry of Health
and, so as to maximize the use of human resources, shall take account of the Ministry of
Health's departments and staff engaged a water quality analyses, such as the Government



- 78 -                   ANNEX 9
Analyst. The Water Resources Unit shall be a small team of two qualified hydrogeologists with
clerical support although ultimately hydrologists and hydrometrcians may be required. It shal
provide the counterpa service for a proposed study under the project into the hydrogeological
conditions of the main coastal aquifers.
17.         The Administration Unit will be the legal advisory and authorizing unit of the
Authority. It will play a major role in the enforcement of standards. In addition to the
provision of routine services, e.g. clerical, transportation, etc., it will develop a strong, national,
Public Relations sub-unit. This sub-unit, liaising with the Ministry of Health, should develop
strong links with all other interested parties, and promulgate widely the successes and failures
of the services and the actions expected of an educated community The Department will have
a staff of 35 including two public relations specialists, compared to a cuffent staff of 37.
18.         The Personnel and Training Unit will be separated from Administration in order
that it can have a strong voice on the executive management team and because it will have a
major role to play given the large increase in staff numbers resulting from the transfer of
employees from the Regions to GUYWA. It's duty will be to identify and propose human
resource programs in order to attract into the industry able and dedicated personnel. In
association with the other Departments it sball establish job descriptions and human resources
planning. It will be ivolved in the developmen and implementation of training programs
proposed under the project and Liaise with the University of Guyana and other institutions of
learning in the development of managerial, technical and financial courses appropriate to the
water sector. The Unit will contain initally, two personnel officers and a training manager with
secretarial support, compared to the present single personnel officer.



- 79 -                    ANNEX9
Appendix
Plan of Action for Recentralzation of
Water Sector and Reorganization of GUYWA and Govarment Contributions
Action                              Target Date
1.   Appointment of the Directors of Finance and Water  December 31, 1993
Opertions
2.   Appointment of the Personnel and Training Manager,   December 31, 1993
and Chief Administrator
3.   Appointment of the Divisional Managers           February 15, 1994
4.   Substantial completion of Staffing selection for the four  March 31, 1994
operating Divisions (below the level of Divisional
Managers)
J.    Transfer of Existing Regional Operations to GUYWA
a.    Regions 4 & 5                       April 30, 1994
b.    Region 3                            May 31, 1994
c.    Regions 2,6, & 7                    June 30, 1994
d.    Regions 1, 8, 9 & 10                August 31, 1994
6.    Other
a.    Central GUYWA Office
- Submission of Detailed Plan
b.    Divisional Offices                  December 31, 1994
- Submission of Detailed Plan
c.    Put in place improved bidding and   January 31, 1994
- contacting procedures at GUYWA    April 30, 1994
d.    Appoinment of new GUYWA Board       June 30, 1994
e.    Put in place a central accounting and  June 30, 1994
billing system at GUYWA                                   I
7.          Estmated Government Contributions
l ________________              (G$  M illion)
Fiscal YegE!rect Ine$netOpxaig Susidy
(Excluding Georgetwn &
New Amsterdam Systems)
1994                   60                         230
1995                   65                         275
1996                   85                         215
1997                   80                          60
1998                   65                          50
1999                   20                           0



- 80 -                                  ANNEX 10
GlUANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE 1
REGIONAL WATER DISIONS
ESTIMATED INCOME STATEMENTS: 1989 - 1992
(000 G$O
=                              ~~~~~~ ~~~~~3,233  3,310  3,289       3.549
3.279       3.378       3.462       4,006
K                         3.13906    13,103      1.496      28,906
9.277       9,187      22,703      26,301
1.632      189692      41.011      45.964
~~ ~~~ ~4                    1           0          1 1
6.366       5.893      21,297      15.399
~~~ ~329              430          217         718
;-28235     -43,928     -97,261    -114,293
10.40%       7.14%       3.44%       3.39%
Source: Regional Democratic Councils



- 81 -                                ANNEX 10
GU-YANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE 2
GUYWA - INCOME STATEMENTS
(000 G$)
Actul                      Est    Proj.
1988 -: 1989   1990:  1991   1992 .- 1993
OPERATING REVENUES
Consultancy Fees:_...                     .01s   1,015   1,015      993   1,015   1,160
Projects Undertaken ...     .            1,349   1,667   3,114   4,069   3,804   4,360
Equipment Rentat ..                       405      81$   1,039   3,250   4,318   4,940
Equipment and Material Sales'              828     367   1,084      870   1,096   1,260
Total                                    3.597   3.867   6.252   9,182  10.233  11.720
OPERATiNG EXPENSES
Salaries & Benefits                      1: -  .,887   1,978   2,711   4,409   8,419   9,640
hiel:                                      : % .ii^ ii>v : .-5^ ............... : s - > ..... 109  234  544  768   1,385   1.,90
Electricity..                              355     446   1,205   1,248   1,281   1,470
Other.Operating EpenSes  . . . .           455     575     775   1,173   1,860   2,130
Maintenance M0.aterials                    5 -78   661     784   1,858   3,653   4,180
Csi oi Materia6s for rojects Undertaken    567   1,325   1,846   3,915   3,516   4,030
Ainistraionanrid Securitv                  268     471   1.018   1,656   3,081   3,530
Total                                    4. ::   2.-: -; . ;  ....>.  :^ .>v.^e .. . 4219   5,690   8,883  15,027  23,195  26.570
GRO                                        622  -1.823  -2.631  -5.845 -12,962 -14,860
D 5rEciatin                >0                       17      24   1,538   2,485   4,700
OPERATNG INCME"::                      -622  -1.840  -2,655  -7.383 -15,447 -19550
Other Revenues                             210     840      380   1.505     272      250
NET INCOME                                412:  -1100 -2,275  -5 .87  -1. 175 -19,300
NOTES:
(1) Derived from GUYWA unaudited financial statements.
(2) Projects Undertaken consist of revenues generated for works undertaken for Regional Water Departments,
other Government entities and private sector entities.
(3) Other Operating Expense includes duties, staff subsistance allowances, transport tolls, clearing compounds
staff uniforms and training, vehicle insurance and licence fees and equipment rentals.



- 82 -                                  ANNEX 10
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE 3
GUYWA - BALANCE SHEETS
(000 G$)
Ac-tu- A l    ;-----sr--              t;    ; : Proj.-
-_______  1988  1; i989  -1990   - 1991  1992    1993
ASSETS
Current Assets:
Cash and Bank                    3,563    13,283    46,222    12,450    53,856    45,000
Accounts Receivable at  -:        808       664    12,851    15,281    21,677    17,580
Piepaytnents                       77        77       102      2.704     3,149     3,610
inventory                       22,897    19.424    10,662     8,891    17,036    12,960
Staff Loans & Advances-.            6        24        49        89        70         80
TotalCurrentAusets-             27,351    33,472    69,886    39,415    95,788    79,230
OtfirAssets -    5-                 8       334      1,006     1,313     1,313     1,300
aFied Assets:   -
Gross Fixed Assets- .             212       277    15,426    24,716    25,926    49,490
L-esssAccumudated Depueciation..:   0         17       41      1,579     4,044     8,740
etFixed Assets                    212       260    15,385    23,137    21,882    40,750
Work inProgress                  3,416     9,434    13,382    34,195    70,690    50,000
Total Fixed Assets               3 628     9,694    28,767    57,332    92,572    90,750
Total Assets                    30,987    43,500    99,659    98,060   189,673   171,280
LUABILITIES AND EaUITY
Current Uablities:   -
Accounts Payable    :            3,963     8,652     9,880    10,522    17,498    13,540
Equity:
GovernmentEquity                27,024    34,848    89,779    87,538   172,175   157,740
Total Uabilities & Equity       30,987    43,500    99,659    98,060   189,673   171,280
NOTES:
a/ Accounts receivables from years prior to current year not carried over into current year.
A portion of the increase in receivables during the current years is the incorporation of sales
of equipment and materials from previuos years which were not paid for and were not accounted for in
receivables.



GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILrrATION PROJECT
TABLE 4
GUYWA - PROJECTED NUMBER OF WATER CONNECTIONS
. __.  ____________ _ 1994  119               090 22                             2003
Domenwstl0                                      0   1r8904   33.313   47,329   56.389   865708   765626   85.072   96,772
Commercial   o % & :                           0        17      310      332      364      397      432      468      507
bYhuataId    i >>s e i ;0                       0         6       l6       I8       22       27       31       36       41
.     . . . ......  ccl tu U o i w  .  ..............   ;  0  0  104  199  246    323      403      488 877           671
- Told                     0        0   1,9990   33.838   47.920   67.108   66,635   78,470   8,8953   97.0991
0bbinisMt            .''.....;:e .72,060   73,491   68,641   48.481   35,900   29,681   22.851   15,91      s 8,081      0
Comme.cIal    ws              -      371      379       370      109      106       86       67       40       24        0
Induatdol    eff>.s gcw   .sz31                31       28        17       17       14       11        7        4        0
Instlttalond ;606                             GIs       430      358      332      274      211      146       76        0                     l
Ts W    ,;   ; ;     72,968   74,417   67,369   40,945   36,363   29,956   23,140   16,890    6,183        0                     on
DOOWS1IC     v. p5's, a    ;;,     72,050   73,491   76,406   79,773   83,220   86,980   88,660   01,217   93.953   98,772
CommercIai :, ::::..^.               371      379       398     418       437      460      464      477      492      507
dutrdal                               31       31       32       34        35       36       37       39       40       41
lnftutlonal   -5; .  -606                     561      634      667       578      597      014      633      652      671
TotA        :       72,968   74,417   77,369   80,783   84,279   87,083   89,875   92,386   96,137   97,991
:: .  %flst2  ,        0.0%     0.0%    26.8%    41.9%    60.9%    65.6%    74.2%    82.8%    91.4%   100.0%
% Sn*t.e.. In Tots Con,teroln..i    '  ,      2.0%     4.0%     4.4%     4.3%     3.3%     3.0%     3.0%     3.0%     3.0%
>x
0



WATR SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILrIATION PROJLE
TABLE 5
GUYWA - PROPOSED TARIFFS AND AFFORDABIY
TRF* ' (1G* ....... 
t  : :c'..->. .  7,000   7,000     10,300  14,000  14,600  19,000  19,0
.,4Xr,nWlrCW  .        :..0   0  608000  5000   82.40   82,400  110,800  110800  152,000 15200
KuSlui: :                        0      0 106t000 10.00  14500  154,600 219,000 219,000 286,000 286,000
Instft.tlonhl                    s       %-:         ,; ; ..0  0  60,000  56,000  82,40   82,400  110,9001600 152,000  152,000
DOmestictE>  . .a4       .    1,200  1,200   2,220   2,220   2,900   2.000   3.500   3.500   4,200   4,200                              t
VCmmuetlal    : ;            ,8,400   .40   1S,540  1S.40  20.300  20,300  24,500  24,600  29,400  29,400
kdualh       ,               14,400 14,400  20,040  20,040  34,800  34,000  42,000  42.000  60.400  50A400
km ltWAoM..                   8,400  8.400  15,540  15.S40  20,300  20.300  24,600  24,600  29,400  29.400
3,500  3.820   4,180   4,530   4,940   5,380   5,800   e,390   0.970   7.800
M..t.x | Y~~M
Domesti;.cZ:,;.   A"$ .        ............   ,  :0.00   0.00   66.00   568.00   82.40   82.40  110.00  110.80  t62.00  162.00
CommcWAn:istIi  8 0.00   0.00  448.00  448.00  86620  0659.20  934.40  934.40 1,210.00 1,110.00
b'ftdknAj*  >s$4^<.Css  .    0.00   0.00  448.00  448.00  059.20  859.20  934.4   934.40 1,210.00 1,210.00
OsmeMnFic    : ;,              9.00   0.00   17.70   17.70   23.20   23.20   28.00   28.00   33.00   33.60
ConummcfaUlndust :s.    .     07.20  07.20  124.32  124.32  162.40  102.40  196.00  186.00  235.20  235.20
InstltuUons>   0jC    S        7.20  67.20  124.32  124.32  102.40  162.40  196.00  190.00  236.20  236.20
A,. C.nne~I.~ ~.. flat iai  28.00  305S   33.28   30.24   39.52   43.04   46.88   61.12   66.70   00.80
70.190 83.050  90,520  9070 107,550 117,230  127,780 139,280  1S1.820 1a5,480
z
.    NA    NA    7.7%    7.1%    9.0%    6.8%   11.4%   10.5%   12.6%   11.6%
X%ifAvar.neo~                  2%    1%       2%      2%      3%       2%      3%      3%      3%      3%



WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE 6
GUYWA - INCOME STATEMENTS
(Million G$)
.____________ -_____  1994 1995  ;1z996   1997   1998 199  200                       01   2002   2003
OPERATING REVENUES    ;
Water: Ta;iff    ''2j.;;''!, ",,s' 47.1    96.2  285.0  374.3  651.6  734.5 1,145.9 1.276.8 1,837.7 2,029.4
orrnCtIon~on tctiont Feess .   5.0    5.6   12.2   15.5   17.3   15.0   15.3   17.2   19.3   21.7
52.1   101.7  297.3  389.8  668.8  749.5 1,161.2 1,294.0 1,857.0 2,051.1
Sali'es    " 8eft              79.2   94.2  102.7  111.9  122.0  132.9  144.9  157.9  172.2  187.7
Fuell:   - S    X   123.5  134.6  161.8  183.0  213.9  259.3  311.2  370.3  437.5  513.8    c
Electricity 0S;>;  7          60.8   66.3   78.6   88.4  102.4  122.5  146.5  171.6  201.2  234.8
Chc                             0.0 .   0.0    8.0   17.8   19.4   21.1   23.0   25.1   27.3   29.8
O &:M Materials .      .21.7   23.7   81.3  120.4  150.8  200.0  256.9  322.3  397.5  483.6
P:ov,i<slo'ii fobr.D;,o0.btfuiDeb    *.. ""'14.1   24.0   25.9   20.3   27.3   27.1   41.4   45.6   64.9   71.0
Head Qffice AOqain1stratln  S14.2   23.2   25.6   28.2   31.0   34.1   37.6   41.4   45.6   50.1
Bankd Prject &M Component :    47.1   47.1   47.1   47.1    26.5    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0
Amortized ExpentsCes    ^33.4   47.8   60.1   71.2   78.6   81.5   81.5   81.5   81.5    81.5
Total:-..                     394.1  460.9  591.1  688.3  771.9  878.6 1,042.0 1,215.7 1,427.6 1,652.2
G1ROSS INCoME                (341.91 (359.2) (293.9)  (298.5) (103.1) (129.1)  119.2   78.3  429.5  398.9
Depreciation;                  43.4   56.0   97.3  142.1  187.7  236.7  294.0  356.9  428.2  507.1
NET INCOMEc t                (385.3J (415.1) (391.2) (440.6) (290.8)  (365.91 (174.8) (278.6)    1.3  1108.2)
U



GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABWU ION pROJECT
TABLE 7
GUYWA  SOURCES /AND APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS STATEMENTS
(MDbn O)
-___________ l o9  1.     1. IS O. i                     19       2        2001     2002    2003
SOURCES
(385.3)  (416.11  (391.2)  (40.61  (290.8)  (386.91  (174.8)  (279.6)     1.2   (10.2
Dept.CI.tIOQV   ~  **~.*... ....    : ~  43.4    56.0  07.3    142.1    187.7   238.7    2940    360.9   428.2   507.1
-Arnaftid               ~~~33.4   47.8     60.1     71.2    78.6    81.5       81.6     81.6    81.5    81.5
08.6)  431 1 A)    W :. 8   1227.3)   i24.41   (47.01   200.7    169.8   610.9   480A
830.9    857.7  1,034.3  1.08A.4  1,244.1  1058A   1.033.9  1,033.9  1,022.6      0.0
0thff Cont, *~no i )tmaI So*cf eS   230.0    276.0   216.0    196.0    60.0    50.0     o.  0.0 00.0              0. 
Toia Es u                        1800.9  1,132.7  1,249.3   1260A4  1.304.1  1,108.4  1,033.9  1,033.9  1,022.8    0.0
'3""  '~&~                      0.0      0:0       0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
62.4    821.3  1,016.6  1,033.1  1,279.0  1,065.8  1,234.0  1,193.7  1,633.5   480A
P'opoa.d 0   P.o..o.             436.0    666.6   864.1   607.0  1,143.4  1,027.8  1,033.9  1,033.9  1,022.6       0.0
othMCPW2t.Ift  .\0.0                        0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
CapiteIzed Int.test~'              0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Total Cital PQrmatIooj           43S.0    668.6    864.1   907.0  1,143.4  1,0278   1,033.8  1,033.9  1,022.6      0.0
~.            0.0      0.0       0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.)
Op~~tat 10 it. st"~"~  ~    ~  0.0  0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
T14                      ~~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0
wo4a)*AaZ.~~~ ~tct~Zj>   148.8   144.0    123.1    111.3    74.2    28.6        0.0      0.0      CA)      0.0
(4.4)    5.5     19.7    10.2    35A4        8.0    52.5      13.6    72.0    20.8
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
jotaq 4                          579.4     8.1  1,006.9  1,028.0  1,253.0  1,08.4   1,086A   1,07.   1.094.6    20.8 *
(27 0)    5.2      8.7      4.6    26.8       6.6    148.2    148.2   438.9   459.0
CasI~~9alu~~~Bsgtnip  ~~  63.9    26.0     32.1    40.8    45.4    72.1    66.4    214.7    360.9   708.8
I~~~ft  ~~~     ~~   ~~. ~ 26.9    32.1    40.8    46.4    72.1    66.4   214.7   360.9   799.8  1.259A



GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE 8
GUYWA * BALANCE HEETS
_~In 0$)
1.94    1.95    1.98    1g.1    i998 .          9    200.:,; 0'   2001  2O2       2003
ASSETS-
.e. n27d's Ba*               28.9     32.1      40.8     46.4     72.1     66.4    214.7   360.9    796.8   1,2594
Msu . s                            9.7     17.1     39.0     61.3     69.3    100.6   157.0    174.9    251.7    279.0
tewsit@.y               *9.7    22.4      34.1     43.1      51.2     83.4     77.5     03.8    111.6    132.8
TotaICunentAeeeie ', ,Cn,,   oC ,C,35Z;   2  s71.  114.0    139.0    212.5    230.6    449.t1   62A   1,163.6   1.070.2
Aset.     m302.S   399.2    462.1    502.2    497.8    444.9    383.    281.9    200.4    118.9
Gr4ss Fhce4 Aesets.            1,131.0  1,667.8  2,484.4  3,672.2  4,600.7  8,376.1  7,977.7  9,729.6  11,630.1  13,709.2
Less: Acoumijeted bem.clatloss608.0    710.8    881.7  1,103.2  1,390.2  1,752.0  2,203.7  2,7s5.9  3,435.4   4,261.7
Nut Ilevalued Fbied Assb  S;622.1    048.1  1,602.7  2,469.0  3,410.5  4,624.1  5,774.0  8,970.8  8,203.7   0A47A
eikh Pvegree                   435.0    666.6    864.1    807.0  1,143A   1,27.8  1,033.9  1,033.    1,022.8        0.0
Tete Fined A"^ scs2et {tiS      957.1  1,014.7  2,468.9  3,376.0  4,653.9  6,651.8  0,807.8  6,004.6  9,228.2  9,457.4
Total Assets  -.310.3  2,086.5  3,043.0  4,018.0  6,264.0  6,327.3  7,2.4 2                     .ASA    10,690.2  11,240.6
.W ES A'DEU1..~, ~.
-    k
sNysbie * *   is6w    i'   27.1     30.5      43.8     54.0     03.8    78.5      95.4    114.7    136.7    161.8
Cu ant Mwiihi,tle           0.0: 's,.>.X   o  0.0  0.0  0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0       0.0      0.0
StaffSa1srIee6BegtftePitbP       8.6      7.8      6.6      9.3      10.2     11.1     12.1    13.2      14.3      16.6
TetalOu,reotLieiahfld..          33.7     38A       52.4     63.3     74.0    89.6    107.6   127.9    161.1    177.4
S~~~~~~~~~~,3.   19                     281 8. ,31.6  4,044.7  6,MW.2  0,244J3  6.09.6   8023b   7JlbS2|
RtnbXflk #     0t is<.$S.: 48.7  93.7    179.0    3233    646.6    852A4   128B.8  1,788.2  2A041.    3,153.9 
Lefl           Ss   s   t                  SS S     SS@N       $ ,    ,;4      4,?S0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.0  0.  0.0  0.0  0.0
rd L    Is .g     g           s3t,282.0  2847.1  2,990.0  3,964.7  6,190.2  9,237.6  7,612.0  0,787.9    15139.1    1719.24
0TiLbbb aEqs*y                 12.35..3  2,085.6  23,043.0  4,018.0 . 4,6442.  5,27.3  76204.3   0 .8  10.6,0.2  1 7154.2



GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSTANCE AND REA IrrATIN PROJEC
TABLE 9
GUYWA - FINANCIAL PERFOMANCE INDICATORS
Cost Recovery    1994     1999      1906      1907    ~~190      1999     0:; 0.: :"200a              200
ADCostpacoer
Ct Re                                                 58.0%     S8.3      83.8%    74.7%     93.7%    85.8%    102.1%    95.0%
%Cost Ie e'-Te                      11.9%    20.1%    34.0%    33.0%    40.0%    4D.%         47.0%    45A%      62.0%    NA
%96tRscoa''. .....ld.td             11.9%    19.7%    43.2%    46.0%    69.7%       072%      88.96%     2.3%   100.1%    95.0%
Cesh 0 &M C ost <se   ><
%CestRecovety4ler1    .                NA        NA    83.6%    88.1%    128.6%    110.3%    135.3%    121.8%   142.2%    130.5%
% Cost Recover 'iy4    , l. .et2, .  10.0%    27.8%    48.0%    45.0%    60.0%    41.0%       64.0%    S.IAM     57.0%    NA
%CostfPAcoWvyCo dedZ                16.6%    27.8%      81.4%    68.4%    100.3%    94.0%    120.9%    114.1%    130.0%   130.6%
ol   a S              230.0    275.0    215.0    195.0        60.0      50.0      0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0
TotoaOptatlonelSuppcrtAtJB*MIIJ       1.8      2.2       1.7      1.6       0.5       OA       0.0       00       0.0       0.0
l{srformanoo Ais   L e iquid it leidlcatonf
Rettimon Net llued AssetsatE        -73.8%   *43.8%    24.4%    -17.8%     -8.5%     .7.9%    -3.0%     4.0%      0.0%     .1.1%
CurrtentP.atlbt                        1 . f: h R <9i|7f i.     .7  1.9  2.2  2.2  2.9  2.8     4.2       4.9      7.7       9A
CashjCashExP.     f 4DayaO *          32.8     34.3      33.0     30.0      41.0      31.0     85.0    121.0    226.0    307.0
Daysfiecefvabled/ .*. .  '..  x..**  75.0      65.0      60.0     50.0      60.0     60.0      60.0      S0.0     50.0      50.0
IDS"                                 45.0      45.0      45.0     45.0      45.0     45.0      45.0      45.0     45.0      45.0
a/Not iNcom  exchudin any Interest expenses, divided by average net fixed assets on a revalusd basis.
bl Curent assets divided by current liabIties
cl Cash, expressed as the number of days equvalent of cash operating ani maintenance expenses, excludin the Bank O&M component.
dl Accounts receivable, expressed as the number of days equivalent of water tadff bIOis.
el Accounts payable, expressed as the number of days equvalent of cash operating an mantena    expanse, excludig the 8ank O0M
component and saardes and benefts.
I



-89-                          ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
ASSUMPTIONS EMPLOYED IN FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
The assumptions underlying the projections are based primaily on a detailed analysis of the
projected revenues, operating and maintenance expenses and capital expenditures over the 1994 -
2002 period. While a review of unaudited fiacial satements for GUYWA and the Regional
Water Departments (Regions 2 through 7) for -he years 1989 - 1992 was undertaken, the
applicability of historic revenues, expenses and expenditures in the development of the
projections is limited.  The operating scope, and, therefore, financial structure, of the
recentmlized GUYWA diffcrs significantly from GUYWA as it has existed over the 1989 - 1992
period. In addition, the fmancial data compiled by the RDCs is limited and suffers from
deficient accounting practices. While the historic GUYWA financial statements inc,lude income
statements, cash flow statements and balance sheets, the RDCs operate cash accounting systems
and do not prepare any consolidated financial statements which incorporate all services provided
by each region. Therefore, the historic consolidated financial data pesented for the RWDs are
estimated and should be considered to provide only an approximation of financial performance.
1.0   GENERAL ASSUMPTIONS
1.1   Period of Analysis
The projection period is 1994 - 2003 with GUYWA's fiscal year coresponding to the
calendar year.
1.2   GUYWA Operating Structure
It is assumed that the regional water systems presently operated by the RDCs are
transfenred to GUYWA as of 1 January 1994. For the puiposes of the financial projections, it
is assumed that there is no change in the operating jurisdictions or structure over the 1994 - 2003
period.
1.3  Inflation
The local inflation rate is assumed to be 9.0% per annum over the 1994 - 2003 period.
The foreign inflation rate is assumed to be 4.0% over the entre 1994 - 2003 period.



-90 -                          ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
1.4 Exchange Rate
The G$/$ exchange rate is assumed to remain constant at G$125 = $1.00 over the entire
1994 - 2003 period for the puiposes of the projections.
2.0 OPERATING REVENJES
2.1   Water Tariffs
Water tariff revenues are projected on the basis of projected flat rate tariffs for domestic,
commercial, industri  and institutional connections multiplied by the projected number of
connections in each of the four customer groups.
In order to assess charges based on the level of service provided to customers, two
separate taffs are proposed for each customer group. Customers located in service areas where
the water system has been fully rehabilitated under the proposed project will pay a higher Tier
1 flat rate tariff. Customers located in service areas which have not yet been fully rehabilitated
will pay a lower Tier 2 flat rate tariff. Once a service area has been fully rehabilitated, all of
the customers located in the area will be transferred from Tier 2 to Tier 1.
The allocaton of revenues between Tiers 1 and 2 is based on the projected flat rate tariff
for each tier and the projected allocation of connections over the 1994 - 2003 period.
It is assumed that the recentralized GUYWA billing system is implemented as of July 1,
1994. Therefore, customers are bBied only for the second half of 1994. Although some
revenues are expected to be generated in the first half of 1994 from voluntary customer
payments on the basis of the current tariff structure, no such revenues are incorporated into the
financial projections.
2.2   Connection Fees
The average connection fee is assumed to be set at G$3,500 ($28.00) in 1994 and is
increased by the projected local inflation rate over the 1995 - 2003 period.



-91-                          ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
3.0 OPERATING EXPENSES
3.1 Salaries and Benefits
Projected salaries and benefits are calculated on the basis of the projected number of full-
time equivalent employees and the projected average monthly salary and benefit per employee.
The average salary and benefit was assumed to be G$10,000 ($85) per month in 1994 or about
100% higher than the current average. This average salary and benefit was then increased by
the local inflation rate over the 1995 - 2003 period. In 1994, it is assumed that the total number
of full-time equivalent employees is 660 or approximately the same as the combined staff of
GUYWA and the regional water departments in 1993. In 1995, it is assumed that the total
number of staff is increased to 720.
The allocation of salaries and benefits between Tier 1 and Tier 2 is based on the
projected number of connections in each tier.
3.2   Fuel
Tier 1
The projected total annual fuel expense for Tier is estimated separately for those systems
included in the proposed project and those systems which are not included in the proposed
project but are scheduled to be rehabilitated under future capital works programs over the 1988 -
2003 period.
Fuel expenses for the L.B.I. and Eccles systems are estimated specifically for these
systems based on the number of pump stations using diesel fuel and the specific pumping
configurations in each system. Total fuel expenses are estimated to be G$16.55 million and
G$11.53 million in 1994 based on 12 hours of service per day. For the years 1995 - 2003, the
average expense per station is increased by the projected local inflation rate.
Fuel expenses for the Rose Hall, Anna Regina, Pouderoyen, Bush Lot and Corriverton
systems, all of which are included in the proposed project, are calculated by multiplying the
estimated average expense per station required to provide 12 hours of service per day by the
projected number of stations in each system. The fuel expense per average station is estimated
to be G$1.57 million in 1994. For the years 1995 - 2003, the average expense per station is
increased by the projected local inflation rate.
Fuel expenses for systemns which are scheduled to be rehabilitated over the 1998 - 2003
period as part of other capital works programs, are calculated by multiplying the estimatec
average expense per station required to provide 12 hours of service per day by the projected



-92-                         ANNEX 10
Appendix I
number of stations in each system. The average fiel expense per station is estimated to be
G$1.57 million in 1994 terms, the same as that employed for the stations included in the Bank
project. The fuel expense per station is then adjusted to a 1998 basis and is increased by the
projected local inflation rate for each year thereafter.
Tier 2
SThe projected tOtd anmual fuel expense for Tier 2 is calculated by multiplying the
estimated average expense per station required to provide 8 hours of service per day by the
projected number of stations in Tier 2 in each year. The projected fuel expense in 1994 is
G$0.72 million. For the years 1995 - 2003, the average expense per station is increased by the
projected local inflation rate.
3.3   Electricity
Tier 1
The projected total annual electricity expense for Tier I is estimated separately for those
systems included in the Bank project and those systems which are not included in the Bank
project but are scheduled to be rehabilitated under future capital works programs over the 1998 -
2003 period.
Electricity expenses for the L.B.I. and Eccles systems are estimated specifically for these
systems based on the number of pump stations and the specific pumping configurations in each
system. Total electricity expenses are estimated to be G$11.50 million and G$7.79 million in
1994 based on 12 hours of service per day. For the years 1995 - 2003, the average expense per
station is increased by the projected local inflation rate.
Electricity expenses for the Rose Hill, Anna Regina, Pouderoyen, Bush Lot and
Corriverton systems, all of which are included in the Bank project, are calculated by multiplying
the estimated average expense per station required to provide 12 hours of service per day by the
projected number of stations in each system. The electricity expense per average station is
estimated to be G$0.67 million in 1994 terms. For the years 1995 - 2003, the average expense
per station is increased by the projected local inflation rate.
Electricity expenses for systems which are scheduled to be rehabilitated over the 1998 -
2003 period as part of other capital works programs, are calculated by multiplying the estimated
average expense per station required to provide 12 hours of service per day by the projected
number of stations in each system. The fuel expense per average station is estimated to be



- 93 -                         ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
G$0.67 million in 1994 terms, the same as that employed for the stations included in the
proposed project. The electricity expense per sttion is then adjusted to a 1998 basis and is
increased by tie projected local inflation rate for each year thereafter.
Tier 2
The projected total annual electricity expense for Tier 2 is calculated by multiplying the
estimated average expense per station required to provide 8 hours of service per day by the
projected number of stations in Tier 2 in each year. The projected electricity expense in 1994
is G$0.31 million. For the years 1995 - 2003, the average expense por station is increased by
the projected local inflation rate.
3.4   Chemicals
Tier 1
't is proposed that only the L.B.I. and Eccles systems will produce and distribute treated
water. Treatment will not commence until the stations are rehabilitated under the Bank project.
Therefore, expenditures for chemicals will commence in 1996 in L.B.I. and in 1997 for Eccles.
Total chemical costs, expressed on a 1994 basis, are G$6.73 million and G$6.99 million for
L.B.I. and Eccles respectively. The chemicals expense per station is then adjusted to a
1996/1997 basis and is increased by the projected local inflation rate for each year thereafter.
Tier 2
Tier 2 service areas will not receive treated water all the time. However, portable
treatment units will be available in areas as needed. Therefore, chemical costs are zero.
3.5   Operating and Maintenance Materials
Tier I
Operating and Main ce materials include all direct materials expenses. Tier 1
operAing and mainnce expenses are calulated on the basis of the esdmated capital cost of
the rehabilitation program for each station. Expenditures on operating materials are calculated
as being equivalent to 1.5% of the capital cost of the station rehabilitation while maintenance
materials are calculatd as being equivalent to 1.5% of the capital cost of the total rehabilitation
including the distibution system. These expenses are then increased anually at the projected
local rate of inflation.



-94 -                         ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
Total estmated operating and maintenance materials, expressed in 1994 terms, are
G$30.55 million and G$18.15 million for LB.I. respectively. The estimated annual cost of
operating and maintenance materials for an average station outside the L.B.I. and Eccles systems
is G$1.31 million in 1994 terms. This esinmated annual expense was applied to the Rose Hall,
Anna Regina, Pouderoyen, Bush Lot and Conriverton systems, as well as to those systems which
are scheduled for rehabiliation under future capital works programs over the 1998 - 2003
period.
Tier 2
Tier 2 operating and maintenance expenses on those calculated for the Tier 1 stations
outside the L.B.I. stations outside the L.B.I. and BEcles systems. However, only operating
materials are included and no maintenance is undertaken beyond the repair program to be
implemented under the proposed project. Total annual operating expenses, expressed on a 1994
basis, are G$0.15 million and are adjusted annually by the local inflation rate.
3.6   Provision for Doubtful Accounts
Tier 1
The provision for doubtful accounts is assmed to decline to 5 % of billings over the 1994
- 2003 period.
Tier 2
The 1994 provision for doubdul accounts is assumed to be 30.0% of water tariff revenues
generated from Tier 2. This very high provision for doubtful accounts is due to the following:
(a) service levels in Tier 2 areas will remain low untl the minor rehabilitation program is
implemented in sta   over the 1994 - 1997 period and those customers receiving low levefs of
service may be unwilling to pay their water bills; (b) some customers may initially not
adequately budget for the new higher water tariffs; and (c) the GUYWA billing and collection
systems may not initally operate at maximum levels of effectiveness. However, as service
levels improve, customers become accustomed to the new higher tariffs and as GUYWA's
billings and collections capabilities improve, the provision for doubtfil accounts is assumed to
decline as follows:



- 95 -                        ANNEX 10
Appendix I
Provision for Doubtful Accounts (% of Billings)
1994   1995   196   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   2002   2002
30.0   25.0   15.0   10.0   7.5        5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0        5.0
3.7  qlead Office Administration
Head office administration expenses includes the following items: electricity for the
GUYWA head office; transportation by management staff; fuel and lubricants for head office
vehicles; stationary and office supplies; security; board of directors allowances; and, audit fees.
The total cost of head office administration in 1992 was approximately G$8.0 million. In order
to derive the projected head office administration expense for 1994, the 1992 expense was
increased by the local inflation rate and by a further 50% to reflect the transfer of administrative
responsibilities of the water supply systems from the regions to GUYWA. Based on this
methodology, the 1994 head office administration expense is projected to be G$14.2 million.
In 1995, head office administration expenses are increased by a further 50% plus the local
inflation rate. Over the 1996 - 2003 period, administration expenses are increased at the local
inflation rate plus 1 %.
The allocation of head office administration expenses between Tier I and lier 2 is based
on the projected number of connections in each tier.
3.8   Project Operating and Maintenance Component
The proposed project includes an operating and maintenance component. The allocation
of this total expense between Tiers I and 2 is based on the estimated distribution of the benefits
derived from each expense item.
3.9   Amortized Expenses
Amortized expenses include the cost of consultancies and training programs pro,.-ded
under the Bank project which are not directly associated with project capital expenditures. Since
these consultancies and training programs are expected to generate both immediate and longer
term benefits, the cost of these programs is amortized over 10 year. The allocation of this total
expense between Tiers 1 and 2 is based on the estimated distribution of the benefits derived from
each component.



-96-                          ANNEX 10
Appendix I
4.0 PROJECT COSTS
4.1 Proposed IDAOCDBIODA Project
Mhe total cost of the proposed IDA/CDB/ODA project including physical and price
contingendes, is estimated to be US$33.0 million. The estimated project implemenion peiod
is six yeas. Project ImplementaIon is assumed to commence in 1994 with full completion by
the end of 1999. Assets ae assumed to ener service the year following the expendite.
Dependig on the specific natre of each projed cost item, costs are either capitalized,
amoited or expensed in the cuwrt year. Refer to Secion 3.8 and 3.9 for a discussion of
amottized and expensed costs.
4.2   Other Project Costs
The prposed IDA/CDBIODA project is envisaged to be the first phase of a
comprhensive rehabilitation project which would be completed in three phases over the 1994 -
2003 period. It is currmely proposed that Phase 2 would be implemented over a four year
pedod from 1998 to 2001 while Pbase 3 would be implemented over the 2000 - 2003 period.
The total cost of Phases 2 and 3 is estmated to be $40.0 million bringing the total cost of all
three phases to $72.2 million. Assets constructed under Phases 2 and 3 are assumed to enter
service the year following the expenditure.
Depending on the specific nature of each project cost item, costs are either capitalized,
amordzed or expensed in the current year. Refer to Section 3.8 and 3.9 for a discussion of
amorized and expensed costs.
5.0 FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS
it is currently proposed that the pject will be funded from four sources as follows
International Development Assciaton (ADA) Credt       $17.5 million
Carbbean Development Bank (CDB) Loan                  $6.5 million
Overseas Development Adminion (ODA/K Grant            $6.0 miDlion
Goverment Conrbutons                                  $3.0 million
Total                                                 $33.0 million



-97-                           ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
The proposed IDA credit to the Govermment will be on standard terms with a 40 year
repaymnt period, including a 10 year gnace period, with a service charge of 0.75 % per annum
on disbursed funds. The team of the CDB loan to the Government is 40 years, including a grace
period of 10 years, at an interest rate of 2.0% per annum on disbursed funds. For the purpose
of the projections, all funds are assumed to be provided by the Government to GUYWA as
equity contributions.
6.0   FXD ASSETS AND DEPRECITION
6.1   Gross Fixed Assets
The estimated value of fixed assets reported by GUYWA and the RDCs is transferred
to the recentrlized GUYWA on 1 January 1994. Over the 1994 - 2003 period, gross fixed
assets are revalued annually by the projected local inflaton rate.
6.2   Depreciation
Depreciation expense is calcult  on the basis of a 4.0% annual rate of depreciation.
The allocation of total depreciation expense between Tiers 1 and 2 is based on the allocation of
gross fixed assets. Gross fixed assets are cakulated separately for Tiers 1 and 2 based on the
numbers of stations in each tier and on the specific use of each component of the proposed Bank
RehabiLitation Project.
7.0 CURRENT ASSETS AND OTHER ASSETS
7.1   Cash
Cash is calculated as ending cash bances after all projected sources and applications of
funds were estimated. The minimum acceptable ending cash balance is assumed to be the
equivalent of 30 days worth of cash operating and mainance expens. Therefore, tariff
levels are set in order to achieve at least this minimum cash requirement.
7.2   Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable include receivables from all dirct water billings, but excluding fees
for connections and reconnections which are assumed to be paid in advance of services provided.
It is assumed, as has been agreed between the Govenment and the Bank, that all receivables
currently held by both GUYWA and the RWDs are setted or written off by the end of 1993.
Based on a bi-annual billing system, it is assumed that receivables as of the end of 1994,
exprssed in terms of days worth of water billings, are 75 days. It is further assumed that an



- 98 -                        ANNEX 10
Appendix I
improved collection system will gradually improve receivables pefformance to 65 days and 50
days in 1995 and 1996 respectively. Receivables, expressed in terms of days worth of water
billings, is then assumed to remain constant at 50 days over the 1995 - 2003 period.
7.3  Inventory
Due to the severely constained fimancial positions of the RWDs, they have held virtually
no inventory since at least 1989. Instead, the RWDs, to the extent possible, have relied on
GUYWA inventor?es or have purchased necessary parts and materials only when there is a need
for their immediate use. As of the end of 1992, the GUYWA inventory totalled G$17 million
or almost two years worth of GUYWA materials expenses. However, an inspec ion of
GUYWA's main stores warehouse by Bank consultants indicates that a significant proportion of
inventory may be unusable.
For the pulposes of the financial projections, inventory is assumed to be 45 days worth
of operating and maintenance materials, fuel, chemicals and head office administration expenses.
On this basis, total inventory as of the end of 1994 is projected to be G$19.7 million which is
intended to reflect the disposal of unusable inventory and additional purchases. As materials,
fuel and chemical expenses increase, inventory is projected to increase to G$51 million and
G$133 million by the end of 1998 and 2003 respectively.
7.4   Other Assets
Other assets consists of the unamordzed portion of amortized project costs.
8.0   EQUITY
8.1   Government Equity
Gorernment equity consists of historic government equity plus all government
contributions and projected to be received by GUYWA and retained earnings over the 1994 -
2003 period.
8.2   Revaluation SuIplus
For the purposes of the financial projections, fixed assets are revalued on an annual basis
by the projected inflation rate beginning in 1994. As of 1994, revaluation suIplus is shown as
a separate line item.



-99-                         ANNEX 10
Appendix 1
9.0 CURRENT LIABILTIES
9.1   Accounts Payable
Accounts payables are assumed to represent 45 days worth of cash expenditures,
excluding salaries and benefits, over the 1994 - 2003 period.
9.2 Salaries and Benefits Payable
Wages and employee benefits payable include all salary and wage amounts outstanding
plus any benefits which have been accnred but have not yet been paid. Over the 1994 - 2003
period, it is assumed that salaries and benefits payable represent the equivalent of one month of
total salaries and benefits expense.



-  100  -                                            ANNEX 10
Appni2
COMPARISON OF WATER TARIFFS
CAIIIDBEAN COUNTRIES
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _V     S     D o Daa
PeCapeta      Custom                                Anna           Annul           yeo
in USs        amup                                  We   il        Water Bill     ApplIcabI
<1991>                                              LOW COn. (1)   MO Cons2    __         __
290         Guyala            Domsti                0.63            0.63         1993
(Cu)nt)           Comumcal(3)           2.50            2.50         1993
Industi()             5.00            5.00         1993
Institutional         0.00            0.00         1993
2.500        St Lacia          Domsic                64.32          177.60         1993
Comral               499.56         999.00         1993
Ibnurl             1,493S.6        4,495.56        1993
intbIoA             934.92        2,804.76        1993
6,630         Subados          Domec                103.00          216            1993
CommerIa Sl10.00                  1,020.00        im
4,770        Aautlua           DomXesic             218.76          495            im
Conmmeri           1,458.72       2,917.44        1993
InduStril          4,376.16        13,128.60       1993
Insittonal          1,458.72       4,376.16        1993
11,720       Eb3uras            Domestc              2S6.88         633.68         1993(2)
Commerial           1,288.40       2,923.20        1993U2)
Industri           4,562.00        14,382.80       1993(12)
1Instituional      4,562.00        14,382.80       1993(12)
2,440        DomInica          Dmoestic              81.00          16S.60         1993
ComXnnnweu           48S.76        1,093.56        1993
Indusia            1,094.04        3,774.96        1993
3,620       T1Inidad           Domaeste (4)          3S.33          35.33          1993
&T obago          Domestic (5)         28.99           55.11         I993
ComXnierci           370.93         741.87         Im9
Indusdt            1,112.80        2,617-73        1993
Insitutiouad        1,112.80       2,617.73        1993
1,130        St vict_          Domestic (6)          26.57          26.57         1992
and tho           Domestic (7)         154.98          IS4.98        1992
Greondlnes        Domeste (8)          73.80           168.62        1992
Conmwmial (9)       398.52          398.52         1992
Commucircd(10)       774.91         774.91         1992
Comwnerial(1l)      486.00         972.00         1992
Industlial         1,458.00        4,374.00        1992
lndilutlon          1,170.00       3,510.00        1991
1,380        Janadaa           Domestic              61.73          130.32        1993
CommrcIalc           5S3.02        1,032.94        1993
Induta             1,572.52        4,452.20        1993
290         GyaUna            Domestic              9.6            NA            1994
(Popsed)          Commenrcia           67.2            NA            1994
Industrl             115.2           NA            1994
In__   utio   r'     67.2            NA            1994



-101-                                         ANNEX 10
Appendix 2
(1) Low Consumption defined as 16 m3/month for domestic, 60 m3tmonth
for commerIal, 160 m3/month for iWustrial and iWtuthnal
(2) High Consumption defined as 30 m9/month for domestic. 100 m3/month
for commercial, 460 m9/month for industril and instIutional
(i3) Region 4 commercial and indutr tariff, applWd which  e the ghest
of the regional water departments
(4) Unmneorad domestic wih sngle yard tap, no internal plumbin
16) Metered domestic with internal pumbing
(0) Unmetered domestic with one tao
(7) Unmetered domestic wih more then seven taps
(1) Metered domstic with inteml plumng
(9) Unmstered commercial wih 6-16 employees
(10) Unmetered commerial with 33 or more employees
(11) Metered commercial
(12) Application for increase above tates shown Is presently under
considration by Government



.4                   OOT    66      Z6     S9     BE
001    S6     09      oz     0      0
---OOT    S6   09      09     ot     oz
001    96     08      09     Olk    oz
oor    S6     08      09     ot     oc
OOT    S6     08      09     ov     oz
001    OOT   09       ot     ST     s
OOT    OOT    OOT    OOT    OOT
OOT    GOT    08      09     ot     oz
OOT    OOT    OOT    001    001    Ss
oor    oor   OOT    OOT
OOT    OOT    S6      S9     S9     SC
OOT    Ss     OL      99     ot     sz
OOT    OOT    OOT
OOT    001    OOT    SL      St     oz
OOT    06     SL      Ss     SE     ST
OOT    OOT   OOT    oot   08        SE
oor   06      08      S9     sv     oz
OOT    OOT    oot    OOT    99      SE
OOT    OOT    OOT    SL      Os     sz
OOT    OOT    06      09     OE
COT    001    OOT    OOT  I OOT   99
OOT    OOT    OOT    OOT   OOT   SE
OOT    OOT    96      S9     SE     ST
OOT    OOT    oot    so      stp    oz
30T    OOT    09     OE     OT
OOT  1        06      09
OOT                 IOE   I 01.
66     86             96     96     V6



- 103 -                       ANNEX 12
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECIICAL ASSISTANCE AND
REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table A. Thrbolds on Types of Procurement
(USS '000)
GOS                                                     W | \ 
Goods                >100                     .                 ICB
< 100                   So0               LCB
*<25                    400               Local
_________________ I_________________      Shoppi g
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~  So00       _ _  _   _   _           ICB
< S0o                  5000               LCB{
Civil Works          <2$                     600               Local
I_                I     Shopping
Table B. Thresholds for IDA's Mandatory Ptior-Review
(US$ '000)
Goods25                                      90% Of cnrtsbelo
Civil Works              100                       90% of contacts below
_  ____          h~~wasold 
Cobwants Senrvices       =OA                       90  ocmb      eo
thweshold
I/ Regaress of tdis thrshold, the term of reference of All consultants' services wi be
subject to prior review.



- 104 -                                            ANNEX 13
GUJYANA
WATER SUPPLY TwECNICAL ASSISTANCE ANDEBI1ATO PROJECT
Procurement Schedule for Majo0r Contracts
h. ;  _ [ak                                 4.0   iCs           21.3        MA#O              11t94.95     21 y94.95     4,94.951
* P%-. v&%. |                            0.1 |   1  |Pb    Mullpl        M |t,GOG     12.94,f f    I|.   04M.ff.9
|      * MCBcil_                           4.2  |U.X. Se    1-3          |ODA        |12/3 |                /            494 |
* 11__mmeIm n                            2.2   Icab          2-        g CDWOBtO(               I       3106439       419t.9S 
I      *Pipes   ^ dv  ad sI                                                1 t94                      
I C-" wgl tnab                              2.5  IICE          123          TAG            1 t.r4.95.96   I.95.9 .971  5M9.".2697D
* "r W  *b ah(iZ                }        4.5   LCB            M2 M5^u  1IA/000              1 l203        1/9^4         VWS9 
*  Raio 4 (Ecle) *ad 16iisdc             4 - ^  s10          20-25     CDB/000
||S. C4vskr  (dolip =SS & suaAw             0.90| S       |        -2   | ID)A         |         i  It93|2V9                3h^ |
1. ciu w 1                                  0.14 |LB|4.5                    M ID^GO  |4/941                   6h^4          9/9
U Woehp R_ b l, , ,I I
!     *Tools                               0.32   M Wpp g       3'4        MA/VGOG             6194          7 194        to/4 %
 V                               |de      0.25  ICB            1-2        M IA      |2194 |                3194 |         il4 
'!    .oguia c sq*.               I        QIS   ICB          I1-2       |WIA        |48  |94   4m  |894 
!     *Spu ara w&EqWp             |         .8 O w | tC       1 1-3      |MA         |2194 |                3194 |7h94|
3- Imlmatoa |atom                0        .10   S              Mu iplID     A                 3h     r     ^ sm          8/9 4
PWoeedum                                                                                                                12 |l    l94
* ScrkoCe_            Iv                 0.66 I C           I-           GM Iao              9194     1   1O94               U
I (O& f imig Sada
1 *Vehi2 M                                O.u6  | Swpit       I          IDA       |2/9                    3/94 |         94|
||    *TOiigEqPAW  aSWlp                   0.40  | LB/SImoo   MW*k    IDAUGOC0                 2194 |        3194 |S19 |
1l    *Pqwim  Photal    fc         I       G.0Ic    S         12-S       1WIA        t11                     2 Vr4 |       /9|
9T=bftAvwSpwd0T-                         0.45   S            12 M,A    |DA                   12/93 |        h4    /94   4



- 105 -                                              ANNEX 13
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'                                              .    S7 '  . 
1. CM Wzlb
* RAW   d GUYWA Oflio                     0.06   SbpI.g        44          IDG                    9t          414           6
2. P O biWA
* Cwaamm E1 Bawu f&t MIS                  0.46   ICB           12         IMA                     m94          2t4 
b                                                              .Ijda                           3/94
* Of.equIpuat                             0.06 Isb"ft          44          IDA                              4A94            64
IS ..
 M-w-mtAwW-wTIWn5                I       1.92  U.I  S_        I           ODA                 12t            21M           SI
* Wer R cmum M - 8_n Stdy                 0.15   S             I           DA                   994          10194          "S9
*P. S4dzMaw3*y                            0.10   S             1           MDA                  3)95          S"9S          Om1
A* it  Sanewi                             0.25   S             I           IDA             12193t 9S    lU94O96         494Mfw99
1 FtcuaSpmils                                                    _____
I*Pnpua.Spcaa                             0.42   S                         MA                  12M           2              1
Nota:  S - Consulting Services conta  (Short List/Sole-Sourcing)
SC - Service Contract for Operations & Maintenance activities
TBD - To be decided during project implementation.



- 106 -
ANNEX 14
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table A. Estimated Disbursement Schedule for IDA Credit
(USS Million)
1994         June 30          1.8"               1.8                10
1995         Dec. 31          0.8                2.6                16
June 30         1.2                3.8                23
1996         Dec. 31          1.7                5.5                31
June 30          1.8               7.3                41
1997         Dec. 31          1.8                9.1                52
June 30         1.6               10.7                61
1998         Dec. 31          1.6               12.3                70
June 30          1.6              13.9                 79
1999         Dec. 31          1.4               15.3                87
June 30          1.4              16.7                95
2000          Dec. 31         0.8                17.5               100
Loan Closing Date - December 31, 1999.
' Includes the repayment of PPP and initial deposit to Special Account
Table B. A-ocation of IDA Proceeds
(1) Civil Works                   ,026,000               80%
(2) Materials and
Equipment                     3,934,000               100% of foreign
expenditures (CmP); 100% of
ex-factory costs; and 75% of
local expenditures.
(3) Consultant                   3,920,000              100%
Services
(4) Taining                        798,000              100%
(5) Repaymentof
PPP                           1,483,000              100%
(6) Unallocated                  2,339,000
Total                            17,500,000



-107 -                          ANNEX 15
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND    HABIUTATION PROJECT
PROJECT MONTORING AND EVALUATION
1.   GUYWA would use the following guidelines in its semi-annual reports to IDA: They
are intended to facilitate the planning, monitong and evaluation of the technical
financial, management and training goals of the project. Perfommance targets for
indicators (where applicable) are shown in the table below.
2.    This section applies to aU project components: Facilities rehabilitation, operations and
maintenance, human resource development and institutional strengthening.
(a)   Descriptive report on the progress of implementation of the individual project
components. Comparison of the actual progress of implementation at the end of
the reporting period with the orginal forecast of progress in the Staff Appraisal
report.
(b)   Quarterly forecast of expenditures for each contract signed during the period.
Future reports are to indicate percentage completion of the contract to the original
forecast and the revised forecast of expenditures for remainder of the conact
(c)   Descriptive report of the Human Resource Development program including Status
of GUYWA's staffing, and internal and external tang pro:ram.
(d)   Descriptive report on the participation of the private sector in project
implementation, indicating the roles undertaken by the private sector as well the
evaluation of the performance.
(e)   Descriptive report on the progress in the implementation of New Amsterdam's
meter-based tariff system including the number of staff involved as wel as the
cost of meter reading and maintenance.
(f)   Descriptive report on the initial reactions of a random sample of project
beneficiaries on the quality of GUYWA's services and the areas needing
improvement.
3.    FinancIal Progress
(a)   Schedule of actual and estimated costs and disbursements during the reporting
period.
(b)   List of on-going contracts with basic data and showing payment progress.



-108 -                            ANNEX 15
(c)   List of disbursement applications.
4.    Indicators
(a)   Indicators related to Water System Operations
(i)    Major Rehabilitation
Number of systems completed
Number of systems in progress
Number of house connections
Population served
(ii)   Minor Rehabilitation
Number of systems completed
Number of systems in progress
Number of house connections
Population served
(iii) Number leaks by Region & Division
Residential
Transmission Distribution
(iv) Number of System (Pumps, Engineers) Breakdown by Region & Division
Duration
Cause
(v)   Number of wells rehabilitated
(vi) Number of wells drilled
(b)   Fmancial Indicators
(i)    Growth in water revenues
(-d)   Value of net fixed assets
(iii)  Return on net fixed assets
(Iv)   Current raio
(v)   Accounts receivable
(vi)   Collection perforance by customer categow
(vii)  Cost Recovery
All costs
O&M
(viii) Level of Operational Support
(ix) Ratio of Salaries to total operating expenses



-109 -                            ANNE   S
(x)   Ratio of head office administation cost to total eqpses
(xi)   Average cost per conncoD
(xii) Number of employees per thousand connections
(c)   Human Resource Development
(i)   Stafflng (number)
Expatiiate foeig
Expatriate Guyanese
Lca
(ii) Turnover
Professional
Technician
Labor
(iii) Trining
Number of staff tained and type of tinin                ,
technian) during report period
Cummulative fot the year
(d)   Private Sector Participation
(1) Number of systems with private sector involvement
(ii)   Type of private sector involvement (eratons, maint     route,
maintenance-breakdown, supplies, well drilling).
(e)   New Amserdam Meter-based tariffs
Number of meters istd    duing period
Cumulative number of meters installed
Number of meter breakdowns
Duration of breakdowns befbre repairs   replacements.
0-7 days 8-15 days   15-30 days    over 30 days
Range of tariff paid by customer categoy
(f)   Beneficiary contacts
Number of beneeficia   veyed by Region ad DWion regard    sesvice
quality and areas needing improvements



-110-                                  ANNEX 15
PERFORMANCE TARGETS
I   B.  ,  ..                          . ~   ~I I22  .   I2    I  '''  I        'I2 -j--
1.,,.= = ,. - _, =
4 (a)  (i)     Major Rehabilitation (# Stations)      10      15      10      10      NA      NA
(ii)    Minor Rebabilitation (# Stations)     20      30      40      10       NA      NA
4 (b)  (iv)    Curent Ratio                           1.7    1.9      2.2    2.2      2.8    2.6
(v)    Accounts receivables (days)            75      65      50      S0       S0     S0
(vii)   Cost reoovery
All Cost                               12%    20%      44%    48%      72%    69%
O&M (%)                                17%    28%      64%    71%      105%   98%
Tier I                                 N/A    N/A    83%    91%         133%   114%
Trw 2                                  17%    28%    52%    48%        53%    50%
(viii)  Level of op. suppott (G$ Million)     230    275      215    60        so     0
(ix)    Ratio of alaries/total expeuses       20%    20%      18%    17%       16%    16%
(x)    Rabo of Head off. Admin./total of      4%      5%      4%      4%       4%      4%
expense
(xi)    Avenge cost per connection (G$)       5,400  6,200   7,400   8,200   8,800  9,700
(xii)   Numnber of employees per 1000
Connections                            9       10      10      9       9       9
NIA - Not Applicable



- 111 -
ANNEX 16
WATER SUPPLY TECCAL ASSISTANCE AND RM HABIUTATIQN
Economic Rate of Return
1.         The main assumptions employed in the development cf the projections
used in the economic rate of return analysis are described in Appendix I of Annex
10. The major benefits of the project are: (i) increased reliability of water supply;
(ii) reduction in water-borne diseases and improved hygiene; (iii) reduction, if not
elimination, of water related accidents and fatalities; (iv) time savings accruing to
women and children from reduced time spent fetching water; and (v) cost savings in
the purchase of water from water vendors.
2.          The cost streams include the cost of the physical components of the
project as a proxy for the incremental capital cost, and the incremental operations
and maintenance costs. The benefit streams include the incremental tariff revenues
aributable to the project and the cost savings by GUYWA customers from reduction
of water purchases from water vendors. AR calculations were made on the basis of
constant 1993 Guyana Dollar. The data on monthly purchases of water from vendors
provided by Regional Water Superintendents, by region, were as follows:
tig                                 Mmtfhily Purchase in G$
2                                   1,500-1,800
3                                      3,000
4                                      3,000
5                                      2,400
6                                      2,400
4.          These estimates had to be reduced substantially in the economic
analysis to take into account the fact that water purchasing is usualy highly seasonal
since ample water could be collected during the rainy season. Also it was felt that
the purchase pnces represented distress prices paid by the elderly, and relatively
well-off people who are unable or unwilling to walk the long distances required to
fetch water. Based on these considerations, the cost savings assumed in the
economic rate of return amounted to only G$500/year per family for customers of
systems undergoing minor rehabilitation (Iner 2) and G$2,500/year per fmily for
customers of systems undergoing major rehabilitation (ner 1). Viewed in this light,
and due to the fact that all of the other benefits could not be quantifled because of
lack of data, the estimated ERR could be viewed as a significant underesmation of
its true value. Shadow exchange rates or prices were not used in light of the on-
going economic reform program underway wi the support of the IMP and the
Association, that has resulted in a liberlaizd economy and market-demined
exchange rates.



- '112                             ANNEX 16
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
SAVINGS SAVINGS  INCREMENTAL  CAPITAL  INCREMENTAL       NET
YEAR    TIER 2   TIER I    REVENUES    COSTS   0 & M COSTS   BENEFITS
1994    36.03    0.00       40.8      -219.97     -124.9      *268.05
1995    36.75    0.00       78.7      -403.28     -145.3       435.13
1996    28.27    49.66      213.4     -608.59     -196.3      -513.56
1997    23.23    83.28      257.7     -629.36     -223.7       488.85
1998    17.95   118.32      408.3     -107.54     -252.6       184.43
1999    14.79   141.00      385.6                 -252.6       288.79
2000    11.43   164.27      517.9                 -252.6       441.00
2001    7.85    188.81      489.1                 -252.6       433.16
2002    4.04    214.68      600.6                 -252.6       566.72
2003      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2004      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2005      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2006      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2007      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2008      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2009      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2010      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2011      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       483.03
2012      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2013      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2014      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2015      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2016      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2017      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
2018      0     241.93      618.7                 -252.6       608.03
ERR
,20% _, 



-113-
ANNEX 17
GUYANA
WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND              AUHJTATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Sector
Al.  GUYANA: From Economic Recovery to Sustined Growth, World Bank
(April 1992)
A2.  Improving Services for the Poor, A Program Strategy for the 1990s, World
Bank (1992)
A3. National Evaluation of Drinidng Water Supply and Sanitation Decade in
Guyana, (1980-1991), and Projections for the Future, PAHO (1990)
A4.  Report of Mission to Guyana on Human Resources Development in the Water and
Sewerage Sector, PAHO/WHO (1992)
AS.  The Water and Sanitation Decade in Guyana (1981-1990), PAHO/WHO (1991)
A6.  Participation of Women in Water Supply and Sanitation; Roles and Realities,
UNDP
A7. Institutional Strengthening of the Water Supply and Sanitation Sector, Babtie
Shaw and Morton, 2 Volumes (May 1991)
A7. Infrustructure Sector Strategy Review (Green Cover), World Bank (April 1992)
A8.  SIMAP/Health, Nutrition, Water and Sanitation Project, SAR, World Bank
(April 1992)
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
Bl.  Water Supply Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project,
Institutional/Legal Studies, Babtie Shaw and Morton (March 1993)
B2.  GUYWA: Human Resources Development Plan, Interim Report, Walkr and
Associates (July 1993)
B3.  Operation and Maintenance Program, Trip Report, R.W. Arbou (arch
1993)



ANNEX 17
-114 -
B4.  Water Facilities Rehabilitation Strategy, Trip Report, D.R. Horsefield (March
1993)
B5.  GUYWA: Preliminary Water Tariff Analysis, IMC Consulting Group Inc.,
(July 1993)
B6.  Pre-Design Report for Facilities Rehabilitation, Maxim Consultants
(September 1993)
C. Selected Working Papers
Cl. Tariff Scenarios for GUYWA, E. Njomo, (September 1993)
C2. Notes on Economic Analysis, IMC Inc., (September 1993)
C3.  Detailed Description of the Project Components.
C4. Draft Terms of Reference for Key Consultants' Services under the Prioject.



(O.LY.W.A.)
IC.iw    UIIsr    -  -    --     --    
3 Ch~      - -  -
G~k0
z    z    I -XjMei  l  S nE               .. 
ofbv 01k 13wm
MUN.. ORSAISATIONCHART ExisT-  ST-ucTu-E



S| ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~- o44aAM
!m~~~~~~~~~~  ~  a I            SPC.
B~Cd    Ioa
2~~Wi  Imw                            Ahbtve- h
0                   jl;RZl\---elb|
a.                                -,X-                              _ - "A
PROPOSED RUStRUCIURINO OP WATER AN SANITATON SECTOR{



0                 ~~~~~~- 117 -
CHART 3
I                                    
I I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
I~~
Ii
Ia
I       I"
I
~~~I I'



DUD fOOP
WAlI SERE       -
Nmwab                                  opmdm adDhubdm  hgu a   m se
COON*       aidDe       WalDU'RTU
cb   |        ad~MmetDi                    D_                              M_|
a~~~~~IM  2)                   Dwm )           DW4              bf
WAIM ~~_ _ltM NATWC



in
E-4
xxxxxx -9x-x-xxx xxxx5ix xxxxxx xxxxxx       x
xxxxxw xrcwx-xx -Xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxx* 3rxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxx rikkkiR -xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxii xxx xx- xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx   xxxxxxt'
xxx5ixx
xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxx
xxxxxx       x
XXXIIlxx xxxxxx
xk-X--Xxx --kx-xxxk -xxxxxx xxxxxx
XRXXXK xxxx3cx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxxt xxxxxx xxxxxx xx   x xxx
1         xxxxxk xxxxxx xxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxxi xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xx x
xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxX
xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxx --)i-xxxxx xxxxxx
'ixx
xx   xxxxxx
xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx
xxrcxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxx   3r



MAP SECTION



GUYANA
11<1           <   - -   ; $>  s WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
AND
'IV  ~ 4/4   /   d   X                                          REHABILITATION PROJECT
4                                                                                 REWAAAIMA  N REGINA
< SUPENMA : '
___                   0                "~~~~~~~ O/-EORGETOWN
WALES
LANDIS Mine                                    BUSH LOT
DA PROJECT (94-99)';N EWAMSTERDAM
pee,,~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~h  o  h.be.  .pe
Jf               ~~~~~KURUPUNG                          /          } 4          IDN
PR\MARY ROADS                                                                                      eocjuo, MCorE the eFRIENDSHn
\~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o redo e/  in totith
\                             ~~~~~~~~~                  ~       ~~MAHDtS I  OKWAKUJANI  
} } ~~HOLsslGOO.
rr   ~~~~~~~KT"O,                            KURUPUYR    J 
IDA PROJECT (94-99)       _         ,       '/.                                              U   R    I  N    A    M         E
I  DB PROJECT 193-97) , ''/
%   t   .[  r: /       :     {                  ~~~~~~~~~~This   h. t ocen  pep-d
4-PRIMARY ROADS                                                                                           el;l,v    f  byThe Wd escr
SECONDARY ROADS                                                           Wlmernol one cf The Wold Bck
GopTedenonnntion otved
TRACKS                                                                                              end the bo-odorien shown
I f RAILROADS  gY                                       1\;     t             rr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n th e mre do not opt - on the
---RAILROADS                                                                                           pod of T Wo,ld Do. Gro~p.
oyjed ten oo The egot
NAnONAL CAPITAL                                                                V                    OOtns e   ren o on
O   TOW^fNS                     U THEN&-                                                                sech houndorirs.
*    INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT         {                                                                _
RI$VEN RSEL
-R     REGION BOUNDARIES                                     
_     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES    SNC                                                       a 
OICHAW j~  Area<EGION f Mo
MILIES                 2A              ))lHEO            
0   10  20   l   4,  lp                               AIHATO
0l   .0    40    60    fl0/\
KILOMETERS                            LUMIDPA
rA  /       GUYANA                         |g                                                       
. f  QEZUEL4 71-ef  Ctg           t                                                                                          U
. COLUMBS  V    o                              <                                 g              _0
7                                                                                         B R A  Z  I Lrn
' PERU1JL'_



