                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 29690




                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (TF-23020 IDA-25590)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 12.5 MILLION (US$ 17.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF GUYANA

                                                 FOR A

         WATER SUPPLY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT




                                           September 27, 2004




Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2004)

                            Currency Unit = Guyana Dollar
                                  G$ 1.00 = US$ 0.0056
                                 US$ 1.00 = G$ 179.55

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                                April 1 to March 31


                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CDB    Caribbean Development Bank
DfID   Department for International Development (U.K.)
EIB    European Investment Bank
EC     European Comunity
EU     European Union
GoG    Government of Guyana
GS&WC  Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commissioners
GUYWA  Guyana Water Authority
GWI    Guyana Water Incorporated
IADB   Inter-American Development Bank
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
IDA    International Development Association
LCB    Local Competitive Bidding
MC     Management Contract
O&M    Operations and Maintenance
ODA    Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
PUC    Public Utilities Commission
PMU    Project Management Unit
PSR    Project Status Report
QAG    Quality Assurance Group
SAR    Staff Appraisal Report




                           Vice President:    David de Ferranti
                         Country Director:    Caroline D. Anstey
          Sector Manager/Sector Director:     John H. Stein/Danny M. Leipziger
          Task Team Leader/Team Leader:       Ventura Bengoechea

                                           GUYANA
                   GY WATER SUPPLY TA AND REHABILITATION


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28

Project ID: P007257                                                  Project Name: Guyana Water Supply Technical
                                                                     Assistance and Rehabilitation Project
Team Leader: Ventura Bengoechea                                      TL Unit: LCSFW
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 26, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Guyana Water Supply Technical Assistance and             L/C/TF Number: TF-23020; IDA-25590
                            Rehabilitation Project
   Country/Department: GUYANA                                                             Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (100%)
                  Theme: Other financial and private sector development (P); Rural services
                            and infrastructure (P); Other urban development (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 01/31/1992                                     Effective: 04/22/1994                04/22/1994
     Appraisal: 05/31/1993                                         MTR: 11/14/1996                  12/16/1999
      Approval: 12/21/1993                                      Closing: 12/31/1999                 03/27/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT OF GUYANA/GUY WATER AUTHORITY
                      Other Partners:      DfiD, CDB, EIB, EU, GoG of Japan

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 David de Ferranti                              Javed Burki
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Yoshiaki Abe
Sector Manager:                 John Henry Stein                               Peter Ludwig
Team Leader at ICR:             Ventura Bengoechea
ICR Primary Author:             Ventura Bengoechea


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

According to the Staff Appraisal Report, dated November 24, 1994, the objectives of the Project
were: (i) initiate the process of upgrading water supply facilities; (ii) establish appropriate
procedures and methods for ensuring proper system operation and maintenance (O&M) and
promote the involvement of the private sector in water operations; (iii) enhance sector technical,
financial and managerial skills through training; and (iv) rationalize sector organization and
strengthen sector finances by instituting tariff reforms and improving costs recovery. The Project
was conceived to improve the quality and reliability of potable water in selected regions in
Guyana and enhance the efficiency of water sector institutions.

The context to the Project was a history of under-investment in the water sector. At Project start,
it could be seen that major infrastructure was in need of rehabilitation and the lack of proper
maintenance was affecting the asset base and service. The sector operated under Government of
Guyana (GoG) subsidies with tariffs covering only a very small part of operating costs. The lack
of maintenance, investment and efficiency highlighted that Guyana Water (GUYWA), one of the
two water utilities in the country, required significant reform to be sustainable and to continue
providing service.

By March 1996, the Project Status Report (PSRs) identified implementation problems including a
lack of institutional capacity within GUYWA to implement investments and reforms, and a
worsening financial situation. By 1997 the water supply component of the project was about two
years delayed and only 48 of 90 expected minor systems had been rehabilitated. At the same time
only about 14% of the Project Funds had been disbursed.

Several critical flaws in the original project objectives and design were identified. These included:

    -   Perpetuation of the fragmentation of the sector. Despite the limited financial and human
        resources in Guyana, the original project accepted the continued presence of two utilities
        GUYWA and Georgetown Sewerage and Water Commission (GS&WC) in the country
        when one was economically and technically sufficient. It further endorsed an investment
        strategy that focused on increased and additional production when the root problems were
        in the distribution system and in the overinvestment in supply.

    -   The original design did not facilitate financing of the sector. The financing was lagging
        and delays were experienced at the Central Tenders Board (CTB). There was an extremely
        low procurement threshold above which the CTB approval was required. There was a
        further requirement that the Cabinet be involved in procurement decisions related to
        Government-funded projects. The result was a very slow process for moving funding.
        Donor funds were further diffused throughout the sector. In general, IDA supported
        GUYWA, IADB supported GS&WC and the EU supported specific investments - all with
        a low level of coordination. To encourage effective financial flows it was necessary to
        revise the procurement process, structure the counterpart financing requirements to
        achievable levels, and coordinate donor financing.

    -   Finally, the financial conditionalities were extremely difficult for the GoG to achieve until


                                                  - 2 -

        other sector improvements had taken root.

3.2 Revised Objective:

In 1999, the Project performance was highly unsatisfactory and Bank Staff were close to a
decision to terminate the Project. It was clear that the Project would not be successful as
originally designed for reasons described below. Yet both the GoG and Bank Staff were reluctant
to halt the flow of much needed investment to Guyana. The Bank and the GoG thus agreed on an
amendment to the Loan Agreement, signed on December 16, 1999. Under the Loan Amendment,
the Project Objectives were scaled back and simplified; there was a refocus on an investment
strategy oriented toward distribution management rather than production; and the credit
agreements' conditionality eliminated unfulfilled financial targets and substituted performance
indicators focused more on physical measures of implementation progress. There was a renewed
emphasis on ensuring a secure, safe and accessible supply of potable water with particular interest
on the poor.

The Revised Objectives of the Project were: (i) to improve the reliability and accessibility to
potable water supply services provided by GUYWA, in particular for those low income
communities located in urban and rural areas; and (ii) to develop the information and analytical
data to modernize the water sector's policy and institutional framework.

These Revised Objectives were designed as realistic responses to the identified roadblocks and
while they could be seen to be unaggressive, they were complemented by a new coordinated
donor strategy to the sector which had greater potential for success. The Revised Objectives
placed an immediate re-emphasis on visible service improvements to disadvantaged communities
and on an investment program that was more efficient and effective. The World Bank, together
with UK's Department for International Development (DfID), spearheaded a multi-donor strategy
to include the European Union (EU), European Investment Bank (EIB), Caribbean Development
Bank (CDB) and, to some extent, the Inter-American Development Bank (IADB). The
multi-donor strategy used the revived investment program as a catalyst to re-examine the
potential for sectoral reform. DfID commissioned a wide-ranging study of the regulatory,
financial, technical and institutional issues plaguing the sector. This study yielded the baseline
data to allow for consultative and informed decision-making among the stakeholders. The result
was a revived GoG commitment to the type of sectoral reform that had been envisioned at the
first design of the Project.

The Project closing date was extended eighteen months in 1999 and again in 2001. The Project's
final closing date was March 27, 2004, four years and three months later than projected at
Appraisal.


3.3 Original Components:

As described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) the project consisted of six main components:

Component (i): Facilities Rehabilitation; Cost: US$ 16.1 million.

The four subcomponents of the facilities rehabilitation component included: (a) major


                                                  - 3 -

rehabilitation of about 45 existing water facilities - well pumping stations, treatment plants,
transmission and distribution network, etc. -located in the densely-populated metropolitan areas
of Region 4 (Eccles and LBI locations) and in the concentrated urban centers of Rosehall and
Corriverton (Region 6), Anna Regina (Region 2), Pouderoyen (Region 3) and Bush Lot (Region
5); (b) rehabilitation emergency repairs of some 100 well pumping stations located mostly in
semi-urban and rural areas nationwide; (c) upgrading of about 40 km distribution lines and
provision of about 4,000 house connections for the New Amsterdam water system (as
complementary to the proposed rehabilitation by EC of the New Amsterdam major distribution
mains under LOME IV); and (d) related detailed engineering and design (about 60 man-months).

Component (ii): Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Improvements; Cost: US$ 2.15 million.

This component emphasizes the adoption of routine O&M programs for systems and equipment
facilities - pump stations in the coastal areas and hand-operated facilities in the interior areas - and
the potential role for the private sector GUYWA operations. The five subcomponents of the
O&M component included: (a) provision of 3 new divisional workshop facilities and
improvements to the existing central workshop (at LBI location); (b) purchase of transportation
and utility vehicles, (15 to 20) and communication equipment (radios/transmitters); (c) purchase
of spare parts (engines, pumps, motors and electrical control panels, to be standardized where
needed), water meters, emergency chlorinators, safety equipment and supplies (piping, chemicals,
lubricants, etc.); (d) O&M pilot contracts for the operation of well pumping stations (about 5);
and (e) establishment of Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) and Standard Maintenance
Procedures (SMP) to be adopted systemwide.

Component (iii): Human Resources Development (HRD); Cost: US$ 1.65 million.

This component aimed at planning and enhancing the skills of the manpower in the water sector,
with the specific objective of meeting GUYWA's training and long-term recruitment needs. The
HRD component included: (a) preparation and implementation of training programs over a 5-year
period (managers, technicians, craftsmen, etc.); (b) purchase of training equipment and supplies (2
transportation vehicles, audio visual equipment, desktop computers, etc.); (c) about 20 university
fellowships (at the University of Guyana) and 75 technician scholarships (at various technical
institutes in Guyana); (d) overseas short-term training visits; (e) development of water quality
testing skills and training services (including purchase of laboratory equipment); and (f) consultant
services of a Training Advisor and a Coordinator (about 18 man-months foreign/60 man-months
local).

Component (iv): Institutional Strengthening Program of GUYWA; Cost: US$ 3.58 million.

This component focused on building the institutional capacity of GUYWA in line with the
proposed restructuring and reorganization of the water sector. The technical assistance programs
would assist GUYWA to improve its organizational, managerial and financial capabilities. The
program would envisioned the potential for GUYWA to emerge, over a period of time, as the
national agency with a clear focus and effective regulatory role in the water sector. The TA was
to assist GUYWA with establishment of financial, accounting and management systems (billing
and collection) and improved cost recovery schemes. Specifically, the component included: (a)


                                                  - 4 -

management and 'twinning' assistance to GUYWA (about 80 man-months foreign) through an
operating water utility; (b) purchase and installation of financial and commercial accounting
management systems (including computer hardware/software) and associated training programs;
(c) consultant assistance (5 man-months, foreign) to GUYWA for the implementation of
management information systems; (d) contractual hiring of 15 to 20 technical specialists
(including overseas Guyanese) on short-term consultancy basis to assist GUYWA with day-to-day
operations; (e) refurbishment of GUYWA's offices (Headquarters/regions) and office equipment;
and (f) institutional/legal studies on water resources management and private sector capabilities
and role in the water sector, and auditing services for the preparation of annual external audits of
GUYWA during the Project implementation period.

Component (v): Project Management and Evaluation; Cost: US$ 0.70 million.

This component focused on the establishment and maintenance of a special Project Management
Unit (PMU) reporting to the Chief Executive Officer of GUYWA. Included in this component
were: (a) the staffing of the PMU Personnel including the Manager (60 man-months/local),
Accountant (60 mm/local) and support (secretary, driver) services, hired on consultancy basis; (b)
consultant services of a Procurement (contract) Advisor (about 48 man-months foreign); (c)
PMU's administration; and (d) Project impact evaluation studies (6 man-months/foreign and
local).

Component (vi): Future Projects Preparation; Cost: US$ 0.25 million.

This included the preparation of the subsequent phases of rehabilitation and new projects in the
water sector (about 25 man-months/local and foreign), to be agreed during project
implementation.

3.4 Revised Components:

Supplementing the original components, the Project's description was modified to permit
investment which (i) placed greater emphasis on distribution; (ii) provided improved services to
the poor including squatter settlements; (iii) increased storage for critical areas; (iv) promoted
improved O&M through the purchase of spare parts, electrical generators and meters; and (v)
supported institutional strengthening. To this end, the Project Components were revised as
follows:

Component (i): Facilities Rehabilitation.

This component stayed largely the same to include rehabilitation, including installation or
replacement of necessary equipment and related detailed engineering and design, of water supply
facilities administered by GUYWA, through major upgrading of approximately 12 water supplies
facilities in the coastal urban areas and minor upgrading of approximately 100 water pumping
stations.




                                                 - 5 -

Component (ii): Operation and Maintenance.

This Component continued to require an operation and maintenance program aimed at improving
arrangements for breakdown maintenance and preventive maintenance of water supplies facilities.

Component (iii): Human Resources Development.

This Component was revised to reflect more realistic objectives including implementation of a
human resources development program aimed at planning and enhancing the skills of the
manpower required in the water sector, through: (a) design and implementation of training
programs for all levels of staff, including overseas short-term training programs; and (b) granting
of approximately eight engineering fellowships at the University of Guyana.

Component (iv): Institutional Strengthening of GUYWA.

This Component was rewritten to include strengthening of the organizational, managerial,
financial and operational capabilities of GUYWA together with the restructuring and
recentralization of the water sector, through: (a) design and installation of financial and
commercial management systems, and management information systems; (b) refurbishments of
GUYWA's offices and office equipment; (c) institutional and legal studies on water resources
management and private sector capabilities and role in the water sector; and (d) carrying out of
annual external audits. The revised description allowed for increased private sector participation.

Component (v): Project Management.

The revised description called for strengthening of PMU to carry out its functions under the
Project.

Component (vi): Restructuring for Infrastructure Rehabilitation.

The Original Project Component (vi), Future Projects Preparation, was replaced with a
Component for Restructuring for Infrastructure Rehabilitation. The Revised Component
included: (a) Rehabilitation of the water supply distribution pipe network in the following service
schemes (including the installation of service connections in such areas): (i) Eccles to Covent
Garden; (ii) Prospect to Friendship; (iii) Bartica; and (iv) La Bonne Intension; (b) rehabilitation
and extension of the water supply distribution pipe in about 10 areas to be selected by GUYWA;
(c) rehabilitation of about 5 water treatment plants to be selected by GUYWA; and (d)
rehabilitation of the water storage facility selected by GUYWA.


3.5 Quality at Entry:

The Quality at Entry was Unsatisfactory. The Quality at Restructuring was Satisfactory.

At the time of project preparation the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist within the
Bank. However, events in 1999 demonstrated that the initial project design and implementation



                                                  - 6 -

strategy were flawed. In many ways the Original Project tried to achieve reform while working
within the status quo; the Revised Project, post-1999, changed the status quo through a
systematic multi-donor strategy of: identifying and agreeing the sector problems and solutions
(DfID and IDA); financing the investments that would yield best value, efficient and tangible
service improvements, especially to low-income populations (IDA, EU, CDB, EIB); and achieve
institutional reform and financial reform through a collaborative strategy with the GoG (IDA,
DfID).

The revised Project Design was scaled back to be more achievable, to attain more sustainable
results, and to more fully coordinate the financing available from the range of donors. Through
the development of a higher level reform strategy for the Project, the Bank was able to more
effectively mobilize commitments from the GoG and donors. The situation at GUYWA remained
challenging with unsupportive management, but the Revised Project no longer attempted to work
through GUYWA per se, but implemented the merger of the two national utilities into a new
organization and helped pair that organization with an international Operator. The Revised
Project was consistent with the Country Assistant Strategy and reflected the lessons learned
during the first four years of the project.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The Project has led to substantial investment in the water sector in Guyana and has established the
fundamentals for continued improvement. Ultimately, the Project has achieved many of the
Original Project Objectives, but this could only be accomplished through a change in the Bank's
strategy for achieving those Objectives.

Donor Coordination: In particular, the Project provides a positive example of Donor
Coordination. The Project included financing components from ODA (DfID), CDB, The
Japanese Government, EU, and EIB and was coordinated with the Georgetown Water and
Sewerage Programs I and II of the IADB and the Linden Water Supply Rehabilitation Project of
the EU. Under the auspices of the Project, a Water Sector Thematic Group was established
which includes representatives of the major stakeholders and all significant donors and which still
meets regularly to coordinate and discuss project activities. The Water Sector Thematic Group
(which includes key national stakeholders) was able to agree and drive the comprehensive sector
reform more effectively than was possible through the classic IDA project structure.

Other achievements include:

Policy, Legal and Regulatory Reform: Key instruments were put in place which clarified the
roles in the sector, clarified expectations of sector participants and established lines of
accountability. For instance, the new Water and Sewerage Act was passed in May 2002 to
provide a policy framework; the National Water Council was established to provide guidance to
the sector on interpretation of policy; a Water License was written to set out the Government's
performance expectations of Guyana Water Inc.(GWI), water quality standards were agreed and
promulgated for the first time, allowing for more consistency in investment planning and
regulation; and the role of the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) was formally expanded to


                                                  - 7 -

include oversight of the water sector.

Institutional Reform. The most significant achievement was the establishment of Guyana Water
Inc. through the merger of the two predecessor utilities. This rationalized investment planning
and resource allocation and created new efficiencies in the sector. It also helped dissolve some
ethnic tensions that had been embodied in the previous utilities which had evolved to be ethnically
aligned as Afro-Guyanese or Indo-Guyanese. The new utility, particularly when the Management
Contract was implemented, was not ethnically aligned.

Financial Sustainability: Rather than the financial conditionalities of the Original Project, the
Revised Project achieved financial improvements through analysis of current cost recovery levels;
agreement on a new cost recovery scheme and tariff schedule; enshrining these goals within the
Water Policy, the Water License, and the Management Contract; and , finally, giving the utility
and the regulator improved tools for achieving these goals. The Management Contract (initially
developed through PPIAF funding) had an emphasis on improved billing and collection and
reduction of the non revenue water levels. The GoG agreed to replace the billing system, a
system which had never functioned properly and which required off-shore support that was
difficult to obtain.

Service Improvements: As a result of the project, an integrated 10-year Investment Program
was developed which incorporated current and proposed commitments of all active donors on a
rolling 10-year basis. A comprehensive service strategy was finally developed and agreed for the
Hinterland, the Amerindian-populated areas.

These accomplishments were achieved within a difficult environment for the Government of
Guyana. The years of 2002-2003 were marked by social and political tensions including an
increase in crime. These conditions were compounded by a slowdown in donor assistance. A
cycle had developed whereby donors were discouraged by slow disbursements yet the GoG felt
increasingly unable to make progress without the Donor support. The Water Sector Thematic
Group (previously called the Government/Donor Steering Committee) was helpful in providing a
forum for airing these issues and developing solutions to constraints.

Specific achievements against the revised Project Objectives include:

The Objective (i): "To improve the reliability and accessibility to potable water supply
services provided by GUYWA, in particular for those low income communities located in
urban and rural areas"

Achieved: Over the course of the Project, a sector investment program was implemented to
rationalize production and transmission and distribution infrastructure to lower operation costs
(especially electricity) by concentrating production in approximately 14 areas, standardizing plant
construction, introducing low cost water treatment (aeration for removal of iron, followed by
chlorination), introducing metering and improved network management to reduce losses. The
major works were all contracted and implemented satisfactorily.




                                                - 8 -

The major works included: The Eccles Major Scheme (42,500 people served) which entailed
Eccles WTP, Covent Garden WTP and Golden Grove; LBI Major Scheme (63,500 people
served) which entailed Better Hope WTP and Mon Repos; Bartica WTP (7,500 people served).
Network rehabilitation was completed in LBI, Eccles, Bartica, Rosehall, and the EU funded
Pouderoyen Water Supply Rehabilitation Project. The Project activities included completion of
the nine new water treatment plants to serve the Coast and Bartica; rehabilitation of 84 minor
water supply projects inland and under the Coastal Program; and improved water transmission
and distribution pipelines in Regions 3, 4, 6, and 7. Approximately 62 kilometers of large trunk
mains were constructed and an additional 85 km of secondary mains. More than 170,000 people
received safe water as a result of these interventions, raising the percentage of population with
access to treated water from 36% in 2001 to 45% in 2003. 3,484 new service connections were
implemented in 2003. An additional 500 are scheduled. From October 2003 to March 2004, more
than 5,000 leaks were identified and corrected. Pressure monitoring points have been installed in
all coastal networks.

The work which IDA supported in squatter settlements to provide access to water supply had an
important impact and was judged as highly successful by an independent expert. Eleven squatter
settlements were provided with service with six additional communities identified for a second
phase.

Objective (ii): "To develop the information and analytical data to modernize the water
sector's policy and institutional framework"

Achieved: A comprehensive and deep reform of the entire sector has been carried out in parallel
to the project supported by IDA. A new legal regulatory and institutional framework for the water
and sanitation sector was implemented with the passage of a new water law in March 2002, the
issuance of the operation license in November 2002, and the launching of a new water policy
agency through the creation of a National Water Council to coordinate water resource policy and
issues. In May 2002 the two utilities, GS&WC and GUYWA, were merged into a new utility
formed under the Companies Act. Merger of the utilities created a new economy of scale in the
sector. GWI was created with a Board of Directors and proper channels of accountability. Based
on international competition, the GoG awarded a performance based Management Contract (MC)
for five years to Severn Trent in Oct 2002. Signing of the MC took place at the end of November
2002 and the Management Contractor began work in January 2003.

The Management Contract provides for an initial year to develop baseline data against key
performance indicators; that baseline data has now been developed, ratified by an independent
auditor, and will form the basis for measuring improvements. The Management Contractor has
also improved record keeping and monitoring in the utility.

Key to the sustainability of the sector was reliable information on the financial results of the
utilities, the appropriate tariff levels to improve cost recovery, and the willingness of customers to
pay these rates. At project start the tariff rates were extremely low in all service areas, metering
rates extremely low, billing conducted on an annual basis, and collection ratios negligible. From
1972 to 1994, tariffs for domestic consumers had been unchanged at levels ranging from G$6.25


                                                   - 9 -

to G$92 per month. From 1988 to 1992 GUYWA's income as percentage of total costs fell from
85% to 44%. GUYWA's accounts receivable increased from G$1 million in 1989 to almost
G$22 million in 1993.

The Project Restructuring in 1999 precipitated the first major tariff review and increase in nearly
twenty years, bringing average domestic water tariffs to G$300 and to G$600 for GUYWA and
GS&WC customers respectively. The 1999 tariff review was followed by a second tariff
adjustment in 2000, leading to an increase of 25% for GUYWA and 42% for GS&WC customers.


In 2002, a tariff study undertaken by consultants provided the basis for a systematic process to
adjust tariffs toward better cost recovery, eliminate operating subsidies by 2005, and put into
effect a transparent needs-based subsidy for the poorest consumers. The Willingness to Pay Study
conducted by the consultants found that the average Ability to Pay threshold was G$930/month
and the Willingness to Pay was between G$600 and G$900/month. Based on this new, more
reliable information, a 40% tariff increase was granted in January 2003 for water consumers
outside the Georgetown area.

                              Table 4.1 Domestic Water Rates 1993 ­ 2003

                                                   G$/ Month for Unmetered Customers (2003
                                                                    Prices)

                                                  1993      1999      2000       2002     2003

                   Divisions 1-5 (Excluding         51       355      508        728       680
                   Georgetown)

                   Georgetown                      139       709      949        899       900


                   Sources: Project Appraisal Document (1993), Guyana Water Incorporated Tariff
                   Structure (2004), Guyana Central Bank.



The tariff study also confirmed that the connection fee, set at G$10,000 (about US$80) for both
utilities, was too high to be affordable and discouraged new connections. In 2003 a reform was
achieved in the reduction of the connection fee to G$1,000 thus stimulating new connections and
making more accessible the water service for low income consumers.

Financial sustainability of the sector remains a challenge. Specific actions that have been put in
place to improve financial results, include a focused effort on improved billing and commitment to
invest in a new billing system, an active disconnection policy, clearance of the 2002 GWI debt to
Guyana Power & Light, and an agreement on the part of the GOG to re-examine tariff levels
within the year. However, The Cabinet has determined that any further tariff increases must be
supported by tangible water service improvements.




                                                    - 10 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component (i): Facilities Rehabilitation.

The major rehabilitation works in LBI, Bartica, Rose Hall, Pouderoyen and Eccles were
completed during the Project. The nine Water Treatment Plants provide safe water to coast and
inland communities. 84 minor facilities were rehabilitated.

Component (ii): Operation and Maintenance.

The Management Contract was signed in November 2002 to increase focus on improved
operation and maintenance procedures and the Project supported Guyana Water Inc. with spare
parts, O&M service contracts, vehicles, meters and other supplies. The two utilities, GUYWA
and GS&WC, were merged to minimize operational costs and to respond to the shortage of
qualified staff.

Component (iii): Human Resources Development.

Under this Component financing was provided for training and support to the laboratory, and
eight scholarships in engineering at University of Guyana were provided. Human Resource
Development was further strengthened by the DFID-financed institutional strengthening which
worked department by department within the utility to clarify job descriptions, implement the
merger, and clarify reporting relationships.

Component (iv): Institutional Strengthening of GUYWA.

During the Project it was determined that the best option for the effective and rational
management and operation of the sector was to merge the two utilities into Guyana Water Inc.
The merger was implemented in 2002. GWI was then further strengthened through the
implementation of a Management Contract procured through international competitive bidding.
GWI now has improved processes for billing and collection, customer service, leak detection, and
financial data collection.

Component (v): Project Management.

This Component provided support to the PMU within Guyana Water which had a critical role in
implementing the investment program which, in turn, was essential to the achievement of
performance targets in the sector.

Component (vi): Restructuring for Infrastructure Rehabilitation.

The investments on squatter settlements were successful in providing long term, cost effective
water supplies to poor people in squatter communities. The component brought piped water
supply to 20 poor squatter communities, 19 for the first time. Approximately 26,000 people were
benefited from these works at a cost of about US$51 per capita. This component also led to a
change in GoG water pricing policy, reducing connection fees.


                                               - 11 -

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

In order to be consistent, the recalculation of the economic rate of return has been conducted in a
fashion comparable to that used at the Project's appraisal and with a closely similar result. The
costs streams include the costs of the physical components of the project as a proxy for the
incremental capital cost, and the incremental operations and maintenance costs. The benefits
streams include the incremental tariff revenues attributable to the project and the cost savings by
GUYWA (GWI) customers from reduction of water purchases from water vendors. It should be
noted, however, that due to the fact that a number of other significant benefits could not be
quantified because of lack of data, the estimated ERR underestimates its true value. These other
benefits, inter alia, are: (i) increased reliability in water supply; (ii) reduction in water-borne
diseases and improved hygiene; (iii) reduction of water related accidents and fatalities; and (iv)
time savings accruing to women and children from reduced time spent fetching water. It should
also be noted that the methodology would not capture any consumption benefits accruing to
customers whose payment is uncollected.

The ex post ERR assessment is calculated at 19%, slightly lower than the 20% rate of return
forecasted at appraisal.


4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Substantial: The water sector has been dramatically changed through this project by
development of a clearer framework of expectations, increased accountability, and improved
institutional structures. The Project advanced the development of Guyana Water Inc through
corporate restructuring, operational strengthening, financial improvement, and governance
changes. The PUC also benefited from the Project through the clarification of its role in the water
sector and the implementation of the Water Act and License. The Management Contract is
expected to have a lasting impact on the management and operations of Guyana Water Inc.
through the adoption of improved processes and a focus on output.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

Civil Unrest, Fire, and Travel Delays. The elections of 2001 and the civil unrest that followed
affected contractors and the Project implementation schedule. In June 2001, IDA agreed to
extend the closing date of the project by eighteen months in two phases (6 and 12 months). The
extension was contingent upon the GoG achieving certain activities including utility merger,
passage of new legislation, and selection of the winning bid for the Management Contract. These
actions could not be met in time due to some delay in consulting work and additional time needed
for consensus building. The extension was granted as the delays were outside the control of GoG
and the implementing agency. There was further disruption when the Ministry of Housing and
Water suffered a fire in 2002 requiring the relocation of the Minister and the Permanent Secretary.



                                                     - 12 -

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Financial Sustainability. The key implementation issue subject to GoG control was the adjustment
of the tariff levels to support cost recovery in the sector. Tariffs had been adjusted in 1994 to
G$100 per month per domestic household from a low level of G$75 per year in 1993 and left
unchanged until 1999. In 1999 GUYWA was estimated to require a subsidy of approximately
G$750 million. GoG considered it politically and economically very difficult to implement cost
recovery tariffs, particularly as customer service was not improving. In November 1998, the GoG
was advised that disbursements under the credit would be suspended until agreement was reached
on a plan for cost recovery. In 2002 an agreement was reached which would implement a cost
recovery tariff over a gradual period from 2002-2004.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Local Absorptive Capacity. By mid 1998 the Project was rated as Unsatisfactory due to
implementation problems. The main implementation issues were: inadequate financial
sustainability of the utility, slow progress against the investment plan, and lack of timely audits.
All of these issues were linked with institutional shortcomings at GUYWA which made sustained
progress difficult if not impossible. There was high staff turnover at the utility and key positions
were left unfilled. Morale at the utility was very low and even a twinning with Northumbrian
Water had failed to achieve sustainable improvement.

Financial sustainability. By 1998 GUYWA (and GoG) were in breach of the revenue and subsidy
limitation covenants of the (original) Credit Agreement based on the inability to increase revenues
at the utility. The revenue issues were due in part to non-implementation of the tariff increases
and also due to inefficient billing, collection and financial management at GUYWA. Operating
revenues were covering a declining proportion of operating revenues to the point where income
from water sales were less than 9% of the company's costs by 1998. Required financial systems
had not been implemented. The annual audits were delayed and resulted in qualified opinions.

Implementation of the Investment Program. There were main problems encountered in the
implementation of the four major systems during the first half of the project. Issues included
cumbersome tendering procedures resulting in delays in the appointment of consultants and
contractors. Similarly, cost estimates based on engineering designs were considerably higher than
the original funding allocations. The lack of qualified staff in the PMU also delayed the
investment program. Finally there were identified financing shortfalls or problems in the Eccles
(which required retendering), LBI, and Rose Hall water systems which required revision of the
financing program. New procurement procedures were implemented as part of the Project
restructuring in 1999.

Subsequent to 1999 there was renewed attention on creating an institutional and sectoral
framework for improvement. This included work to merge GUYWA and GS&WC and
procurement of a Management Contractor. The merger and the first year of the Management
Contract provided new implementation challenges, but there appears to be a more solid footing
for sustainable progress. Cumbersome procurement processes remain an implementation issue



                                                    - 13 -

during the latter half of this Project and for the Management Contractor now in place in Guyana
Water Inc.


5.4 Costs and financing:

The Project Costs changed significantly since the Project was appraised. Additional donors
contributed to the project raising the total Project amount from US$33 million to US$49 million.
Total Project Disbursements achieved approximately 90% of the Total Funds. The IDA
disbursements achieved approximately 99% of its Total Funds.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The Project achievements are Likely to be sustainable in the context that certain reforms are now
rooted in legislation and institutions that will not be easily undone. However, the success of the
Management Contract, which is not certain, will affect sustainability. If the Contract were to be
seen as successful, it would galvanize support for the broad reform agenda and the institutional
changes that have been implemented. If the Contract is not successful, there is potential for the
utility to revert to previous management styles. To date, progress under the Management
Contract has been slow for reasons including unclear roles of the Contractor and Board of
Directors, staff turnover on the Contractor team, slow pace of investments, and the need to reach
agreement on baseline data. Progress has been made on these issues, but there is continued
question of wheter the improvements made under the Contract will be sustainable or whether they
will have been achieved too late in the Contract.

Given the importance of continued investment, strengthening and mainstreaming the PMU is also
important to sustainability. This entity is key to keeping the investment program on track to
achieving performance targets. In particular, an effective PMU will help to mobilize the IADB
funding including a metering program in Georgetown which has been stalled.

Finally, financial recovery of the sector is critical to long term sustainability. This can be
accomplished only when Guyana Water Inc. makes more progress in commercial management and
when the tariff rates are set to appropriate levels and increases are implemented. Both activities
are taking more time than anticipated, but progress has been continual. Although tariff increases
have been agreed, the implementation has been delayed.

The donors continue to coordinate with GoG to develop strategies to ensure sustainability
through the Management Contract, PMU support and other critical investments, among other
actions.


6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

No special transitional arrangements are required.




                                                  - 14 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Unsatisfactory. The project was appraised in November 1993 and approved by the Board in
December 1993. Project Preparation was supported by four Bank Missions in 1992 and 1993.
Bank's performance during identification, preparation and appraisal was unsatisfactory on the
basis that there should have been additional attention to the issues raised in Section 3.1.


7.2 Supervision:

Unsatisfactory to 1999. Satisfactory to Present. A distinction should be drawn between the
Bank's performance until 1999 and its subsequent performance. Prior to 1999, the Bank
undertook numerous supervision missions and did identify serious and growing implementation
issues. However, no effective remedial actions were put in place until the Project was in danger
of being terminated. At this point, the Bank undertook difficult decisions and took the necessary
actions to restructure the Project and improve performance. The Bank worked extensively to
broker agreements with the other donors and among the Stakeholders leading to significant
reforms.

Annex 4a provides a list of preparation and supervision missions.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is rated as Satisfactory. Despite the early problems with the Project,
the Bank took extraordinary measures to restore the Project to a productive status. The Bank
orchestrated a uniform donor approach to the sector within a flexible framework more suitable to
the conditions in Guyana than the Project originally designed.


Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The GoG and the Ministry of Works and Housing in particular should be credited
with strong support and cooperation during Project preparation and implementation. The GoG
was prepared to take unpopular stances for the sake of the long term project outcomes. The line
Ministry proved to be very effective at decision-making and as a spokesperson on behalf of
reform.


7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. As noted above, major sectoral reforms were agreed to and implemented with the
effective support of the GoG. This support continued even during difficult economic and political
conditions in Guyana. A productive working relationship has been forged among the donors and
major stakeholders in Guyana. The counterpart financing was made available and used to
implement the Coastal Investment Strategy.



                                                - 15 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Marginally satisfactory. GUYWA had difficulty in implementing the Project as initially
conceived. This was due, in part, to an overly ambitious Project design but also due to a lack of
institutional capacity and a reluctance to change. The same reasons that made GUYWA an
appropriate recipient of Bank assistance made it a less appropriate executing agency and made it
difficult to achieve institutional reform. Staff turnover and vacancies, low morale, poor
management and other issues distracted from project progress. The merger into Guyana Water
improved the situation, but staffing, governance, and procurement issues still slow project
pogress. Guyana Water Inc. does a good job at responding to data requests and developing
Project Progress Reports.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall Borrower performance rating is satisfactory. GoG commitment to the Project
remained high despite the challenges cited.


8. Lessons Learned

§     Absorptive Capacity of Executing Agency. The success of the project depended in great
      part on the ability of the executing agency, GUYWA, to be able to implement the designated
      investment program, including meeting the conditionalities specified. GUYWA, however,
      was an institution in crisis. The operating and financial indicators were very poor and the
      utility had no ability to recruit or retain qualified staff. The result was a domino effect of
      worsening conditions as the investment programs were delayed and the water services
      continued to worsen. The restructuring of the project in 1999 took a realistic assessment of
      the capacity of GUYWA and determined that the utility needed to be merged with the other
      Guyanese water utility. There needed to be increased institutional development through
      technical assistance and partnership with the private sector. This was seen as the only way to
      restore the confidence of the donor community and the customers.

§     Donor Coordination within a Framework. The lack of donor coordination in the water
      sector was actually impeding progress. There were uncoordinated standards, overlapping
      investments, and a lack of coherent strategy. The conditions precedent of the CDB sector
      loan called for establishment of a Sector Coordination Committee which would coordinate
      and monitor donor activities. This Committee (in various iterations), under the leadership of
      The World Bank and DfID, came to play a key role in ensuring that donor support was not
      diffused through development of stand-alone, isolated projects, but that all sector financing
      fit within a framework that enhanced efficiency. The Committee meetings provided an
      opportunity for free exchange among the donors, the GoG and other stakeholders. The
      Donors actively participated in the development of each other's projects, strategies, reviews
      and evaluations. The Water Sector Thematic Group (as it is now called) is now being used
      as the model by the GoG for donor coordination in the other sectors.

§     Flexibility in Challenging Circumstance. This Project came close to being cancelled
      during its life and has never enjoyed unimpeded progress. The political, security, and



                                                   - 16 -

      financial environment has been very difficult. However, the project did, ultimately, achieve
      significant improvements in the institutional structure of the sector and mobilize much
      needed investments in a rational way. This is attributable, in part, to the flexibility of most
      donors in the sector who were committed to adjusting the Projects (as feasible) to achieve
      the greatest good in the sector. This became especially important as the Management
      Contract came into effect. As was desired, the Contractor viewed the sector investment
      program from a fresh perspective, with an eye toward achieving outputs.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

Implementing Agency - GWI

The development credit agreement # 2551­GUA, between the Cooperative Republic of Guyana the
International Development Association (World Bank) was signed on January 5, 1994 after 10 years closed
on March 27, 2004.

The categories financed out of the proceeds of the credit are summarized below with a detailed copy
attached:

l Civil Works
l Goods
l Consultant Services
l Training

Objectives of the project

The principal objective of the development credit was to improve the reliability and accessibility for potable
water supply services provided by GUYWA, in particular for those low income communities located in the
urban and rural areas and to develop the information and analytical data to modernize the water sector's
policy and institutional framework.

The primary purpose for the Developmental Credit Agreement between the Government of Guyana and the
International Developmental Association (IDA) was successfully achieved. The rehabilitation of Water
Treatment Plants and Pump Stations enhanced the quality of water provided and installation of
transmission and distribution lines creates easy accessibility i.e. service is available to every household.
New recruits and training of staffs provide strengthening to established management systems while
appropriate methods and procedures for systems operations and maintenance introduced.

Tariff rates, linked to service levels, improvement in service and operational efficiency was applied to
improved cost recovery and strengthen the sector financially.

However, the operation and maintenance of facilities after implementation was insufficient and institutional
capacity was undermined. Approximately eleven University of Guyana scholarships were granted, to date
only three of the graduates retained.

Although tariffs structure ensured water is affordable to all sections of the communities, there is still
resistance from customers to pay despite intensive public awareness campaign about the benefits of a safe
and efficient potable water supply. Extensive wastages and leakages through poor customers plumbing has



                                                     - 17 -

resulted in substantial losses.

The task at hand is to ensure that customers are aware of the values of a safe and efficient potable water
supply. This will create a more water conscious environment which will result in less wastage and
consumers will pay for the services they received.

Although the projects under this credit were successfully implemented, supplementary activities through
other financiers were necessary for a few of the projects, eg. at Blueberry Hill, the project was executed as
planned but potable water was not reliable served, hence, additional works funded by the EU and GoG had
to be done to ensure reliability and accessibility.

Private sector participation in the water sector has always been encourage but was never fulfilled. This lack
of interest in the utility company is mainly due to its delicate financial sector and poor cost recovery.
Nevertheless, through intensive public awareness campaign and customers appreciation of a safe and
efficient potable water supply it is greater participation is anticipated.

Generally the provision of a safe and reliable potable water supply has improved the livelihoods of
thousands of Guyanese. There are however, much more to be done at improving potable water supply
systems in Guyana.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                      - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


                           Indicator/Matrix                                   Target               Actual/Latest Estimate

     OUTCOME/OUTPUT INDICATORS BY OBJECTIVE
 Reliability and Access to Supply
 Increased effective storage capacity (m3)                                           5500                               4,731
Increase in treated supply (m3/h) from rehabilitated works                            363                              323.75
 Number of squatter residents with access to supply                                   N/A    20 settlements with approximate
                                                                                             population of 26,000

 Number of poor residents receiving improved service                               31,500                              26,000

 Development of the information and analytical data to
 modernize the water sector's policy and institutional
 framework.

 Completion of Study of Merger between GUYWA and                           end of 1999      § Operating License for merged
 GS&WC                                                                                         utility issued Nov 2002
                                                                                            § Company formed May 2002
                                                                                            § Management Contract signed
                                                                                               Nov 2002
 Completion of National Water Policy and                                   end of 1999      § Water Bill passed May 2002.
 Institutional/Regulatory Framework Study                                                      License approved.
                                                                                            § PUC responsibilities expanded
                                                                                            § Improved information systems
                                                                                               and monitoring under the
                                                                                               Management Contract
                                                                                            § Creations of National Water
                                                                                               Council
Completion of long-term strategic plan,                                    end of 1999      § Tariff Study completed,
affordability and tariff study                                                                 Reforms implemented
                                                                                            § Revenues increased 40% from
                                                                                               2002 to mid 2004

 Physical Progress

 All contracts evaluated and awarded                                       Feb. 2000         Dec 2003

 No of kilometres of distribution pipeline installed                       200 km            62 km main pipeline

                                                                                             85 km secondary pipeline

                                                                                             Total of 270 km of connected
                                                                                             pipeline in 2003. Up from 230 in
                                                                                             2000

 No of service connections installed                                       10,000            120,072 total domestic
                                                                                             connections in 2003. Increase
                                                                                             from 65,000 in 2000


Note: The indicators are drawn from project status reports produced by Guyana Water and The World Bank




                                                             - 19 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                        Component                         US$ million   US$ million
Facilities Rehabilitation                                   16.10          42.92              267
Operation & Maintenance                                      2.15            1.14              53
Human Resources Development                                  1.65            0.22              13
Instutional Strengthening                                    3.58            4.28             120
Project Management & Evaluation                              0.70            1.18             169
Future Projects Preparation                                  0.25
Restructuring for Infrastructure Rehabilitation                              1.40

Total Baseline Cost                                         25.91          52.44
 Physical Contingencies                                      3.13
 Price Contingencies                                         3.92
                          Total Project Costs               32.96          52.44
                    Total Financing Required                32.96          52.44


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB            NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                            2.50            5.00         0.60         4.00         12.10
                                   (2.00)          (4.00)      (0.50)         (0.00)       (6.50)
2. Goods                            4.00            0.50         0.40         6.50         11.40
                                   (3.80)          (0.40)      (0.30)         (0.00)       (4.50)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         4.20         3.00          7.20
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (4.20)         (0.00)       (4.20)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.80         0.00          0.80
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.80)         (0.00)       (0.80)
5. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         1.50         0.00          1.50
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (1.50)         (0.00)       (1.50)
6. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00         0.00         0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                            6.50            5.50         7.50         13.50        33.00
                                   (5.80)          (4.40)      (7.30)         (0.00)      (17.50)




                                                - 20 -

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                          Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                         ICB        NCB                   2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                                                                                        0.00
                                                 (6.89)     (2.48)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (9.37)
2. Goods                                                                                                        0.00
                                                 (1.91)     (0.94)          (0.29)            (0.00)           (3.14)
3. Services                                                                                                     0.00
                                                   ()       (0.26)          (3.07)            (0.00)           (3.33)
4. Miscellaneous                                                                                                0.00
                                                 (0.00)     (0.00)          (1.46)            (0.00)           (1.46)
5. Miscellaneous                                                                                                0.00
                                                 (0.00)     (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                                                                                                0.00
                                                 (0.00)     (0.00)          (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   Total                                         0.00        0.00            0.00             0.00              0.00
                                                 (8.80)     (3.68)          (4.82)            (0.00)           (17.30)

Note: Refer to next table for total project costs


 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                          - 21 -

Project Financing by Expenditure Category and Financing Source (US$ Million)



  Expenditure       Initial Funding at World Bank                                                 b/                                          b/
   Category               Project Appraisal a/            Total Revised Funding (US$ million)                          Total Funds Expended



                 IDA ODAc/CDBGovt      of                                    Govt of                                            Govt of
                                   Japan GOG Total IDA ODACDBd/ EU            Japan  EIB GOG Total IDAe/ ODA CDBf/ EU           Japan  EIBg/ GOG Total


Works
                 8.15 3.97          .52   3.00         8.24        5.63 6.50        12.50 4.35 37.22 9.37            7.06 6.08 0.58    9.25 4.78 37.12
                                                                                                        3
Goods
                 4.06 0.20                             4.1 4.31                0.06                8.47 3.14 4.3                                   7.44

Services
                 3.83 1.50                             3.87 1.69 0.41         0.524                6.49 3.33 1.56 1.13                            6.02

Miscellaneous
                 1.28                                  1.29        2.76                     0.95 5.00 1.46           0.17                         1.63



      Total     17.32 6.00 6.50 0.52      3.00 33.09 17.50 6.00 8.80 6.50 0.58 12.50 5.30 57.18 17.30 5.86 8.36 6.08 0.58              9.25 4.78 52.21



a/ World Bank Appraisal Report.
b/ With information from the Guyana Water Inc. Progress Report for period ending Nov 30, 2003 unless otherwise it is indicated.
c/ DFID (formerly ODA) cites 1m GBP for Technical Cooperation; 3.7m GBP Financial Assistance as actual expenditures. Original amounts were 2.8m
GBP Financial Assistance and 1.1m GBP Technical Cooperation. One revision to 3.8m GBP Financial Assistance and 1.1m GBP Technical
Cooperation. Source: DFID Project Completion Report.
d/ Caribbean Development Bank Appraisal Document. This amount differs from that of the World Bank Appraisal Report due the fact that CDB's
   contribution to the project was upgraded to US$8.8 million after the World Bank Appraisal Report was published in November 1993.
e/ These amounts differ slightly from those on the Notice of Closure of Credit Account sent to the Borrower on August 23, 2004. The differences are
likely due to some errors made on the allocation of contracts to the disbursement categories throughout the life of the project.

f/ Personal communication with the Project Supervision Division, Caribbean Development Bank. Refers the funds expended as to June 30, 2004; as for
   July, 2004 the project had not been closed at the Caribbean Development Bank.
g/ As of December 2003.
i/ As of November 2003.




                                                                        - 22 -

       Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                             - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              May 19, 1992               2    PROJECT LEADER/
                                              ENGINEER; FINANCIAL
                                              ANALYST
              July 29, 1992              4    MISSION
                                              LEADER/ENGINEER;
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                              REHABILITATION
                                              SPECIALIST; TARIFF AND
                                              FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
              December 5, 1992           2    PROJECT
                                              LEADER/ENGINEER;
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST
              February 25, 1993          4    PROJECT
                                              LEADER/ENGINEER;
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                              REHABILITATION
                                              CONSULTANT;
                                              OPERATION/MAINTENANCE
                                              CONSULTANT

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              05/31/1993                      PROJECT
                                              LEADER/ENGINEER;
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST;
                                              OPERATIONS &
                                              MAINTENANCE
                                              CONSULTANT;
                                              REHABILITATION
                                              CONSULTANT
              11/08/2003                      PROJECT
                                              LEADER/ENGINEER

 Supervision

              06/29/1995                 2    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           S               S
                                              SANITARY ENGINEER (1)
              03/15/1996                 2    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST            S               S
                                              (1); SANITARY ENGINEER (1)
              11/14/1996                 2    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST            S               U
                                              (1); SANITARY ENGINEER (1)
              03/25/1997                 2    SR. FINANCIAL ANALYST            S               S
                                              (1); SR. SANITARY
                                              ENGINEER (1)
              05/08/1998                 5    SECTOR LEADER (1);               U               U
                                              CLUSTER COORDINATOR (1);
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);



                                               - 24 -

                                           SANITARY ENGINEER (1);
                                           WATER UTILITY SPECIALI
                                           (1)
               10/30/1998              2   TASK MANAGER (1);                  U    U
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
               04/22/1999              2   TM (1);                            U    U
                                           FINANCIAL/OPERATIONS (1)
               04/22/1999              2   TEAM LEADER (1); INST.             U    U
                                           SPEC/PROCUREMENT (1)
               12/11/1999              4   TEAM LEADER (1);                   U    U
                                           INST./FIN. SPEALIST (1);
                                           ENGINEER (1); PROJECT
                                           ANALYST (1)
               03/17/2000              1   TEAM LEADER (1)                    S    S
               06/02/2000              3   TEAM LEADER (1);                   S    S
                                           FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                           ENGINEER (1)
               06/29/2000              2   TEAM LEADER (1); SR.               S    S
                                           WATER SPECIALIST (1)
               11/22/2002              1   SR. ENGINEER (1)                   S    S
               11/22/2002              1   WSS ENGINEER (1)                   S    S
               11/14/2003              2   TTL (1); Financial Analyst (1)     S    S


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           78.90                         211.50
  Appraisal/Negotiation                15.10                           36.20
  Supervision                        205.80                          904.60
  ICR                                   4.00                           21.00
  Total                              303.80                        1173.30




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Project Appraisal Document (12304-GUA) dated November 24, 1993
2.   Development Credit Agreement (2559-GUA) dated January 5, 1994
3.   Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement dated December 16, 1999
4.   Country Assistance Strategy (24073-GUA) dated May 17, 2002
5.   Evaluation of Water Supply Projects to 20 Squatter Communities, Ministry of Housing &
     Water, dated December 2002
6.   Aide Memoirs & Back-to-office-reports
7.   Project Status Reports1995-2004s
8.   Audit Reports
9.   Guyana Water Annual Reports 1996,1997, 1998, 1999, 2000
10.  Guyana Water Annual Progress Report 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003




                                          - 28 -

- 29 -

