Page  1
T
he World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
July 10, 2003 
 
Mr. Saisnarine Kowlessar 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance of the Co-operative 
Republic of Guyana 
Main and Urquhart Streets 
Georgetown, Co-operative Republic of Guyana 
 
Re: 
Guyana:  Water Supply Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project 
 
Credit Number 2559-GUA 
 
Second Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement
Excellency: 
 
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement entered into between the Co-operative Republic of 
Guyana (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association), dated January 5, 1994, 
as amended (the DCA), as well as the Project Agreement of even date therewith between GUYWA and the 
Association (as amended) and the Subsidiary Agreement referred to in the DCA. 
 
It has come to our attention that pursuant to Section 7 of the Water and Sewerage (Vesting of Assets, 
Liabilities, etc.) Order 2002 (No. 14 of 2002), all of the rights and obligations of Guyana Water Authority 
(GUYWA) under the contracts related to the DCA (including without limitation the Project Agreement and the 
Subsidiary Agreement) were transferred to Guyana Water Inc., and that the said rights and obligations are now 
in full force and effect in favour of or against Guyana Water Inc., as fully and effectually as if, instead of 
GUYWA, Guyana Water Inc. had been a party thereto. 
 
In view of the above, it has become necessary to delete from the DCA Section 2.09 which designates the 
Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of GUYWA as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of the DCA and 
Article V of the General Conditions, so that complete representation of the Borrower under the DCA will fall 
upon the person designated in Section 7.01 of the DCA. 
 
Therefore, we hereby propose to amend the DCA as follows: 
 
1. 
Delete Section 2.09 in its entirety. 
 
2. 
Amend Section 7.01 to delete the reference to Section 2.09, so that it reads as follows: 
 
“Section 7.01  The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.” 
 
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating the two counterparts 
of this Amendment Letter and returning one original to us. 
 
Page  2
Mr. Saisnarine Kowlessar 
- 2 - 
July 10, 2003 
 
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be an original.  Upon 
receipt by the Association of one fully executed original of this Amendment Letter, these amendments will 
become effective as of March 26, 2003 (so as to then permit disbursements under the DCA pursuant to the 
signing delegation dated March 27, 2003 you forwarded to the Association). 
 
Sincerely, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By:  __________________________ 
Caroline D. Anstey 
Country Director 
Caribbean Country Management Unit 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region 
 
AGREED: 
CO-OPERATIVE REPUBLIC OF GUYANA 
 
By: Saisnarine 
Kowlessar 
(Authorized Representative) 
 
Date: 
August 22, 2003
 
