Page  1
December 16, 1999
Mr. Sasenarain Kowlessar
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Georgetown, Guyana
Re:
Water Supply Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation 
Project Credit No. 2559 GUA
(Amendment of the Development Credit Agreement, 
Project 
Agreement and Supplemental Letters Nos. 1 and 2)
Excellency:
Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement entered into between the 
Republic of Guyana (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the 
Association), the Project Agreement entered into between the Association and Guyana 
Water Authority (GUYWA), the Supplemental Letter No. 1 from the Borrower to the 
Association and the Supplemental Letter No. 2 from GUYWA to the Association, all dated 
January 5, 1994.
In response to the Borrower’s request to restructure the Project set forth in 
the aide memoire of April 22, 1999, the Association hereby agrees to amend the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Supplemental Letter No. 1 and 
the Supplemental Letter No. 2 as follows:
I.
Development Credit Agreement:
1.
The name “Overseas Development Administration” and the terms “ODA”, “ODA Grant” 
and “ODA Grant Agreement” referred to in the Whereas Clause (B) and Section 5.01(f) 
and (g) are replaced by the name “Department For International Development” and the 
terms “DFID”, “DFID Grant” and “DFID Grant Agreement”, respectively.
2.
Section 1.02 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms 
defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the 
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the 
following meanings:
(a)
‘DCA’ means the Development Credit Agreement dated November 12, 1998 
entered into between the Borrower and the Association for purposes of providing 
financial assistance to the Borrower in the carrying out of El Niño Emergency 
Assistance Project;
(b)
‘Fiscal Year’ means the Borrower's fiscal year, commencing January 1 and 
ending December 31 of each calendar year;
(c)
‘Guyana Water Authority Act’ means Chapter 55:01 of the Laws of Guyana, 
as amended as of the date of this Agreement;
(d)
‘MHW’ means the Borrower’s Ministry of Housing and Water;
(e)
‘PMU’ means the Project management unit to be established and maintained 
by GUYWA for purposes of the Project pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project 
Agreement;
(f)
‘Project Preparation Advance’ means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letters from the 
Association to the Borrower dated September 14, 1992 and April 22, 1993, countersigned 
by the Borrower on September 23, 1992 and May 18, 1993, respectively;
(g)
‘Special Account’ means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
Page  2
(h)
‘Subsidiary Agreement’ means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and GUYWA pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemen-tal to that agreement;
(i)
‘Supplemental Letter No. 1’ means the letter of even date herewith from 
the Borrower to the Association setting forth the action plan and the annual 
counterpart funds referred to in Sections 3.05 and 3.11 of this Agreement, 
respectively; and
(j)
‘Supplemental Letter No. 2’ means the letter of even date herewith from 
GUYWA to the Association setting forth the indicators for the Project.”.
3.
Section 2.03 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.”.
4.
Section 3.05 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.05. By no later than August 31, 1994, the Borrower shall complete the 
implementation of the action plan for the institutional restructuring of its water 
sector, as set forth in the Supplemental Letter No. 1.”.
5.
Section 3.06 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, and shall cause GUYWA to, by no later than 
July 1, 1994, put into effect the water tariff levels for the period from July 1, 1994 
through December 31, 1995 approved by the Borrower's cabinet on October 19, 1993.”.
6.
Section 3.09 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.09. The Borrower shall:
(a)
at all times during the execution of the Project, retain a Chief 
Executive Officer of GUYWA, with experience, qualifications, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association; 
(b) 
by no later than June 30, 1994, appoint and thereafter retain a Board of 
Directors of GUYWA, with membership and composition, satisfactory to the Association; 
and
(c) 
take or cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to ensure 
that GUYWA appoints and thereafter retains a management team to assist the Chief 
Executive Officer, including, inter alia, the directors of GUYWA's departments of 
Water Services and Finance, Personnel and Training Manager, and the Chief 
Administrator; all with experience, qualifications, functions and responsibilities 
satisfactory to the Association.”.
7.
Section 3.11 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.11. The Borrower shall transfer to GUYWA as counterpart funds for 
calendar years 1999 and 2000 no less than an aggregate amount equivalent to 
$2,500,000, as set forth in the Supplemental Letter No. 1. All such amounts shall be 
deposited in an account opened in a bank acceptable to the Association, under terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.”.
8.
The reference to “Part D(d) of the Project” in Section 3.12 shall be amended to 
read “Part D (c) of the Project”.
9.
Section 3.13 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 3.13. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than September 30 of each year during the execution of the 
Page  3
Project review jointly with the Association and GUYWA the progress achieved by GUYWA 
in carrying out the Project during the previous calendar year, based upon, inter alia, 
the reports furnished to the Association pursuant to Section 2.11 of the Project 
Agreement and the performance indicators set forth in the Supplemental Letter No.2; 
and 
(b)
if, as a result of any of the above reviews, the Association determines 
that the progress in the execution of the Project or in the achievement of its 
objectives is not satisfactory, the Borrower shall promptly take, or cause GUYWA to 
take, all such action, satisfactory to the Association, as shall be necessary for the 
efficient execution of the Project or the achievement of its objectives based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and the Association’s views on the 
matter.”.
10.
A new Section is added after Section 3.13 which shall read as follows: 
“Section 3.14. The Borrower shall:
(a)
by no later than January 31, 2000 carry out the following studies: (i) a 
study to develop a national water policy and to formulate proposals for the 
establishment of a national water council; (ii) a study to develop a long term 
strategic plan for GUYWA; and (iii) a study to strengthen the institutional and 
regulatory framework governing the supply of water in the Borrower’s territory.
(b)
by no later than March 31, 2000, furnish to the Association, for its 
review and comments, the findings and recommendations of the studies referred to in 
paragraph (a) above; and
(c)
by no later than June 30, 2000, furnish to the Association an action plan 
to implement the recommendations of the above studies, taking into account the 
Association's comments thereon.”.
11.
The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 is amended to read as set forth in Annex 
1 to this Amendment Letter.
12.
Schedule 2 is amended to read as set forth in Annex 2 to this Amendment Letter. 
II.
Project Agreement:
1.
Section 2.10 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.10. (a) GUYWA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) 
GUYWA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by GUYWA of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
(c)
GUYWA shall participate in, and provide to the Borrower and the 
Association all the information required for, the annual reviews referred to in 
Section 3.13 (a) of the Development Credit Agreement.”.
2.
Section 2.11 is hereby amended to read as follows:
“Section 2.11. GUYWA shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set forth 
in the Supplemental Letter No. 2, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof; and
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, not later than August 31 and February 28, starting on 
Page  4
February 28, 2000 a semi annual report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar semester 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the calendar semester following such date.”.
3.
Two new Sections are added after Section 2.11 which shall read as follows:
“Section 2.12. GUYWA shall take all necessary actions to enable the auditors 
referred to in Section 3.02(c) (i) of the DCA to examine the records and any other 
information required to carry out the procurement audit referred to in such Section.
Section 2.13. For purposes of carrying out Part F (b) through (d) of the 
Project, GUYWA shall select the areas, water treatment plants and water storage 
facilities referred to in such part of the Project in accordance with criteria 
acceptable to the Association.”.
4.
Section 4.03 is hereby deleted and Sections 4.04 and 4.05 are hereby re-numbered 
as
Sections 4.03 and 4.04.
5.
Section 6.02 is hereby amended as follows:
“Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of GUYWA, or by 
GUYWA on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken 
or executed by GUYWA's Chief Executive Officer or such other person or persons as he 
or she shall designate in writing, and GUYWA shall furnish to the Association 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.”.
III.
Supplemental Letter No. 1:
1.
The second paragraph is hereby amended and a new paragraph is added, both of 
which shall read as follows:
“With respect to Sections 3.05 and 3.11 of the Development Credit Agreement, 
Attachments 1 and 2 set forth the action plan and the annual counterpart funds 
referred to therein, respectively.
With respect to Section 4.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, it is 
understood that the term “audit” means the examination to be carried out by an 
external examiner, satisfactory to the Association, in accordance with the 
international audit standards issued by the International Federation of Accountants.”.
2.
Attachment 2 is amended to read as set forth in Annex 3 to this Amendment 
Letter.
IV.
Supplemental Letter No. 2:
1.
The entire text is hereby amended to read a s follows:
“Please refer to the Project Agreement of even date herewith entered into 
between the Association and Guyana Water Authority.
With respect to Section 2.11 of the Project Agreement, Attachment 1 sets forth 
the performance indicators referred to therein.
With respect to Section 4.01 of the Project Agreement, it is understood that the 
term “audit” means the examination to be carried out by the external examiner, 
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with the international audit standards 
issued by the International Federation of Accountants.”.
2.
Attachment 1 is deleted and Attachment 2 is re-numbered as Attachment 1 and 
amended to read as set forth in Annex 4 to this Amendment Letter.
Page  5
V.
Effectiveness:
This Amendment Letter shall be executed in three counterparts each of which 
shall be an original.  Upon receipt by the Association of one fully executed original 
of this Amendment Letter, these amendments will be effective as of the date first 
above written.
Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendments by signing and dating 
the three counterparts of this Amendment Letter.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Director
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
GUYANA WATER AUTHORITY
By /s/ 
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
       Authorized Representative)
Date:
Date:
Annex 1
“1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works
(a) under Part A 
803,000
80%
of the project
(b) under Part F
     6,564,428
100%
of the Project
(2)
Goods 
     1,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures;
100% of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost);
75% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(3)
Consultants' 
     2,500,000
100%
services
(4)
Training
 73,000
100%
(5)
Refunding of
859,572
Amount due pur-
Page  6
Project Prepara-
suant to Section
tion Advance
2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
200,000
TOTAL
    12,500,000
”.
Annex 2
“SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the reliability and 
accessibility to potable water supply services provided by GUYWA, in particular for 
those low income communities located in  urban and rural areas; and (b) to develop the 
information and analytical data to modernize the water sector’s policy and 
institutional framework.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Facilities Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation, including installation or replacement of necessary equipment and 
related detailed engineering and design, of water supply facilities administered by 
GUYWA, through, major upgrading of approximately 12 priority water supply facilities 
in the coastal urban areas and minor upgrading of approximately 100 water pumping 
stations. 
Part B:
Operation and Maintenance
Carrying out of an operation and maintenance program aimed at improving 
arrangements for breakdown maintenance and preventive maintenance of water supply 
facilities.
Part C:
Human Resources Development
Carrying out of a human resources development program aimed at planning and 
enhancing the skills of the manpower required in the water sector, through:
(a)
design and implementation of training programs for all levels of staff, 
including overseas short-term training programs; and
(b)
granting of approximately eight engineering fellowships at the University 
of Guyana. 
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening of GUYWA
Strengthening of the organizational, managerial, financial and operational 
capabilities of GUYWA together with the restructuring and recentralization of the 
water sector, through:
(a)
design and installation of financial and commercial management systems, 
and management information systems;
(b)
refurbishment of GUYWA's offices and office equipment;
(c)
institutional and legal studies on water resources management and private 
sector capabilities and role in the water sector; and
(d)
carrying out of annual external audits.
Page  7
Part E:
Project Management 
Strengthening of PMU to carry out its functions under the Project.
Part F:
Restructuring for Infrastructure Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation:
(a)
of the water supply distribution pipe network in the following service 
schemes: (i) Eccles to Covent Garden; (ii) Prospect to Friendship; (iii) Bartica; and 
(iv) La Bonne Intension, including the installation of service connections in such 
areas; 
(b)
and extension of the water supply distribution pipe network in about 10 
areas to be selected by GUYWA; 
(c)
of about 5 water treatment plants to be selected by GUYWA; and
(d)
of one water storage facility to be selected by GUYWA.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.”.
Annex 3
"Attachment 2
BORROWER'S COUNTERPART FUNDS
The following are the annual counterpart funds for the Project:
United States
Fiscal Year
Dollars
1994
 3,329
1995
12,251
1996
31,367
1997
140,639
1998
179,085
1999
240,000
2000
     2,260,000”.
