v#-!,' -1"r
Dmt of
The World Bank
FOR OMICJAL USE ONLY
MICROFI CHE CUPY
RYepr,rt. No. :P- 5823 MoR   Type: (PM)
Title:   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SET,FT )RREST                           R    N  P-5823-l;ER
Author: BARUI, ALAIN
Ext. :32347 PooDm:H4093 Dept. :MN1JE
MEKRAiDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF TUE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTEATIOINAL BANK FOR  COLNSTRUCTION AND DEVEPME
TO THE
EXECUI VE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100 MILLION
TO THE NATIONAL POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS AUTHORITY (ONPT)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DECEMBER 16, 1992
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ENCg Y AND EUIVALE  I
Currency Unit - Moroccan Dirham (DR)
US$1.00 - DR 8.80 (end-February, 1992)
DH 1.00 - US$ 0.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASUES
Metric System                              US Svstem
i meter (m)                 =              3.2808 Feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                           0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)                   0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)        =              0.9842 long ton (ig ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                            2.2046 pounds (lbs)
AB  TIATONS AND ACRONYNS
DEL   -   Direct Exchange (telephone) Line
DFI   -   Direct Foreign Investment
BC    -   European Community
IBI    -   European Investment Bank
INPT  -   Institut National des Postes et T6l6communicatione
ISDN  -   Integrated Services Digital Network
MPT   -   Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
ONPT  -   Office National des Postes et T6l6communications
(National Post and Telecommunications Authority)
PERL  -   Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Loan
VAT   -   Value-added tax
MOROCCO - FCL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
!BL300UGUNICA!ION  S3COR URESRUCTURIN PROJECT
Loan and Proiect SumFary
vgrrwewrs         National Post and Telecommunications Authority (ONPT).
Guarantor:        Kingdom of Morocco.
Aoounts           US$100 million equivalent.
To=$$             20 years, including a 5 year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
linancia Plan:
L.ocal    Fo-reign        Total
…(US$ million)…-------
IBRD                       54.4 J/   45.6          100.0
BIB/                        -        103.7         103.7
Bilateral Credits           -        113.6         113.6
Export Credits              -        154.7         154.7
Local Banks                74.1        -            74.1
Existing Loans_U            -        162.1         162.1
ONPT                      49S.5        -           495.
TOTAL               624.0     579.6        1,203.6
iL includes indirect foreign cost of transmission and local networks.
i/ includes First IBRD loan (No. 2798).
Nconomic Rate
of Return: 32%
Staff Appraisal
Reports     Report No. 10714-MOR
Ms: IBRD No. 24480
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Tabl of _
PARTI 9-COUNY POLICIS AND BANR GROUP ASSISTNCE STRATEGY
1 - Recent Performance  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Economic Developments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
Sccial Developmnts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Political Developments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
Dank Group Portfolio  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . - - 3
tII-MNorocco's External Environment .                                4 . .   . .4 . ..  4
II - The Bank's Country Aesistance 8trategy                          5
A. Morocco"s Development Objectives and Policies .8            5
Consolidation of Macro-economic Adjustment and Reform    S
Poverty Alleviation and Social Sector Development . . . . 5
Private Setor Development   ........   6
nproved Public Sector Management. . . . . . . . . . . . 6
S. The Bank's Strategy and Assistance Program . . . . . . . . . 7
Project and Sector Lending  ... .     .. .....  7
zconomic and sector work (Esw)  .....  .......    9
Technical Assistance and Zxternal Financial Coordination 10
Portfolio Implmentation  .....   .........    10
Macrocomic ContCxt    .  .C..............    10
C  Summary Assessment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           12
PALRTX - TEB PROPOBSD LOAN
Background  . . . . .    4 . . .      . . . . .         12
Previous Bank gxperience  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13
Government Strategy  . ............. .               .   13
Rationale for Bank Involvement  ............   14
Project Objectives, Description and Financing . . . . .  14
Lessons Learned and Project Sustainability  . . . . . . . 15
Main Issues and Agreed Actions  ......... . .           15
Environmental and Health Impaet.. p.......              15
Benefits m  n  t     a8..   . .    . . . . . . . * . .  . . .  16
RLake                                                   16
Recowmmndation         . . . . .                                16



MEMORANDUM AND RECOUEENDATION OF TEE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTENATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO TME EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN
IN AU AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$100 MILLION
TO THE NATIONAL POST AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS IETRORITY (OUPT)
WITH THE GUARANTDE OF THE KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
FOR A TELECOMMUNICATXONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
INTRODUCTION
1.        I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on
a proposed loan to the National Post and Telecommunicationr Authority (ONPT) with
the guarantee of the Kingdom of Morocco for the equivalent of US$100 million, to
help finance a project for the restructuring of Morocco's telecommunications
sector. The loan would be at the Bankl's standard variable interest rate, with
a maturity of 20 years, including 5 years of grace.
PART I
COUNTRY POLICIES AND BANK GROUP ASSISTANCE STRATEGI
I . Recent Performance
2.        Economic Deve1ooMents.  A hallmark of Morocco's economic performance
over the past decade has been an enviable combination of sustained macroeconomic
adjustment with significant growth. The central government budget deficit has
been steadily reduced from around 12% of GDP during 1980-83 to under 2% in 1992
(Table 1). In the balance of payments, the current account defi.cit (before debt
relief) has similarly been brought down from around 10% of GDP to less than 2%
over the same period. The lower current account deficits, coupled with a series
of debt rescheduling agreements, have allowed debt indicators to improve
systematically: the ratio of debt outstanding and disbursed (DOD) to GDP dropped
from 113% during 1984-87 to 75% in 1992, and the ratio of debt service to exports
declined from 31% to 21% (after debt relief) over the same period. Inflation has
been kept within single digits, after higher levels in the early 1980s. In
parallel, GDP and per capita consumption growth has also improved steadily.
3.        Accompanying the macroeconomic stabilization program has been an
impressive reform of the incentives structure aimed at bringing about a shift
from administered to market-determined incentives. The domestic economy has been
exposed to external competition in a gradual but determined way through a
reduction of both tariffs and the scope of quantitative import restrictions.
Even though the maximum tariff will remain relatively high after the planned
reductions (to 35% plus an additional 12.5% across-the-board import tax), the
planned suppression of non-tariff barriers in early 1993 will remove a major
remaining source of inefficiency. The prospective Partnership Agreement with the



-2-
Table l: Seld M   mo  Pa     ieelndIabts,196042
..Aveage                              Est
196043   1914-87   1 0    V91        1992
(in p_eee)
GDP Gowth Rate                  3.6      4.7       52      51      -3.0
Coenaumon/Capita Growth Rate    0.3       2.4      2.1     7.0     -89
fation (CPI)                    10.0      79       4.0     82      .S5
DOD/XGS 2/ 3/                  286S     364A     3074    2S3.0    2392
DOD/GDP 3/                      74.6    113.0     92.9    76.0    75.0
Debt Servlce/XGS 1/2/3/         37.6     313      268    27.6      215
Gro PCF/GDP                     25.0     219      22.3    21.7     24.0
Govt Defit/C-DP (commit basu), ADR    -[19  -6    -3.8    -25      .1.0
Govt Deficit/GDP (comminL basi), BDR    -12.2  8.0  46    -3.0     -1.
Cunt Aount/GDP, ADR             -9.6     .3.7     -0.8    -15      -0.6
Cumrt Account/GDP, 1DR          -9.8     53       -2.1    -17      -1.7
NB.:  FCF denotes Fixed Cial Fonnation
ADR denotes After Debt Relief BDR Before Debt Reiet
Aver gow rates indude growth in the fist year of the peiod (e.g    during 198603).
1/ Indludes MLT, IMF, and Sthort-tem debt.
2/ XGS I8udes wore emittn
European Community  (para. 8) offers a vehicle for sustained medium-term
reductions ln tariff barriers. At the same time, a number of domestic price
controls have been removed and trade monopolies have been gradually eliminated.
A major reform of the personal income, corporate, and indirect tax systems in the
late 1980. helped increase tax buoyancy and reduce distortions in relative
prices. Liberalization of the exchange system has also advanced. In the Fall
of 1992, prior approval requirements were lifted for certain foreign exchange
transactions, significantly advancing the move toward convertibility of the
dirham for currnt transactions.  In the financial sector, domestic credit
ceilings were lifted in early 1991, the mechanism for setting interest rates was
rendered more flexible, and measures were taken to phase out directed credit.
While some financial sector reforms remain to be implemented (notably a further
reduction in banks' mandatory Treasury bond holdings), a sound foundation has
been placed for more efficient financial intermediation. A public enterprise
rationalization program was also implemented in the second half of the 19806.
Finally, the country's long-delayed privatization program was effectively
launched in October 1992, when shares of the first enterprise earmarked for
privatization were put up for public sale.
4.        Social De*loments. The description of the impressive performance of
Morocco in stabilization and structural reforms needs to be tempered, however,
by the less than adequate performance in the development of the social sectors.
Despite progress over the past several years, Morocco's social indicators



.3-
continue to lag signifLcantly behind the averages for countries with similar per
capita incomes. Areas of less-than-satisfactory progress include child and
maternal mortality, nutritional status for the lowest income deciles, access to
safe water, literacy and primary school enrollment rates, and urban employment.
For example, 1989 data indicate that MoroccoIs primary school enrollment rate was
68% (55% for girls), compared with near-100% enrollment for lower-middle-in2ome
countries on average. On poverty, the most recent (1990-91) Living Standards
Measurement Survey (LSMS) has shown that, despite a fall in the percentage of
absolute poverty, large clusters of the population remain close to the poverty
line.
5.        Political Develonments.   Morocco's domestic political agenda has
recently been dominated by steps toward wider participation in governance and the
electoral process.  A new Constitution, approved by popular referendum in
September 1992, increases ths Government's accountability to an elected National
Assembly. Local elections (for rural councils and municipal assemblies) were
held in October 1992, following a doubling of the number of local government
units, an integral part of the authorities' objective of political and economic
decentralization. Elections for the National Assembly are oxpected to take place
in April 1993.
6.        Bank Grounl Portfolio.  A fortunate confluence of factors has enabled
the Bank Group to play a critical role In the formulation and implementation of
the country's development agenda. Since 1986, a stable and pragmatic Government
with a vision for modern Morocco has gradually but consistently adopted measures
aimed at making the country internationally more open and less encumbered by
central controls. This Government has exhibited full ownership of the reform
program, facilitating the Bank Group, the IMF and other donors to play a useful
supportive role. In this setting, dialogue between the Bank and the country has
been excellent. Perhaps the only real contentious area in the past has been the
Dank's continued insistence on greater priority being allocated to the
alleviation of poverty and social sector development. However, as discussed
below (para. 15), the Bank and the Moroccan authorities are now fully agreed that
efforts to improve social indicators and alleviate poverty should be a key
element in the country's development agenda. Collaborative work to this end has
already begun.
7.        The World Bank Group portfolio in Morocco is held predominantly by
IBRD, and is the largest in the Middle East and North Africa Region. Nw IBRD
loan commitments have averaged US$418 million per year over the past four years,
bringing cumulative commitments net of repayments to some US$4.2 billion (of
which US$1.3 billion remained undisbursed) as at November 30, 1992. The wide
range of sectors spanned by project loans, as well as the important share of
adjustment loans in the portfolio, confirm the high quality of dialogue, both at
the sector and macro-economic level. With few exceptions, the project portfolio
is sound. It includes operations covering irrigation, agricultural research and
extension, agricultural investment, forestry, health, basic education, vocational
training, telecommunications, power, roads, industrial finance, and public sector
management. In addition, nine adjustment loans have been made, including two
Agricultural sector Adjustment Loans, a Public Enterprise Rationalization Loan,
a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL I), and two industrial and Trade Policy
Adjustment Loans. A Second Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL II), as well as a



-4-
Financial Sector Development Project (FsDP), a hybrid operation, are still on-
going. While portfolio implementation is in general satisfactory, steps are
being taken to address its weaker aspects (see para. 22).   Morocco is the
eleventh largest beneficiary of IFC financing. As of September 30, 1992, total
investments held by the Corporation amounted to US$197.3 million in 14 companies
and financial institutions in a wide range of activities covering agribusiness,
cement, construction materials, development finance, mining, textiles, fishing,
tourism and shipping. IFC has also provided advice on capital market reforms and
foreign investment promotion. Morocco joined NIGA in September 1992.
11. Morocco's Xxternal Environment
8.        Over 60% of Morocco's merchandise trade is with the European Community
(EC), which is also the source of most tourism receipts and foreign investment
flows. This concentration of trade with the EC is likely to increase further
once the proposed EC-Morocco Partnership Agreement, the terms of which are to be
formally negotiated in 1993, takes effect. Free or near-free trade is expected
to be a major facet of the prospective Agreement. Trade flows with other Maghreb
countries, despite the creation of the Arab Maghreb Union (UMA), remain
negligible.
9.        In general, Morocco does not suffer from significant mismatch between
the currency denomination of its foreign exchange earnings and that of its
payments, reducing the country's vulnerability to cross-currency exchange ratu
fluctuations. Nevertheless, as demonstrated by the negative effects of the Gulf
crisis on tourism receipts and the petroleum import bill, the country's balance
of payments remains vulnerable to external shocks. Export diversification has
increased appreciably over the past decade.   In 1991, manufactured exports,
excluding phosphate derivatives and processed agricultural goods, accounted for
almost 37% of total merchandise exports, compared with less than 20% a decade
earlier. This has reduced the country's vulnerability to commodity price
fluctuations (notably phosphates, of which Morocco is the world's largest
exporter).  However, food exports, particularly fresh fruit and vegetables,
remain important, leaving export potential vulnerable to drought. In 1992, for
example, the adverse effects of the drought are expected to result in a 20%
volume decline in non-fish food exports. In addition, the drought is expected
to increase the food import bill (mainly cereals) by some US$260 million.
10.       Tourism provides about 15% (US$1.4 billion in 1992) of foreign exchange
earnings. However, it is very sensitive to the political climate in the region,
as exemplified by the 21% drop in receipts from this source during 1991, now
reversed. Direct foreign investment (DFI), aside from its other benefits, is
also fast becoming a major source of foreign exchange. In 1992, DPI is expected
to amount to some USS600 million (over 2% of GDP), compared with US$375 million
in 1991 and US$217 million a year earlier.  Prospects for increased DPI are
expected to continue improving, particularly as the Partnership Agreement with
the EC comes into being. However, while less so than tourism receipts, DPI can
also be expected to exhibit some sensitivity to political developments in the
region.



.-S
11.       Morocco's heavy external debt burden has necessitated substantial
financial support, in the form both of debt rescheduling and new inflows, from
the international financial community. Between 1983 and 1992, six Paris Club and
three commercial bank debt rescheduling agreements reacheduled a total of more
than US$15 billion due in principal and interest.   Despite the consequent
improvement ir. debt and debt-service ratios (see Table 1), gross inflows
averaging some US$1.4 billion have been required over the past five years. The
bulk of new inflows has come from official sources, with IBRD accounting for
nearly 30% of gross disbursements.
12.       Given Morocco's public commitment not to seek further debt rescheduling
starting in. 1993, substantial new inflows (an average of about US$2 billion per
year) will be required to maintain import capacity consistent with the country's
growth potential. While a key objective of Morocco's policy-makorr is to return
gradually to commercial borrowing sources, near-term access to such sources
remains uncertain. The role of bilateral and multilateral donors and creditors,
therefore, will remain a critical one over the next few years. In particular,
the Bank's role, both through its own resources and thoio of co-financiers or
parallel financiers, will remain an important one. This central role for the
Bank is reflected in the proposed lending program, and accounts for the portfolio
remaining at or near exposure guidelines.
II. The Bank's Country Assistance Strateav
A. Morocco's DeveloDment Obiectives and Policies
13.       The country's development agenda encompasses four priority objectives
and sets of policies: (i) consolidating and deepening macroeconomic adjustment
and reform; ($i) alleviating poverty and developing the social sectors; (iii)
developing the private sector's potential as the engine of growth; and (iv)
improving public sector management.
14.       Consolidation of Macro-economic Adjustment and Reform. This objective
encompasses further reductione in the public sector deficit as well as, Inter
alia, further reform of the exchange and trade regime and the financial sector.
For example, concerning the exchange system, remaining restrictions on current
account exchange transactions are due to be lifted in 1993. The authorities also
plan to implement further tariff reductions, the suppression of quantitative
restrictions, a switch from administered prices to variable levies for some
agricultural products and their derivatives, and continuing administrative
reforms to facilitate external trade logistics. In the medium term, trade reform
will receive added momentum within the Morocco-EC Partnership Agreement. In the
financial sector, policies to phase out all directed credit and mandatory
placements in low-interest government bonds will be continued. Other key policy
measures include the enactment of a new Banking law, the implementation of more
rigorous prudential regulations, and the development of capital and Treasury bond
markets.
15.       Poverty Alleviation and Social Sector Development. Aside from poverty
alleviation and improvements in welfare indicators, this objective encompasses
greater cost-effectiveness of social expenditures, through more efficient and



.6-
equitable cost recovery as well as better targeting. The improvement, within
Morocco's cultural and social context, of the condition of women is also a major
issue on the social agenda, and is strongly linked to fertility and the country's
high population growth rate (2.5% per year). To address their social objectives,
the authorities' approach is twofold. First, public expenditures are to be
reallocated toward the social sectors. Already, in 1991, central and local
government investment expenditures in health and education were increased to 17%
of t)ka total, compared to 12% in 1990. This trend is expected to continue over
the next several years. Second, and in parallel, an analytical base is being
developed to assist in formulating effective poverty-reducing measures, as well
ad measures to increase the effectiveness and equity of social expenditures. A
comprehensive poverty profile, based on the 1990-91 LSM8, is under preparation
with Bank assistance. A number of donor-funded studies, either completed or in
preparation, address the efficiency, targeting and potential recovery of public
expenditures, as well as the appropriateness of Government policies (notably in
agriculture) for alleviating poverty. The results of this work will be used to
prepare a comprehensive Social Action Plan (see para. 20).
16.      Private Sector Develonment.  This objective covers the orea' ion of
conditions conducive to private investment and production, which already accounts
for about 75% of manufacturing output and almost all agricultural production.
The Moroccan authorities' effort to develop the private sector has three strands.
First, it is endeavoring to deepen and broaden the market-oriented reforms begun
in the 1980s, which will minimize direct administrative controls and emphasize
market-based incentives. In its efforts to simplify and unify the investment
codes, to barmonize tariff rates, to eliminate credit controls and to liberalize
foreign investment, the Government is seeking to create a level playing field for
most private sector activities. Second, it is progressively reducing the extent
to which the Government crowds out private sector activity, through a program to
divest public equity in enterprises in competitive sectors as well as a program
to minimize Treasury reliance on domestic credit (which should reduce Interest
rates to private borrowers). Third, in collaboration with private entrepreneurs,
the Government intends to identify and to address key constraints facing further
private sector development, notably public infrastructure and services but
especially strengthening of key institutions and functions, like the judiciary,
the stock exchange, accounting and auditing, quality certification and control,
and technical/vocational skill development. As discussed below, the Bank Group
Is assisting directly in this work.
17.      Imnoved Public Sector Manacement.  This policy objective, aimed at
improving public sector resource management, has two distinct parts. The first
is local government management and monitoring, given the added importance that
this sector has acquired following the recent doubling in the number of
municipalities. While the political and financial roles and powers of the new
municipalities are still limited, the associated decentralization of economic
management is very significant.  The effects of this change, especially on
social-sector projects (e.g., basic education and rural health), rural water and
power distribution, sewerage, and the operating climate for some businesses--all
areas which are now under the municipalities' management and financial authority-
-will need to be complemented by institutional strengthening of local government
capacities, particularly as concerns project selection and management.  The
second part concerns the continued monitoring and rationalization of the non-



-7-
government public secto-. Given the wide variations in the performance of public
enterpr- es, the authorities have stressed the need to improve management of some
of them. Other measures on the agenda include divestiture through privatization
of earmarked firms, public utility tariff increases to allow for improved
financial performance, and clearing, by the end of 1993, inter-public-sector
arrears, which have grown in recent years.
S. The Dank's Strategy and Assistance Prooram
18.       The Dank's strategy is to tailor its assistance program to the four key
policy objectives identified in para.  13.   The main instruments of Dank
assistance, project/sector lending and economic and sector work (SSW), will be
complemented by efforts to mobilize private and official capital, as well as
technical assistance. Safeguarding and improving portfolio implementation, a key
factor in the effectiveness of Bank assistance, will also be an integral, and
increasingly important, part of the strategy. Links between the country's 
development agenda and the proposed instruments of Bank assistance are
illustrated schematically in the matrix on the following page.
19.         ProecJt and Sector Lending.  Constraints to Bank lending stem not
from the pipeline of good projects, which are plentiful, but rather from Bank
exposure considerations. The planned five-year lending program amounts to some
US$450 million per year. To maximize the impact of Bank assistance on Morocco's
development agenda, priority will be given to investment loans with strong sector
policy content complementary to the overall economic policy framework.
Particular priority will be given to loans contributing to social sector
development. While the Government is at present fully committed to social sector
improvements, it is envisaged that Dank lending could be scaled down from the
planned level of US$450 million per year if efforts in this area are less than
satisfactory. In that unlikely event, a reduced lending program of some US$300-
US$350 million would be considered.   With the endorsement of the Moroccan
authorities, no further adjustment lending is planned. This is based on the
country's comfortable external reserve position and the favorable balance of
payments outlook, although adjustment lending could be reviewed under exceptional
circumstances. The proposed lending program will, therefore, address priority
sector policies, as outlined below.
*     fiSocial Sector Imnroveent.  Following the completion of Bank-assisted
analyses of the characteristics of vulnerable groups, as well as the
impact and cost-effectiveness of existing social policies (see paras. 15
and 20), the Bank would prepare a policy-based sector investment loan
focusing on social priorities.   This loan would Inter alla support
measures to increase vulnerable groups' access to health, education and
social assistance programs, while improving cost-effectiveness in the
sectors. A subsequent operation, similar in design, would be processed,
subject to satisfactory implementation of the first. In the interim, a
number of more traditional social sector loans, complementing the policy-
based loans, would be made.



-8-
OizOm  A              riSOF COUNTRYASSWrANCE a"TEGY,n939
-  AECM              _                     7                         _        _         _   I
A   Cc4boIdsfin of meooeonomlo         * Supervision (including second tranch.   Tentatve release dates for
adjustment and struotural rbms;      release) of SAL I1 and FSOP.            FSDPand SAL. l are,
grater emphasis on post-adjustment                                           mespeott, ea* 1993 and
ssues.                                                                       mid-Io9
* Secw loas focusing on longer-tmx      * Emphasis on policy content
policy Issuos fIncluding oans In  e
afeas of municipal finance, agrculturil
invement; social priorites and wator
supply).
* TA - Aocess to interaional capital    * UNOP funding being
Market.                                afneWd.
TA - Ft"e Trade Assoon wifh the EC.   Funding for studies through
IDF.
8.  Design and Implmentan of a           ESW (Povey Assessment          srateg   Fist comprhnsh e viow of
medhium-te  sttgy for th sool       papers for the main social sectors, and  poverty and soci sector
sectors md the alleviation of poverty.  other relaed studies).               agnda In Morooco.
* Prepaon by the Gonment (with 8ank       Second tanche relase
support under SAL II) of a Socia Acton  oond Won of SA IL
Plan.
* Lending (rojets focusing on social    - Projects will build on analis
priotes, rurAl povery, land development  under ESW.
and prvate educaion).
C. Development of a oompo.   pia         ESW (Prvate SeorAssessmet SAL DI       In dose coordinaton with the
sector.                              studies on privAte sector provsion of   IFC.
servioes cufetly proWded by the pubic
secOto).
Lendng (precs focusing on capi           In lose coordinaion wth the
mwakt develpmet industi                IFC.
In1ftucr, rral finac, go-ndusty
developrvt Industa trainih  and
private 0ijcaton).
D. Imprvd mgeme  of public            * ESW (Pubic Eipendifure Revew, Water      Pubic Ependitueo Review
sector resources.                    Resource Mi  gmt Assessmesn and         wOl fous parcuwly on the
Informad sdies on publc sector         socil sectors.
accounts).
* Lending (projcts covering telcomn     * The hning proam will
restucturing, water supply and sewerage,  oontnue to address Issws
enoegy sector resntuctuin, land        that w    covered under
development municipa finance,          PERL, such as ImovwmeW
ansport; envIronmentW-=aAe             of public entelpises' MIS a.
Irrgation, agricultWal Investmen4 and  f       a systems,
naa gma developmnt).                   pedonmnax  contacSt and PE
autron     elnimnagtng arrears;
and reuctufing egional
authorites.



-9-
*     PEivate Sector Develooment. Several projects are expected to stem from the Bank's
Private Sector Assessment (PSA), to be completed in FY93 (see para. 20). A
project supporting the development of capital markets would address institutional
as well as policy issues. More comprehensive coverage of PSA-diagnosed policy
measures to foster private sector development will be handled in projects covering
industrial infrastructure, national rural finance, industrial training, private
education development, and agro-industry development loans.
e     Public Sector Manacementt. The Bank intends to continue its support for improving
public sector management, initiated under the PERL, through sector investment
loans in water supply and sewerage, and energy. These two operations aim Inter
alla  at restructuring  regional  distribution authorities.    Other projects
addressing this objective will cover land development, municipal finance,
highways, agricultural investment, and a transport sector loan. These proposed
loans would address major institutional issues, including phasing out day-to-day
Government controls in favor of clear delegation of responsibility and autonomy,
and economic policy measures, such as automaticity of tariff adjustments according
to agreed criteria.
20.         Economic and Sector Work (EMU(.    Three key elements of the assistance
strategy are being supported directly by substantial Bank SSW. To support social sector
development and poverty alleviation, the Bank has launched a comprehensive Poverty
Assessment study, to be completed in FY93. Coupled with the results of other donor-
financed studies, the Poverty Assessment, which includes a comprehensive poverty
profile, will provide the basis for: (i) the Government's preparation of a formal Social
Action Plan, expected under SAL II; and (ii) defining specific areas for Bank
assistance. In addition, Bank staff plan to prepare sector strategy documents covering
the demand, supply and financing of education and health services, to serve is the basis
for joint planning of future work and Bank assistance in these sectors. In support of
the private sector development objective, a comprehensive Priv&te Sector Assessment is
under preparation and planned for completion in FY93. The study is expected to serve
as the centerpiece for a broad-ranging review involving the (0overnment, the private
sector, and other interested parties (e.g., external donors) of the private sector's
status and remaining constraints to its development. Following this review, a plan of
action would be prepared and implemented with, Inter alle, Bank Group assistance.
Concerning public sector management, a comprehensive study analyzing the consolidated
public sector (Report No. 10157-MOR) was circulated to the Board in June 1992. Bank
staff plan to update and extend specific parts of the study (particularly those relating
to local government and public enterprises) on a regular basis, albeit as informal
pieces of ESW, as the analytical content of the study is proving particularly useful in
the preparation of a number of proposed loans (e.g., Municipal Finance, as well as loans
covering the water, electricity, transportation, and port sectors). In addition, a
planned Public Ixoenditure Review will address the concerns about appropriate public
expenditure levels  in the  social sectors in parallel with overall expenditure
rationalization.  The growing concern for environmental issues and, in pa-ticular, the
scarcity of water resources will be addressed in a major Water Resource Manaaement
rort.  In parallel, under a proposed Environment Technical Assistance Project, a
comprehensive action plan addressing environmental management would be prepared. Other,
more modest, IS'l tasks are envisaged, many of them funded from Trust Funds and UNDP.



-10 -
21.         Technigal Assistance- and Xxternal Financial Co2gdination. In recent years,
co-financing for Bank projects has been frequent.  Bank assistance to Morocco in
mobilizing external resources will remain critical over the next few years, and efforts
will be intensified through close coordination with other creditors and donors (notably
the SC and the African Development Bank, which are expected to provide substantial
support in 1993-94). The Bank also plans to explore the use of E00 and other financing
instruments to attract private capital.   In addition, on-going and planned Bank
technical assistance to the country addresses notably: (i) steps to restore Morocco's
access to international capital markets; and (ii) measures needed to facilitate the
transition engendered by the Partnership Agreement with the EC. This form of Bank
assistance will play a key role in specific areas of the consolidation of adjustment and
reform.
22.        Portfolio Implementation. Five facets of the Bank's loan portfolio call for
special attention to its performance in the coming years.   First, the timely
implementation of measures under the two remaining adjustment loans--SAL II and FSDP--is
critical to Morocco's adjustment and reform goals. Second, tight budgetary constraints
in 1992, expected to continue in 1993, have limited the availability of counterpart
funds for Bank (and other official development finance assisted) projects. The effect
of this constraint in the sectors that depend on direct Government funding (mainly
agriculture, highways, water and power, municipal development, railways, health and
education) needs to be monitored carefully. Third, administrative bottlenecks persist
i' the management of special accounts, delaying disbursements and, as a result, project
implementation. Fourth, a number of projects in health, education, highways, water, and
rural electrification may be affected by the broadened powers and responsibilities of
local governments. This requires special monitoring, as the newly-installed municipal
manageme n systems are likely to be of uneven quality.  And fifth, a few projects,
particularly in infrastructure, are facing design or implementation problms and may
have to be restructured. To address the major outstanding portfolio implementation
issues, a full-scale country portfolio performance review is planned for early 1993.
23.        Macroeconomic Context  As shown in Table 2, the macroeconomic context for
the Bank's proposed assistance program is characterized by steady pursuit of the low-
inflation growth achieved in recent years, gradual post-rescheduling improvement in the
country's debt indicators, and consolidation of internal and external macroeconomic
balance. Following a one-time boost to real GDP in 1993, driven by a rebound in
agricultural production, real growth and inflation are expected to stabilize at levels
attained in recent years.   In accordance with the Moroccan authorities' public
commitment not to seek further debt rescheduling, debt service initially rises in 1993,
but declines gradually thereafter. To underpin Morocco's long-term growth potential and
support enhanced social sector development, gross fixed investment is expected to
increase slightly as a share of GDP over the remainder of the decade, continuing the
trend obserred over the past few years. Finally, the central government budget, as well
as the current account of the balance of payments, are expected to be approximately in
balance by the mid-1990s.
24.        within this overall macroeconomic context, the proposed FY93-97 lending
program of US$450 million per year would account for an avexzge of 228 of Morocco's new
NLT inflows each year over the period 1993-2000. Bank disbursements, averaging about
US$450 million per year, would outweigh principal repayments. Bank exposure indicators,
at present marginally above indicatlve ceilings, would decllne, although they would



- 11 .
Tablet: P'pjetsd   o     Pemaeaud WoUldB ank  ancialFw,1992-000
Acual   E.                etud         Avge
19       199    19 19    194   1995  19a2n
oIn pecatage)
GDP Growi Rate                      5.1     -3.      8.1      44     4.5    4.
ConqsptCapita Growth Rate           7.6     -89       32      2.0    13      1.7
Inaton (CPI                         82       S5
Inflation (GDP deflator)            7.0      61      4.0      43     55      53
DOD/XGS 2/3/                       2S3.0    2392    2225    2069   1892   145.6
DOD/GDP 3/                          76.0     75.0    678    64.1   59.9   48.6
Debt Swico/XGS 1/ 2/ 3/             27       21      295     29A    26*    212
Gross FCF/GDP                       21.7    24.0    24.2    243    24.4   248
Got Deii/GDP (commit. basis), ADR   -25      -1.     -1A     -11     09      0.2
Govt Defcit/GDP (co0mnit. ba), BPR  -3.0     -L8     -L4     -1.1   -09      02
Curent Account/GDP, ADR             -1.S     -0.6    -LS     -1.0    04      0.2
Curet A=count/GDP, BDR              -L7      -1.7    -15     -1.0   4.4      02
Wordd Bank                                          on US$ ma
Didbrsments                       357      423     444      369    437    484
Amortation                        230      269      291    -301    342    399
interst                           242      264      273     282    285    304
Net Tansfes                       -l       -110    -120    -14   -189   -218
NB.:  FCF denotes Pixed Capital Formation.
ADR denotes After Debt Rde BDR Before Debt Relief.
Average growth rate Itludes growth in the first year of the pedod (e.., 196, durg 19962000)
1/ Indudes MLT, IMF, and Shorter debt.
2/ XGS Icudes work esmacs
3/ After debt rief
remain above the ceilings over the next 2-3 years.  Beyond that, all but one of the
indicators would fall below the ceilings.
25.          The main risk inherent in the scenario described above is that of political
tensions in the region, which could adversely affect the balance of payments. Other
exogenous risks include that of a frequent recurrence of severe droughts (or even ones
of lesser magnitude than in 1992), which would have a negative effect on export and
domestic consumption possibilities, as well as increasing the food import bill. While
further quick-disbursing loans are not envisaged under nomal circumstances, the Bank
should stand ready to revise its assistance strategy to accommodate new adjustment
lending if exceptional circumstances, driven by such exogenous shocks, arise. Owing to
the relative stability imparted by the Monarchy, domestic political risks are relatively



limited. Nevertheless, popular expectations are high, and there is a risk of tension
developing ifs (i) the democratic transition process faltersl and (ii) expectations of
improvements in welfare are not met. Conversely, the risk associated with the advent
of a more politically accountable Government is that it might succumb to political
pressures to spend more, thereby jeopardizing hard-earned macroeconomic stability.
C. Summary Assessment
26.         In general, Morocco's adjustment and reform program has been a striking
success. Nevertheless, building on the remarkable achievements of the past decade will
be no easy task. The gains of macroeconomic adjustment must be consolidated, and the
momentum of reform  and liberalization must be maintained.   However, the Moroccan
authorities also realize that the political sustainability of the agenda for economic
development depends critically on a more equitable distribution of welfare improvements,
and particularly on the alleviation of poverty-related ills.
27.         The essence of Bank strategy in Morocco over the next five years is to
support a development agenda dominated by the need to consolidate adjustment and reduce
poverty.  The instruments of Bank assistance to the country, which include existing
loans, new project lending at a planned level of some US$450 million per year, and ESW,
have been carefully tailored to this development agenda.   By concentrating future
lending on operations with a substantial sector policy content, new lending would be
linked to satisfactory implementation of sector-wide policy reforms.  on the social
sectors, policy measures and their effects will be regularly monitored in the context
of existing and new loans.  In the unlikely event of less than satisfactory efforts to
improve social conditions for vulnerable groups, Bank lending would be scaled back to
a level of US$300-USS350 million per year.
28.         Under the proposed base-case assistance strategy, Bank exposure in Xorocco
would remain at or near the indicative ceilings for the next several years. Although
this entails some risk for the Dank, the catalytic effect of large Bank involvement
would give the country's ambitious development agenda a critical boost.
PART 1I
THE PROPOSED LOA
29.         Backaround.  The proposed loan to the National Post and Telecommunications
Authority (ONPT) fits well in the overall Bank lending strategy for Morocco outlined
above.   In particular,  it addresses two aspects of that strategy.   First, the
telecommunications sector is critical to the development of a dynamic, export-oriented
private sector, and plays a key role in attracting foreign investors.  Second, efficient
management and development of the sector would go a long way in improving the overall
efficiency of the public enterprise sector. The telecommunications sector accounts for
a sizeable share of the country's public sector, in terms of investments (about US$400
million per annum planned over the next three years), foreign borrowing, and fiscal
revenues.    Significant improvements in the sector were achieved during the last five
years. The major investment program undertaken in 1987, with the help of the Bank (Loan



-13 -
2798-MOR, see below) has already led to important achievements in terms of modernization
of the network, now 97% automatized and 60% digitalized, ensuring that future expansion
will be based on sound and up-to-date technological standards. ONPT's finances have
remained healthy, as demonstrated by its ability to self-finance a significant, albeit
recently declining, share of its investments and a debt-equity ratio of 39:61 at end-
1991. 1/   Nevertheless, the present telecommunications infrastructure remains a
constraint to the country's economic development. Although the number of main telephone
lines more than doubled between 1984 and 1991 (from 215,000 to 497,000), overall density
remains low at 1.9 line/100 pop., compared to 3.5 in Algeria, 5.2 in Syria, and 7.0 in
Jordan. Demand has grown almost in parallel with the installation of new lines, and 26%
of expressed demand remains unsatisfied 2/ . Quality of service indicators point to
recent improvements, although they remain inadequate by international standards.
30.         Previous Bank experience.  The Bank's first loan to the sector (USS 125
million) was made in 1987 to support (i) the establishment of ONPT as a separate entity
in charge of telecommunications and postal/financial services (both of which were run
by a Government department prior to 1984), and its strengthening through a wide-ranging
technical assistance program and (ii) the partial funding of the first part of ONPT's
1987-94 expansion plan. The Bank-funded technical assistance program includes, inter
alia, a long-term demand study, a tariff study, the set up of a cost accounting system,
a data processing development plan, the improvement of procurement and inventory
management systems, and the revamping of the personnel function. After a slow start due
to ONPT's lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, project implementation has
accelerated and satisfactory progress is being made on all fronts, with disbursements
expected to be completed by the end of 1993, ahead of the June 1994 closing date.
31.        Government Strat e.  The Government is aware that in order to drastically
improve telecommunications services and for Morocco to catch up with neighboring
countries, increased investments alone would not be sufficient and that it has to
consider a qualitative change in the way the sector is managed, following the path taken
by an increasing number of countries (both industrialized and developing) in recent
years. A high-level Commission was established in early 1991, with a mandate to design
a new institutional and regulatory framework for the sector, and the Government
approached the Dank for assistance in this endeavor. As a result, the Government has
prepared a Statement of Telecommunications Sectoral Policy.  The latter proposes a
revised institutional framework for the sector, which builds upon reforms initiated
under the Dank's First Telecommunications Project.   The key elements of the new
framework are: (i) the separation of Posts and Telecommunications into two distinct
legal entities; (ii) the setting up of a regulatory structure outside of ONPTt (iii) the
elimination of ONPT's monopoly on value-added services; and (iv) the "corporatization"
of ONPT (and its successor enterprises) within the framework of performance contracts.
The statement includes a time bound action plan setting out key steps and target dates
for strengthening the institutional capabilities of the Ministry of Post and
Telecommunications (MPT) and preparing the groundwork for liberalization of the sector.
At this point in time, outright privatization of ONPT is not an option being envisaged
I/   This has been achieved in spite of the cross-subsidization of the posts' losses by tetecomn amounting to about
DH 175 million in 1991 (i.e. about 39% of ONPT's net income from telecoos).
2/   Not counting a tlkety very substantial "hidden" (i.e. unexpressed) demand, as many potential customers do not
bother to fill out a formal application. A Bank-financed Long-term demand study to be launched shortly is
expected to provide a deeper understanding of the market for telecomuwnication services.



-14 -
by the Government for the following reasons: local capital markets are currently too
thin to accommodate a private issue of ONPT's size, and foreign control of such a large
monopoly is not considered politically feasible in the immediate future.
32.         SubstantLal progress has already been achieved on all four fronts with,
interLalLa, ONPT's recent reorganizatLon (which accomplishes a *de facto" separation of
its two branches), and the signature of a performance contract (contrat de Programme)
between the Government and ONPT for telecommunications and postal/fLnancLal services.
The latter represents a major milestone in the process of providing ONPT with corporate
autonomy and accountability; it includes respective commitments from ONPT (e.g. on
targets for coverage, quality of service, investments, financial performance, external
audit etc.) and from the Government (e.g. on tariff and fiscal policy, gradual
relaxation of a 2XL2rL control on expenditures, timely payment of services, compensation
of public service obligations, etc.) for the next five years. A time bound plan of
action for strengthening the MPT's institutional capabilities and preparing the
groundwork for the liberalization of the sector has been prepared by the Government.
Among these actions is the presentation to the Bank, by January 1994, of a plan of
action to address the Government's lntentions expressed in the Sector Policy Statement
concerning splitting ONPT into two enterprises and opening the sector up to competition.
33.         Rationale for Bank involvement.  The Bank has a key role to play in helping
the telecommunication sector face the new challenge of having to manage concurrently a
rapid expansion and fundamental institutional/organizational changes. In particular,
the Bank would, through its operational involvement and partial financing of a time-
slLce of ONPT's investment program, ensure that sector investments are planned and
carried out in an optimal manner. Second, it would help promote broad institutional
reform directed, on the one hand, at improving ONPT's efficiency (using the framework
designed for PR reform under the PERL 315) and, on the other hand, at favoring private
sector involvement whenever such involvement can demonstrably benefit sector
development.  Third, the Bank would play a catalytie role in mobilizing external
financing for this capital-intensive sector by: (a) providing advice on the optimization
of the sectors overall flnancing mix (a major share of which currently consists of tled
bilateral concessional loans and export credits); and (b) together with institutions
which have already indicated their interest in co-financing a Bank project (RIB),
covering ONPT's external financing gap (corresponding to the foreign cost of investment
items which are not eligLble--or attractive enough- for biLateral or export financing),
thus fulfilling its role of lender of last resort.
34.         Proiect Obiectives. pescriotion and FinancLna. Medium-term targets for the
sector are to (i) fully meet 96% of expected expressed demand for telephony by 1994
(1,020,000 lines) through the continuation of an ambitious network expansion program;
(i$) bring the quality of existing services up to acceptable standards; and (LiL) meet
the demand for new services, particularly value-added services such as mobile cellular
telephone, data transmission, videotext, etc., which are of particular relevarL.e to the
business community. With a view to helping Morocco achieve these ambitious targets, the
project would aim at supporting both sector reform and physical expansion. It would
consist of: (i) technical assistance, training, and studies, in particular, to
strengthen the Ministry's institutional capabilities and to prepare the groundwork for
sector liberalization; and (Li) a time slice (1992-94) of ONPT's investment program.
3/    Loan No. 2820-NOR, approved in June 1987.



-15 -
Total cost is tentatively estimated at US$1,204 million*' of which UA$634 million (53%)
is in direct and indirect foreign exchange. The Bank's contribution of US$100 million
would cover primarily the direct and indirect foreign cost of (i) local networks
construction; (ii) small equipment and spare parts for transmission; (iII) construction
of fiber optical links (under supply and erect contracts); (iv) data processing
equipment (including for frequency control); (v) expansion of facilities linking
international networkos and (vi) technical assistance, studies, and training.
Retroactive financing of US$6 million would be provided. Co-financing from SIB is
envisaged for an amount equivalent to about US$100 million. The other US$1,000 million
will be financed by drawings on existing loans, new bilateral concessional and export
credits (under negotiation or discussion), and self-financing (complemented to a minor
extent by domestic bank loans). Detailed cost estimates, procurement and disbursement
schedules and a timetable of key project events are provided in Schedules A, B and C
respectively.
35.         Lessons Learned and Proiect Sustainabilitv. Previous Bank experience in the
telecommunications sector has shown that the pace and scope of sector reform has varied
considerably among regions and that there is no single blue-print for success. Outright
privatization, which depends on windows of political opportunity, is not always feasible
nor has it led necessarily to improved sector performance. Rather, the introduction of
competition in at least some market segments, effective regulation, and arms-length
relations between the Government and the telecommunications utility have been found to
be important factors of success. The focus placed in the proposed project on these key
factors, as well as the provision of minimum financial ratios and performance indicators
(see below), will thus contribute to its long-term institutional and financial
sustainability.
36.         Main Isues and _ eed Actions.  The proposed project would address both
policy and project-related issues. First and foremost, the Government has committed
itself to the establishment of appropriate institutional capabilities and respective
regulatory function. To that effect, the Government (and ONPT, as appropriate)s (i)
provided the Bank with a satisfactory Telecommunications Sector Policy Statement and
related Plan of Action; para. 31); and (ii) signed a satisfactory "Contrat de Programme"
(para. 32). Failure by either ONPT or the Government to comply with their respective
commitments under these various documents would give rise to a loan suspension remedy
under the loan agreement.
37.         In order to ensure that sector investments are adequately funded internally,
ONPT has agreed to achieve a self-financing ratio of at least 40% in 1993, and
subsequent years (this is not expected to require tariff increases in real terms if the
Government does not increase its already substantial fiscal burden on ONPT, as is
stipulated in the "Contrat de Programme"; see para 32). Furthermore, the Government
has already settled its 1986-1991 arrears to ONPT; settlement of the 1992 arrears would
be a condition of loan effectiveness. Also, failure to obtain proper financing in
accordance with the agreed co-financing plan would give rise to a loan suspension remedy
under the loan agrement.    Other financial covenants, investment limitation and
external audit have also been agreed. Regarding the latter, ONPT has provided the Bank
with the auditor's report for 1991. Finally, as under Loan 2798-NOR, ONPT has agreed
to take action to achieve agreed performance indicators and to review the latter jointly
with the Bank, before June 30 of each year.



-16 -
38.         Environmental and Health ImDact. The project is expected to have only minor
adverse environmental or health effects and has been rated "a". A review carried out
during appraisal ascertained that ONPT is taking, and will continue to take, all
appropriate measures to mitigate these effects (e.g. use of existing electricity and
water corridors for underground cables, minimization of aerial lines in urban areas, use
of road and railroad rights of way, and use of existing sites and towers for expansion
of micro-wave transmission capacit_). Furthermore, the project is expected to have
significant environmental and health benefits as more efficient use of
telecommunications will substitute for transportation and correspondingly reduce
pollution, and will also facilitate extension of health services and emergency care,
especially in rural areas.
39.         Benefits.  A number of important economic benefits can be expected from
future improvements in the country's telecommunications lnfrastructure, some of which
have already been mentioned and are difficult to quantify: removal of constraints to
private sector investment, possibllity of decentrallizng the count y' s economic
lnfrastructure, possible emergence of communication-intensive activities (e.g. software
development), and more efficient and transparent markets, including eventual foreign
investment. Equally important are the benefits to Morocco's social development, l.e.
nater alia, better access to health, education and government services for rural areas,
and the reinforcement of cultural lntegratlon. The incremental sconomic rate of return
on OMPT's 1992-94 investment program was estimated at 36%.
40.         Ris_ .  The maLn risk affecting the project is that of a slippage in reform
formulation and implementation inter alia, due to opposition from unions representing
ONPT's staff who may feel that postal staff will lose from the separation from telecoms,
or may even fear outright privatization and possible layoffs. As already mentioned
(para. 36), commitments in that regard have been obtained during negotiations. Another
risk is that of delays in project execution if ONPT's implementation capacity were to
be overstretched.  Although real, this risk would be minimized through the use of
turnkey contracts whenever possible, and the inclusion in the project of an extensive
technical assistance program.  A final risk is that the expected funding for key
components of the program may not materialize. This risk is minimal for switching and
major transmiselon components, in light of the intense competition which prevails among
suppliers for this type of equipment. Loan provisions regarding minimum self-financing
ratios would ensure that sufficient internal funding for the overall program is
available.   In addition, failure to arrange for proper and timely financing of the
project would give rise to a loan suspension remedy under ONPT's loan agreement.
41.         Recommendation. I am satlifLed that the rroposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 16, 1992



- 17 -
MOROCCO
7XU CX"dMOBUCn(2llN ME=  XCOMMOcnnM M    QE
Egtimat9d Cote                        -------- (US$ million) -----
Local a) FZoign         Total
Switching b)                          151.8       161.5        313.3
Long diet. transmission               154.2       180.7        334.9
Local networks                        124.4       106.7        231.1
Rural telecoms                         32.5        45.8         78.3
TA, training & studies                    -        15.2         15.2
Data processing                         8.5        12.0         20.5
Miscellaneous c)                       68.3           -         68.3
MPT (T.A. and control center)             -         3.1          3.1
Base cost ('91 prices)          539.8       525.0     1,064.8
Physical conting.                18.7        18.5        37.2
Price conting.                   65.5        36.1       101.6
TOTAL COST                624.0       579.6     1,203.6
a)    fincludes indirct foreign cost (US 54.4 mf tion) and VAT/cwtom dwties (US$M3.5 ofttfon)
b)   inctudes data tramission
c)   includes tand, buildings, ad vehicles



Schedule a
page 1 of 2
30RIMMUMNXAUIQN SECOR BESEllUCKL: PROJECT
enmet Method and D
PR0 :URE EIIT TS
Proje't Caqwnent                     ICB         LC8        Other         Total
SNitching EquipTent                                       351           351
Tranmission Equipment            360 (12)                  19 W         379 (12)
Local Network:
. Civil tVorks                             46  (6)                     46  (6)
. Cable & Line Equipment        89 (18)                                89 (18)
. Turn-Key Contracts            47 (20)                                47 (20)
. M      atnd erect             78 (19)                                78 (19)
Rural Telephony                    90                                    90
Lend/Dul ldins/Support                       79                          79
Data process. equip.               23 (9)                                23 (9)
ra nlt- servic"s                                         13 (TO<7
irq. at.St.*Instruens 49/                                  {s
TOTAL                   687 (78)   125 (6)    392 (16)   1,204 (100)
Percent of Bank Loan                   8          a          16X      lOOX
19gM:  Figures in parentheses represent smouits to be financed by the proposed Bank loan.
t' Figures include taxes and duties as wetl as good and services procured under the first Bsank Loan.
W Negotiated contracts, not financed by the Bank.
Limited International Bidding.
a/ Vorld Dank guidelines for selection of consultants.



Schdule B
page 2 of 2
LOAN DIUSBRMbENTS
Categon               Amount US$               %Fiaced
('000)
1. Trnmission equipran and       11,510         70% of tota expenditures.
amsciaed insbldon and otWg
services
2. Cables, polse and associted   17,200         100% of foreign epndibues,
ln equgpmt for local netwoks                    100% of ex-fictry cost for locally
mfactud items, and 80% of
locd e tures for other locally
-         item
3. Civil work for local newok.    5,500         60% of tota expenditures.
4. Tur key contact and supply    35,000         70% of total expeiur.
and ert contacts for local
netwOrL
5. Data prcesing equiment         8,000         100% of feign eendiures,
100% of ex-factory cost for other
locaUy mnufctred itms, and
80% of local expditr for
localy purhased item.
6. Consultants' services, raing   9,100         100% of exenditures.
senvices and ated equipmen
7. Training equipmet              1,0           100% of foreign xpenditus,
100% of ex-factory cost for kay
manufatured itms, and 80% of
local expenditures for other localy
puchased items.
8. Radio frequecy contr           2,200         100% of foreign ependitur  and
equipmnt and software                           80% of local expeditus.
9. Unalocad ted
Tota                        100,000
Estimated Disbursements
EM9       JX9A      FY95        EM9        PIY97    Z=9
----------------…(Us$ million)-----------------
Annual                       3.0       31.0     28.0        20.0       12.0       6.0
Cumulative                   3.0      34.0      62.0        82.0       94.0    100.0



-20-
schedulel C
MQZQCCQ
MIEtXaDMMWN}CAlCMS SECTrOR RUIMRUCU3nMDNGjt]E
Tiebtable gt IKa hal ftoa=ina -Evens
(a)   Time taken to prepares             20 months
(b)   Prepared bys                      ONPT/Bank
(c)   First Bank missions                February 1991
(d)   Appraisal misior. departures       February 1992
(e)   Negotiations:                      November 1992
(f)   Planned date of effectiveneses    June 1993
(g)   List of relevant PCRt              PCR for Loan 2820-MOR (wvo No.)
(h)   Responsibilities for preparations
Task Manager                Philippe L6charny
Division Chief              Frangois Ettori
Director                    Pieter P. Bottelier
Regional Vice-president     Caio Koch-Weser



IBRD 24480
MOROCCO                                                    PORTUGAL  c            '(0 Estop     v Perpignan (FRANCE)
TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT  PORPVGALAND                                                                       E             on (FRANCE 
fRANCE              
OPTCAL FIBER CABLES 565/MBs PROJECT                                                                          haoue
OPTICAL FIBER CABLES 140V565 MBs                                                                                   Taounate
IN IMPLEMENTATION                                                                                             no
ANALOG SUBMARINE CABLE                               KEN
CABLE TO BE DIGITALiZED                                               Ml                                                                        r
MICROWAVES 140 MBs PROJECT                                                                             /MEK         ueon  Missour          Bouafa
MICROWAVES 140 MBs IN IMPLEMENTATION                                 El Jdiad                                                  ssoufrt
MICROWAVES 34 MBs IN IMPLEMENTATION                                                i/                              I
EXISTING:                                              ossof                                             BENI-MELLA
MICROWAVES 140OBs                                                                                              a       rte (         la
MICROWAVES 34 MBs :a
ANALOG MICROWAVES 960 CHANNELS                          Essaouirac                      Dssani E d
...TROPOSPHERIC MICROWAVS 120 CHANNELS                                     |rniiz
-   OPfTCAL FIBER CABLES 140 MBs ag 
DIGTALUZE COAX CABLES                                                                 te            Agdz    Za
DOMESTIC SATELUTE NETWO                                               \ghrem
/ \aroute                      °
Of    ARABSTEARTHSTASON                                              r                                                          0          loat200              300
(i    INTELSAT EARTH STATION                                          /  //              O                                                   KILOIETERS
rm                                            <   /              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Akka                          KILOMETERS
D      SPACE SEGMENT DIGITAUZATION           
Guel   is  B30uizakarne                              Thi% reaPrhaBnbeen'prsPard b y The WorldrBanr dstoff  eaor
NAnoNAL cwm                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~the oonvrdnn of ranr n is for the internal one of The ,Jrid
r* NOTIONALCAPITAL  rf/   goBank Gop. The denominations ued and h boundariesshown on this
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                    m reap do ontimpl, ison the part of rhA Wordd Bank Groep any iudgmeent
- - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY nApprW   a )            j n                                j                             onteeen a       to e
DECEMBER 1992



