Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 17971
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(Loan 3557-MOR)
June 10, 1998
Infrastructure Development Group
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
WLorld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Moroccan Dirham (DH.)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Dirhams per US$)
1992     1993    1994      1995      1996      1997
US$1.00 =DH        8.80     8.52    9.38      8.74      8.92      9.64
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System                                               US System
1 meter (m)                                                 3.2808 Feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                                            0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)                                    0.38601 square mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)                                        0.9842 long ton (Ig ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                                             2.2046 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB            African Development Bank
ANRT           Agence Nationale de Reglementation du Secteur des T6lecommunications (new telecom
sector regulatory agency)
BAM            Barid Al-Maghrib (new Moroccan postal authority)
CFD            Caisse franeaise de Developpement (French Development Finance Agency)
CP             Contrat de Programme (ONPT's performance contract with GOM)
DEL            Direct Exchange (main) Line
EC             European Community
EIB            European Investment Bank
IAM            Itissalat Al-Maghrib (new Moroccan telecom corporation)
IDB            Islamic Development Bank
ISDN           Integrated Services Digital Network
KfW            Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau (Bilateral Development Financing Agency of Germany)
MPT            Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
ONPT           Office National des Postes et Telecommunications (National Posts and
Telecommunications Authority)
P&T            Posts and Telecommunications
PERL           Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Loan
TC             Telecommunications
TSRP           Telecommunications Sector Restructuring Project
VAT            Value-added tax
MOROCCO - FISCAL YEAR (FY)
January I - December 31
Vice President              :  Kemal Dervis
Director MNCMG              :  Christian Delvoie
Director MNSID              :  Jean-ClaudeVilliard
Task Manager                :  Hartwin Nickel



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Table of Contents
Page
Preface
Evaluation Summary                                                                i
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background and Project Objectives                                           I
B.    Achievement of Objectives                                                   4
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project                                        10
D.    Project Sustainability                                                     12
E.    Bank Performance                                                           12
F.     Borrower's Performance                                                    13
G.    Assessment of Outcome                                                      14
H.    Future Operation                                                           14
I.     Key Lessons Learned                                                       14
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
I     Summary of Assessment                                                      17
2     Related Bank Loans/Credits                                                 18
3     Project Timetable                                                          18
4     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                        19
5(A) Key Indicators for Project Implementation, Technical Performance            20
5(B) Key Indicators for Project Implementation, Financial Performance            21
6     Key Indicators for Project Operation, Technical and Financial Performance  22
7     Studies Included in the Project                                            23
8(A) Summary of Project Costs                                                    26
8(B) Project Financing                                                           27
9     Economic Costs and Benefits                                                28
10    Status of Legal Covenants                                                  29
11    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                              30
12    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                               30
13    Bank Resources: Missions                                                   31
APPENDICES
A. SPN/ICR Mission Aide Memoire                                                  32
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR                                            46
Map: IBRD No. 24480
Thiis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3557-MOR)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Telecommunications Sector
Restructuring Project in Morocco, for which Loan 3557-MOR in the amount of US$ 100 million
was made to the Moroccan telecom and postal authority ONPT. The loan was approved on
February 2, 1993 and made effective on October 20, 1993. It was closed on December 31, 1997,
the original closing date. At the borrower's request, due to project cost savings and some
components being implemented under a separate development program, an amount of US$ 11.0
million was canceled in August 1997. Disbursements under the loan totaled US$ 61.2 million
equivalent. The last disbursement took place on January 8, 1998. The undisbursed balance of
US$ 27.8 million was canceled, at ONPT's request, on February 8, 1998.
Cofinancing for the foreign exchange costs was provided by IBRD Loan 2798-MOR
which was still ongoing at the time of project start-up, the multilateral development banks for
Africa (ADB) and Islamic countries (IDB), the bilateral development finance agencies of France
(CFD) and Germany (KfW), and commercial credits. Local costs were financed from ONPT's
internal resources and local credits.
The ICR was prepared by Marcel Scoffier (Consultant), and Hartwin Nickel (Task
Manager) of the Infrastructure Development Group (MNSID) of the Middle East and North
Africa Region. It was reviewed by Mmes./Messrs. M. Fernandez-Palacios, Projects Adviser,
Maghreb Department (MNCMG), J.-C. Villiard, Director, A. Al-Khafaji, Lead Operations
Specialist, and Z. Ladhibi-Belk, Sector Leader (MNSID), whose comments were included in the
ICR. Preparation was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission to
Morocco, in December 1997. The borrower contributed by providing information and views
reflected in the mission's Aide-Memoire (Appendix A), and a comprehensive project
implementation report (Appendix B), with some of its tables incorporated into Part II of the ICR.
The borrower's report was prepared in December 1997 and contains, for the year 1997, technical
and financial estimates, while the ICR includes actual 1997 figures.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (OPNT)
(LOAN NO. 3557-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
(i)    Until the mid-1980's the Moroccan Government (GOM) had given low priority to
telecommunications (TC) services. They were provided together with postal services by the then
Ministry of Posts, Telegraph and Telephone (PTT). The telecom sector lacked financial
resources and institutional capacity. In the early 1980s', the country's authorities realized that
the obsolete telecom facilities had to be modernized and largely expanded, and the sector
organization had to be strengthened and restructured.
(ii)   In early 1984, in line with the findings from a sector review, GOM created ONPT as a
legally and financially autonomous public authority, under MPT's responsibility, to provide the
telecom and postal services. GOM requested Bank assistance in setting up and organizing the
new entity, as well as in financing the telecom investment program. The Bank responded with
two successive loans: (a) Loan 2798-MOR of US$125 million for the First Telecom Project,
which was implemented from 1987 to 1994, and (b) Loan 3557-MOR of US$100 million for the
Telecom Sector Restructuring (TSR) Project, which is the subject of this ICR and was
implemented from 1993 to 1997. The large investment programs of both projects were co-
financed from various sources.
(iii)   The two loans were made with the continued development objectives of assisting (a) in
modernizing and expanding ONPT's telecom services, with some support to the postal/financial
services as well, and (b) in ONPT's transition from a monopolistic Government utility toward
two autonomous commercial entities for posts and telecoms, creation of a separate regulatory
function and gradual opening of the telecoms sector to private participation.
(iv)   The first project was successfully implemented; several of the physical and institutional
objectives were exceeded. Before its completion, GOM requested the Bank to continue its
support to the sector. The Telecom Sector Restructuring Project was prepared and appraised in
1992. The loan (no. 3557-MOR) to ONPT, guaranteed by GOM, was approved on February 2,
1993 and became effective on October 20, 1993.
Project Objectives and Description
(v)    The objectives of the project were to assist ONPT in: (a) the continued improvement and
strengthening of its organizational and operational capabilities to enable efficient commercial
operation and effective development of the network; (b) preparing and promoting,
simultaneously, in-depth sector restructuring leading to its liberalization and opening to
competition, consistent with both current world-wide trends and with the country's overall public



ii
sector reform; and (c) increasing rapidly and cost-effectively the quantity and quality of TC
services under the 1992-94 second phase of ONPT's investment program for development and
modernization of the TC network, thus meeting the growing demand for these services and
supporting the country's economic goals. The latter program would be pursued under ONPT's
subsequent Performance Contract with Government for the period 1993-97.
(vi)    Two main components were included in the project: (i) an institutional component
consisting of: (a) training to further enhance ONPT institutional capacity which started under the
First Project; (b) acquisition of computer systems for ONPT; (c) consultancy services to
strengthen MPT's capacity, including its regulatory functions and the preparation of sector
reform; and (d) computerized systems for MPT to control the radio frequency spectrum; and (ii)
a physical component mainly consisting of: (a) about 500,000 digitalized lines of local switching
and subscriber equipment; related switching equipment for domestic trunk (60,000 new circuits)
and international gateway exchanges (22,300 new circuits); (b) associated local networks and
subscriber outside plant for connection of about 420,000 new subscriber lines; (c) transmission
installations for digital microwaves and optical fiber links and equipment to digitize 8 coaxial
long distance cables; and (d) facilities for automatic services in about 780 rural areas for
specialized services such as mobile/maritime radio and data transmission, and for MPT's radio
frequency spectrum control center.
(vii)  The technical objectives of this second project were supported by a digitization strategy,
network planning and traffic engineering arrangements, and the design of centralized operation
and maintenance systems prepared under the first project. With regard to the institutional
objectives, the first project, together with Bank and trust funds, also had prepared: (i) the new
institutional framework; (ii)  a Statement of Sectorial Policy (adopted in 1992) and a
performance contract between ONPT and the government for the period 1993-1997; (iii)
separation of postal services and telecommunications; (iv) the organization of the regulatory
function; (v) a long-term telecommunications strategic plan; and (vi) a detailed diagnostic of
ONPT's postal/financial branch and a program for the required technical assistance. Based on
this, an action plan for the development and restructuring of the sector including performance
indicators was agreed during negotiations and outlined in a side letter to the Loan Agreement.
Achievement of Objectives
(viii) The TSR Project was implemented on schedule from 1993 to 1997. Its major targets of
supporting sector reform and institutional strengthening, and a large physical expansion of the
telecom network to satisfy demand and improve service quality were reached or exceeded. The
key accomplishments from the project were: (a) the telecom network was modernized and
substantially extended; (b) ONPT was thoroughly restructured, with telecom and postal services
separated and their technical and commercial operations computerized; and (c) a law on Posts
and Telecommunications (Law No. 24/96) was adopted in August 1997, reforming the sector's
institutional framework by creating two separate commercial entities for telecommunications and
postal/financial services, and providing for opening of the sector to competition and private
sector participation, thereby ending the telecoms monopoly, with possible future privatization of
the existing telecommunications under a new regulatory set-up.



iii
Bank and Borrower Performance
(ix)   Both the borrower's and the Bank's performance were satisfactory under the project.
ONPT's and GOM's relationships with the Bank were good and fruitful throughout the
preparation and implementation phases, as under the first project. All covenants under the Loan
and Guarantee Agreements were complied with.
Project Sustainability and Assessment of Outcome
(x)    Sustainability. Demand for telecommunications and information services in Morocco is
expected to continue its rapid growth. The capacity provided by the 1992-97 investment
program and cofinanced by this loan will continue to be fully utilized and to support the
expanding economy.  ONPT has been thoroughly restructured and has strengthened its
operations under this and the previous project. From this basis, the successor entities IAM and
BAM will have the capacity to further develop and operate satisfactorily the telecom and postal
services on a commercial basis, in the competitive environment envisaged by the new sector law.
Technical and financial indicators are expected to remain satisfactory into the future (see Table
6), with the teledensity growing to about 9 lines per hundred inhabitants by the year 2002, and
pre-tax rates of return continuing to exceed 20%.
(xi)  Assessment of Outcome. The project outcome is highly satisfactory. All physical,
operational, and organizational targets were achieved. In the institutional domain, a decisive
step was taken toward sector restructuring with the enactment, in August 1997, of law 24/96 on
Posts and Telecommunications. In the financial area, performance was very satisfactory as well.
ONPT was able to finance 51% of its investments and simultaneously to make substantial
contributions to the Government budget. The estimated financial rate of return of the project is
a favorable 20%.
(xii)   Outlook: Law 24/96 on Posts and Telecommunications of August 1997 will further
deepen sector reform. Implementation will need substantial external assistance for which the
Government and the two new corporations may seek further assistance from the Bank, given its
experience in this field.
Key Lessons Learned
(xiii) Key lessons learned from the project are the following:
(a)    The Bank's commitment and support to a sector over an extended period of time
and through several operations is usually needed to achieve major progress in sector performance
and restructuring. In the case of the Moroccan posts and telecommunications sector, most of the
strategies - transforming the public telecom and postal authority into two independent
commercial entities and a new regulation opening the telecom sector to private participation and
competition - were prepared under the first project and further elaborated under the second, with
the needed legislative and Government decisions coming at the end of the second project, after
some fifteen years of Bank assistance.



iv
(b)    Telecom sectors are presently among the most dynamic growth industries and
therefore important factors of economic development. In Morocco, demand for telecom services
has been increasing continuously, in line with economic expansion and stimulated by new
technologies. Addressing this demand, ONPT's telecom operations have achieved high growth,
substantial economic returns and robust financial performance, and made large contributions to
the Government's finances. Also, while improving productivity, ONPT was able to protect and
even increase employment.
(c)    Dedication and competence of the borrower's management team, and the
Government's commitment to the agreed development objectives are fundamental for a project's
success. The TSR Project has been successful due to the excellent performance of ONPT's
management and staff, and to GOM's determination to modernize the P & T sector, which - in
consultation with the Bank - has eventually resulted in a new legal framework for a
commercialized operation open to private competition.
(d)   In the telecom sector, technology progress is one of the most important factors
driving modernization and expansion. Results of the TSR Project were greatly enhanced by
taking optimal advantage of the new digital technology, introducing state of the art systems for
network operation and maintenance, and benefitting from decreasing costs of equipment.
(e)    A lesson in the financial area is that, in order to control Government arrears, a
performance indicator in a side letter to the Loan Agreement may not be a strong enough tool.
Government receivables have again increased to about ten months of annual billings, since
compensation of arrears in 1993. Although difficult to negotiate, a covenant in the Guarantee
Agreement with GOM might have been more successful in keeping these arrears at an acceptable
level.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPT)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3557-MOR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.    Background and Statement/Evaluation of Project Objectives
Background
1.        The Telecommunications Sector Restructuring Project (TSRP) in Morocco, which
was supported by the $100.0 million Bank Loan 3557-MOR, was implemented from 1993 to
1997 by the office National des Postes et Telecommunications (ONPT), the National Posts and
Telecommunications Authority, as Borrower, under the Guarantee of the Kingdom of Morocco.
ONPT was created in 1984 as a state-owned semi-autonomous entity, under the policy guidance
and overall tutelage of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MPT), to provide the
country's postal and telecommunications services, establishing and operating them as
monopolies under a 1924 Posts and Telecommunications (P&T) Law. ONPT has managerial,
operational and financial autonomy and its own budget. As a public enterprise, it is subject to
control by the Ministry of Finance.
2.         Until the mid-1980s, prior to the establishment of ONPT the telecommunications
(TC) sector in Morocco was severely constrained, lacking both the financial resources and
institutional capacity adequate to develop and operate the systems and to provide satisfactory
services to the public and the economy. MPT was directly responsible for providing P & T
services.  The sector was characterized by chronic under-investment, resulting in slow
development growth, low and unbalanced telephone penetration, large unsatisfied expressed
demand (under half of demand met), traffic congestion and reduced service.
3.        In the early 1980s, the country's authorities realized that an efficient and reliable TC
system was a pre-requisite for economic growth and sustainable socio-economic development
and activities. The country's telecommunications facilities had to be modernized and greatly
expanded, and the sector organization and operation had to be restructured. In 1981, the
Government asked the Bank for its assistance in reviewing the situation requirements of the
sector and in recommending ways and means to make the needed improvements and changes in
management, operations and sector development. The Bank could eventually continue to support
sector improvement and structural reform under the upcoming programs.



2
Previous Bank Involvement and Experience in the Sector
4.    The 1981-82 sector review essentially emphasized that the TC sector required in depth
organizational and structural reform to commercialize its operations and improve its approach to
development. The Postal and TC operations and management would have to be separated in
order to operate on sound commercial practices. Outside assistance would be required to
strengthen development planning and implementation capabilities and build up readiness for
efficient operation and management of the modernized and expanded systems. Some of the
construction activities for the local networks and terminal installations could be entrusted to the
private sector, through appropriate contractual or agreement procedures. The very large network
expansion and modernization plans being then considered for the installation, in total, of about
800,000 new exchange lines and associated networks would also have to be feasibly phased in
rhythm with the TC operator's increasing financial resources and developmental capabilities.
5.    In line with the recommendations from the sector review, the GOM created the ONPT,
which inherited the responsibility for the public P&T monopolistic services transferred from
MPT, pursuant to Law no. 1-84-8 and Decree no. 2.84.20 of January 10 and 11, 1984. ONPT is
a financially and legally autonomous public authority under the MPT. It has operational and
financial autonomy and its own budget. The Ministry retained the policy-setting and regulatory
functions, including responsibility for the radio-frequency spectrum management and control. In
parallel, GOM then requested Bank assistance to support setting-up and organizing the new
entity, as well as sector development under the long ranging investments program put together
by the National Planning Authorities and ONPT. Said program aimed at expanding the total
installed telephone exchange capacity to satisfy most of the demand and to modernize the
system.
6.    The Bank responded with the First Telecommunications project. Loan 2798-MOR of
US$ 125 million was approved in April 1987 and became effective that November. The main
objectives of the project, implemented from 1987 to 1994, were to: (a) provide extensive
technical assistance to relieve the organizational, management, financial and development
planning and implementation constraints existing with the newly created ONPT and strengthen
its capacities; and (b) contribute to the expansion and modernization of major facilities under a
first phase (Phase I for about 350,000 installed new lines from 1988 to 92) for about half of
ONPT's long term investment program. The project concept was still in line with the traditional
public utilities approach. The project was prepared in 1984, not long after AT&T divestiture in
the USA. At that time, the worldwide debate on telecommunications policy and trends toward
in-depth reform of the TC sector and its opening to competition was only in its infancy. The
loan, completed on time in December 1994, was fully disbursed, with the exception of $ 9.0
million which were canceled in 1988 in agreement between the Bank and ONPT.
Implementation was highly satisfactory and the project met its objectives, even somewhat
exceeding those of the physical component (ICR no. 14684 of June 23, 1995).
7.    During implementation of the First Project, the Bank and the Moroccan Sector
Authorities pursued a constructive dialogue on sector restructuring and reform beyond the initial
project objectives of strengthening ONPT's internal organization. The period coincided with the
implementation of the Morocco Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Loan (PERL), whose lessons
were taken into account for the evolving public TC sector. It also was at a time when overall
policies for the establishment of a Common Market for Telecommunications and Services in the



3
European Community (EC's Green Paper, 1987) and an implementation program for Europe-
wide TC sector reform were being prepared.
8.    To assist MPT and ONPT in this field, experts financed by the first project, Bank and
trust funds were provided to study and prepare : (i) the design and evaluation of alternative
institutional frameworks; (ii) preparation, in consultation with MPT and the concerned
government authorities of a Statement of Sectorial Policy (adopted in 1992) and of a "Contrat de
Programme" (CP, Performance Contract) between ONPT and the government (this represented a
major milestone in the process of providing ONPT with corporate autonomy and accountability
under the sectorial policy and was adopted for the period 1993-1997); (iii) separation of Postal
Services and Telecommunications;  (iv) organization and strengthening of the regulatory
functions; (v) a long-term TC strategy plan; and (vi) a detailed diagnostic of ONPT's
postal/financial branch and a related medium-term program of the required technical assistance.
Implementation of these measures remained to be programmed and funded at completion of the
first project in 1993.
9.    In 1992, GOM requested the Bank for its continued support. The TSR Project, subject of
this ICR, was appraised in 1992, and covered Phase II of ONPT's program including about
500,000 telephone exchange lines and related network facilities and a major sector restructuring
and strengthening component. Both projects are to be considered as a continuous operation, the
operational! organizational phase of the first project sustaining the development and
restructuring phase of the TSR project.
Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
10.      Government's Strategy for the Telecommunications Sector.  The government's
strategy for the TC sector evolved from the implementation of the first TC project (para. 6 and 7)
and aimed at: (i) improving ONPT's organizational and operational capabilities to enable
efficient commercial operation and effective development of the network; (ii) preparing and
promoting, simultaneously, in-depth sector restructuring leading to its liberalization and opening
to competition, consistent with both current world-wide trends and with the country's overall
public sector reform; and (iii) increasing rapidly and cost-effectively the quantity and quality of
TC services to meet the growing demand for these services and thus support the country's
economic goals.
11.      Project Development Objectives and Summary Description. In line with the above
strategy, the principal development objectives of the TSR Project were: (a) to assist the
government in improving its institutional capacity and in preparing the groundwork for sector
liberalization through the provision of specialized expert advice and consulting services, training
and human resource development programs, monitoring equipment and introduction of modern
facilities for efficient operations, maintenance and management of the network; and (b) to further
expand and modernize Morocco's basic telecommunications network through partial funding of
the second phase of ONPT's investment program for construction from 1992 to 1994. The
project was designed to meet the above objectives through: (a) an institution building and sector
restructuring component to provide substantial technical assistance and consultancy services to
both ONPT and MPT; and (b) a physical component in support of ONPT's 1992-1994
investment program for development and modernization of TC facilities.



4
12.       The Institution Building and Sector Restructuring Component. This included: (a)
consultancy services to assist in strengthening of MPT's institutional capacity, including its
regulatory functions; (b) computerized systems and equipment for MPT to be able to control
efficiently the radio frequency spectrum; ( c) consultancy services and training to further
enhance ONPT institutional capacity which started under the First Project, for both the TC and,
to a lesser extent, the postal/financial services; and (d) acquisition of computer equipment and
development of related management systems for implementation of ONPT's data processing
master plan and accounting for its two branches of activities, based on the designs and
recommendations from studies included in the Bank's First Project.
13.   The Physical Component. This component supported the expansion of ONPT's network
under Phase II Investment program for construction 1992-1994, which works were continued
under the Performance Contract adopted in 1993 for the period 1993-97 (para. 10) and included:
(a) about 500,000 digitalized lines of local switching and subscriber equipment to expand
exchange capacity by about 420,000 lines and replace about 82,000 old analog lines; and the
related switching equipment for domestic trunk exchanges (60,000 new circuits); (b) associated
local networks and subscriber outside plant for connection of about 430,000 new subscriber
lines; (c) 54 digital microwaves links, 22 optical fiber trunks, and equipment to digitize 8 coaxial
long distance cables; (d) equipment to expand the two international switching gateway capacity
(22,300 new circuits) and the two earth stations capacity (360 circuits); (e) equipment to connect
the domestic network to the two new international optical fiber submarine cables; (f) facilities
for automatic services in about 780 rural areas; and (g) specialized services such as
mobile/maritime radio and data transmission.
14.   Evaluation of Objectives. There was real continuity between the two projects and loans
for telecommunications in Morocco, the strategy being to assist the country and the main TC
operating entity in modernizing and developing the systems under two successive phases of a
large development program for the period 1987-92 and 1992-94 respectively, and to
simultaneously establish the transition process to evolve from government type operation of a
monopolistic utility toward autonomous and commercially efficient operations of the services.
The phasing in of operational and developmental changes, together with the institutional studies
which were made under the first project, created the basis for the TC sector transition and
restructuring under the second.
15.   The objectives and components of the second project were relevant and feasible, taking
into consideration the lessons and experience from the first; i.e., of the efforts needed to
implement and sustain the large investment program underway, the needed evolution of the
organizational status of ONPT's varied services, and the GOM's targeted reform of its public
enterprise rationalization program, with a view to liberalize productive sectors, opening them
progressively to competition and private sector participation. With regard to the TC sector, one
may note at the time of inception of the TSR project, the world-wide trend toward opening it to
competition and private participation in operation, under appropriate regulatory set-up, was only
just beginning, in particular in Europe , Asia and the former Eastern bloc countries (paras. 6 and
7).
B.    Achievement of Objectives
16.   The project met its objectives and was implemented in a timely fashion from 1993 to
1997. The key accomplishments from the project were: (a) the planned expansion and



5
modernization of the TC network was fully realized on time, both in its initial phase 1992-94
financed by the loan and in ONPT's subsequent 1993-97 Performance Contract with the
Government; (b) ONPT was thoroughly reorganized and restructured, modern computerized
management tools were introduced putting its technical and business operation on a commercial
basis, and its postal and [C services were fully separated; and (c) the law on Posts aid
Telecommunications (Law nc,. 24/96) was prepared and enacted in August 1997, thoroughly
reforming the sector's institutional framework, terminating the monopolies for the P & T
services and opening them to competition and private participation under a new regulatory set-
up. The new P & T law was the result of the sectorial studies under the First and the TSR
projects and of the government's program initiated in 1994 to gradually privatize the country's
public enterprises (paras 7, 9 and 10).
17.   The project's achievements and the ways and means of its implementation under the
various developmental, technical, organizational, financial and institutional aspects are
summarized in paras 18 to 39 below. Relevant detailed information and statistical data are
provided in Part II of this report and its Appendices A - Aide-memoire of the Dec. 97 completion
mission and B - ONPT's Project Completion Report.
Network Expansion and Improvement of Quality of Service
18.   Growth Objectives of the Network. The primary sector objective of expanding and
modernizing of the network as set-up by ONPT and the government planning authorities was
fully met and even somewhat exceeded during the 1992-1997 implementation period (Part II,
Table 5(A)). When the TSR project was prepared, the first TC project was still underway and
the new loan took over financing of the final tranche (1992-94) of ONPT's (1988-94) program.
This program was continued under ONPT's subsequent 1993-97 Performance Contract (CP)
agreed with the Government in 1993, consolidating the growth forecast for the whole 1992-97
project implementation period.
19.   As a whole, network expansion achievements reached initial targets (Tables 5(A), in Part
1I). Telephone exchange capacity rose over the course of the project from 858,000 lines at the
end of 1992 to 1,683,000 lines at the end of 1997, close to the planned objective of 1,700,000
lines. The total number of main lines connected increased from 657,000 at the end of 1992 to
1,375,000 at the end of 1997 (an exchange capacity utilization rate of 82%) compared with the
objective under the program contract of 1,560,000 lines, for an implementation rate of 88%.
These accomplishments represent a doubling of both the exchange capacity and the number of
main working lines during the 6 year project period. Also, between 1994 and 1997, connection
of subscribers proceeded at a high annual pace of 40% due to: (a) the replacement of about
90,000 lines of old electro-mechanical exchange equipment with digital installations; and (b)
ONPT's strict approach to the recovery of pending arrears and service cut-offs which resulted, in
1996-1997, in a very high number of service cancellations (about 120,000 each year on average),
with new applicants being substituted for the previous subscribers. Both occurrences caused
important local line network re-distribution and construction works in the concerned areas. This
represents a major network growth and improvement performance under the project on the part
of ONPT.
20.   Digitization of the Network. The construction of new exchanges and the replacement of
old ones resulted in a very high digitization rate of the switching installations which was 99.3%
at the end of 1997, and favorably compares with networks of similar size in developed countries



6
with higher telephone penetration. This means that subscribers in Morocco now receive detailed
billing and have access to enhanced services such as speed calling, wake-up service, call waiting,
tracing and recording, and other new value-added services.  On the transmission side,
digitization of existing coaxial cables and installation of new microwave radio and fiber optical
links have brought the digitization rate of the long distance network to 98% in 1997, compared to
89.4%  in 1992.  At the same time computerized network maintenance, operation and
management tools were introduced at all levels of the network, which enhanced the efficiency
and productivity of its operation.
21.   Rural Telecommunications, Public Telephones and access to Value-added Services. The
provision of service in remote unserved areas and public access to the networks were largely
expanded under ONPT's program and the project. The objective of providing service to all rural
communities was almost 90% fulfilled by end 1997: of the 1,297 rural communities, 1,172 had
services of which 81.5% were automated. Work continues and all communities are expected to
be automated in 1998. In parallel, the stock of public telephones has been highly expanded and
modernized. The operating licenses made available for the resale of telephone and telecopy
services in "teleboutiques and telekiosques", greatly attracted private initiative. More than
5,000 resale points were in operation at project completion. The number of public telephones
increased from 2,262 in 1992 to 26,649 at the end of 1997. All of these facilities are heavily
used. Also, the provision to subscribers of value-added services using ONPT's network, such as
access to Internet and voice information, was expanded through authorization agreements with
specialized private servers. The number of data users was 4,427 at the end of 1997, compared to
less than 1,000 in 1995, the services being delivered by 31 competitive commercial and 52
government agencies.
22.   Quality of Service. The quality of services provided by the Moroccan TC network was
rather poor and insufficient prior to implementing the two projects. Significant improvements
resulted in both quality of service and efficiency of operation from the expansion and
modernization of the facilities under the whole program, see table 5(A) in Part II for details on
the improvements achieved during the 1992-97 project period.
23.   StaffProductivity. ONPT's telecom staff was 11,500 at the end of 1992 and increased to
14,700 at the end of 1997. Meanwhile, staff productivity improved; the number of employees
per 1000 connected lines decreased from 17.5 in 1992 to 10.3 in 1997, exceeding the original
objective of 12. The above performances are expected to further improve in future operations as
shown in Table 6 of Part II.
24.   Cost of the Project. As outlined in para. 21 above, the TSR project financed the final
tranche 1992-94 of ONPT's 1990-94 investment program of which Phase I was supported by the
first project. Continuation of this program was planned, at project start up under ONPT's
performance contract for the period 1993-97. With regard to development program cost, it is
appropriate to consider the related investments for the entire period 1992-97. At the time the
project was appraised, the total investment cost for that period was estimated at $2.07 billion
exclusive of VAT for an expansion of 1,076,000 lines, or $1,950 per line.  Project
implementation actually resulted in a total of 1,085,000 lines for only $1.3 billion exclusive of
VAT, or a cost per line of $1,194, which is 40% below the cost assumed in the appraisal. When
customs duties are deducted, the average cost is about $1,000 per line, which is comparable to
international averages situated between $900 and $1200 over the same period. This reflects both
the sharp drop in world prices for telecommunications equipment and the deft way ONPT took



7
maximum advantage of competition, among other things, by appropriately using diversified
suppliers and alternative financing, as it was available.
25.   Procurement.  At the time of project appraisal, it was expected that roughly a hundred
contracts would be financed under the loan, including thirty for civil engineering works on the
local networks. In the end, the number of contracts financed was 168, including 84 for civil
works. This increase was due to the ONPT's decision to reduce the size of the contracts put to
tenders for construction of the local networks, in order to encourage participation by small-scale
local businesses. Although contracting procedures have improved as a result of the experience
acquired from two Bank projects, they continued to suffer delays throughout the project, due to
delayed planning of some of the facilities such as the network management systems, and due to
the combination of procedures for the Bank's ICB and the public contract award rules and
controls that applied to ONPT.
26.   Disbursements. The cumulative estimates and actual disbursements from the loan during
the 1993-1997 project period are detailed in Part II, Table 4. ONPT used US$ 61.2 million from
the original loan amount of US$ 100.0 million. An amount of US$ 11.0 million was canceled in
August 1997, at ONPT's request resulting from project cost savings and related adjustments in
the composition and financing of its construction program. The disbursement categories of the
loan were revised to reflect the usage of funds for the Bank financed items under the program at
this stage. A final unutilized amount of US$ 27.8 million was canceled at loan closing, also at
ONPT's request, due to lower equipment cost and customs duties reduced from 40% to about
20%, and to ONPT's improved financial situation. No particular difficulties and no delays were
encountered in the disbursement process. There were 92 withdrawal transactions in total. The
direct payment procedure was largely used to reduce payment delays, for 73 transactions and a
total amount of US$ 29.6 million, or about 48% of all paid withdrawals. The special account
was replenished 7 times for a total of US$ 29.8 million. The collaboration between the Bank and
the ONPT in the procurement/disbursement processes was effective and satisfactory under the
project.
Sector Institutional Improvement and Strengthening Objectives.
27.   Technical Assistance and Telecommunications Management Logistics. The project
provided technical assistance (TA) and substantial consultancy services to assist in improving
and strengthening ONPT's managerial and institutional capacities and its cooperation with MPT.
The studies of the requirements and their applications were mainly in the fields of commercial,
marketing plan and business network aspects of TC services, management accounting system,
internal auditing, human resources and sectorial strategy planning. The assistance included the
development and introduction of related logistics and procedures with ONPT and MPT, as
appropriate. A list of the studies and TA from the project is given in Table 7 and further details
in Appendices A and B of Part II. The outcome from these activities is summarized below.
28.   CommercialAspects.  The upgrading of ONPT's commercial operations involved two
main sub-projects: (i) four regional subscriber billing and accounting centers using common
computerized facilities and software, their coverage gradually extending to the whole country;
(ii) the development of a commercial network for telecommunications by introducing a
marketing plan and establishing a commercial information system and subscriber commercial
agencies for the current and potential users, also providing advisory services to clients in
managing and planning their communications needs. The main business office was created in



8
Casablanca in tandem with two branch offices in Rabat and Marrakech supported by some sixty
TC commercial agencies being established through out the country. This is a scheme with major
impact prospects at a time when demand is close to saturation and new services are being
expanded.
29.   Accounting, Data Processing and Management Information System. This project has
introduced cost accounting system, decentralizing financial accounting, new inventory and
procurement procedures and new data processing and information systems for ONPT's two
branches of activity. Most computerized facilities were installed and are operational in particular
with regard to accounting services. Some software for the data processing of activities such as
Human Resources Management, two regional accounting and the postal checking centers are still
being tested and will become operational in 1998.
30.   Human Resources. The staff training program  initiated in the First Project was
expanded, to cover all technical and managerial disciplines. The number of trained staff over the
1993-97 project period was double from the number during the first project (about 5,400 versus
2,600). Also, procedures for employment, enhancement of productivity, employee planning, and
related HR records and information systems were developed.
31.   Strategic Planning. The recognized need for a strategic planning (SP) approach led, with
the assistance of consultants, to the creation of a central SP unit for telecommunications within
MPT, working closely with the development planning departments of the TC and postal services.
The methodology for SP was developed, a team of staff planners was trained and a computerized
information system was set-up, in consideration of the upcoming sector reform (para. 37 to 39).
Financial Objectives
32.   Financial Indicators. ONPT's telecom financial indicators have been satisfactory for the
period 1992-97 compared to the appraisal forecasts and those in ONPT's program-contract, as
shown in Table 5 (B) of Part II. Throughout the period, the self-financing rate surpassed the
covenanted 40%. The rate of return, before taxes, on partially revalued telecom net fixed assets
in operation was 26% in 1996 and 30% in 1997, compared to forecasts ranging from 15% to 20%
for the period. The debt service coverage, projected at about 2.3, was 2.3 in 1996 and 2.2 in
1997. The current ratio has remained sufficient for the period, between 1.1 and 2.3. The
operating ratio (the ratio of operating costs to revenues) was 75% for 1997. The debt-to-equity
ratio has been favorable: it was 46/54 at the end of 1997, suggesting that the future corporate
operator Itissalat Al-Maghrib (IAM) will start out with a solid financial structure. Billings per
subscriber, excluding VAT, decreased from DH 5,805 in 1992 to DH 4,660 in 1997, in current
DH. This decline of 20%, which was even more pronounced in constant DH (34%, with an
average annual inflation of 4.3%) was to be expected in light of the tariff reductions which took
place in 1993 and 1997 and of the substantial growth in subscribers (from 657,000 to 1,375,000,
or 210 %) and progress in meeting the demand for connections (only 48,000 applications
pending in 1996, and 29,000 in 1997, or less than 2 months volume of new connections), which
usually results in an increasing percentage of low-traffic subscribers.
33.   Private Subscribers and Government Agencies Receivables. The volume of receivables
from private telecommunications customers was DH 1,943 m, or 28.5% of annual billings at the
end of 1997, compared with 28% in 1992. This acceptable level is due to ONPT's strict
approach to collection and service cut-offs. On the other hand, the volume of receivables from



9
government agencies (MD 660 million at the end of 1997) has been the equivalent of about six to
ten months of annual billings each year since 1995. In late 1993, the arrears of the Government
had been cleared in accordance with one of the effectiveness conditions of the Loan. The
telecom budgets of government agencies have been usually inadequate since then, and ONPT
does not have the same leverage to interrupt service to ministries as it has regarding private lines.
Repeated warnings of tougher cut-off enforcement have remained ineffective so far. The public
sector arrears issue should be settled when ONPT's assets and liabilities will be transferred to
IAM, the new corporate telecom operator.
34.   External Audits of ONPT's Financial Statements. ONPT has been regularly and timely
audited by external auditors as covenanted under the Loan. Prior to 1994 the financial
statements could not be certified. However, over several years during the early 1990s, ONPT
undertook major efforts to transform its old accounting systems inherited from the Government
at inception of the Office, into a modern commercial accounting system. Over time and with the
help of several technical assistance contracts financed by this and the previous project (see
above) ONPT has been able to upgrade its accounting systems and to address the auditors'
concerns. Since 1994, ONPT's statements have been certified with a declining number of
qualifications, leaving only minor issues by the end of 1996.
35.   Fiscal Levies and Taxes. The contribution of ONPT's TC business to the government
budget, in terms of fiscal levies and taxes paid, has increased from 1.55 billion DH (41% of
billings) in 1992 to 2.33 billion (35% of billings) in 1997. The percentage has declined because
custom duties have been cut in half, more than offsetting the increase in the VAT rate.
36.   Economic Rate of Return. As the Bank loan has contributed to the financing of ONPT's
overall 1992 - 1997 investment program the project's financial and economic rates of return have
been calculated on the whole program. The economic rate of return (ERR) is calculated in Table
9, of Part II. The calculation is in constant 1992 Moroccan Dirham, taking into consideration as
costs ONPT's investment 1992-1997 (US$ 1,300 million in current terms) and recurrent
operating expenses (other than depreciation, interest expenses and taxes), and as revenues those
generated by the additional subscribers connected from mid 1992 to 1997, i.e. 810,000 lines.
The resulting rate is 20.6 % which is very favorable for public utilities, though lower than both
the financial rate of 29% and the ERR of 36% estimated at appraisal. These were based on
actual 1992 tariffs which were already then asserted as possibly too high. In fact, telecom tariffs
were restructured twice during the project resulting in significant average reductions. Also,
existing demand for new lines at prevailing tariffs has been largely satisfied, and the subscriber
base now includes more lines for users with less traffic than in earlier years.
37.    The mentioned ERR does not take into account all benefits associated with the use of
telecommunications. For most subscribers, the consumer surplus and the willingness to pay for
telecommunication services can be assumed to be higher than the present tariffs.
Institutional and Management Improvement Objectives
38.    Computerization of ONPT's Postal and MPT's Frequency Control Services. Together
with the computerization of ONPT's telecommunications branch (para. 29), the project included
systems to: (i) computerize the postal money order center and upgrade the systems of the postal
checking center; and (ii) strengthen MPT's ability to efficiently manage and control the radio
frequency spectrum. These objectives were partially met at loan closing. Installations of new



10
systems for the money order center had been completed, but the software package for the postal
checking center had yet to be introduced. Also, equipment for the radio frequency control center
had yet to be installed in a building of which construction had been delayed. ONPT decided to
finance the remaining works from its own funds, rather than extending the closing date of the
loan. They are expected to be completed in 1998. The related amounts, totaling about US$ 12.8
million equivalent, were part of the US$27.8 million of undisbursed funds which were canceled
at loan closing.
39.   Preparation of Sector Institutional Reform. In depth reform of the sector was one of the
objectives of the project. During project preparation, a high-level government commission
worked out a Statement of Telecommunications Sectoral Policy in consultation with the Bank.
The statement was adopted by government in 1992, at time of project appraisal. Following the
path taken worldwide at that time toward restructuring and institutional reform in the TC sector,
the revised institutional framework was based on key elements including: (i) the separation of
posts and Telecommunications into distinct legal entities; (ii) the setting-up of a regulatory
structure outside of ONPT; (iii) the elimination of ONPT's monopoly on value added services,
and terminal installations to be rapidly liberalized; and (iv) the corporatization of ONPT (and its
successor-enterprises) within the framework of performance contracts.  A time bound
implementation programme is in a side-letter to the Loan Agreement. At this point in time, the
strategy did not yet envisage outright privatization of ONPT.
40.   Law No. 24/96 on Posts and Telecommunications. During the project period, Morocco
accelerated the process of privatizating public enterprises. TC sector was concerned and the
Bank encouraged and supported the new approach. A new Law was prepared for thE P. & T.
sector, and the draft document was discussed with Bank staff. Law no. 24/96 on Posts and
Telecommunications was adopted by Parliament on June 29, 1997 and promulgated on August 7.
This Law is the result of continued consultation between the Bank and Morocco, since 1987
under two projects, regarding the institutional reform of the telecom sector.
41.   The Law is based on the key principles of separating regulatory and operational
functions in the sector, fully separating Postal and TC activities and corporatizing the operating
agencies, terminating their current monopolies over the services and promoting competition and
private participation. It creates the National Telecommunications Regulatory Agency (ANRT),
issuing regulations, enforcing the regulations, and supervising adherence to licenses. The Law
creates Itissalat al-Maghrib (IAM), a corporation which will initially be the main operator of
telecommunications services and whose capital structure will be open to private partners, and
another public authority, Barid al-Maghrib (BAM), that will initially be the main operator of
postal and financial services. Some twenty implementation texts have been or are being
prepared. The decrees creating ANRT, IAM and BAM were issued in early 1998 and their
governing bodies were appointed. Thorough implementation of the law will be a complex task
expected to take place over the next two years (1998-99). Government may seek further Bank
assistance to this process.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government's Control
42.   Technological Progress. The rapid introduction of digital switching and transmission
equipment; led to the falling costs of equipment, particularly for large capacity installations



I1
under the project. Also, digital technology provides enhanced and more reliable services and
requires less maintenance. State of the art network management facilities were introduced to this
effect under the project which has a positive impact on staff productivity. The resulting benefits
from these factors with regard to greater expansion at lower investment and operating costs are
outlined in paras 23 and 24 above and Table 5 (B), the latter showing a steady decrease of the
average operating cost per connected line during the project period, more than 35 % in total from
DHs 5,300 in 1992 to DHs 3,484 in 1997.
Factors Generally Subject to Government's Control
43.   During the project, the Government consistently adopted measures, aiming at making the
country more open through macro-economic adjustment and less encumbered by central
controls. These were very supportive of the commercialization of ONPT, the reorganization and
strengthening of its operation and the introduction of a business management structure. The
statement of policy for the TC sector which was adopted in 1994, at the start of the project, was
also highly supportive of ONPT's institutional changes and reform. The consideration of further
steps for liberalizing the TC sector beyond its opening to competition for terminal installations
and provision of value added services, was however somewhat delayed by discussions on the
opportunity for private sector participation in this field.  The rapidly evolving situation
worldwide on this and, in particular, the progresses made toward thorough privatization of the
TC sector in all the countries of the European Union (paras 6, 7 and 14), overcame the hesitant
approach and law no. 24/96 on Posts and Telecommunication was adopted and promulgated in
1997 (paras 37 to 39). Implementation of the law and pursuit of the reform efforts will require
major actions to be undertaken with continued government support in the near future.
44.   Among the steps taken by government for macroeconomic adjustment and structural
reforms, some measures of fiscal policy were useful and beneficial to ONPT's finances during
the project. These include, among others, reduction by half of customs duties, with low
minimum rate of 2,5% for most imported goods; reduction of the corporate tax from 40% of
income in 1992 to 36% in 1996 and 35% in 1997; and exemption of VAT under simplified
procedure for imported capital goods.
Factors Generally Subject to ONPT's Control
45.   ONPT successfully managed to overcome the difficulties in the complex and intricate
tasks it was confronted with, adequately planning and implementing a very large expansion of its
network, and, simultaneously, establishing and strengthening its improved organizational
structure and managerial set-up as a commercial and business/corporate like operation. This
took place within the framework of Performance Contracts (P.C.) with government which proved
very effective and useful. Integrated new digital technology was extensively used to modernize
and expand the facilities and upgrade to international standards the quality of service and the
operational efficiency (para. 20). A productive commercial marketing approach was also
introduced in the relationship with the users. All this took place on the basis of the best use of:
(i) the experience and lessons from the first Bank financed project; (ii) the technical assistance,
studies and training from the first and the current Bank projects; and (iii) the fruitful dialogue,
exchange of view and advice, sharing of experience on approaches, methodology and, possible
schemes and actions with staff from the Bank and other co-financiers (EIB, ADB, IDB and
several bilateral development agencies).



12
46.    Some slowness in the procurement process as per Bank guidelines continued to be
observed during the project, as under the first, partially caused by the bureaucratic procedures in
public contracting applicable to ONPT. This should improve under ONPT's future corporate
statute. Largely due to ONPT's dedication and growing capabilities, the results and benefits
from the project were highly favorable in particular with regard to the exchange line capacity
which in 1997 was double the 1992 capacity, all existing applications for service being virtually
satisfied. However, with a teledensity of 5.6 main lines per hundred inhabitants, Morocco is still
below the average density of 10 lines per 100 inhabitants in lower middle income countries.
ONPT's efforts in rapidly expanding and improving the network and its operation will have to be
sustained for several years under its new organization.
D. Project Sustainability
47.   Project Benefits. The project benefits are significant and higher than expected in several
aspects.   They include: (i) a dramatic increase in both coverage and quality of
telecommunications services and modernization of the installation now operated as an entirely
digitalized network; (ii) a substantial improvement of the efficiency of the services through the
establishment of effective operation and maintenance systems for the network; (iii) the
strengthening of ONPT's institutional capacity and organization in its two main postal and
telecom activities, fully separating the organization of each branch and establishing their
operation on efficient commercial and business like bases; and (iv) the preparation of an in-
depth sector reform and the adoption of a new sectoral Law to implement it. The objectives and
scope of the Law are detailed in paras 40 and 41. At loan closing, the regulatory agency for
telecoms, ANRT, and the two initial main operators, - IAM the telecom corporation to be opened
later to private partners, and BAM, a public authority for postal services - had been created. This
is the most significant long-term economic and social benefit from this and the previous project.
48.   Project Sustainability. All the physical, organizational, financial, and institutional
objectives of the project have been achieved (paras 16 to 41). The capacity provided by the
1992-97 investment program and cofinanced by this loan will continue to be fully utilized and to
support the expanding economy. The project results enhance the capacity of the newly created
operators, IAM and BAM, to sustain operation and development of the basic telecommunications
network and postal services in Morocco, in the regulatory competitive environment introduced
by the new sectoral Law. Project results are sustainable also because: (i) an advanced
technology (digitalization) is used to cope with sustained demand growth; (ii) the new
regulatory framework enhances sector performance and development; and (iii) the telecom
operation has a robust financial viability.
E.    Bank Performance
49.    Overall Bank Performance has been highly satisfactory under the Project. The long
bank participation in the Moroccan TC sector and its associated postal branch, - from the first
through the TSR project loans (1987-1997) also taking into account the long preparatory phase
of the first project initiated in 1982 with the TC sector study, - has been instrumental to the
sector's significant development and institutional reform.
50.   With regard to physical development, the two projects were a continuous operation
supporting ONPT's investment program from 1988 to 1997. The TSR project took over in 1993
some remaining works from the first project which covered Phase 1 (1988-92) of ONPT's initial



13
program. During project preparation enough resources including qualified staff in appropriate
number was made available to discuss the intricated issued related to combined sector
development and reform. The development took place with the assistance of other important co-
lenders. Given the availability of external financing to ONPT, the amounts of the two bank loans
were tailored to finance project components less attractive for bilateral and commercial
financing. For the whole 1988-97 ten year period of the two projects, the Bank's actual
contribution represents US$ 177.2 million of the US$ 2.22 billion investment cost, or only 8% of
the overall investment outlay compared to about 35% from other external sources. This indicates
the favorable trusting and catalytic effect of Bank lending for development, which also
stimulates the actions to be taken in the field of institutional strengthening and restructuring.
51.   With regard to institutional development, the GOM adopted, at the Bank's suggestion
and insistence, a Statement for Sector Policy outlining the orientations and the related
transitional steps for further pursuing the institutional reform process (para. 37). The TSR
project included the required technical assistance and a plan of implementation, which had been
agreed upon during negotiations. The Bank carefully supervised this component and provided
advice, recommendations and support. At project completion, the reform objectives had been
commendably met, though with some delay, through the adoption and enacting in August 1997
of Law 24/96.
52.   Regular supervision took place twice a year, on average, during the project
implementation period to discuss and advise on the issues to be resolved, in particular with
regard to procurement, consultancy services and progress on institutional reform. As shown in
Table 13 of Part II, twelve missions went to Morocco from project preparation in May 1991 to
its final supervision/completion, review in 1997, spending a total of 120 days in the field. About
one third of the missions were combined with supervision of the First Project. In the evaluation
of their experience from the project, the borrower and MPT expressed their appreciation of the
effective cooperation and support from the Bank to the development and improvement of the P
& T sector in Morocco (Appendix B, to Part II).
F.    Borrower's Performance
53.   The borrower's performance was highly satisfactory, notwithstanding the  above-
mentioned implementation delays regarding certain complex components. MPT's and ONPT's
relationship with the Bank has been good and fruitful throughout the preparation and
implementation of the project. Drawing upon the lessons of the first project, ONPT and MPT
managed the rapid expansion of the sector, simultaneously initiating its in-depth reform. Advice
and recommendations from Bank staff and from the outside experts involved were duly
considered and taken into account.
54.   ONPT was able to take maximum advantage of the current progress and competition in
the international market of TC equipment. With regard to the preparation of the law to reform
the P & T public services, some halts were observed during the project. This was related to
complexity of the financial, legal, administrative, economic and public service impacts of such
legislation which had to be prepared in close liaison and cooperation with several other
government departments.
55.   Compliance with Loan and Guarantee Agreements Covenants. The status of compliance
to legal covenants is detailed in Table 10 of Part II. ONPT (the Borrower) is in compliance with



14
all loan covenants and the government (the Guarantor) is in compliance with all guarantee
agreement covenants.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
56.   The project outcome is highly satisfactory. The project achieved all of its physical,
operational, and institutional improvement objectives. A decisive step was taken toward sector
restructuring with the enactment, in August 1997, of law 24/96 on Posts and
Telecommunications. Implementation of the law began at project completion. - Regarding the
financial area, a management accounting and data processing master plan, and a new system for
customer base management improving billing and collection and relationships with subscribers
was implemented. Financial management and results were satisfactory over the project period
(paras 28, 29 and 32). The estimated financial rate of return from the project of 21% is very
favorable, showing the high level of resources the sector can generate and also reflecting the
importance of telecommunications in the country's economic development (paras 35, 46 and 47).
- A summary of assessments is given in Table I of Part II.
H.    Future Operation
57.   The key indicators on future operation of the provided infrastructure for its development
from 1998 to 2002, are presented in Table 6 of Part II. The data are ICR estimates on the basis
of ONPT's forecasts for the next five years period. Growth rate of basic telephone facilities are
assumed to be sustained at about 8 % per year, slightly less than during recent years but with the
view to respond to economic growth and to satisfy an additional demand that would result from
proposed further tariff adjustments. By 2002, Morocco's teledensity per hundred inhabitants
would be about 9 % close to the average level of lower middle income countries. Annual
investments of the order of US$ 200 million would be maintained during the next years. Network
usage under adjusted tariffs, quality and efficiency of service would be maintained resulting in
continued good financial performance. At this early stage of establishment of IAM, the new
main operator successor to ONPT, no prospective "Contract de Programme" or business plan are
yet available for the company. However, the project's satisfactory outcome and the indicators
outlined above are good prospects for its beneficial future operation.
58.   Outlook: Law 24/96 on Posts and Telecommunications of August 1997 will further
deepen sector reform. Implementation of the new sectorial set-up including its liberalization and
privatization, will be a complex and delicate task. Substantial external assistance will be needed.
The Government and the two new corporations may seek further Bank assistance for
implementation of the new sector framework, given the Bank's experience in this field.
I.    Key Lessons Learned
59.   The key lessons learned from the project are as follows:
(a)    The Bank's commitment and support to a sector over an extended period of time
and through several operations is usually needed to achieve major progress in sector performance
and restructuring. In the case of the Moroccan posts and telecommunications sector, most of the
strategies - transforming the public telecom and postal authority into two independent
commercial entities, i.e. the telecom corporation IAM, later to open to private participation, and
BAM, a public authority for the postal and financial services, and introducing a new regulation



15
opening the telecom sector to private participation and competition - were prepared under the
first project and further elaborated under the second, with the needed legislative and Government
decisions coming at the end of the second project, after some fifteen years of Bank assistance.
(b)    Telecom sectors are presently among the most dynamic growth industries and
therefore important factors of economic development. In Morocco, demand for telecom services
has been increasing continuously, in line with economic expansion and stimulated by new
technologies. Addressing this demand, ONPT's telecom operations have achieved high growth,
substantial economic returns and robust financial performance, and made large contributions to
the Government's finances. Also, while improving productivity, ONPT was able to protect and
even increase employment.
(c)    Dedication and competence of the borrower's management team, and the
Government's commitment to the agreed development objectives are fundamental for a project's
success. The TSR Project has been successful due to the excellent performance of ONPT's
management and staff, and to GOM's determination to modernize the P & T sector, which - in
consultation with the Bank - has eventually resulted in a new legal framework for a
commercialized operation open to private competition.
(d)   In the telecom sector, technology progress is one of the most important factors
driving modernization and expansion. Results of the TSR Project were greatly enhanced by
taking optimal advantage of the new digital technology, introducing state of the art systems for
network operation and maintenance, and benefitting from decreasing costs of equipment.
(e)    A lesson in the financial area is that, in order to control Government arrears, a
performance indicator in a side letter to the Loan Agreement may not be a strong enough tool.
Government receivables have again increased to about 10 months of annual billings, since
compensation of the end 1992 arrears in 1993. Such arrears are not an isolated case in the public
utilities sector. Although difficult to negotiate, a covenant in the Guarantee Agreement with
GOM might have been more successful in keeping these arrears at an acceptable level.



16
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOROCCO
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPI)
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
(LOAN NO. 3557-MOR)
Part I: Statistical Tables



17
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives         Substantial     Partial      Negligible    Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                    (/)
Sector policies                     (/)
Financial objectives                (/)
Institutional development           (/)
Physical objectives                 (/)
Poverty reduction                                                                 (/)
Gender issues                                                                     (/)
Other social objectives                                                           (/)
Environmental objectives                                                          (v)
Public sector management            (/)
Private sector development                         (i)
Other (specify)                                                                   (i)
B. Project Sustainability              Likely               Unlikely              Uncertain
(/)
H:ighly
Satisfactory      Satisfactory             Deficient
C. Bank Performance
Identification                      (i)
Preparation assistance              (if)
Appraisal                           (if)
Supervision                                               (a/)
D. Borrower Performance
Preparation                         (i)
Implementation                                            (i)
Covenant compliance                                       (.)
Operation (if applicable)          (if
E. Assessment of Outcome                (if



18
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Title                Purpose             Year of      Loan Amount              Status
Approval        (US$M)
Loan 2798 - MOR    To expand, improve and         1987            125       Was highly satisfactory.
First Telecom Project modernize Morocco's                                   Completed in Dec, 1994, the
telecommunications                                      original project completion/loan
infrastructure, with primary                            closing date. US$ 116 million of
emphasis on institutional                               the loan was disbursed, an
development to strengthen                               amount of US$ 9 million having
implementation and sector                               been canceled in 1988 following
operation capacity                                      a joint Bank/ONPT decision on
the financing by ONPT (not by
the loan) of a large contract for
local cables. The ICR was
distributed on June 23, 1995
(Report No. 14684).
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle              Date Planned                      Date Actual/
I_________________________________   Latest Estimate
Identification/Preparation  a)                FY 91-92                         FY 91-92
Executive Project Summary             February 1992              February 1992
Appraisal/Post-Appraisal              March 1992                 March 9-20/Oct.25-31, 1992
Negotiations                          November 1992              November 19-25, 1992
Board presentation/approval           February 2, 1993           February 2, 1993
Signing                               April 29, 1993             April 29, 1993
Effectiveness                         July 29, 1993              October 20, 1993 b/
Project completion                    December 1997              December 1997
Loan closing                          December 31, 1997          December 31, 1997
a/  Project identification and preparation were combined during FY 91 and 92 with supervision of the
ongoing First Telecommunications Project (Loan 2798-MOR).
b/  Extension of the initial date of effectiveness was required to enable fulfillment of the Loan Agreement
condition in Section 6.01, namely, that the Guarantor shall have paid to the Borrower the balance of the
1992 outstanding telecommunications bills.



19
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions)
FY 93    FY94   FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal Estimate      3.0     34.0     62.0      82.0    94.0    100.0
Revised a)          3.0      34.0     62.0     82.0     94.0     89.0
Actual b)           0.0      7.0     14.5      36.0     57.4     61.2
Actual as % of Revised   0.0 %    20.6%    23.4%    43.9%    61.1%    68.8%
Estimate
Date of Last Disbursement                                              January
8, 1998
An amount of US$ 11.0 million was canceled from the initial loan amount of US$ 100 million, in
August 1997, at Borrower's request resulting from project cost savings.
At loan account closing, in February 1998, an undisbursed balance of US $ 27.8 million was also
cauceled at ONPT's request, due to substantial cost savings at project completion and ONPT having
decided to finance some remaining project items from its own funding resources.



Table 5 (A): Key Indicators for Project Implementation, Technical Performance
r______________ _  1992                        1993                            1994                           1995                          1996                       1997
WB        Actual        %        WB        Actual        %        WB       Actual       %        CP        Actual      %         CP       Acrual    %        CP       Actual      %
TECHNICAL INDICATORS                         Est.                              Est.                            Est.
Telephonee "cange  hpacity(fixed  d mobile)(000)            920       858          93       1019        970         95       1086      1167        107      1310       1365       104      1520       1604      106     1700      1683       99
of which fixed                              838                               950                            1135                            1317                           1504                        1563
mobile                                       20                               20                              32                             48                             100                          120
No. of telephone subscrbers (fixed and mobile((000)         640       657         103       780         827        106       930       1007        109      1200       1158       97       1380       1251      91      1560      1375       88
Exchangecapacity utilization ate(%)                          70        76         92         77         87          89        85        89         96        92         88        105       91         80       114      92       81.6       89
No. of automatic networks                                   390       285          73       500         433         87       600        665        III      700        966        138       800       1210      ISI     900       1590       177
No. of public telephones                                   2660       2662        100       4000       4520         113      5000      7916        158      6000      15960       266      8000      21867    273    10000    26649          266
(ONPT and privately operated)
Average connection time (months)                              12       8.9        135        l l       6.50        169        10        5.60       179       8         5.1        157       6.0        2.5      240      5.0       1.8       278
Outstanding applications                                              13500                            10800                           10400                          93000                          48000                       29000
Outstanding applicatios as %                                  20       21          95        19          13        146        14         10        140       12         8         150        10        4        250       5         2        250
Fault per annum per hundred lines                             83      84.0         99       68.0       67.5        lot       50.0       63.0       79       70.0       49.6       141      60.0       54.5      Ito     50.0      42.0       119
TR2(')                                                        78      72.9         93       79.0       83.0        105       80.0       82.9       104      82.0       89.4       109      84.0       87.3      104     86.0      88.3       103
Tf3 (')                                                       97      96.4         99       98.0       99.0        101       99.0       99.8       101      100        99.8       100       100       99.4      99       100      96.6       97
Installed capacity at telex exchanges (lines)             12000       10971       91       12000       14397       120      12000      10891       91      11870      10471       88       11870     10471      88     11870    10471        88
No. of telex subscribers                                   9100       8637         95       9300       7676         83      9400       7685        72      8900       5913        66       8900       4849      54      8900      4000       45
No. of employes per 1000 lines                                IS      17.5         86        14         14.3        92        13        13.3       98        13        12.6       103       13        11.8      110      12       10.3       116
Average call completion rates:
Local calls                                                   53       53         100        56         57         102       62         58         94        65        60         92        68         61       90       70        62        89
Long distance calls                                          40        38         95         46         44          96       52         49         94        53        50         94        55         54       98       57        55        96
Intemational calls (outgoing)                                32        32         100        40         40         100       43         46         107      45         46         102       46         46       100      47        49        104
(*)   TR: Faultrepairtime, in days. As of August 1995, TR7 was replaced by TR5 and as of January 1997 TR5 was replaced by TR3
Est. WB = World Bank estimate
CP = Program Contract



Table 5 (B): Key Indicators for Project Implementation, Financial Performance
1992                  1993                  1994                   1995                   1996                   1997
Indicators                    Loan                  Loan                  Loan                   Loan                   Loan                   Loan
Indicators________________________   Agreement   Achieved   Agreement   Achieved    Agreement   Achieved    Agreement   Achieved    Agreement   Achieved    Agreement   Achieved
1.   Self-financing rate (%)              37         57         40         67          47         48         40          52         40          97          40         132
2.   Debt service coverage                2.3        2.8        2.6        2.2         2.4        2.2        2.4         2.1        2.3         2.3         2.0        2.2
3.   Rate of return (%/o, before taxes)   25         22.2       27         22.1        26        21.7         23        26.3         20         25.9        18        30.4
4    Operating ratio (%)                  65         60         63          66         64         70          67         64          70         65          73         75
5.   Debt-to-equity ratio (%)             51         40         54         46          58         47          58         54          60         50          61         46
6.   Current ratio                        2.0        2.4        1.5        2.1         1.6        2.3         1.6        1.1         1.7        1.4         1.7        1.2
7.   Private accounts receivable (in                 1084                  1654                  1506                   1400                    1666                  1943
millions of DH)
8.   Credit to private customers as % of  33         28         25         37          25         32          25         22          25         27          25        28.5
billings
9.   Government accounts receivable                 587.0                  84.0                  172.0                  499.7                  391.0                   659
(in millions of DH)
10.  Credit to public agencies as % of    42         81         33          12         25         21          25         64          25         51          25        83.3     N
billings
11.  Total accounts receivable (DHm)                1671                  1738                   1678                   1900                   2057                   2602
12.  Average revenues/ DEL                          5804                  5625                   5028                   4864                   4846                   4660
13.  Operating costs / DEL                          5303                  4574                   4880                   4180                   4088                   3484
14.  Investments (DHm)                   2415       2201       3019       1614        3601       2465       3516        2534        3727       1624        3951       1362
of which IBRD (DHm)                  387        387        308        180        236         188        257         146        184         168         110        165
PRODUCTIVITY:
15.  Number of workers per 1,000 lines    19.5       17.5      16.8        15.3       14.9        13.3       13.6       12.6        12.7        11.8       12.0       10.3



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation, Technical and Financial Performance
1998                  1999                  2000                   2001                    2002
INDICATORS                         Estimated             Estimated              Estimated              Estimated              Estimated
A: Technical Performance
Telephone exchange capacity (lines) x(1000)               1.740                 1.891                  2.090                  2.240                   2.390
Main telephone lines connected (LP) x (1000)              1.548                 1.698                   1852                   2002                   2142
Mobile subscribers x (1000)                                 118                   158                    200                    268                    328
Maintenance objectives:
Faults reported per year per 100 DEL                         31                    28                     24                     20                      17
% of faults cleared in 48 hours                              98                    99                    100                    100                    100
% of faults cleared in 3 days                               100                   100                    100                    100                    100
Average call completion rate at peak hours
Local calls                                                  65                    66                     68                     68                     70
Long-distance calls                                          55                    56                     59                     59                     60
International calls                                          50                    50                     54                     54                     56
B: Financial Performance:
1.      Self-financing ratio (%)                            83                    91                     79                     125
2.      Debt service coverage                               2,6                   2,8                    3,3                    4,7
3.      Rate of return (%)                                 22,3                 25,66                   24,6                   24,6
4.      Operating ratio (%)                                  68                    63                     63                     63
5.      Debt-to-equity ratio (%)                             44                    38                    31                      21
6.      Current ratio                                       2,4                  1,18                   1,19                   1,23



Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
1: Contract No. 211-8-1-235 / Coopers & Lybrand (France)
STUDY                                           GOAL AS DEFINED AT APPRAISAL                            STATE OF PROGRESS                                       IMPACT OF STUDY
Management Accounting System                    - Operational introduction of a system                  Project in final phase                                                  n DECENTRALIZED  FINANCIAL ACCOutNTiNG  1996
for decentralized financial accounting                                                                         .      Provisional separation of balance sheet by activity, IAM/BAM at 31/12/1995
and cost accounting                                                                                                   Conducted needs convergence study re GL software
*  Developed functional and technical parameters
-Operational introduction of new                       Project began  October 2, 1995.                         *           Trained  users in tol aid proteurate
procurement/ inventory procedures                      Expected completion by mid-1998.                               Production  Deployed in DRT and INPT.
It. INTEGRATED ACCOUTNTING 1997
.      Defined crost accounting model using ABC Activity Based Costing
*      Established target functional architecture for production costs, profit centers and
services
*  Drafted operating procedures and modes
*  Production and operation at pilot site (Rahat DRT, mobile and international)
- Start-up June 16 1997
- Received July 25 1997
GTraining in module and procedures for DRT final users
*  General deployment at other DRT. August 25 1997
III. SPECIFIC OPERATIONS
I. FIXED ASSETS
*  Labeling, numbering and valuation of fixed assets
*      Introduced ABEL IMMO fixed asset management software
2 SUPPLIER ACCOUNTS
*      Defined functional needs and targeted functional architecture
*      Convergence study and prototype preparation
T Training on module and procedures for DRT final users
*  General deployment at DRTs, August 25 1997
IV PURCIIASING/INVENTORIES
1. PS EXPERT MODULES- PURCHASING
*      Defined functional needs
*      Prepared prototype and tested test sets
nPrepared procedures and user manual
*  Trained users
Deployed as of Augustm25 1997
2  IN EXPERT MODULE - INVENTORIES
*  Defined functional needs
*  Prepared prototype and tested test sets
Prepared procedures and user manual
*  Deployed us of Sept 15 1997
*  Prepared guide to IF statements
V INFORMATics
*  Installed extenision of IBM imachine
*  Installed integrated DBS software in test environment (GL, AP, PS, IN. FC, IE)
*  Connected various sites via X.25 with centr-al site
*  Technical training
*  Installed network microcomputers to access Expert range (GL., AP, PS, IN, IE) using
3270 emulation



2: Contract No. 211-1-675 ISOGROUP (Canada)
STUDY                           GOAL AS DEFINED AT APPRAISAL    STATE OF PROGRESS                          IMPACT OF STl UDY
Introduce strategic planning    - Create and develop a strategic planning   Project implemented 100%.      - Creation of a strategic planning unit for telecommunications within
environment in ONPT:            unit.                                 Starting date: April 1996            the Central Directorate for Strategy and Development and several
Telecommunications Branch        - Technical assistance to develop a  Completion: October 1997             strategic planning committees, including:
computerized strategic planning system                                    *   description of duties for all positions in this central unit
*   description of interface with strategic planing unit and various
operational and/or logistics planning groups within ONPT
- Develop tools and methodologies for strategic planning.
- Set up information system as an aid to strategic decision making.
- Developed an implementation program for ONPT reform.
3: Contract No. 211-1-1446/ Coopers & Lybrand (France)
STUDY                            GOAL AS DEFINED IN APPRAISAL    STATE OF PROGRESS                          IMPACT OF STUDY
Assistance in introducing and    I. Definition (diagnosis, audit chart,  Project underway                   - Diagnosis of work performed by Audit Division and risk analysis
developing internal auditing     organizational evolution)            Starting date: June 1997              - Preparation of an audit chart
within ONPT                      2. Annual program and mission        Expected completion in 1998           - Training waiver (memo for Intemal Audit)
organization                                                              - Training for auditors in conduct of missions                     -
3. Training modules
4. Mission preparation and briefing
5. Annual activities report
4: Contract No. 211-1-15 / SOFRECOM (France)
STUDY                            GOAL AS DEFINED IN APPRAISAL    STATE OF PROGRESS                         IMPACT OF STUDY
Introduce marketing plan and     - Improve the business network       Project completed 100%               - Opening of first Business Office at Casablanca April 1, 1996
business network                - Prepare a marketing plan                                                 - Support to Multi-market Office at Marrakech-Menara, opened
- Business information system        Start up: September 5 1995           October 30, 1995
- Design and preparation of a performance chart for business offices
Duration: 6 months, completed in March   - Preparation of an operational marketing plan using product fact
1996                                 sheets, with a single document covering all ONPT telecom services
- Design and prepare 10 business training modules.



5: Contract No. 211-1-484 / Coopers & Lybrand and SOFRECOM
STUDY                                          GOAL AS DEFINED IN APPRAISAL   STATE OF PROGRESS                                                          IMPACT OF STUDY
Human resources management                     - Set up new  procedures for human                   Project implemented 100%  IN  1995-96                Employment management and organization:
system                                         resource management                                                                                              J Iob description method adopted
*    Census sheet prepared and validated
*     lob catalogue prepared with over 100 job descriptions covering nearly all CDT
activities.
*     Study and organization of employment structure of management unit
*     Reliable information system and documentation on employment organization and
management
Employee planning and management:
*     RH2 statement prepared
*     Mobility system examined
*     Proposal for an employment monitoring office
Identification of sensitive jobs or job groups
*  Preparation of age profiles
*     Outline of multi-year telecommunications development program
Information system and HR performance chart
*     Specifications drawn up for purchase of a turnkey integrated HR management system
.     Preparation of a computerized performance chart for DRH
.     Working groups set up for each information system functionality
*     Information day organized for suppliers, and others for
- study of the "hiring" functionality
- analysis of existing HR management, approach and tools
6: Contract No. 211-1-254 / DETECON
STUDY                                         GOAL AS DEFINED IN APPRAISAL   STATE OF PROGRESS                                                           IMPACT OF STUDY
German consultine firm:                        Quality Improvement Plan (QIP) aimed                 Implemented 100%, in 1996-97                         Implementation ofthe Quality Improvement Plan has had the following impacts
1. INTRODUCTION OF QIP
DETECON  -Deutsche Telepost                    at defining an overall strategy for                                                                       - Recommendations have been classed according to their timing,
Consulting  GmbH                               enhancing the quality of the                                                                                A coordinator and a central group have been appointed
Oualitv Improvement Plan                      telecommunications network                                                                                  The units concerned by the study have been identified, as to
*Implementation modalities
Team composition
Actions to be performed
Planning of meetings
11 IMMEDIATE ACTIONS
a) Set up a quality control unit within CPECT, independent of all maintenance and operations
units
b) Prepare a refresher training plan in switching,, transmission and local network areas.
c) Rehabilitate the network- DRT are to prepare a rehabilitation program
d) Awareness campaign for subscribers about internal facilities, to reduce user-caused
disruptions.
e) Awareness campaign among CPECT directors about need for reliable data for indicators
f) Prepare statistics on causes and locations of faults in the transmission systems.
III ACTIONS REQUIRING STUDIES, RESOURCES, DECISIONS
a) Restructuring the Operations Directorate.
- Connect switching support centers to the DAL
-Connect the Switching Supply Center to the DAL
- ''ransfer operational tusks to the ORT
b) Restructuring the DRTs.
- Create technical capabilities in the DRTs for the three technical services (Switching,
transmission and Local Nerworks) and a Business Service
- Connect the operating centers to these services
c) Create local network maintenance centers in the DRTs
d) Introduce a management system for the telecommunications network.
e) Provide maintenance teams with mobile communications equipment
f) Prepare a transmission plan
g) Introduce an operating procedures management system
h) Equip subscriber lines with passive test devices
i) Prepare job descriptions and working procedures
j) Update indicators and redefine fatilt causes and locations
k) Create Principal LGD Centers (See attacb_ed is ote)



Table 8 (A): Summary of Project Costs
1992-1997
in US$ millions
Components                                        SAR and Program Contract Estimate (                Actual costs/recent estimates (1,089,000 lines)
(Project for 1,076,000 lines)
Local costs     For. Ex. Costs    Total           Local costs      For. Ex. Costs    Total
1. Switching                                           286,7            461,4           748,1             135,8           221,5                 357,3
2. Long distance transmissions                         199,8            332,3            532,1            77,2             126,0                 203,2
3. Local networks                                      234,6            289,3            523,9            209,8            246,2                 456,0
4. Rural telecommunications                            68,5             121,3            189,8            19,7             59,1                   78,8
5. Technical assistance, training and studies           3,1             11,1             14,2              5,1              7,9                   13,0
6. Data processing equipment                            11,2             8,4             19,6             30,3              0,0                   30,3
7. Miscellaneous                                        66,4             0,0             66,4             16,1             145,2                 161,4
8. Technical assistance and control center              1,3              1,6              2,9              0,0              0,0                    0,0
Total Base Cost (excluding taxes)                      871,6           1.225,4          2.097,0           494,0            806,0           1.300,0
(*) Cumulative SAR (487,000 new exchange lines) and ONPT's Program Contract (589,000 new lines) estimates for the 1992-94 and 1995-97 time slices, respectively
csN



Table 8 (B): Project Financing
1992-1997 Project Period (in US $ millions, excl. taxes)
Sources                                           SAR Estimate and Program Contract ( CP) Estimates (*)   Actual costs/Financing (1,089,000)
(1,076,000 Lines)
Local costs      For. Ex. Costs    Total          Local costs      For. Ex. Costs    Total
(1).Appraisal (1992-94, for 487 000 lines)=
IBRD                                                         54.4             45.6            100.0             27.0             34.2             61.2
Commercial credits                                                           154.7            154.7             25.9            146.6            172.5
Official Credits                                                             113.6            113.6              8.5             47.9             56.4
EIB                                                                           80.0             80.0             36.1             49.8             85.9
IDB                                                                           12.7             12.7              5.3              7.3             12.6
AfDB                                                                          11.0             11.0              7.7             10.7             18.4
Local credits                                                74.1                -             74.1             82.6               0              82.6
Existing loans,                                                              162.1            162.1             66.1             84.2            150.3
(of which, First WB loan)                                                   (74.8)                                                              (74.8)
Borrowing (1)                                       128.5           579.7            708.2
ONPT (1)                                            495.5               -            495.5
Sub-Total (1)                                      624.0            579.7          1.203.7
(2) PC Estimate (1995-97, for 589,000 lines)
Borrowings (2.)                                     81.0            645.7            726.7
................. .ON PT   (2.)                             166.6                -            166.6
................. .Sub-Total (2)                            247.6            645.7           893.3
Total Estimates/versus actual sources
Borrowings                                                  209.5          1.225.4          1.434.9           259.2             380.8            639.9
ONPT                                                        662.1                            662.1             234.8            425.7            660.5
TOTAL                                                       871.6          1,225.4          2.097.0           494.0             806.5          1300.4
(*) SAR:: World Bank Staff Appraisal Report; CP: ONPT's Program Contract (1993-97 time slice)



28
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
This table identifies the major costs and benefits of ONPT's 1992 - 1997 investment
program and re-estimates the internal rate-of-return.
F   Years      No .of addit.   No of addit.   Investment    Operating         Increm.    Net Revenue
Lines          Lines          Cost            Cost         Revenue         Stream
cumul.         DH m            DH m           DH m           DH m
1992         80,000         80,000           2,201             223            464        -1,960
1993        170,000        250,000           1,535             572          1,337          -769
1994        180,000        430,000           2,229             998          1,955        -1,272
1995        151,000        581,000           2,160           1,088          2,408          -840
1996         93,000        674,000           1,344            1,199         2,703          160
1997        136,000        810,000           1,108           1,194          3,167          864
1998                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
1999                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2000                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2001                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2002                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2003                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2004                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2005                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2006                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2007                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2008                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2009                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2010                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2011                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
2012                       810,000                            1,194         3,167         1,973
Total    810,000                          10,576                              IRR:       20.6%



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
COUNTRY:   MOROCCO
PROJECT CODE: MAPA5438
PROJECT NAME: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCURING
Overall Project Rating: S
Original      Revised
Agreement         Section       Covenant      Status    fulfillment    fulfillment               Description of                           Comments
class                    date           date                     covenant
Agreement: ONPT Loan Number: IBRD - 35570
Text reference      4.02(c)         05            C        06/30/94                  Furnish to the Bank a report on the        Complied with throughout the
achievement of operational and financial    project period.
targets.
Text reference      4.07(a)          02           C        12/31/93                   ONPT will achieve net internal cash       Complied with throughout the
generation of at least 40%, and present   project period.
such a forecast for the following fiscal
year.
Text reference      4.07(b)          02           C        06/30/95                   Qualified external auditors acceptable to  Complied with throughout the
the Bank will audit ONPT. Audit reports    project period.
will be sent to Bank within 6 months after
end of FY.
Status:                                                                                  Covenant Class:
C    - Complied with                                                            I - Account/audit
CD   - Compliance after Delay                                                    2 - Financial performance/generate revenuefrom beneficiaries
NC   -Not complied with                                                          3 - Flow and utilization of Project funds
SOON - Compliance Expected in Reasonably Short Time                              4 - Counterpart funding
CP   - Complied with Partially                                                   5 - Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
NYD - Not Yet Due                                                                6 - Environmental covenants
7 - Involuntary resettlement
8 - Monitoring, review and reporting
10- Implementation
11- Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12- Sectoral or Cross -sectoral regulatory/insitutional action
13- other



30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant deviation from applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements (OD or
OP/BP) was observed under the project. Temporary issues, e.g. regarding procurement
procedures, were adequately corrected during supervision.
Statement number and title     TDescribe and comment on lack of compliance
Not Applicable.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of            Planned                       Actual
project cycle                                                                l
Weeks          US$ a/         Weeks b/          US$ c/
Through appraisal        25           74,000              25           94,750
Appraisal-Board          25           74,000              27          102,330
Board effectiveness      10           29,500              10           37,900
Supervision /d          140          414,500             136          515,440
Completion               30           88,800              30          113,700
TOTAL             230           680,800            228          864,120
a/ Estimated at FY92 (appraisal time) average staff-week cost of US$ 2,960 (including
field costs).
b/ Actual at project completion/loan closing, end of December 1997, on the basis of
available project supervision forms 590.
c/ At FY 98 (project completion time) average staff-week cost of US$ 3,790
(including field costs).
d/ During FYs 93 to 95, supervision of the TSR project also included supervision of the
First Telecommunications Project (Ln.2798-MOR).



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating /b
Month/        No. of           Days                   Specialized             Implementation/   Development
Stage of Project Cycle               Year         Persons           in                    Staff Skills             Overall Status      Impact                  Types of Problems
Field                Represented /a
Through Anpraisal
- Identification/c                   1/91            1               5                       Mngt                        .                         - Sector policy/overall organization separation
of P & T activities.
- Preparation I /                    5/91            3              10                 Eng., Fin. A. Econ.                                         - Investment program scheduling and
- Preparation, Pre-appraisal/_       11/91           3              10                   Eng., Fin. A.                                             financing.
- Appraisal 1/_                      3/92            4              12              Eng., Fin. A., Proct., Mngt
Appraisal through Board Approval
- Appraisal Update                   10/92           2               5                    Eng. Mngt.                                                Sector reform, TA for mngt /operations
improvement.
- Negotiations                    11/19-25/92        -                                                                   -                          Procurement procedures, Govemment arrears.
- Board approval                   02/02/93
- Loan closing                     04/29/93                                                                                                        - Delay in fulfilling effectiveness condition on
- Loan effectiveness               10/20/93                  -                                                           -                         govemment arrears.
Supervision Completion
Supervision I (project start-up) Le  5/93            2              12                    Eng., Fin. A.                  2                         - Procurement schedule ,TA start up,
Adjustment of investment financing plan.
- Supervision 2 /_c                  5/94            2              12                    Eng., Fin. A.                 S/d              S/d
- Supervision 3 /IS                  10/94           3              10                    Eng., Fin. A.                 S/d              S/d       - Satisfactory completion of the first project
under loan 2798-MOR.
- Supervision 4                      6/95            2              10                    Eng., Mngt.                    S                S        - Progress in sector reform and restructuring.
- Supervision 5                     4/96            4               8             Eng., Fin. A, Mngt.. and TM           S                S          S low progress in procurement. Reallocation
of loan amount within categories.
- Supervision 6                      11/96           3              6                 Eng., Fin. A., Mngt.               S                S        - Need to finalize new telecoms law.
- Supervision 7                      6/97            3              6                 Eng., Fin. A. and TM               S                S        - Cancellation of $ 11 million due to cost
savings in investment program.
- Supervision 8 /Completion          12/97           3              10                  Eng., Fin. A, Eco                S                S        - Project completed, satisfactory. Telecoms law
promulgated in 8/97. Additional cost savings
and adjustments in some program items and
financing led to further cancellation of
undisbursed amount of US$ 28.2 million.
/a Abbreviations: Eng.: Engineer; Fin.A., Financial Analyst; Econ. Economist; Mngt./Proct, Management/Procurement Specialist; TM-Task Manager; TA: Technical Assistance
/b Keys to overall performance rating: (before FY 94) = I - problem free; 2 - moderate; 3 - major problems: Implementation/development impact status:
(from FY94 on) = HS - highly satisfactory; S = satisfactory; U = unsatisfactory; HU = highly
/c Combined missions for supervision of the first project (Loan 2798-MOR implemented 6/87 to 12/94) and supervision of the TSR project.
/d New project performance rating is introduced (revised Form 590) see /b above



32
APPENDIX A
SPN/ICR MISSION AIDE MEMOIRE



33
FINAL SUPERVISION/COMPLETION MISSION
(From December 11 to 18, 1997)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
The Project Supervision Mission for the posts and telecommunications restructuring project
(loan No. 3557-MOR), composed of Messrs. Svetoslav Tintchev (mission leader), Marcel
Scoffier (telecommunications engineer) and Jean Boutan (financial analyst) visited Rabat
between December 11 and 18, 1997. Its objective was to finalize the last phase of project
execution with the Ministry of Telecommunications and the National Office of Posts and
Telecommunications (ONPT) before the closing date of December 31, 1997, and to gather the
necessary information to write the implementation completion report.
The mission met with the Minister of Telecommunications, and with officials of the Ministry
and of the ONPT. Mr. Emmanuel Forestier, Manager of IENTL, took part in the wrap-up
meeting for the mission, which was held with the Ministry of P&T on December 18, 1997. The
mission is grateful to all those with whom it met, for their kind welcome and for the valuable
assistance they provided.
The recommendations presented by the mission in this memorandum are subject to confirmation
at Bank headquarters, after the mission's return to Washington.
Project implementation
The mission found that implementation of the project has been quite satisfactory, and that its
physical, logistical, financial and institutional objectives have for the most part been met, as
explained below. The two sides recognized the need for continued close cooperation between
the Moroccan executing authorities and the Bank to ensure the project's success. The mission is
grateful to the ONPT for making available, as agreed, the first draft of its contribution to the
project implementation completion report, which was of great assistance in the performance of
the mission's task. Three documents of particular relevance to this completion report are found
in the annex: they cover the major technical and financial performance indicators, the various
stages of the telecommunications sector reform, and the list of documents provided to the
mission. (Annexes 1, 2, 3).
In addition to the $11 million that the ONPT canceled from the $100 million loan, on August 15,
1997, by agreement with the Bank, the Office has indicated that an additional amount of about
$25 million will not be disbursed before April 30, 1998, and will also have to be canceled. The
ONPT has explained this situation on the grounds that the cost of equipment has fallen
considerably over the course of the loan period, in the context of a highly competitive market for
a rapidly changing technology, and that, with customs duties reduced from 40% to about 20%, it
has been possible to achieve or exceed the project's physical goals with fewer resources. In
addition, the ONPT's financial situation has improved, thanks to sound management and the
effective use it has made of its equipment, and this has allowed it to finance a portion of the
project investments with its own, internally-generated funds.



34
Telecommunications activity. Expanding the network by adding lines. The objective for
expansion of the number of installed lines in the telephone exchanges was slightly exceeded:
telephone capacity (fixed and mobile) rose over the course of the project from 858,000 lines
(including 20,000 mobile) at the end of 1992 to 1,721,000 lines (including 120,000 mobile) at
the end of 1997 (exceeding the loan objective of 1,700,000 by 1.2%).
Telephone connections. The total number of main lines connected (fixed and mobile) will have
grown from 657,000 at the end of 1992 to 1,387,000 at the end of 1997 (for an exchange capacity
utilization rate of 81%), compared with the objective under the program contract of 1,560,000
lines, for an implementation rate of 89%. This represents a major effort on the part of the ONPT
between 1993 and 1997, during which connections proceeded at an annual rate of 225,000: the
net number of subscribers has not grown at the same rate, however, because of the strict policy
for recovery of arrears, which led to the disconnection of many subscribers (see below). The
pace has slowed over the last two years, as well, in reflection of the fact that the number of
pending applications for lines has fallen by 74% between 1992 and 1997, and the waiting time
for a connection has been reduced to 1.8 months, from the 5 months anticipated in the program-
contract, and 18.2 months at the end of 1991. The demand satisfaction ratio improved over the
same period from 74% to 97%, and telephone density has jumped from 2.03 telephones per 100
people to 5.09.
Digitization of the network. Digitization of the exchanges was of 99.3% completed by the end of
1997, meaning that subscribers now receive a detailed billing, and have access to speed calling,
automatic wake-up service, call waiting, call tracing, and new value-added services. On the
transmission side, digitization of existing coaxial cables and installation of new microwave radio
and fiber optical links have brought the digitization rate of circuits in service to 98.5% in 1997,
compared with 77% in 1992. At the same time, computerized management tools have been
introduced at all levels of the network, and this has enhanced its productivity and efficiency of
operation.
Rural telecommunications. The project objective, which was to provide service to all rural
communities, will be more than 88% fulfilled by the end of 1997: of the 1,300 rural
communities in the kingdom, 1,150 will have services, and 80% of these services will be
automated. The objective is to automate all communities by 1998. Only areas far removed from
the municipal centers will still have to wait to be connected.
Public telephones. The stock of public telephones has been expanded and modernized. The
availability of operating licenses for "teleboutiques" and "telekiosques" has attracted private
initiative. The number of public telephones will rise from 2,225 at the beginning of 1992 to
26,500 by the end of 1997. By the end of the project, 4,620 teleboutiques and 540 telekiosques
will be in service. All of them are heavily used.
Service quality objectives. The work of upgrading the networks and making them more reliable
has greatly improved the quality of service offered to customers. The annual rate of faults
reported dropped from 100% of lines in 1991 to 42% in 1997, compared with an objective of
47%. The rates for fault clearance currently stand at 88% in 48 hours and 97% in three days,
against 60% and 92% respectively in 1991, and the project objectives of 86% and 100%. In
terms of traffic flow, overall commercial efficiency was found to be 55%, and technical
efficiency 97%, the gap being attributable to improper usage by subscribers, among other things.



35
Project costs. The current Bank loan has in effect replaced the earlier loan, by taking over
financing of the final tranche (1992-1994) of the 1990-94 investment program. It is appropriate
therefore to consider the investment program for the entire period 1992-1997. At the time the
project was appraised, the total investment cost for that period was estimated at $2.097 billion
exclusive of VAT for an expansion of 1,076,000 lines, or $1,950 per line.  Project
implementation actually resulted in a total of 1,089,000 lines for only $1.300 billion exclusive of
VAT, or a cost per line of $1,194, which is 40% below the cost assumed in the appraisal. When
customs duties are deducted, the average cost is about $1,000 per line, which is comparable to
international costs over the same period, and reflects the sharp drop in world prices for
telecommunications equipment.
Procurement. At the time of project appraisal, it was expected that roughly a hundred contracts
would be financed under the loan, including thirty for civil engineering works on the local
networks. In the end, the number of contracts financed was 168, including 84 for civil works.
This increase was due to the ONPT's decision to reduce the size of the contracts put to tenders,
in order to encourage participation by small-scale local businesses. The allocation of funds to
the particular categories concemed was increased during the project. Although contracting
procedures have improved as a result of the experience acquired, they continued to suffer delays
throughout the life of the project.
Telecommunications logistics financed by the project. Commercial aspects. The upgrading
of ONPT's commercial operations involves two principal aspects. First, telephone service
accounting work is to be divided among four regional centers, using ISIJAM software, an
updated version of the GIRAFE program. These centers are located at Rabat, where security in
the handling of information has already improved, quality has been made more consistent,
procedures have been simplified, and customer service has been enhanced (billing periods, which
are about three weeks, will be shortened closer to two weeks), and at Casablanca, Fes and
Marrakech, where personnel training will be completed before the end of 1998. The commercial
network is being upgraded by setting up a one-stop business office in Casablanca, which will
provide advisory services to major clients in managing their communications needs (new
services, traffic handling, permanent contact with their computer services), and this will be
followed by others at Marrakech and Rabat. As well, some sixty multi-market business offices
will be set up; a marketing plan is being developed; and ten business training modules are being
designed and developed, to prepare for the planned intensive marketing campaign for new
services. As the competitive launching of Itissalat al-Maghrib draws closer, the ONPT has
shifted its efforts from the development of physical infrastructure towards strengthening its
marketing and business structure, given the saturation of demand.
Management accounting. The introduction of financial accounting, which has already been
regionalized under seven departments (DRTs) and integrated with cost accounting, was
completed in 1997, with the inclusion of subsidiary accounting for suppliers, for purchases and
for stocks, and with the computerization of fixed asset records (the next stage will be integration
of the payroll and human resources, once the software is in place, followed by project
monitoring). By the end of 1998, cost accounting will represent a powerful management tool,
subdivided into 15 profit centers and 12 cost centers, grouping together 230 cost items supplied
by a detailed and reliable data input system (with 16 parameters).
The use of profit centers will help, among other things, to improve budget preparation and
control, and will provide a clearer appreciation of the profitability of the various services offered,



36
and of areas that must be made more competitive. Cost accounting will also make it possible to
calculate product costs (connections, subscriptions, local traffic, long-distance traffic,
international traffic), for purposes of indicative comparison against tariff levels.
Human resources. Consultants have been very active in providing services in this area, in terms
of analyzing hiring procedures, developing job descriptions, detailing the staffing complement
by age and qualifications, preparing organization charts for service and management structures,
adjusting staffing levels to positions, with respect both to quality and quantity, and suggesting
ways to enhance productivity. It remains to computerize human resource administration and
management, using the appropriate software, and to promote career planning, from the viewpoint
both of efficiency and personnel motivation.
Strategic planning. The recognized need for a strategic planning approach led to creation of a
central department, endowed with a team of planners and planning tools, based on a
computerized information system and methodology. Through several interviews with staff
members and group discussion meetings organized by a consultant, a number of
recommendations were developed, that should lead to a structural overhaul of the former Office
of Telecommunications.
Financial aspects of telecommunications. Financial indicators. A comparison of the behavior
of the major financial indicators for the ONPT with the forecasts in the Bank's staff appraisal
report and those in the program-contract shows satisfactory results for the period 1992-1997.
Throughout the period, the self-financing rate surpassed the minimum rate of 40% called for in
the loan agreement, reaching 97% at the end of 1996 and 132% at the end of 1997, years that saw
a sharp drop in investment costs. The rate of return on capital assets, forecast at 20% for the
telecommunications sector, was 26% in 1996 and is likely to be 30% in 1997. The debt service
coverage ratio, planned at 2.3, stood exactly at 2.3 in 1996, and will be 2.6 in 1997. The current
ratio has remained satisfactory for the period, except for a dip to 1.1 in 1995, and it will rise to
1.9 in 1997. The operating ratio (the ratio of operating costs to revenues) will drop to 62% in
1997, a sign of healthy operating productivity, stemming from the reduction in the number of
employees per 1,000 lines from 17.5 in 1992 to 10.6 (estimated) in 1997. The debt-to-equity
ratio is relatively low: it will stand at 47% for 1997, suggesting that Itissalat al-Maghrib will be
in a solid position to face up to the competition. Billings per subscriber, excluding VAT, has
fallen from DH 5,805 in 1992 to 4,778 in 1997, in current DH. This decline of 18%, which is
even more pronounced in constant DH (34%, with an average annual inflation of 4.3%) was to
be expected in light of the substantial growth in subscribers (from 657,000 to 1,387,000, or
111%) and progress in meeting the demand for connections (48,000 applications pending in
1996, and 35,000 in 1997): it suggests that the percentage of low-traffic subscribers has risen
sharply.
Private subscriber receivables. The volume of receivables from private telecommunications
customers will be 23% of billings as of 31 December 1997, compared with 28% in 1992. Taking
account of the billing time, this represents 1.3 months of consumption, which is a very
satisfactory performance. It reflects the ONPT's strict approach to recoveries and service cut-
offs. The number of lines installed (fixed and mobile) was 214,000 in 1996, and will be about
the same in 1997, while the number of disconnections was 121,000 in 1996, and will be at a
similar level in 1997: the net number of new subscribers is thus less than the number of
disconnections. This suggests that a portion of the low-income population has begun to be
reconnected.



37
Receivables from  government agencies.  The volume of outstanding receivables from
government agencies, on the other hand, remains at a high level: despite the practice of
"vignettes", it will stand at 68% of billings for 1997, or, given the billing time, the equivalent of
5.9 months of consumption. This is even more noticeable given that, in late 1993, when the new
loan was under negotiation, the arrears of such agencies had been cleared up. The causes of the
deterioration are well known: the telecommunications budgets of government agencies have
been regularly inadequate, and the ONPT's sister agencies have tended to regard these debts as
"within the family", and hence of less urgency to be settled. Nor does the ONPT have the same
leeway to interrupt service to ministries as it does with private lines. Repeated warnings of
tougher cut-off enforcement and calls for greater discipline on the part of the agencies have had
little effect. It is true that the ONPT can offset agency arrears against taxes owing, but - quite
apart from the economic folly this implies - the fact remains that the finance ministry will be
short the 533 million DH that it should have received. The question of which agency will cover
these losses is still unresolved.
External auditing of accounts. The accounts of the ONPT fpr 1997 will no doubt be given
unqualified certification by Price Waterhouse, as were those for the three years 1994 to 1996.
Fiscal levies and taxes. The contribution of the ONPT's telecommunications business to the
financing of government activity, in terms of fiscal levies and taxes paid, will rise from 1.55
billion DH (41% of billings) in 1992 to 2.33 billion (35% of billings) in 1997. The percentage
has declined because custom duties have been cut in half, more than offsetting the increase in the
VAT rate.
Postal and financial services. Computerization of the postal money order control center has
been completed, as has the study phase for the refurbishing of the information system for the
postal checking center. The software package for this application has yet to be introduced: it will
cost about 8 million DH, which will not be disbursed before the closure of the loan, and so will
have to be financed from the ONPT's own funds.
The mission was highly impressed by the improved marketing of these services, the
modernization of their management, and the introduction of new services, such as "cyber-post",
which the mission visited with great interest. The postal sector has been paving the way for its
incorporation into the public enterprise Barid al-Maghrib by becoming slightly profitable in
1996, thanks to the heavy retrenchment in expenses, better human resource management, higher
postal rates, and a modest increase (of 0.5 %) in the interest paid on checking account balances.
The postal rate increases called for in the program-contract for 1997 were to become effective in
January 1998.
Ministry of Telecommunications. Of the two contracts that are still not completed, one has
been more than 80% disbursed, and the other involves the supply of electronic equipment for
radio frequency control, to be installed in a building which is not yet above ground and to which
there is as yet no access road. Amounts not disbursed before the project is closed will be taken
over by the ONPT.



38
Restructuring the Sector
Law No. 24/96 on Posts and Telecommunications. Reform of this sector was one of the
objectives of the project, and the Bank had proposed a (perhaps unrealistic) schedule for
readying the Law. The law was finally adopted by the Chamber of Representatives on June 29,
1997, and promulgated on August 7. It creates a statutory public authority, the National
Telecommunications Regulatory Agency (ANRT), which is responsible for conducting studies
and issuing regulations relating to the telecommunications sector, controlling enforcement of the
regulations, and supervising adherence to the general operating conditions of licenses (Article 27
ff). The law strips the ONPT of its monopoly over telecommunications and postal services, and
turns it into a corporation to be known as Itissalat al-Maghrib (IAM), which will initially be the
main operator of telecommunications services, and whose capital structure will be open to
private partners (article 39 ff), and another public authority, Barid al-Maghrib (BAM), that will
initially be the main operator of postal and financial services (Article 46 ff).
Some twenty implementation texts are in the course of preparation. The ANRT and BAM will
be created by decree, once the texts giving effect to the law have been promulgated and their
governing bodies have been appointed, while the IAM will be created by depositing its statutes
with the office of the court. The law will then be put into effect, i.e. the ANRT will first have to
be structured and then start to issue licenses for telecommunications services.
Separation ofpostal and telecommunications services. The separation of these two service areas
is in effect virtually complete. To legitimize it, a juridical committee will need to give its
blessing to the division of ONPT's assets and liabilities (which has already taken place), and
IAM and BAM will be have to endowed with working funds and their own capital.
Visit to value-added services. The mission was able to appreciate at first hand the dynamism of
two businesses that use the ONPT network to provide value-added services to their subscribers,
one of them offering Internet service (where it is in competition with some 25 other servers that
are already operational), and the other offering voice services (the latter is a very lively business,
but with more limited scope).
The Future
The mission met with the Director General of Posts to discuss the possible ways in which the
Bank might help to strengthen the business positioning of the postal services, in the new
competitive environment. He hoped to have some suggestions to put to the Bank for
consideration in the near future. For its part, the Bank offered to help in any way it could to
support the telecommunications sector, along lines to be worked out. The ONPT has asked that
the closing date of the loan remain unchanged. The mission pointed out that the Bank would
have to be notified of the amount of the credit that the Office intended to cancel, before the
closing date. The Bank will draft a first version of the project implementation completion report,
and send it to ONPT-IAM around mid-March, 1998, asking the latter to submit its comments and
to send, by mid-April, its own version of the report, using the outline that the mission provided.



39
ANNEX 1
TECHNICAL AND FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
- Telecommunications Branch: See Tables 5(A) and 5(B) in Part II
- Postal and Financial Services Branch: Table Attached (1p.)



Technical Indicators (1992-1997)
Postal and Financial Services Branch
1993                       1994                         1995             _            1996                              1997                      Forecast 92 - 97
Indicators (Value as of 31/12)           1992      Fore-    Act-      %      Fore-     Act-      %       Fore-   Act-ual      %        Fore-     Act-ual    % Achi-    Fore-                                                    %
case     ual    Achi    case        ual     Achi-    ease                Achi-      case                 eved        case                                                  Achi-
-eved  .      .          eyed                         eved                                                                                              meed
1, Teshnisal data on Postal Service
ILNumberofentities createdofwhich post offices       27        47       24       51      46        54       117      46        25        54        46         27         59         46           27          59       231        157       6S
2.Number ofdistribution routes created                27       39        43      110      40       59       148       42       37        88         43        38          88        45           72          160      209        249        119
3.Number of mail items delivered (in millions)       183       187      202      108     195      206       106      200       205       103       210        208         99        220          ()           -        .          .
4.Number ofterminals installed                       142       190       159     84      201       168       84      212       172       81        223        184         83        234          195         83        92         53        58
S.Number of CCP accounts opened                     18348    23000    20380    89    25000    21664         87      26000    22733       87       28000      30643       109       30000        20254        68      132000     115674      88
6.Value of CCP deposits (in millions of DH)          4789     16001    4436      99      4800     4147      86       5200     4299       83        5600      4267         76        6100        4414         72       1311       -375      -29             I
7.Number of CEN accounts opened                     46613    15800    49168    107    47600    57270        120     49500    67132       136      51500      92770       180       53500        77271        144    247900    343611        139
8Value of CEN deposits (in millions of DH)           2150     2662      2341     92      2960     2754      93       3434     3292       96        3983      3866        97        4620         4395         95       2470       2245       91
9.Number of money orders issued and poid (in millions)  9123   9296     9070     98      9779     8820       90      10288     9332       91      10825       9197        85        11388        7131        63      51575      43550       84
tO.Value of money orders issued and paid (in        40653    69310    39802    67    75096    37408         50      95170    36488       38       120761    36194        30        153399       36178        24     t12746      -4475       -4
millions)
I .Average mail delivery time (d+t)- %               82       80,00    90,07    113    79,00    88,00       lIt     80,00     88,00      110      80,00      82,52       103       79,00        80,51        102       -          -         -
12.Number of registered mail claims (per 1000 mailings  0,047  0,008    0,054    670    0,008    0,066      820     0,007     0,071     1019      0,007      0,064       919      0,0007         (0)          .-                            -
13.Number of moey order cdims                       12463    13614    13005    96       14362    1t260      78      14757    10211       69       1496t      11470       77        15111        7949         53      72805      53895      135
11.   Management and Training
I.   Management-staff ratio                          ()        tO       (')               I l  (I   )                 I II     ()         -        12        (0)          -         12          8,89         74        -          .
2.   Number of days of training                     20427    20000    19901    100    20000    24979        125     20000    19919       100      21000      19079       9t        22000        12816        58      103000     96694       94
* Data not available



41
ANNEX II
Summary of main stages in the
telecommunications sector reform
Year           Event                                Remarks
1913    Creation of the Office
of Posts, Telephone
and Telegraph
Services
1956    Creation of the        A decree dated September 2, 1964, determined its
Ministry of Posts,    organization which, besides the Minister's office, included a
Telephone and         central administration (1 administrative division, 1 postal
Telegraph Services    and financial services division, and I telecommunications
division), and external services.
A decree dated April 8, 1977, determined the powers and
organization of the Ministry, including besides the
Minister's office, the central administration and external
services.
The central administration includes:
- the General Secretariat
- the Directorate of Corporate Affairs (1 personnel division,
I professional training and social affairs division, I budget
and equipment division, and 1 buildings, material and
transport division)
- the Directorate of Telecommunications (1 switching
division, 1 transmission division, 1 subscribers and
networks division)
- the Postal and Financial Services Directorate (1 postal
services division, 1 financial services division)
- the Informatics Division
- the Office of the Inspector of Posts and
Telecommunications
- the International and Public Relations Service
- the National Posts and Telecommunications Institute.
1981    First sectoral mission    World Bank mission to assess the telecommunications
of the World Bank     sector (November 1981)
1982    Reorganization of the    A decree dated April 16, 1982, supplements that of 1977
services of the Ministry  and creates the Office of the Inspector General of Posts and
of Posts and          Telecommunications, within the Ministry of Posts and
telecommunications    Telecommunications



42
1984    Creation of the National    The National Office is a financially and legally
Office of Posts and      autonomous public authority under the Ministry of Posts
Telecommunications       and Telecommunications.
The ONPT structure includes the central service entities
inherited from the Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications and is intended primarily to effect
the transformation in the P&T's status from a state
agency to a public industrial and commercial entity
1987    First World Bank loan    Signature of the first World Bank loan, for US$ 120
million, for telecommunications development, with an
execution period stretching from 1/1/1987 to
31/12/1992
1988    - Reorganization of the  A decree dated 17/10/1988 determined the powers and
Ministry of Posts and    organization of the Ministry of Posts and
Telecommunications       telecommunications (see attached organization chart).
The Office's reorganization, undertaken in 1988, was
- reorganization of the  intended to expand telecommunications operating
National Office of Posts    capacity, rationalize the Office's operations, and allow
and Telecommunications   it to develop telecommunications under the strategic
plan (1988-1992) and make telecommunications a
priority sector for investment.
On the basis of consultants' recommendations and
internal studies, the ONPT prepared a master
- Creation of 4 DRT and 4   organizational plan for the Central Directorate of
CCL                      Telecommunications and began to decentralize
telecommunications activity, creating 4 Regional
Directorates which in time would cover the country's 7
economic regions.
These 4 Regional Telecommunications Directorates
have their headquarters at Rabat, Casablanca,
Marrakech and Fes, and each has a Lines Construction
Center (CCL)
1989    Creation of an ACTEL     - Beginning of computerization of subscriber files
- Opening of the Telecommunications Business Office
(ACTEL) in Rabat



43
1990    Creation of 2 DRT and 2   - Creation of the Regional Telecommunications Directorates at Oujda
CCL                     and Settat and their CCLs, bringing the number of Regional Directorates
to 6, and of CCLs to 6 as well;
- Creation of 2 Business Offices at Casablanca (ACTELs)
- Beginning of studies to improve management of human resources,
materials and finance, with a view to setting up a management
information system based on 5 features:
1. Procurement, Supplies and Stocks
2. Finance
3. Human Resources
4. Computerization plan and schedule
5. Commercial area
1991    Creation of              - Completion of decentralization with creation of a 7m Regional
- I DRT                 Telecommunications Directorate at Agadir, and a second CCL at
- I CCL                  Casablanca, and 2 additional Telecommunications Business Offices
- 3 ACTEL (2 at         (ACTELs) at Casablanca, bringing their number to 4 in that city, and the
Casablanca, 1 at Rabat)   total to 5, including Rabat.
- Decentralization of the capital budget
1992    - Separation of          - Statement of telecommunications sectoral policy
Telecommunications,     - Separation of Telecommunications and Postal and Financial Services,
from Postal and Financial  with creation of two Central Directorates, one for Telecommunications,
Services                the other for Postal and Financial Services, and offices for human
- Creation of DCT and   resources, financial and logistics management within each Central
CDP                     Directorate.
- Creation of I CCL     - Creation of a CCL at Agadir
- Creation of 3 ACTELs    - Creation of an ACTEL at Casablanca bringing the number of business
offices to 5 in that city; an ACTEL at Agadir, and another at Oujda,
bringing the total number of ACTELs to 8;
-Creation of the Regional Centers for maintenance and upkeep of power
and air conditioning;
-Creation of a National Center and Regional Centers for supervising
public telephones
- Completion of the first World Bank project and negotiation of the
second loan;
- Decentralization of the operating budget
1993    Creation of 8 ACTELs     - Signature of a program contract between ONPT and the State covering
the period 1993-1997
- Signature of a second World Bank loan for US$ 100 million, with an
implementation period from 1/1/1993 to 31/12/1997;
-Creation of 8 ACTELs (5 at Casablanca, 1 at Sale, 1 at Settat, I at
_ ______________________ Tangiers), bringing the total of ACTELs to 16.



44
1994     Creation of 16 ACTELs    - Creation of 16 additional ACTELs
- Introduction of computerized capital assets files
- Auditing of ONPT accounts
1995    Reorganization of postal    A new org. chart issued for the Central Directorate of Postal and
and financial services   Financial Services, amending the structure of postal services
(Mail Division, Operating Division), and creating the Personnel
Benefits Management Division.
1996     Reorganization of the   -reorganization of ONPT services (see org. chart attached) with
National Office of Posts    creation of:
and Telecommunications    *  Directorate of International, Mobile and Multimedia
Telecommunications, attached to the Central
Telecommunications Directorate
*  Telecommunications Inspection Directorate attached to the
Central Telecommunications Directorate
*  Central Directorate of Strategy and Development, with a
Studies and Regulations Division and a Strategic Planning
and International Affairs Division
*  Division of Corporate Affairs, attached to the General
Directorate
*  Audit Division attached to the General Directorate
*  Division of Postal Inspections attached to the Central
Directorate of Postal and Financial Services
*  National Savings Bank Division attached to the Directorate of
Financial Services
- Completion of accounts audit;
- Unqualified certification of accounts;
- Beginning of decentralized financial accounting;
- Design of cost accounting
1997     - New law on             - Promulgation of law 24-96 on telecommunications;
telecommunications       - Approval of decrees creating the National Telecommunications
- Creation of ANRT and   Regulatory Agency (ANRT) and the Barid Al-Maghrib (for Postal
BAM                      and Financial Services);
- Preparation of other decrees to implement this law;
- Completion of introduction of cost accounting;
- Introduction of new commercial management and new billing
system (INSUAM);
- Separation of capital and personnel structure shard by posts and
telecommunications.



45
ANNEX 3
LIST OF DOCUMENTS
- Law on the reform of the Posts and Telecommunications Sector No. 24/96;
- List of documents giving effect to that law;
- Project implementation completion report and statistical documents;
- Financial statements (1992-1997);
- Disbursement status at 30/11/1997;
Procurement status at 30/11/1997;
- Project data sheets
- Loan agreement implementation summary for the Postal and Financial Services;
- Summary of main stages of the Telecommunications sector reform



46
APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
The Borrower provided its contribution to the Bank in December 1997. A
translation of the text of this contribution is attached. The tables are not included, having
been incorporated in Part II of the ICR, (see Tables 5(A), 5(B), 6, 7, 8(A) and 8(B)).
A copy of the draft ICR was sent to the Borrower on May 27, 1998.
Comments were received from ONPT on June 3, 1998 and have been incorporated in the
ICR.



47
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN No. 3557-MOR
Draft, December 18. 1997



48
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.    Data on the project implementation environment
A.    Fiscal policy
B.    Budgetary policy
C.    Monetary and financial policy
D.    Privatization
E.    Social policy
F.    Institutional reforms
II.    Relations between the Bank and ONPT
A.    Contract negotiations
B.    Loan disbursements
II.   Management Indicators (1993-1997)
A.    Financial indicators
B.    Technical indicators
IV.   Studies and Technical Assistance
A.    Management Accounting Project
B.    Human Resources
C.    Commercial aspects
D.    Strategic Planning
V.    Assessment of Project Outcome
VI.   Annexes:
1.    Table 5 (a): Operational objectives
2.    Table 5 (b): Financial objectives
3.    Table 6 (a): Forecasts for operational objectives
4.    Table 6 (b): Forecasts for financial objectives
5.    Table 7:    Studies included in the project
6.    Table 8 (a): Project costs
7.    Table 8 (b): Project financing
Note: The above seven table are not attached, they have been incorporated in Part II of
the ICR under same numbering.



49
PREAMBLE
This document contains the evaluation of the second IBRD Loan No. 3557- MOR
for the period 1992-1997.
It focuses on four aspects:
]:.    The economic, financial, social and institutional environment in which the IBRD
loan was implemented.
II.   The relations between the Bank and the ONPT (from loan negotiation to
disbursement)
][II.  Technical and financial performance during the loan period. These data
measuring the ONPT's effort are compared to projections prepared by the Bank
and/or those in the Program Contract.
][V.   Technical assistance for major projects executed during the period.
][.    Data on the Project Implementation Environment
As part of its institutional reform drive, and against a background of increasing
globalization internationally, Morocco adopted a new approach to macroeconomic policy
iin 1993, aimed at:
redressing imbalances in the public finances by rectifying the budgetary situation;
preparing for implementation of the GATT (WTO) accords and those with the
European Union;
pursuing a policy of liberalization and accelerating the process of privatizing public
enterprises.
This new economic approach has been put into effect through a series of complementary
imeasures undertaken on the fiscal, budgetary, monetary, social and institutional fronts.
A.   Fiscal policy:
'The major fiscal measures dealt with reform to the customs code and tariffs structure.



50
The number of tariff rates was reduced from 13 to 6, and a minimum duty of 2.5% was
established for most imported goods, while the maximum rate remained fixed at 45%.
The corporate tax rate was reduced as of January 1996 from 36% to 35%.
In the case of the VAT, the transitional finance law 1996-1997 simplified VAT
exemption procedures for imported capital goods recorded as fixed assets.
To round out these fiscal measures and provide greater transparency, the Finance Law
1997-1998 provides for public enterprises to update their balance sheets through a
declaration rectifying their position with respect to the IS, the IGR and the VAT in their
1996 financial statements.
B.   Budgetary policy:
The measures undertaken succeeded in bringing the budget deficit down to 3% of GDP in
1996, compared with 5.3% in 1995 and 3.2% in 1994.
C.   Monetary and Financial policy:
A foreign exchange market was formally instituted in June, 1996. This no longer makes
it necessary to turn over foreign currency receipts to the Bank Al-Maghrib: they can now
be deposited with the commercial banks.
During the course of 1996, reform continued with liberalization of interest rates on
lending.
On the financial front, a number of steps have been taken to modernize the stock market.
One such measure was to introduce the first organismes de placement collectifdes
valeurs mobilieres (OPCVM), security investment funds, over the period 1993-1997.
Externally, the current account deficit in the balance of payments showed a sharp drop,
from 2.4% of GDP in 1994 to 1.8% in 1996.
D.   Privatization:
Morocco launched its privatization program in 1993. To date, 34 public corporations and
18 publicly-owned hotels have been affected.
E.   Social policy:
The government succeeded in working out an accord with business and labor groups,
signed on August 1, 1996, to institute a process of social dialogue. One result of this
process was to raise the legal minimum wage by 10% as of July 1, 1996.



51
At the same time, the monthly family allowance rate, which was 100 DH for the first
three children, has been raised by half, while the National Social Security Fund has set a
rnonthly floor of DH 500 for disability and old-age pensions.
J.   Institutional reforms:
The implementation phase of the second loan has coincided with parliamentary adoption,
orn June 29, 1997, of law no. 24-96 reforming the posts and telecommunications sector.
The new institutional and regulatory framework is based on the following principles:
* Separation of regulatory and operational supervisory functions;
* Institutional and regulatory separation between postal and telecommunications
activities;
a Introduction of legislation to promote competition.
T ]he new law provides, in particular, for:
L.    Creation of a new corporation, known as Itissalat Al-Maghrib, to manage and
develop the telecommunications network.
2.    Creation of a public authority, known as Barid Al-Maghrib, to manage and
develop the mail and postal financial services.
3.    Creation, under the Prime Minister, of a National Telecommnunications Regulatory
Agency (ANRT), as a legally and financial autonomous public authority.
On the operational front, the ONPT established two new directorates in 1996:
* the Central Directorate of Strategy and Development;
* the Directorate of International, Mobile and Multimedia Telecommunications.
In addition, as part of its financial and accounting reorganization, the Office has
umdertaken a number of activities since 1993, including a first-ever inventory and
eiialuation of capital assets, and a far-reaching operation to rectify the accounts of the
Office, dating back to its inception. As a result, the ONPT's auditors have certified its
accounts without reservation.
The end of 1995 also saw the introduction of a cost accounting system, which became
fiully operational in 1997.
In the commercial area, a new business and technical management system for subscribers
(INSIJAM) has been put in place.



52
Finally, tariffs for mobile and international telephone service have been reduced during
1997.
II.   Relations between the Bank and ONPT
A.   Contract negotiation
Under the loan, 166 contracts have been signed. They were awarded on the basis of
domestic and international bidding that attracted wide competitive interest.
The high quality of the specifications and the technical and commercial evaluations
meant that satisfactory price-quality ratios were the norm in these contracts for goods and
services.
It should be noted, however, that the telecommunications environment underwent a
significant evolution between the time the loan was negotiated and the time it was
actually used. A number of reallocations among categories were made within the loan to
reflect the major changes in Morocco's system.
A status analysis of the projects financed shows that in some cases there were serious
delays in negotiating the contracts and putting them into effect. Close cooperation
between the Bank and the ONPT, however, was able to reduce these delays considerably.
Generally speaking, the financing goals of the second tranche were exceeded, and the
number of operations under it was greater as the contracts were implemented.than
initially planned, because costs declined
B.   Disbursements
Cooperation between the Bank and the ONPT during implementation of the second
project was satisfactory, thanks to strict observance of disbursement procedures and
permanent contact with the Bank departments involved.
All requests for direct payments, for special commitments and for special account
replenishments were met within a reasonable time.
Under the direct payment procedure, which speeded up payments to suppliers while
reducing the number of transactions through the special account, US$ 29, 623,236.86 was
paid out, accounting for 33.28% of the line of credit and 49.84% of total withdrawals, in
73 disbursements.
Funding through the special account totaled US$ 29,811,306.96, or 33.5% of the line of
credit and 50.16% of overall withdrawals, in seven replenishments.



53
The ONPT nevertheless reduced the overall line of credit from US$ 100,000,000 to US$
89,000,000, and undertook a second reallocation among categories.
'T'he decision to reduce the amount of the line of credit was taken in light of the Office's
financial needs and the reduction of costs that emerged as a result of technological
changes and the effects of competition.
Credits were re-assigned among categories in order to optimize their use.
T'he 166 contracts financed under the loan were distributed by category as follows:
Category I:  Transmission supplies, associated installations and training: 3 contracts;
Category II:  Cables, poles and associated material for local networks: 32 contracts;
Category III: Civil works for local networks: 84 contracts;
Category IV: Turnkey contracts and supply and install contracts for local networks: 28
contracts;
Category V: Data processing equipment: 6 contracts;
Category VI: Consultants' services and training: 11 contracts;
Categories VIII: Radio frequency control equipment: 2 contracts.
Actual financing provided, as a proportion of the eligible portions of the projects,
averaged 83% to 30/11/97:
Category I:  93%
Category II:  91%
(Category III: 95%
Category IV: 87%
Category V:  59%
C ategory VI: 63%
Category VIII: 55%.
IHL.   Management Indictors (1992-1997)
A.   Financial indicators.
During the period 1992-1997, investment in telecommunications infrastructure grew at a
steady pace, totaling DH 11,952 million.
This investment resulted in a doubling of exchange capacity, which rose from 858,000
lines in 1992 to 1,721,000 lines in 1997, thereby exceeding the objective of 1,671,000
called for under the loan agreement.



54
By taking full advantage of competition on the telecommunications equipment market,
the Office was able to realize savings of 40% on its investments, while exceeding the
exchange capacity expansion goal by 3%.
This expansion was accompanied by steady growth in billings, which rose by 22%
between 1993 and 1995, reaching DH 6,062 million in 1996, and rising by a further 7%
to DH 6,469 million in 1997.
At the same time, costs were kept under control, thanks to the Office's policy of
rationalization. The operating ratio went from 60% in 1992 to 62% in 1997, and net
earnings improved markedly over the period, tripling to DH 985 million by 1997.
This performance allowed the Office not only to realize a greater return on its
investments (the rate of return rose by 8 percentage points over the period to 30% in
1997), but also to enhance its self-financing capacity and reduce its need for external
funding. After deducting repayments of principal, the cash flow generated by its
telecommunications business covered 72% of investment outlays on average, and the
self-financing rate rose from 57% in 1992 to 132% in 1997.
The Office's loan repayment capacity has also improved slightly, as is apparent in the
evolution of its debt service coverage ratio, which stood at 2.6 in 1997, compared with
2.7% in 1992.
It should be noted, finally, that the Office's policy of building down its debt has begun to
show concrete results. Its debt-to-equity ratio went from 44% in 1992 to 54% in 1995,
and then sank to 47% by 1997.
In terms of recovering arrears, the Office has made a major effort over the period to
reduce outstanding receivables with its customers.
Private subscriber receivables, expressed as a percentage of billings, retreated during the
period from 28% in 1992 to 23% in 1997. On the other hand, public agency receivables
continued to pile up, despite the efforts made in 1993 to settle accounts. These
receivables, which represented only 12% of billings in 1993, soared to 64% in 1995, and
stood at 68% by 1997.
B.   Technical indicators
The project goals for the period 1992-1997 were more than achieved overall.
1.    Telephone connections
The physical capacity of the telephone system (fixed and mobile) will stand at 1,721,000
lines as of 31/12/1997, compared with 695,000 lines at 31/12/1991, for an increase of
148%, and an achievement rate of 101.2% of the project objective. This expansion has



55
cut the waiting time for connections to 1.8 months from the 5 months planned, and the
18.2 months that prevailed at 31/12/1991.
'rhe effort devoted to connections has meant that the backlog of outstanding applications
has shrunk by 80%, and stood at 35,000 at the end of 1997. The demand satisfaction rate
rose by 23.4 percentage points, from 74.1% in 1991 to 97.5% at the end of 1997.
'rhe number of subscribers (fixed and mobile) will reach 1,387,000 as of 31/12/1997,
against a target of 1,560,000, for an achievement rate of 89%.
Telephone density has risen from about 2.03 telephones per 100 inhabitants in 1991 to
5.09 in 1997.
2.    Digitization of the network.
The digitization rate will be 99.3% at the end of 1997, which means that subscribers will
now be able to take advantage of services that were previously unavailable to them:
detailed billings, speed dialing, automatic wake-up, call waiting, etc.
Moreover, the national transmission network has been expanded by 403,000 new circuits,
bringing the total of domestic transmission circuits to 482,000 at the end of 1997.
Digitization of existing coaxial cables (42%), the installation of new, digitized
microwave radio links (25%) and fiber optical links (57%) have brought the digitalization
rate to 98.5% at the end of 1997, compared with 77.7% in 1992. This was made possible
by the ambitious program of laying domestic fiber optical cables along the major
highways: during its first phase, 4,000 km of fiber optical cable has been installed.
3.   International relations
International telephone service had 5,057 direct circuits in 1997, compared with 3,565 in
1992, and 228 automatic relays at the end of 1997, versus 117 in 1991, following the
installation of new fiber optical cables, undersea to France, Spain and Portugal and by
land to Algeria.
4.    Mobile radiotelephone and data transmission
Mobile radiotelephone service (NMT 450 MHZ) was opened to the public in 1987.
Parallel to this service, in 1994 a new GSM digitized mobile radiotelephone network was
installed with capacity for 100,000 subscribers. The number of mobile subscribers will
reach 78,000 by the end of 1997.
5.    Rural telecommunications
To meet the demands of the rural development policy, and to reduce the isolation of
remote areas, telecommunications facilities have been automated for 1,335 localities as of



56
31/10/1997, a figure that will rise to 1,590 by 31/12/1997, compared with only 216 at
31/12/1991, for an implementation rate of 458%. This performance has far outstripped
the project objective of 900 localities, for an implementation rate of 177%.
6.    Public telephones
Access to public telephones has been greatly increased by the expansion and
modernization of existing facilities. This has been made possible by enlisting private
enterprise through the granting of operating licenses for "teleboutiques" and
"telekiosques".
The number of public telephones rose from 2,225 in 31/12/1991 to 26,500 at the end of
1997, and 21,900 of these are operated by private interests. At the end of October 1997,
4,619 teleboutiques and 539 telekiosques were in operation.
7.    Quality of service
The efforts made to modernize the telecommunications infrastructure and make it more
reliable are reflected in steadily improving indicators of service quality, both with respect
to the waiting time for a dial tone and the flow of traffic, and to the number of fault
reports and the speed with which they are cleared.
The fault reports indicator dropped from 108% in 1991 to 42% in 1997. Faults are now
cleared at a rate of 88% within 48 hours, and 96% within three days, compared with 60%
and 92% respectively in 1991.
While these indicators are better than expected, the fault reports indicator is expected to
be somewhat further improved as of 1995 [sic], thanks to efforts to rehabilitate the
network, upgrade the quality of materials used, and provide continuous training for
personnel. This is noteworthy, since service quality in other rapidly growing countries
has not always improved at the same pace.
With respect to traffic flow, the overall commercial efficiency recorded is currently 55%,
while technical efficiency has risen to 97%. The difference can be explained primarily by
the careless dialing habits of users, as well as the frequency of busy signals and no-
answer. Traffic losses from improper use and line tie-ups could be reduced by an
awareness campaign among subscribers and heavy business users.
8.    Productivity
The efforts at physical expansion of the network, on one hand, and the limitations on
hiring, on the other, have led directly to an improvement in productivity. In fact
productivity as measured by the number of employees per 1,000 main lines in service
improved from 17.5 in 1992 to 10.6 in 1997, exceeding the target ratio of 12. Total



57
telecommunications staffing will stand at 14,690 at the end of 1997, compared with
1 1,484 in 1992.
IV.   Studies and Technical Assistance
A.   Managing accounting project
This project was focused on three broad areas that were the subject of a contract with
Coopers & Lybrand consultants. It involves installing an operational cost accounting
system, decentralization of financial accounting, and introduction of new inventory and
procurement procedures.
During work on the project, however, a number of supplementary tasks were identified as
necessary for overall implementation of a proper accounting system. The additional tasks
iincluded related to:
Supplier invoice accounts;
Purchasing management;
' Capital assets inventory and management.
B.   Human resources
Over the period 1993-1997, the continuous training program was adapted in an effort to
cover all relevant disciplines and to provide maximum benefit to employees, through
diversification in the manner and content of training. The number of employees receiving
training doubled between 1993 and 1997, from 2,700 to 5,400.
The implementation rate of this portion of the project was 100%.
C.   Commercial aspects
Two major projects were undertaken during the period 1992-1997:
L.   "Marketing Plan and Business Network"
This project had three objectives:
* Improvement of the business network
Preparation of a marketing plan
* Commercial information system,
it involved the following activities:
* Opening of the first Business Office in Casablanca. This office has been operational
since April 1996;



58
*  Support for the Multi-market office in Marrakech-Menara. This office was opened to
the public on October 30, 1995;
*  Reconfiguration of the Rabat-Center Multi-Market Office, and development of a
modular structure for use in other business offices;
*  Design and preparation of a tableau de bord [performance chart] for the business
offices. This performance chart was tested at four offices, and then introduced
generally;
*  Proposed improvements in the performance charts for other commercial services;
*  Preparation of an operational marketing plan;
*  Study of certain business procedures and proposals to improve them;
*  Design and preparation of 10 business training modules.
2.   Introduction of 4 regional billing systems
The objective of this project was to set up an integrated system encompassing the major
customer relation management tools.
Operation of the system at the Rabat CPECT has produced the following advantages:
* Automation of information flows: speed and security in transferring information;
* Consistency of information: all services now use the same information;
* Simplification of procedures.
In the commercial area, the project has helped to improve the quality of customer service.
In the technical area, the project has helped to optimize the use of resources.
In the financial area, the project has helped to reduce billing times and improve the
monitoring of arrears.
This project is still under implementation.
D.   Strategic Planning
The contract for this project was signed with the consultant company ISOGROUP of
Canada.
The objectives of the strategic planning projects are of two kinds:
* Creation and development of a strategic planning unit;
* Technical assistance to develop a computerized system for strategic planning.
The final products are:



59
Creation of a strategic planning unit for telecommunications within the Central
Directorate of Strategy and Development, and a number of strategic planning
committees.
Development of strategic planning tools and methodologies (strategic planning
manual: the bases and tools of strategic planning)
Introduction of an information system as an aid to strategic decision making (pilot
project for financial dimensioning of the Telecommunications Branch).
Development of a program for implementing the ONPT reforms.
V.   Assessment of Project Outcome
]Execution of the loan during the period 1993-1997 enabled the ONPT to carry out an
ambitious program of physical expansion. The outcome has been very positive, not only
iin terms of the physical execution of the projects, but also on the technical, financial and
commercial fronts, as a continuation of the activities undertaken through the first loan.
The objectives set out in the loan agreement and the program contract were exceeded by a
wide margin, and at a savings of 40% below the initially anticipated cost.
Moreover, during the period 1993-1997, modem management tools and methods were
put in place with respect to finance, accounting, human resources, operations, production
and commercial management of subscribers.
At the end of the period, law no. 24-96 on reform of the posts and telecommunications
sector was adopted by parliament.
][mplementation of the first and second loans has allowed the ONPT to acquire expertise
iin formulating projects, putting them to tender, assessing them and making
disbursements, using the Bank's procurement techniques and procedures.
]However, technological change and shifting priorities in the equipment program meant
ithat the loan funds had to be reallocated between categories.
As to the quality of the Bank's performance, this was satisfactory. Contract approval and
lisbursement times were reduced by comparison with those for the first loan.
Dverall, the Bank's involvement in the development program contributed greatly to the
imodernization and restructuring of Morocco's telecommunications sector.



IBRD 24480
MO  ROCCO                                                     PORTUGAL                 \o Este n,n, . Perpi,ignan (FRANCE)
TELECOMMUNICATION PROJ ECT   POTmaTANG     eouan (FRANCE)
OPTICAL FIBER CABLES 565/MBs PROJECT                                         \ouen
OPTICAL FIBER CABLES 140/565 MBs                                                                                K ri    Taounate
IN IMPLEMENTATION                                                                                                                          >       d\
ANALOG SUBMARINE CABLE                                                                      KENITRA
CABLE TO BE DIGITALIZED                                                                                                Boulemace
MICROWAVES 140 MBs PROJECT                                                CASABLANC                                                 Missour
DAKAR
MICROWAVES 140 MBs IN IMPLEMENTATION                                    ElJadida                                        \          issoufra
MICROWAVES 34 MBs IN IMPLEMENTATION                                                        TTAT                     M                     B               Figuig
EXISTING:                                                                   Y/ssoufi                         BENI-MELLAL           ch     o         - - -
_____MICROWAVES 140MBs                                                         SAFI           (                            Ouaouizart          h dia
_____MICROWAVES 34 MBs                                                                                            Azilal
/MARRKEC1^   -   Dmnate              ~      EfuQ 
- --    ANALOG MICROWAVES 960 CHANNELS                              Essaouira
------ TROPOSPHERIC MICROWAVES 120 CHANNELS                                                         zm
OPTICAL FIBER CABLES 140 MBs
DIGITALIZE COAX CABLES                                        A      Agdznt
AGADIR- 4        Taroudannte                           ts
E      DOMESTIC SATELLITE NETWORK                                                            lghrem
01    ARABSAT EARTH STATION                                                              coute  - ata         ,  -20
Tiznit                                       ~     ~    ~~~~~~~~0 100  200      300
INTELSAT EARTH STATION
Ifni'RO /'   Akka e                                    KILOMETERS
SPACE SEGMENT DIGITALIZATION                                       \
Guelmim       Bouizakarne  'Thi; -op ho-e - prepoccd h The Wo-d BoAo', sftff e-icu,sioey for
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                           --- r        denc         ot -cc of lieh   W'oct
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                            I                            m  do -t imply,   the po,t f The World Bo,k G-op, -oy j,6go-o,
Tan-Tan                                           - IhZ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~odr,gotlo cfo,-y t-c,'r-y  ..d~~c   ... ocpto--e f
- - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY (Approximote)            Tan-Tan                                                            ooc      - BOohlegalso
DECEMBER 1992



