Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Al -39f6 57- "O
Report No. 10714-MOR
t  i.) .:1 107 1 4 -M( Mr-( .Ty-   ( iJP I
Ti t.1e':  TV'f,F(CUNMMIll r~ I(iT I (l ) ?p .-E,fTKP FA 'E2T
Au thor I;.' LAP PU ArLAI.N
E> t .::. :: 847 ln  f  .l:   :1-1 , I:er,t.. .: MN119  1 l
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
DECEMBER 16, 1992
Industry and Energy Division
Country Department I
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Moroccan Dirham (DH)
US$1.00 = DH 8.80 (end-February, 1992)
DH 1.00 = US$ 0.11
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric Svstem                                US Svstem
1 meter (m)                                  3.2808 Feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                             0.6214 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)    =                0.3861 square mile (mi2)
1 metric ton (m ton)                         0.9842 long ton (lg ton)
1 kilogram (kg)                              2.2046 pounds (lbs)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DEL   -   Direct Exchange (main) Line
DFI   -   Direct Foreign Investment
EC    -   European Co.munity
EIB   -   Europear. Investment Bank
INPT  -   Institut National des Postes et T6l6communications
ISDN  -   Integrated Services Digital Network
MPT   -   Ministry of Post and Telecommunications
ONPT  -   Office National des Postes et T6l6communications (National
Post and Telecommunications Authority)
PERL  -   Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Loan
VAT   -   Value-added tax
MOROCCO - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MOROCCO
TELWCOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Loan and Prolect Summary
Borrower:                National Post and Telecommunications Authority (ONPT).
Guarantor:               Kingdom of Morocco.
amount:                     100US1   million equivalent.
Terms:                   20 yeare, including 5 years grace period,  at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Proieet Obiective.
and Deucrintion:       The   project,    the   second   operation   in   Morocco's
telecommunications sector, supports: (i) the prepar&tion of the
necessary groundwork to permit liberalization of the sector's
activities, including the enhancement of the sector's
institutional capacity; and (ii) the further expansion of the
telecommunications network. It would include, first, technical
assistance, training and studies designed to strengthen
Government's institutional capabilities in respect of its
regulatory function; and, second, a time slice (1992-94) of
ONPT'S multi-year investmeat program initiated in 1987 with the
support of the Bank.   Physical components of the project
include, inter alia, (i) about 497,000 new switching lines and
related local networks and subscriber connections; (ii)
microwave  and  optical  fiber  transmission  routes;  (iii)
equipment to expand existing international switching gateways;
(iv) trunk dialling of about 780 rural communities; and (v} a
national radio frequency ccntrol center.
Proioct Benefits
and risks:             General benefits to the Moroccan economy include: (i) removal
of constraints to foreign investment and private sector
development,    particu_arly    in    export-oriented    and
communications-intensive activities, at a time when Morocco is
developing its ties with the EEC; (ii) possibility of
decentralizing the country's economic infrastructure; and (iii)
improvements in the functioning of existing and emerging
markets.  The project will also enhance the country's socio-
political development through the provision of better access to
healtn, education and government services to rural areas, and
by strengthening cultural  and political  integration.    In
addition, the project will also serve to enhance the sector's
fiscal transfers to the Government. The main risks affecting
the project are, on the one hand, possible slippage in the
formulation and implementation of sector reform, and on the
other, project delays due to possible over-stretching of ONPT's
project implementation capacity. Both risks would be mitigated
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- it -
by government commitment to a time bound action plan for reform
and the set up of spacific project implementation arrangements,
and by the inclusion in the project of an extensive technical
assistance component.
Estimated Costs                       -------(US$ million)---------
Local a)  Foreian        Total
Switching b)                           151.8       161.5        313.3
Long diet. transmission                154.2       180.7        334.9
Local networks                         124.4       106.7        231.1
Pural telecoms                          32.5        45.8         78.3
TA, training & studies                     -        15.2         15.2
Data processing                          8.5        12.0         20.5
Miscellanecue c)                        68.3            -        68.3
XPT (T.A. and control center)              -          3.1         3.1
Base cost ('91 prices)          539.8        525.0      1,064.8
Physical conting.                18.7         18.5         37.2
Price conting.                   65.5         36.1        101.6
TOTAL COST                624.0        579.6     1,203.6
-)   includes indirect foreign cost (USS 54.4 million) and VAT/custom duties (USS383.5 million)
b)    includes date transmission
C)    includes Land, buildings, and vehicles



- Lii -
Financina Plan
Local     Foreign        Total
----------(USS million)…
IBRD                       54.4 v    45.6         100.0
EIB/                        -       103.7         103.7
Bilateral Credits           -       113.6         113.6
Export Credits              -       154.7         154.7
Local Banks                74.1       -            74.1
Existing Loans._?L          -       162.1         ;62.1
ONPT                      495.5       -           495.5
TOTAL               624.0     579.6       1,203.6
IL includes indirect foreign cost of transmission and local networks.
/ includes First IBRD loan (No. 2798).
Estimated Disbursements
FY93     FY94    FY95      FY96      FY97    FY98
------------------(US$ million)-----------------
Annual                  3.0      31.0    28.0      20.0      12.0     6.0
Cumulative              3.0      34.0    62.0      82.0      94.0   100.0
Economic Rate of Return:   32%
&ag: IBRD No. 24480



MOROCCO
TELECONMMCATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Paae No..
I  SECTOR CONTEXT
Linkages to the Economy.. ..                             .    .  . . . ...*  1
Sector Organization ....   . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..   . .  . . . 2
Demand for Telecommunications Service.. . . ............ 2
Access to Service.. . . . . . . . 3
Usage of Service  ....... . . ...........                             .. . . 3
Existing Facilities and Quality of Service  ... . . . . . . . 4
Manufacturing, Assembly and Installation Industry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Postal/Financial  Services . . . # . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... 5
Main Sectoral Issues.. .5
Government Strategy and Proposed Restructuring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Bank Role . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                             8
II  THE BORROWER
organization and Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
Staff and Training  .   ..   ..   .. .. ... ....             .    .11
Technical Assistance..                       .. . . . . . . . .  11
Data Processing.. . . . . . . . . . . 12
Billing   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  12
Accounting  . . .                                       . . . . . . . . . .  12
External Auditing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .   13
Tariffs . . . .                         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
III  THE PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A.  Proiect Scoce .                                               . . . . .  15
Telecommunications Investment Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
Project Objectives  ....  .  .  .    .....  .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . .  . .  15
Project Description ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . .  16
This report is based on the findings of an appreisal mission composed of
Messrs. A. Barbu (Task Hanager), P. Lecharny (Sr. Telecom. Engineer), J. Boutan
(Sr. Fin. Analyst), and J. Babin (Cons.), which visited Morocco in February-
March 1992. Peer reviewers were Messrs. G. Buttex and J. Cowie (AFTIE).



B. *cost and Financina      .   . . .    . .   . . . .  . .   . . . . . . . .  *..    17
Project Cost  . . .  .......................  ...................................  ..... 17
Project Financing ............                  .  .    .   ... .. .  .   18
C.  Procurement and Implementation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Procurement ....   .. ..* .  .  .  .  ....... . . .                      19
Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . .   . .. . . . ...  21
Project Implementation  . . .      .... ....... .... .. . .  . ..   .  23
Statua of Project Preparation ... .  .  .  .  .   .......***......    24
Environmental and Health Aspects .   . . . .. . .  . . . .   24
Performance Monitoring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      25
IV  FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Past Performance            ...             .....           . ...            26
Fiscal Levies .*....... .  * ....... . .   . . . . . . . ...... .    27
ONPT's Financial Position . ...   . . .  4 ..                      .         28
AccountB Receivable.                .   .......... .   .. . ...... .    29
Future Position . .. . . . .. .  . ....                                      29
V   PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
General Benefits  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Least-Cost Solution ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  o .  .  .  .  .  . . .  . . . . . . . .   *  32
Financial and Economic Rates of Return  . .       .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32
Risks   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . .   .  . .   .   .   .     .  .  .  . .   .   .   .   .   .   .  33
VI  AGREEMENT TO BE REACWED  . . . . .. . . .  . . . . . . . . . . .  34
AANNXES
1   Growth in DELs and Expressed Demand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .  35
2   Performanc. Indicators (Telecommunications) .. .  . . . . .   . . . . .  .    36
3   Draft Statement of Policy . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . .y.. . . . . .  37
3b  Summary of Plan of Action for Reform Implementation . . .        . . . .      52
4   Organization Chart .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .           55
5   Summary of Telephone Rates  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ........   .  56
6   Technical Assist&nce .       . . . .         . . . . . . . . . . . . .    57
7   Description *f Physical Components of the Project .            .  . . .. o .   .    59
8   ONPT.  Investment Program ... .  .  .   ...         ........   ........    62
9   Project Implementation Schedule . .n.t.t.on...ed  ...................... .    63
10   Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .       64
11   ONPT. Income Statements, Yunds Flow Statements, Balance Sheoet   . . . . . .  65
12   Basic Data for Teleconmnunications Revenues   . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . Ea
13   Notes and Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts, 1992-1997  . . . . . . .  72
14   Rates of Return on the Program  . ....................    .  74
15   Supervision  Plan    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  *  .  . . ..   .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    76
16   Documents Available in Project File  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 77



MOROCCO
TELECONMlNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
I - SECTOR CONTEXT
Linkages to the Economv
1., LIt is now acknowledged that telecommunications, far from being luxury
consumer services, are in fact an important economic infrastructure.   With recent
technological advances, telecommunications are becoming an integral factor of production
and a critical element in the trade of goods and services.   Although multi-country
studies have demonstrated a strong correlation betw*-ai economic development and the
supply of telecommunications services, the macro-economic impact of investments in that
sector is generally difficult to estimate. However, empirical evidence in the case of
Morocco shows that improved telecommunications are key to the country's economic and
socio-political development in severa: major areas:
i)    export development and tourism, which both require reliable domestic and
international communications;
ii)   promotion of foreign investment,  as international companies need good
quality communications to maintain their competitiveness;
iii)  development of a dynamic service sector and of transparent and efficient
markets (particularly in the financial area);
iv)   rural development (through improved extension services and marketing) and
better health care (emergency services etc...)
v)    decentralisation of industry and government administration; and
vi)   national integration and political participation.
1.2         In more tangible terms, the telecommunications sector, in spite of its
current underdevelopment (see below), already plays a sizeable role in Morocco's
economy. In 1991, it provided to the Treasury about US$ 260 million equivalent, ie.
about 4% of the Government's total fiscal revenues. Conversely, investments in that
sector in 1991, reached DH 3,040 million (about US$345 million equiv.), i.e. about 15%
of total public investments and 1.5% of GDP; and the sector's external (mostly
concessional) borrowings in 1991, totalled DH 1,500 million (US$ 170 million equiv.)
i.e. about 15% of the country's public and publicly-guaranteed external borrowings. In
addition to ONPT'5 16,600 employees (i.e. about 8% of total public enterprise s:aff),
it is estimated that another 2,000 people are working in peripheral activities
(construction and maintenance of telephone lines, as well as operation of dedicated
networks and local manufacture of telecommunications equipment (see para. 1.10)).



*2-
Furthermore, the proposed lioeralization of value-added services (see para. 1.3) iL
expected to lead to the creation of a sizeable number of new jobs in this potentially
fast-growing field.
Sectc.r Organization
1.3         In accordance with Law No. 25-11-24 of November 25, 1924, and Decroe No.
2.87.671 of Oct. 17, 1988, authority and control of telecommunications and postal
operations in Morocco are vested in the MinisLry of Postu & Telecommunications (MPT).
Until 1983, MPT was also directly responsible for providing telecommunications and
postal services.   Provision of these services and operation of the network was
transferred in 1984, to the Office National des Postes et Tel6communlcations (ONPT), an
autonomous state-owned entity created pursum'nr to Law No. 1-84-8 of January 10, 1984,
and Decree No.  2-84-20 of January 11,  1:'         MPT retained a policy-setting and
regulatory function, including responsibili 4 for the allocation and control of the
radio frequency spectrum. As a public enterprise, ONPT is also subject to control by
the Ministry of Finance.  Under the current legislation, ONPT has a monopoly on all
telecommunications and postal operations; however, under special exemptions, fifteen
dedicated networks are operated by the military and some large enterprises (Office
National d'Electricit5 (ONE), the electric utility, Societe Nationale de Transports
Marocains (SNTM), the transport company,  Office Cherifien des Phosphates (OCP), the
phosphate company, etc.). Also, a separate state-owned company, Societe Marocaine de
T6ldcommunications par Cables Sous-marins (MATELCO) operates and maintains, in very
close collaboration with ONPT, the transmission facilities of the international
submarine cables linking Morocco with European and African countries. The sector at
large also Lncludes 84 private local companies specializing in the installation of
cables and c3nnection/mLr.cenance of user terminals, as well as a handful of enterprises
involved ir the manufacturing of specialized telecommunications equipment (para. 1.10).
Demand for Telecommunications Service
1.4         As of December 1991, there were about 497,000 main lines (DELs) in service
and a waiting list of 174,000 registered applicants; only 74% of expressed telephone
demand was satisfied. These figures, however, underestimate the potential demand to the
extent that reliable service in Morocco is recent. This assumption has been confirmed
by the fact that, on average, telephone connections have grown by 22% p.a. in the last
2 years, thanks to the commissioning of new facilities under the ongoing Bank project
(para. 1.21). In contrast, the historical average expressed demand has grown by only
9.8% p.a. since 1977. Bank-financed consultants are undertaking a detailed survey of
long-term national telephone demand (b;sed on ONPT's current estimates, demand is
currently projected to grow at about 16.5% p.a.).   Under the proposed project, the
connection of new DELs is expected to increase by about 24% p.a., compared to an average
of about 14.6% since 1987 (23.6% in 1991). If these ambitious targets are met, 96% of
expressed demand would be met by project completion in 1994.   The project has been
designed to allow for adjustments during implementation to reflect actual demand; in
particular, project resources can be redistributed to adjust for any supply/demand
imbalances among regions. Historical and projected trends for ;elephone demand and
supply are shown in Annex 1.



-3-
Access to Service
1.5         From 1987 to 1991, the waiting time for obtaining a tolepi one connection
decreased from 80 to 18 months. With a population of about 25.8 million, Morocco has
a telephone density of 1.9 IDEL per 100 inhabitants, i.e significantly behind that of
neighboring countries (Algeria: 3.5) or countries with comparable GNP per capita (e.g.
Jordan: 7.01 Syria: 5.2).  Density is not well balanced between urban and rural areas
as 75% of DELs in service are located in two big metropolitan areas (Casablanca, Rabat)
and 7 large provincial cities accounting for 46% of the population, whereas 24% of DEL,
are distributed in other provincial centers which account for 54% of the population, as
shown in the following table:
Table 2.1:   ACCESS TO TELEPHONES
(As of November 15, 1991)
AREA          POPULATION  CONNECTED  DELS PER
(X)     LINES (X)  100 POP.
*Casablanca, Rabat-SaLe, Kenitra  24  47       3.8
*Fes, Meknes, Agadir, Marrakech,
Tanger, Oujda               22        28      2.5
-Rest of country             54       24       0.9
There are about 8900 telex subscribers; 98% of expressed demand is satisfied
and current waiting time for a telex connection is three months.  Telex service is
heavily concentrated in Casablanca, Rabat, Agadir, Marrakech and Tanger. However, this
service is rapidly being superseded by facsimile and data transmiseion, and ONPT is not
planning any further expansion of the telex network.  ONPT operates about 4000 pay
phones and public booths throughout the country. To offset the current concentration
of telecommunication services in cities and provincial centers, a plan for providing 432
rural villages with automatic telephone services is being implemented. Subscriber trunk
and internationa. dialing are available to 98% of subscribers, with direct access to 121
countries, since end of 1991.
Usage of Service
.7         As of the end of 1991, 25,000 DELs (5%) were serving government and public
gencies, 90,000 (18%) business and professionals, 350,000 (70%) residential premises,
nd 35,000 (1w) miscellaneous users. The breakdown of corresponding revenues, by user
roup during 1991, was 1% for government, 27% for business and 72% for residential
premises. Average telephone usage was at the end of 1991 about 7,400 metered pulses per
DEL; although it remains higher than the world average (about 5,000), it has been
decreasing (from 7,800 in 1987) as demand becomes increasingly satisfied, and is
expected to reach 6,600 by 1994; this declining trend is normal for a country with a
rapidly expanding network.



-4-
Exieting Facilitieo and Oualitv of Service
1.8         Under the ongoing first part  (1987-1992)  of ONPT's 8-year inveatment
program, major improvements and modernization o,e Morocco's telecommunication facxlities
are being achieved following the introduction of state-of-the-art digital technology in
switching and transmission. Presently, 77% of the existing telephone exchange capacity
and 69% of the transmission facilities (microwaves, trunk cables and optical fiber
links) are digitalized. The main benefits of digitalization ares lower capital and
operational costs, improvementa in the quality of service, access for subscribers to
advanced facilities (e.g. "intelligent services"), and ability to meet future ISDN1
demands. With an installed switching capacity of 675,000 and about 497,000 DELs in
service, exchange capacity utilization averages 71% which is acceptable for a rapidly
expanding network. The national long distance network consists of microwave routes (8.9
millior km-circuits), coaxial cables (7,7 million km-circuits), and optical fiber links
(0.3 million km-circuits). Interna '.onal service is provided through: two satellite
earth stations, one working with Intelsat t96 circuits) and the other working with
Arabsat (168 circuits), five submarine cables (5,200 circuits) and three microwave links
(1,050 circuits).   New services have recently been introduced by ONPTe a mobil6
telephone network is available since 1987, with about 1500 subscribers connected and a
1800 subscribers system capacity; and a new packet switching data transmission network
was put into service in 1991. Basic data on existing telecommunication facilities are
presented in Annex 2.
1.9         Call completion ratios for local, long distance and incoming international
calls average about 43%, 28% and 22% respectively. These moderate levels are mainly due
to (a) the fact that 23% of the existing switching capacity remains based on the
analogue technology; and (b) congestion resulting from the lack of traffic handling
capacity of the international switching exchange and the transmission network. This
problem is being addressed in the proposed project through the provision of new
international transit exchange and the improvement of the national transmission network.
The relatively high fault rate of 1 per line in service per annum, clearly indicates
there is substantial scope for further improvement in maintenance; confirming this is
the fact that only 59.7% of defective lines are returned to service within less than 48
hours.   In order to address these weaknesses, the proposed project will focus on
achieving a better balance between network expansion on the one hand, and network
operation and maintenance on the other (in terms of overall expenditures as well as
management attention). This will be made possible by the increased use of turnkey and
supply and erect contracts for construction of local networks (see para. 3.10); it will
enable ONPT's technical staff to spend less time on supervising a multitude of small
contracts and focus instead on network operations and munagement. Detailed technical
performance indicators are shown in Annex 2.
Manufacturina. Assembly and Installation Industry
1.10        Morocco  has  a  sizeable  telecommunications  manufacturing,  assembly,
installation and construction industry. It zomprises about 100 enterprises, only one
of which, Soci6t6 Nationale des T6ldcommunications (SNT) is Government-owned (SNT, which
specializes in the installation and construction of local networks, is one of the first
enterprises set to be privatized under the Government's privatization program). The
largest enterprise in the sector, outside of ONPT, is CGE-Maroc (a subsidiary of French
.1/  nlitegrmted Services Digital Network, which permits integration of video, data and voice transmission.



- 5 -
ALCATEL) which employs 1,200 persons and assemble. cable's (about 1 million km-pair per
year) and acessories.   Its annual turnover in the telecommunications seutor is
estlmated at DH 130 million 2. of the other (mostly small-scale) enterprises, about 30
are involved in civil works and line maintenance and 54 specialize in customer terminal
installation (PABX's etc.) and specialized customer-related services (the import of
termlnals is free in Morocco although subject to prior Government technical
certification).
Postal/Financial Services
1.11        Poatal services include transportation and distribution of letters and
packages, national and international express mail, rental of mail boxes and sale of
stamps. There are about 1,300 post offices throughout the country (density of 1 per
20,000 inhabitants), of which 600 provide full service. The most recent product is
express mail: international and domestic express mail is now available in 16 offices
and expanded by 20% and 40% respectively in 1991. Mail is generally distributed within
24 hours. Even though service is of good quality, overall mail traffic has grown slowly
over recent years (4% p.a. on average). FinancLal services provided by ONPT, include
money orders, savings accounts (Caisse d'Epargne) and checking account services (Cheques
Postaux).  They have been expanding, but their role in the country's banking system
remains marginal: average balances at the 300,000 accounts opened with Cheques Postaux
total only DH 1.6 billion (3% of total demand deposits in Morocco), which are deposited
with the Treasury; their primary purpose is to channel wages and pensions to Government
employees and to process paymants for various Government expenditures. International
postal transferu are primarily used by Moroccans living abroad. Average balances at the
620,000 savings accounts opened with the Calsse d'Epargne total DH 1.9 billion (3% of
total savings in Morocco); until recently part of ONPT, this institution was spun off
in April 1992, as a fully independent entity, authorized to provide the full range of
banking services.
1.12        Although operaiions are carried out reasonably effectively from a technical
standpoint, postal/financial services have generated substantial losses (DH 175 million,
i.e. 47% of gross revenues, in 1991).  A detailed diagnostic carried out by a Bank
consultant during project appraisal concluded that these losses were mainly due to: (i)
a  lack of commercial  aggressiveness;    (ii)  insufficient  postal  rates;    (iii)
insufficient renumeration by the Government for the provision of financial services
(para. 1.11); and (iv) costs associated with the opening of numerous (often uneconomic)
rural post offices (the number of which doubled in 10 years). Although these actlvities
are not central to the proposed project, which focuses primarily on the
Telecommunications sector, these issues have been addressed through the proposed funding
of a program of technical assistance for the postal/financial branch (para. 3.4).
Main Sectoral Issues
1.13        The Moroccan telecommunications sector has improved dramatically over the
last few years and shows a number of strenaths: (i! as already emphasized, project
implementation capacity has been dramatically increased, allowing for a doubling of
network size in less than 5 years; (ii) this accelerated expansion of the network has
been based on modern digital technology, a prerequisite for efficient and reliable
network operation and for the development of new services; (iii) the sector does not
suffer from lack of qualified technical staff, thanks to the emphasis given to technical
training (locally and abroad); and (iv) the sector's overall finances have remained
CGE-Maroc is also invoived in the manufacturing of cables and components for the electric industry.



-6-
healthy thanks to, on the one hand, telecommunications tariff levels which have enabled
a sizeable ix._.:.al contribution to investments (averaging 56% over the last 4 years)
in spite of a heavy fiscal burden, and, on the other, access to concessional (primarily
bilateral) long-term financing for imported equipment.  In spite of these strengths,
however, the sector is currently facing a number of constraints of a technical
institutional and financial nature, which are described below:
1.14        Technical and commercial performance. In spite of notable improvement
achieved in recent years as a result of heavy investments, Morocco still lags behin
neighboring countries and comparable countries in terms of density (1.9 per 100 pop.)
demand satisfaction (only 74%) and quality of service (see para. 1.4). In addition, th
lack of ONPT's commercial aggressiveness, at least until very recently, as well a
insufficient financial incentives have inhibited the development of new customer
oriented services (both value-added services, e.g., data transmission, cellular, paging
etc. and "intelligent" services, e.g., call forwarding, "800" numbers, etc.).
1.15        Financial and Accounting Issues. Although,  as mentioned,  the sector's
overall finances remain healthy, there are several issues of a financial nature which
need addressing. First, postal and financial services have consistently shown losses
(US$20 million equiv. in 1991) which have until now been covered by profits from the
telecommunications  activity.    Second,  Government  departments  have  accumulated
significant arrears to ONPT, accounting for about 24 months of consumption.  Third
there is so far no clear tariff policy, as the absence of cost accounting, in
particular, has prevented the design of a tariff structure based on economic criteria;
in fact, empirical evidence indicates that current levels are on the high side and might
hinder users' competitiveness (see para. 4.9).  Fourth, external financing of sector
investments, although mostly on concessional terms, has always required Government
guarantees, accounting for a sizeable portion of Morocco's public borrowings (see para.
1.2). Fifth, ONPT's management information systems are unreliable and are lacking in
terms of inventory management, register of fixed assets, cost accounting und budget
control (para. 2.4).
1.16        Institutional Constraints.  The drive of the last few years to accelerate
the expansion of the network in order to catch up with a growing demand, combined with
the sector authorities' focus on short-term operational issues had, until recently,
hampered long-term planning and resulted in the absence of a clear and fully-articulated
sectoral nolicy.  It is only in the last year that a high-level reflexion has been
taking place in Morocco on such issues as the respective roles of the public and private
sector and the rationale for the current monopolistic environment. In the context of
this ref lexion, a number of critical institutional constraints have been identified.
First, there is no effective and indeRendent reculation of the sector as ONPT has de
facto assumed most of the regulator's functions which are, under the existing law,
theoretically under the purview of M4PT (overall sector policy, pricing, conditions of
network interconnection, provision of leased lines, setting of technical norms and
standards,  licensing of installation contractors etc.3/).   This lack of adequate
regulation is not only clearly detrimental to ONPT's own efficiency under the current
monopolistic environment, but will become simply unacceptable if parts of the sector are
to be opened to competition and/or private investment, as is anticipated (see para.
1.17). Second, ONPT's, and the sector's efficiency has, in the past, been significantly
hampered by the lack of management and financial autonomy; as for most public
unterprises, ONPT was subject to burdensome controls from the Ministry of Finance on
day-to-day operations (ranging from involvement in all stages of procurement of goods
/    Only the management of the radio spectrum has effectively been carried out by MPI.



-7-
and services to the hiring of personnel). These controls were particularly inefficient
and costly in an extremely fast-growing and fast-changing sector where the capacity to
respond quickly to rapid technological change and customers' needs is, and will
increasingly be, the key to success. In addition, the lack of clearly-stated objectives
and performance standards did not provide ONPT with sufficient incentives to improve
efficiency nor the Government with ways   to measure  (and reward/penalize)  the
enterprise's performance (instead of intervening in its day-to-day management). In the
context of the project, a number of important steps have been taken to resolve these
issues, which are discussed below (see paras. 1.17-1.20).
Government Strateav and Proposed Restructuring
1.17        The  Government  is  aware  that  in  order  to  drastically  improve
telecommunications services and for Morocco to catch up with neighboring countries,
increased investments alone would not be sufficient and that it has to consider a
qualitative change in the way the sector is managed, following the path taken by an
increasing number of countries (both industrialized and developing) in recent years. A
high-level Commission was established in early 1991, with a mandate to design a new
institutional and regulatory framework for the sector, and the Government approached the
Bank for assistance in this endeavor. As a result, the Government has prepared a
Statement of Telecommunications  Sectoral  Policy.  The  latter prc-oses  a revised
institutional framework for the sector, which builds upon reforms in..tiated under the
Bank's First Telecommunications Project. The key elements of the new framework are: (i)
the separation of Posts and Telecommunications into two distinct legal entities; (ii)
the setting up of a regulatory structure outside of ONPT; (iii) the elimination of
ONPT's monopoly on value-added services; and (iv) the "corporatization" of ONPT (and its
successor enterprises) within the framework of performance contracts. The statement
includes a time bound action plan setting out key steps and target dates for
strengthening the MPT's institutional capabilities and preparing the groundwork for
liberalization of the sector. The Statement of Sector Policy and Plan of Action are
shown in Annex 3.   In addition, the Government:  (i)  is evaluating alternative
institutional frameworks on the basis of recent international experience; (ii) has
prepared and agreed with the Bank terms of reference for consultants to assist in
strengthening the regulatory function of MPT.
1.18        At this point in time, outright privatization of ONPT is not an option being
envisaged by the Government for the following reasons:   local capital markets are
currently too thin to accommodate a private issue of ONPT's size, and foreign control
of such a large monopoly4 is not considered politically feasible in the immediate
future. The Government prefers a gradualistic approach which involves, in a first stage
(i) opening certain segments of the telecommunication sector to competition; (ii)
enhancing ONPT's efficiency in the provision of basic telecommunications service under
a better-regulated environment; and (iii) giving priority to the privatization of
smaller, industrial, public enterprises under its ongoing privatization program with a
view, inter alia, to develop local capital markets. This could pave the ground, at some
future date, for opening up the ownership of one large utility such as ONPT to private
capital.
i/   In a countly the size of Morocco where the development of the basic network (compared to services) is still the utmost
priority, snd given the current state of technology, basic telephony is and is expected to remain at least for several yeams, a
natural monopoly.



- 8 -
1.19        Substantial progress has already been achieved in the implementation of
reform as follows:   first, ONPT's organization was revised in December 1991, to
accomplish a "do facto" separation of the Telecommunications and Postal financial
branches (para. 2.1); new managerial positions have been filled, some through external
recruitment. Furthermore, the on-going design of new management systems, carried out
with the assistance of Bank-financed management consultants, is based on the eventual
separation of the two activities (and aims in particular at establishing separate
accounts).   Second, MPT's staffing has already been strengthened to prepare it to
fulfill effectively its regulator's %ole, and TORs for related external assistance have
been agreeu during project appraisal (see above). Third, a "Contrat de Programme" has
been signed between ONPT and the Government and represents a major milestone in the
process of providing ONPT with corporate autonomy and accountability.
1.20        The 'Contrat de Programme" with ONPT is a key element of the proposed reform
as it provides ONPT with the corporate autonomy and accountability which are
prerequisites for improvements in the sector's efficiency. The document (which covers
the 1993-1997 period) includes in particular: (i) specific (quantitative) commitments
on ONPT's part regarding telephone coverage, quality of service, overall investment
levels, improvement of internal control systems and external audit, productivity, wages
and financial performance; (ii) commitments on the part of the Government regarding
tariffs (to be kept constant in real terms); level of taxation (to be kept at current
levels);    recruitment  flexibility;    financial  compensation  of  public  service
obligations; progressive elimination of a priori controls on expenditures; timely
payment of services; and access to local financial markets.   For Postal/Financial
Services, the document emphasizes in particular: (i) ONPT's commitment to justify the
opening of new post offices on economic grounds and (ii) the Government's commitment to
remunerate the provision of financial services at their actual cost (para. 1.12). The
"Contrat de Programme" provides assurances of ONPT autonomy of operation and that the
splitting of responsibilities between the Ministry and ONPT has been granted.
1.21        The Government and ONPT: (i) provided the Bank with a satisfactory Statement
of Telecommunications Sectoral Policy and related Plan of Action for overall reform
implementation; and (ii) signed a Contrat de Programme. Failure by either ONPT or the
Government to comply with their respective commitments under these documents would give
rise to a suspension remedy under the Loan Agreement.
Bank Role
1.22        Previous Bank Experience and Lessons Learned. The Bank has been involved in
the sector since 1982, when it initiated a sector study which led to the creation, in
1984, of ONPT (para. 2.1) and to the subsequent processing of the First
Telecommunications Loan of USS 125 million (No. 2798-MOR, approved in April 1987). The
main objectives of the First Project, which is scheduled for completion by end-1993,
were to (i) assist in the implementation of the first phase of the sector's ambitious
long-term expansion plan (aiming at more than doubling the number of connected DELs from
251,000 in 1986 to 640,000 by 1992); and (ii) help strengthen ONPT as an autonomous and
efficient entity through a wide-ranging technical assistance program. After a slow
start due primarily to ONPT's lack of familiarity with Bank procedures, project
implementation has accelerated: as of March 1992, 78% of the revised loan amount 5/ was
v     US$9 million were cancelled in 1989



committed, and the loan is expected to be fully disbursed by the end of 1993 6/. System
expansion is only slightly behind schedule, with 497,000 DELs in service as of end-1991,
compared to 525,000 targeted under the Project. The comprehensive program of technical
assistance to ONPT, was completed by June 30, 1992, included in particular: (i) a long-
term demand study; (ii) a tariff study; (iii) the set up of a cost accounting system;
(iv) the improvement of procurement and inventory management systems; (v) a data
processing long-term development plan; and (vi) the revamping of the personnel function
(details in charter II).
1.23 Previous Bank experience in the telecommunications sector has shown that the pace
and the scope of sector reform has varied considerably among regions and that there is
no single blue print for succOes. Outright privatization, which depends on windows of
political opportunity, is not always feasible nor has it led necessarily to improved
sector performance. Rather, the introduction of competition in at least some market
segments, effective regulation, and arms-length relations between the Government and the
telecommunications utility have been found to be factors of success. A lesson derived
from the implementation of the Morocco PERL7, completed in 1991, is also of particular
relevance to the proposed continued Bank involvement in the sector:   the Project
Completion Report pointed out, inter alia, that "in future [public enterprise
restructuring) operations, the Bank should continue to be mindful of the scope of change
involved and recognize the long period which may be required for all the elements of the
restructuring operations to take hold... Thus, perhaps the foremost consideration is the
Government's sustained commitment to the reform process, recognizing there may be
temporary setbacks in meeting specific targets".
1.24        Recent and Forthcomina Bank Assistance for Sector Restructuring. In the
context of the follow-up of the First Project, the Bank has been pursuing with the
Government a dialogue on a wide range of sectoral issues. In particular, the Bank has
been actively supporting the Government's efforts at sector restructuring since their
inception, as follows: (i) in early 1991, a Bank-financed expert provided advice to the
Government in evaluating alternative institutional sector frameworks, drawing on lessons
from recent international experience in telecommunications sector restructuring; (ii)
in the course of subsequent missions in 1991, and 1992, the Bank was instrumental in the
Government's drafting of a Statement of Sectoral Policy which sets forth the key
elements of its proposed reform of the sector as well as Contrat de Programme with ONPT
(para. 1.20);   (iii) per the Bank's recommendation, the scope of the work carried out
by management consultants under the First Project (para. 2.4) was reoriented to take
into account impending changes in the sector, most particularly the proposed separation
of Postal Services and Telecommunications; (iv) under the project, a technical
assistance program (based on TORe agreed with the Bank) designed to strengthen
regulatory function and improve institutional capabilities will be launched; thie task
s expected to start by June 1993, for completion by November 1993); (v) the Bank has
ommissioned the preparation of a long-term Telecommunications Strategic Plan Study 8/
hich will, inter-alia, help ONPT revise its investment strategy to adapt to the newly-
iberalized sector environment -- corresponding work initiated in March 1992, was
-mpleted by October 1992; and (vi) the Bank carried out, during appraisal, a detailed
iagnostic of ONPT's postal/financial branch and prepared a related medium-term program
W/   Tbe relatively low disbusement percentage as of March 1992 (32%) is explained by the fact that many telecommunications
contracts provide for final commissioning (and thus final payment) within up to one year after work completion.
D    Public Enterprise Rehabilitation Loan (No. 2820-MOR, approved in June 1987), which aimed at
rationalizing the role of the State in the econano.
Under funding from the Swedish Trust Fund.



- 10 -
of technical assistance. The latter two Bank-sponsored actions are only the first, and
most urgently-needed, steps of a more comprehensive sector assistance program, the bulk
of which would be funded by the proposed loan starting in the first half of 1993 (see
para. 3.4).
1.25        Rationale for Bank involvement.  The telecommunications sector is critical
to Morocco's economy in two respects: first, because improvement in telecommunication
service is a prerequisite to the development of a dynamic, outward-oriented economy,
particularly at a time when the country is developing its ties with the EEC (para 1.1);
and second because that sector accounts for a major share of the country's public
sector, be it in terms of investments (US$400 million p.a. over the next three years),
foreign borrowings, or fiscal revenues. It is therefore essential that the sector be
managed and developed in the most efficient fashion. The Bank has a key role to play
in helping the sector face the new challenge of having to manage concurrently a rapid
expansion and fundamental institutional and organizational changes.
1.25        The Bank would, through its operational involvement and partial financing
of a time-slice of ONPT's investment program, first, ensure that sector investments are
planned and carried out in an optimal manner. Second, it can help promote broad
institutional reform directed, on the one hand, at improving ONPT's institutional set-up
(in line with the reforms initiated under the PERL) and, on the other hand, at favoring
private sector involvement whenever such involvement can demonstrably benefit sector
development  (para.  1.17).   Third, the Bank would play a catalytic role in the
mobilization of external financing for this capital-intensive sector by: (a) providing
advice on the optimization of the sector' overall financing mix (a major share of which
currently consists of tied bilateral concessional loans and export credits); and (b)
together with institutions which have already indicated their intereet in cofinancing
a Bank project (EIB), covering ONPT's external financing gap (corresponding to the
foreign cost of investment items which are not eligible for bilateral or export
financing), thus fulfilling its role of lender of last resort. Furthermore, the Bank's
support to ONPT's corporatization and greater financial autonomy is expected to enhance
its ultimate ability to access financial markets on its own standing, possibly within
4-5 years.



- 11 -
II - THE BORROWER
Oraanization and Manaaement
2.1         ONPT  currently  has  a monopoly  on  all  telecommunications  and postal
operations (para. 1.3). It was established in 1984 as an "Office", an autonomous public
enterprise subject to the tutelage of the MPT.   ONPT has an eight-member Board of
Directors chaired by the Prime Minister; other members are the ministers of Finance,
Interior, Planning, Economic Affairs, Industry and Transport.  As for most Moroccan
public enterprises (PEs), the Board nieets infrequently (usually only once a year) and
its role remains quite limited. The Minister of P&T has been acting as Director General
since ONPT's creation. Until 1991, ONPT's organizational structure included two Central
Directorates (Telecoms and Postal/Financial Services) and five common central
departments (Finance, Strategy, Administration, Common Services and Procurement).
However, this structure was revised in December 1991 to accomplish a "de facto"
separation of Telecom and Posts activities, as a prelude to the establishment of two
distinct legal entities (para. 1.17). The new organization chart is shown in Annex 4.
Since the end of 1992, the relationship with the Government is governed by a "Contrat
de Programme" (see para 1.20).
Staff and Trainina
.2         As of December 31. 1991, ONPT had about 16,600 employees.   Total staff
involved directly or indirectly in telecommunications amounts to 10,350, equivalent to
0.8 per 1,000 DELs, which compares well even with newly industrialized countries
Singapore 16, Portugal 17). In view of the future expansion of Morocco's network, ONPT
will have to hire additional staff, particularly telecommunications engineers and
echnicians; it has also recently hired additional qualified managers in operations,
ccounting, finance and other business areas.   At project completion (1995), about
15,900 staff are expected to be employed in the telecommunications activity, for a ratio
of 13.7 per 1,000 DELs. Hiring and training of additional qualified staff to meet the
project requirement will be a real challenge to ONPT; it is already clear that more
flexibility in personnel policy will be required to attract staff of the necessary
caliber. Appropriate arrangements to that effect have been provided in the Contrat de
Programme signed between the Government and ONPT (para. 1.20).
2.3   Current training arrangements for engineers and technicians are satisfactory.
ONPT provides higher level training through the "Institut National des Postes et
T6l6communications"  (INPT) in Rabat.   The INPT is well organized and has adequate
faculty reeources to cope with ONPT's higher-level staff training requirements; however,
it needs to modernize its facilities, upgrade its existing technical training curriculum
and introduce certain management courses to train a larger number of managers. INPT is
currently introducing a high-level Engineer curriculum under a long-term partnership
agreement with the French Ecole Nationale Sup6rieure des T6l6communlcations.
Technical Assistance
4   Since October 1990 international consultants funded under Loan 2798-MOR (para.
22) have been assisting ONPT in revamping its management systems in five major areas
(for both telecoms and postal/financial services):
(a)   data processing;
(b)   financial and accounting systems;



- 12 -
(c)   procurement and inventory management;
(d)   human resource management; and
(e)   tariffs.
The consultants have completed their work by June 30, 1992, with the finalization of
implementable frameworke and related systems. In order to adapt the present systems to
the new ones, expert assistance will be required to help ONPT install recommended
systems and procedures over the next two to three years, and corresponding funding is
provided under the proposed project.
Data processing
2.5   ONPT's data processing facilities are centralized in Rabat.  The staff of 170 now
process the following main applications: billing and collection for telephone and telex,
general accounting, postal savings accounts and postal check services.   The data
processing plan prepared by the consultants is designed to provide more reliable
services, decentralize them and extend them to new functions. Services covered by the
plan include, for telecommunications: (i) operations (lines technical management,
traffic and quality of service, management of national network); (ii) investments
(network planning and lines construction); and (iii) commercial (billing and collection,
directory, marketing and tariff).   Also covered  (for both telecommunications and
postal/financial services) would be: (i) accounting and finance; (ii) human resource
management; and (iii) procurement. Computer services would be decentralized to four
provincial centers. Assistance for the implementation of the data processing plan,
including specialized consulting services, training, hiring of software analysts, and
purchase of new equipment, is included in the project (see Annex 6).
Billina
2.6   Telecommunications billing is mainly computerized.   The breakdown of total
consumption between private and public sector is presently about 82-18%.   Monthly
billing policy has been adopted since January 1992. A monthly cycle is expected to be
introduced u:Ser the data processing plan (see para. 2.5). Telecommunications billing
and collection will be established as an ancillary system to general accounting within
the new framework.   Thus, appropriate linking procedures will be set up and any
discrepancies between customers' accounts and general accounting which were present at
the start of computerization or crept in later on will be corrected.
Accounting
2.7   Accounting data can already provide separate financial statements for post and
telecommunications, but they are neither detailed enough nor fully reliable, given
persistent weaknesses in ONPT's financial systems and lack of fully adequate cost
accounting.   The assista -e provided by the consultants aimed at addressing these
weaknesses. General accounting will use a powerful software (DBS) that will use cost
accounting information and make the budgetary forecasting and follow-up process more
precise and efficient. Decentralized ancillary accounts for customers, suppliers, fixed
assets, stocks, personnel and cash and loans will be tightly linked to general
accounting.   A detailed analysis of the discrepancies between the old and the new
systems, particularly with respect to decentralized accounts, will be required in close



- 13 -
coordination with the work of the external auditors, b1efore the new system is
implemented over the next two years.
External Auditing
2.8   In February 1992, ONPT hired private external auditors to audit its accounts in
order to comply with its obligations under loan No.2798-MOR (it had been agreed with the
Dank during earlier supervision missions that an external audit could only be
efficiently carried out following completion of the accounting consultancy work). ONPT
has submitted its 1991 audited accounts. It was agreed at neqotiationg that because of
the commercial character and the autonomy of the posts and telecommunications
management, ONPT's accounts and the accounts of all project components should be audited
by external auditors acceptable to the Bank.  Audited financial statements will be
submitted to the Bank within six months after the end of the financial year.
Tariffs
2.9   Current telephone tariffs consist of a base call charge of DH 0.75 per metered
pulse, a monthly subscription fee of DH 20, and a connection fee of DH 300. Tariffs are
based on periodic pulse metering, with the duration between consecutive pulses varying
from 6 minutes for local calls to 9 seconds for national calls of more than 500 km, and
from 9 seconds for Maghreb countries to 1.5 seconds for America and Oceania (see
detailed schedule in Annex 5). On average, these tariffs appear high when compared to
other countries. Management consultants have carried a tariff study. The tariff study
focuses primarily on rate structure, and its preliminary recommendations are as follows:
(i) the connection (or installation) fee should generally cover the one-time
cost of connecting the subscriber to the telephone exchange; in certain
circumstances it could be treated as an entry fee to the network, and its
level would be a deterrent to potentially insolvent customers;
(ii) the monthly subscription (or rental fee) should, in principle, cover the
fixed costs directly associated with the line and equipment connecting the
subscriber to the network;
(iii) the traffic related charges should progressively be less sensitive to the
distance, so the long distance tariffs can be simplified; and
(iv) off-peak traffic should get a discount to promote a better utilization of
the network.
2.10 As agreed under Loan 2798-MOR, the consultants' final report is being jointly
reviewed with the Bank. Understandings were reached during negotiations of this Project
that a tariff structure proposal would be furnished to the Bank by June 30, 1993, and
carried out, starting December 31, 1993, taking into account the Bank's comments.
Overall average tariff levels have been so far sufficient to ensure ONPT's financial
health and the local cost financing of sector investments (see Chapter IV). A financial
covenant under the proposed loan for a minimum self-financing ratio of 40% will, Lnter
alia, prevent tariffs from being lowered to levels which would threaten sector finances



- 14 -
(para. 4.9). A risk exists that tariffs may be raised excessively (adversely affecting
demand in the long run) as a consequence of Government indiscriminate and excessive
taxation. As a safeguard, limits on future tariff increases have been provided under
the Contrat de Programme which stipulates that tariffs will be kept constant in real
terms at their 1992 level and that the monopoly tax will remain fixed at 10% of
telecommunications annual sales before VAT.



- 15 -
III - THE PROGRAM AND TRE PROJECT
A. Proiect Scone
Telecommunications Inv&.-ment Proaram
3.1   In 1986, ONPT prepared, with Bank easistance, a telecommunications investment
program for the period 1987-1994 (para. 1.22). Under this program, telephone system
switching capacity was to be increased from 286,000 lines (end-1986) to 1,081,000 lines
(end-1994). Specialized new services were to be provided and domestic long distance,
rural, regional and international telecommunication systenm  modernized.  The program
projected an average growth of DELs connections of about 19% per annum, which would meet
about 96% of projected demand for 1994, a marked improvement over the 1986 situation
(59% demand satisfaction). The program was divided into two parts with the moat urgent
works to be implemented first. The first part included the ongoing first Bank project
which is being implemented over 1987-92. The second part is overlapping with the first
one and would be implemented over 1992-94. As the implementation of the first part was
well underway at the beginning of 1991 (86% of the projected 290,000 exchange lines
capacity expansion implemented by January 1991), ONPT decided to proceed immediately
with the second part.
3.2         The second part of ONPT's program includes,  inter alia, ongoing works
consisting of two major turnkey contracts for a total of 300,000 new lines of exchange
capacity and 130,000 new connected lines under bilateral (French and Canadian)
financing. It would essentially be implemented over 1992-94. During the implementation
of the second part, the projected 27% annual growth in the number of connected
subscribers would enable ONPT to meet about 96% of projected demand by the end of 1994.
This planned growth rate is reasonable and consistent with ONPT's performance during the
past two years (22% in 1990 a:.id 1991).  By 1994, ONPT would have a totally digitalized
network throughout the country. Telephone density would be up from 1.1 in 1987 to 3.6
per 100 population in 1994, which would still remain low when compared with countries
of comparable GNP.   Detailed planning on a longer horizon  (year 2007)  is being
undertaken with the assistance of Bank consultants who completed in October 1992 a
Telecommunications strategic Plan Study (para. 1.22).
Proiect Obiectives
3.3         The project aims, first, at assisting the Government in improving its
institutional capabilities and preparing the groundwork for sector liberalization (para
1.17) through the provision of specialized expert advice and consulting services,
training, and monitoring equipment and syatems.  Secgnd, it aims further expanding
Morocco's basic telecommunications network through partial funding of a time slice of
ONPT's investment program.  The latter consists of the second part of ONPT's investment
program to be implemented from 1992 to 1994. It will add about 406,000 new digitalized
lines of exchange capacity, replace 81,000 old analog lines by new digitalized lines and
connect 420,000 new subscribers. Automatic rural telephone services would be extended



- 16 -
to about 780 new villages and international communications capability expanded.
Completion of the overlay digital long distance network and new digital facilities in
trunk exchanges will permit: (i) releasing most of the congested portion of the network
and (ii) provision of high quality network telecommunication services.
Proiect Descri_ption
3.4         A detailed project description is included in Annex 7.  The main project
components are as follows:
(a)   sector restructuring and institutional strenothenino
(i)   consultancy services to assist in strengthening of MPT's institutional
capabilities, including its respective regulatory function;
(ii)  computerized systems and equipment for MPT to be able to control
efficiently the radio frequency spectrum;
(iii) consultancy services and training to further enhance ONPT
institutional capacity which started under the First Project for
telecome and, to a lesser extent, postal/financial services (detailed
description of the proposed Technical Assistance program is included
in Annex 6); and
(iv)  acquisition of computer equipment and development of related systems
for implementation of ONPT's data processing master plan, based on
recommendations of the studies included in the Bank's First Project
(para 2.5);
(b) exoansion of ONPT's network:
(i)    about 487,000 digitalized lines of local (digitalized) switching and
subscriber equipment; and related switching equipment for domestic
trunk exchanges (58,200 new circuits in 7 exchanges);
(ii)   associated  local  networks  and  subscriber  outside  plant  for
connection of about 420,000 new subscriber lines;
(iii)  54 digital microwaves links, 22 optical fiber trunks, and equipment
to digitalize 8 coaxial long distance cables;
(iv)   equipment to expand the two international switching gateway capacity
(22,300 new circuits) and the two earth stations capacity (360
circuits);
(v)    equipment  to  connect  the  domestic  network  to  the  two  new
international optical fiber submarine cables;
(vi)   facilities for automatic services in about 780 rural areas;  and
(vii)  specialized  services  such  as  mobile/maritime  radio  and  data
transmission.



- 17 -
B. Cogt and Financina
Proiect Cost
3.5   The total project cost is estimated at USS 1,203.6 million.   The direct and
indirect foreign exchange component amounts to US$ 634.0 million, (direct foreign
exchange USS 579.6 million) or 53% of the total cost. About 29% of the total project
cost would be for swltching, 53% for transmission and distribution, 7% for rural
telephony, and 11% for data procepuing, training and studies, and miscellaneous
investments (incl. land and building).  Base cost estimates are in mid-1992 prices.
Unit prices for equipment works are consistent with costs obtained in contracts signed
in 1991.   Unit costs for consultant services average USS 20,000 per man-month, in
acuordance with rates prevailing both ln Morocco and abroad for similar expertise. The
indirect foreign content for local network construction was estimated at 60% of the
total cost for civil works and 70% for turnkey, supply and erection contracts. They are
based on world average costs for similar works and on a review of sample contracts in
Morocco.
3.6   Detailed project costs are sh'ira in Annex 8 and summarized belows
Table 3.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
----(current US$ million) d)----
Local a)  Foreian       Total
Switching b)                       175.4       176.0        351.4
Long dist. transmission            178.9       199.7        378.6
Local networks                     142.4       119.0        261.4
Rural telecoms                      38.1        51.4         89.5
TA, training & studies                 -        16.9         16.9
Data processing                     10.2        13.1         23.3
Miscellaneous  c)                   79.0           -         79.0
2PT (TA & Control Center)              -         3.5          3.5
TOTAL COST                   624.0       579.6     1,203.6
a) includes indirect foreign cost and VAT/custom duties (USS54.4 and USS383.5 million respectively, before contingencies)
b) includes data transmission
c) includes land, buildings and vehicles
d)  Physical contingencies have been estimated at 5X. Price contingencies are based on local inflation rates of 6X in
1992 and 1993, 7X in 1994, and 6X thereafter; and foreign inflation rates of 3% in 1992 and 4X thereafter.



- 18 -
Proiect Financine
3./         The tentative project financing plan is summarized below:
Table 3.2.: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(USs million)
ONPT  Local  Exist., Bitateral  Export  EIB/  Bank    TOTAL
Banks  Loans  Credits   Credits  ___
Switching    175.3   -    62.5   113.6     .      -      -       351.4
L-D transmis.   165.7    38.8     -      124.7   36.9    12.5 ZL  378.6
Locat Networks   56.5  44.7  36.8          2.8   55.9    64.7 gL  261.4
Rurat telecoms   38.1   -    13.3         27.2   10.9     -       89.5
TA, training
& studies     -    -    6.3               -      -       10.6    16.9
Data processing
equipment    10.2   -    4.4              -      -       8.7      23.3
Miscellaneous    49.6  29.4   -               -           -       79.0
NPT (TA & Contr.  3.7
Center,             -                                    3.5      3.5
TOTAL        499.1  74.1  162.1   113.6   154.7   103.7   100.0   1,203.6
1/ includes First IBRD Loan (USS80.1 miltion)
2/ inctudes indirect foreign cost
3.8   The proposed IBRD loan of US$100 million will firsance 8% of the total project cost
and 17% of its foreign cost (16% when indirect foreign cost is included).  It will
finance the direct and indirect foreign cost of goods and services which are not
eligible for traditional bilaterel and export financing i.e: (i) the construction of
local networks; (ii) small equipment and spare parts for transmission; (iii)
construction of fiber optical links (under supply and erect contracts); (iv) data
processing equipment; (v) technical assistance, studies and training; and (vi)
management systems and equipment for frequency control by MPT. A proposed loan of ECU
80 million from SIB is expected to be secured to co-finance the project. Concessional
bilateral loans from France, Canada and Sweden as well as export credits from major
supplier countries are expected to cover the bulk of the foreign cost of switching and
transmission for a total amount of about US$330 million.  About US$80 Luillion is being
committed under Loan 2798-MOR in 1992 and 1993. ONPT would cover most of the project
local cost from internal funds (US$499 milliorn equivalent) complemented by loans from
local banks to a minor extent (due to ONPT's limited access to local capital markets).
The Governments of France and Sweden have already indicated their interest in supporting
substantial levels of financing for switching equipment through concessional --mixed--
credits), although formal commitments cannot be secured since their funding is
traditionally negotiated on an annual basis. Financing of switching equipment is likely
to be secured given the intense international competition for this type of equipment.
Negotiations have been completed between the Moroccan Government and EIB regarding its



- 19 -
co-financinq of the program. The Bank documents make provisions for remedial actions
(including suspension of disbursements) in case of failure by elther ONPT or the
Government to comply with their corresponding commitments. Retroactive finanoina for
up to US$6.0 million would be provided under the Bank loan to ONPT for payments after
1/1/93 under priority contracts relating to equipment and worke for local network.
C. Procurement and Imnlementation
Procurement
3.9    Procurement  arrangements  for the project are summarized belows
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT A RANGEMENTS
(USS NZIflon)
Project Component                   ICB         LCB        Other        Total
Switching Equipment                                      351          351
Transmission Equipment           360 (12)                 19 W         379 (12)
Local Network:
. Cfvil Works                             46  C6)                    46  (6)
. Cable & Line Equipment        89 (18)                              89 (18)
. Turn-Key Contracts            47 (20)                              47 (20)
,Sumly and erect                78 (19)                              78 (19)
conracts
Rural Telephony                   90                                    90
Land/Buitdings/Support                       79                        79
Data process. equip.              23 (9)                                23 t9)
Consu1t. services                                        13 (7)v'       1  t
Fre .Cgnt Cntr., Instrwens/                               6 WE,
0oP   trainingi materlats
TOTAL                   687 (78)   125 (6)    392 (16)   1,204 (100)
Percent of Bank Loan                 78X         6K         16X      100O
Note:  Figures in parentheses represent amounts to be financed by the proposed Bank loan.
/   Figures include taxes and duties as well as good and services procured under the  first Bank Loan.
N Negotiated contracts, not financed by the Bank.
El Limited International Bidding.
gl World Bank guidelines for selection of consultants.



- 20 -
Bids will be evaluated utilizing the post-qualification procedure: this arrangement has
proved satisfactory during implementation of the First Bank Project.  Equipment and
works for US$ 78.0 million (including contingencies) financed by the Bank would be
procured through ICB prosedures in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Selection of
Bank-financed consultants (US$ 10.0 million) would be carried-out in accordance with
Bank guidelines  for use of consultants.    Consultancy  services  are needed  for
institutional development for both ONPT and MPT. The manpower required for technical
assistance is estimated at 569 man-months;   participation of local consultants is
expected, most probably in association with international consulting firms. Limited
international bidding procedures would be used to procure US$ 4.0 million of tools,
metering instruments for regional training centers as well as radio frequency control
equipment to be financed by the loan. LIB has been selected for these packages as there
are only a limited number of suppliers. For procurement under ICB, a preference limited
to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the customs duty, charged to non-exempt
importers, whichever is lower, would be extended to domestic manufacturers in evaluating
bids. Prior Bank review of procurement documentation would be required for: (i) all ICB
contracts and for those contracts estimated to be larger than US$ 500,000 for goods; and
(ii) for securing consultants' services. About 30 contracts (out of about 50 contracts)
equivalent to about US$ 92.0 million (92% of the proposed Bank loan), would be reviewed.
Other Bank-financed contracts will be subject to random post-award review and all bid
documentation will be furnished together with respective contracts.
3.10        To minimize implementation delays in the construction of large local
networks, with expansion of more than 10,000 new subscriber lines each, ONPT will use
turnkey contracts2 and supply and erect contiacts!0/.  This represents about 48% of
the local network item with total costs of about US$ 132.0 million for project design,
civil works (including ducts and other construction materials), cable supply and
erection.   Part of the indirect foreign exchange component of these works and
construction materials, which is estimated at US$41.2 million, is proposed for Bank
financing.   Turnkey contracts for local networks would be procured through ICB in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines.   The size and dispersal of civil works for
relatively small subprojects is unlikaly to attract foreign bidders.  Consequently,
contracts for civil works for local netwo;k construction, not to exceed US$ 500,000 each
and USS 6.0 million in total, would be procured under local competitive bidding (LCB),
which is open to participation by foreign firms.  The project would be advertised
internationally; ONPT's LCB procurement procedures have been reviewed in detail during
appraisal and found satisfactory. With the experience of the first project, ONPT is
fully familiarized with Bank procedures.
3.11        Procurement under cofinancing would be in accordance with the guidelines of
the  respective  institutions.    Negotiated  contracts  under  bilateral  financing
arrangements would be used to procure USS 240.0 million (excluding custom duties) of
equipment, including 190,000 lines of digital switching equipment and multiplexing
digital transmission equipment. About US$ 60.0 million of the negotiated contracts have
21   Turnkey contrac's include network design, supply and installation of underground and aerial cables, manholes
and cable duct construction and new subscriber connection.
i/    Supply and erect contracts include supply and installation of underground and aerial cables with or without
new subscriber connection.



- 21 -
already been awarded and USS 180.0 million are currently under discussion with suppliers
from France and Sweden for delivery in 1993-94 (para. 3.8). The award of past similar
contracts has proceeded in a satisfactory manner. The Bank will continue to be kept
regularly informed about the negotiations and award of future negotiated contracts under
bilateral financing.
Disbursements
3.12        Disbursement would be made against 100% of the CIF cost of imported goods,
80% of the cost of goods and services procured locally (to avoid payment against
estimated local distribution margins and taxes), 70% of the cost of local network turn-
key contracts and supply and erect contracts, 60% of the cost of local network civil
works (in both cases, corresponding to the estimated indirect foreign exchange cost of
such contracts; see para 3.5), 100% of the total costs of consultants and training, and
100% of the ex-factory cost of locally-manufactured items (procured under ICB or LCB).
The proposed Bank Loans totalling USS 100.0 million would be disbursed as follows:



- 22 -
Table 3.4: DISBURSEMENT OF PROPOSED LOANS
Category              Amount US$               % Financed
('000)
1. Transmission equipment and           11,500  70% of total expenditures.
associated installation and training
services
2. Cables, poles and associated         17,200  100% of foreign expenditures,
line equipment for local networks.              100% of ex-factory cost for locally
manufactured items, and 80% of
local expenditures for other locally
purchased items.
3. Civil works for local networks.       5,500  60% of total expenditures.
4. Turn key contracts and supply        35,000 70% of total expenditures.
and erect contracts for local
networks.
5. Data processing equipment             8,000  100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of ex-factory cost for other
locally manufactured items, and
80% of local expenditures for
locally purchased items.
6. Consultants' services, training       9,100  100% of expenditures.
services and related equipment.
1,500  100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of ex-factory cost for locally
7. Training equipment                           manufactured items, and 80% of
local expenditures for other locally
purchased items.
8. Radio frequency control               2,200  100% of foreign expenditures and
equipment ad software                           80% of local expensitures.
9. Unallocated                          10.000
Total                              100,000



- 23 -
3.13        The estimated disbursement schedule (Annex 10) was based on the Bank's
disbursement profiles for Bank telecommunication projects. Disbursements are expected
to be completed by December 31,  1997.   Withdrawal  applications would be fully
documented, except for eligible expenditures under contracts for goods and works valued
below $300,000 equivalent which would be made on the basis of certified statements of
expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation in these cases would be retained by the
borrower for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the
year in which the last disbursement was made.   This documentation would be made
available for review by the auditors and Bank staff on request.  ONPT's annual financial
audits (para 2.8) would include a separate opinion on the claims submitted to the Bank
on the basis of SOEs stating whether such claims were in accordance with the loan
agreement. The accounts for MPT's project component would be audited yearly by external
auditors acceptable to the Bank and the audit report submitted to the Bank within 6
months of the end of each fiscal year.
3.14        In order to facilitate project implementation,  ONPT would establish a
special account.   The authorized allocation would be $7.0 million equivalent which
represents about 4 months of average estimated disbursements on the loan during the peak
period of 1993-95.  The special account would be replenished monthly (at the latest
every 4 months), or whenever one third of the amount deposited has been withdrawn,
whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment applications
would follow the same procedure described in para. 3.13.  In addition, monthly bank
statements detailing the transactions in the special account which have been reconciled
by the borrower would accompany all replenishment requests.
Project ImDlementation
3.15        During the implementation of the ongoing project, ONPT has gradually
improved   capabilities in the areas of engineering,  investment planning, detailed
project design, procurement, project management and supervision. The planning and the
detailed design of the project were executed by ONPT's staff. Technical assistance and
training under the proposed project would help ONPT organize project management and
supervision, and improve network operations, maintenance and customer services (see
details in Annex 6). Switching and transmission equipment will be installed by the
respective suppliers. Construction of technical buildings, manholes, and cable ducts
will be carried out by local private contractors.   Installation of underground and
aerial cables and associated equipment procured separately by ONPT will be installed by
private local contractors under ONPT's supervision or by ONPT staff. Large turn-key
contracts for local networks will be carried out by foreign contractors/suppliers in
association with local private contractors/suppliers.   Overall project management,
coordination, supervision and follow-up of various contractors' involvement, as well as
acceptance tests will be carried out by ONPT staff.  The project is expected to be
substantially completed by December 31, 1996. A detailed Implementation Schedule is
shown in Annex 9 and a supervision plan in Annex 15. Although ambitious, this schedule
is achievab' m given ONPT's excellent implementation performance over the last two years
(para. 1.22). Given the importance of the timely implementation of sector reform, the
proposed consultants' assistance to strengthen institutional capabilities should be
sought without delay (para 1.19)1 understandings were reached during negotiations that
ONPT would employ consultants no later than June 1, 1993. Because of MPT's budgetary
limitation, purchase of radio frequency control equipment and institutional
strengthening technical assistance will be carried out by ONPT, on behalf of the
Government. However, the Government will have sole responsibility to: draft the TORs



- 24 -
and the bidding documents for goods, select and supervise the consultants, and evaluate
the bid offeres.  In that regard, the Government and ONPT have concluded an agreement.
Status of Proiect Preparation
3.16        Preparation of the project is well advanced: bidding documents for about
half of the turnkey contracts, to be financed by the loan (para. 3.10) have been
prepared and are currently being reviewed by the Bank. Discussions are underway between
ONPT and foreign consultants regarding the implementation of the program for technical
assistance to ONPT (for telecoms and postal/financial services) included in the project
(para. 3.4); and terms of reference have been agreed regarding the assistance on
institutional strengthening (para. 1.22).   Finally, key documents related to sector
reform (para. 1.19) have been discussed with the Bank and signed by the Moroccan
authorities.
Environmental and Health Asoects
3.17        The proposed project is expected to have significant environmental benefits,
as more efficient use of telecommunications will substitute for personal transportation
and correspondingly reduce environmental pollution and promote energy conservation. In
addition, improved telecommunication services will facilitate, extension of health
services and emergency care, especially in rural areas.
3.18        The project is expected to have only minor adverse environmental or health
effects and has been rated "B". A review carried out during project preappraieal showed
that:
(a)          underground installation of telephone cables in urban areas
mostly uses corridors previously used by electricity and water
utilities, therefore avoiding the need to excavate new ground;
(b)          aerial installation of telephone lines in urban areas is
minimized and in any case subject to specific rules edicted by
local municipalities concerning the preservation of cultural
sites:
(c)          long-distance transmission cables are laid along roads and
railways to avoid potential disputes on right of way and the
disruption of ecologically sensitive areas;
(d)          modernization or expansion of micro-wave transmission capacity
will make use of existing sites and towers, whenever possible;
(e)          expansion of switching capacity will take place either in
existing buildings or in new buildings to be constructed on
sites currently owned by ONPT; and
(f)          from en institutional standpoint, ONPT's procedures are geared
to ensure that all environment-related regulations (from
municipalities, concerned ministries etc.) are strictly
respected, and that its construction plans are duly approved
by the proper authority.



- 25 -
Performance Monitorina
3.19        ONPT's overall performance during project implementation will be monitored
through selected performance indicators related to technical, operational and financial
performance, subscriber connections, service quality, and staffing (Annex 2).
Continuous monitoring of project physical implementation as well as ONPT's operational
and financial performance and efficiency will assist ONPT in improving its management
capacity and allow timely corrective actions to be taken, when necessary. ONPT will
prepare annually for Bank review a comparative analysis of its actual performance
against the agreed target indicators. During negotiations. ONPT agreed with the Bank
to: (i) take all necessary action to achieve the agreed targets; (ii) provide the Bank
by June 30 of each year a report on the achievement of these targets for the previous
year and by October 30 of each year proposed revisions, if any, to the agreed targets
for the next year; and (iii) introduce any revisions in the targets agreed with the
Bank.



- 26 -
IV - FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Past Performance
4.1         The financial performance of ONPT's Telecommunications branch over the last
four years is summarized below and detailed in Annex 11; it is based on a pro-forma
separation of ONPT's accounts between telecommunications and postal/financial services
based on an estimated allocation of the cost of common services between the two
activities.
Table 4.1: ONPT TELECOMMUNICATIONS - PAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Years ending Dec. 31           1988        1989         1990        1991
Operating revenues (DH M)      2,139       2,382        2,785       3,209
operating ratio (%) L            57          57           62          61
Rate of return on
book value (%)                 63          47           28          24
Self financing (%)               93          48           48          33
Current ratio                   3.5         2.8          2.3         1.9
Debt/debt & equity (%)           15          24           31          39
Debt serv. cov. (times)         8.8         6.5          4.5         3.0
IL operating expenses (inct. depreciation and taxes) as a X of operating revenues.
4.2        The above table shows a healthy growth of gross revenues, at an average rate
of 14.5% p.a., in spite of the fact that the average revenue per line decreased by 8%
p.a. in real terms from 1988 to 1991 (since 1985, the base call charge (taxe de base)
has been raised three times, by 20% to DH 0.60 in 1987, by 17% to DH 0.70 in 1988 and
moet recently by 7% to DH 0.75 in July 1990). Annual net income, on the other hand,
remained at about the same level (around DH 420 million) during the period.   This
stagnation, combined with rapidly increasing investments and an expanding asset base,
as well as a greater recourse to borrowings, have led to a decrease in the rate of
return on (unrevalued) assets from 63% in 1988 to 24% in 1991 and in the Self-financing
ratio from 93% in 1988 to 48% in 1990 and 33% in 1991. Although ONPT's overall finances
are not a matter for major concern, the latter figure is below the 45% threshold
provided under Loan 2798-MOR and is explained primarily by the significant increase in
ONPT's fiscal burden which the Government imposed in 1991 (see below).



- 27 -
Fiscal Levies
4.3         The  Government  taxes  ONPT  as  it  does  other  revenue-earning  public
enterprises, in several ways: (i) property and other miscellaneous taxes (taxe urbatne,
taxe d'6d11It6, patente); (ii) corporate income tax (at a rate of 40%), (iii) customs
duties on imported equipment (currently averaging 43%); and (iv) value added tax (at
a 12% rate up to 1991 and 19% since 1992). Up to 1991, and contrary to other public
enterprises, ONPT was not allowed to deduct VAT paid on inputs from VAT collected on
revenues from consumers on behalf of the Government. In addition, ONPT has been subject
to an ad hoc levy (taxe de monopole), the amount of which has recently been regularized
and fixed in the Contrat de Programme at 10% of telecommunications revenues before VAT
(para. 2.10). The following table shows the breakdown of the various taxes levied on
ONPT from 1988 to 1991.
Table 4.2: ONPT - BREAKDOWN OF TAXES
(DH million)
1988        1989         1990       1991
Income tax                 200          224          157        185
Property taxes               72          76           40         15
Customs duties              184         371          507        491
VAT on revenues             190         247          298        344
VAT on inputs (non ded.)  202           235          317        488
Nonopoly tax                220         220          220        420
TOTAL              1,068        1,373        1,539      1,943
The abcusi table shows the significant size of ONPT's overall fiscal burden which in
1991, rupretanted 61% of ONPT's gross telecommunications receipt. (VAT included). This
amount dsos not include the assumption of postal/financial losses (estimated at DH 175
million in 1991) by the telecommunications branch.   In addition, telecommunications
consumers have been subject to a supplemental 12% VAT on their bills. As a result,
ONPT's savings from improved productivity have been essentially siphoned off by the
Government rather than passed on to consumers.
4.4   Although no detailed financial analysis of ONPT's postal/financial branc. *as been
carried out, in the absence of reliable cost accounting data, pro-forma statements
indicate that this activity has consistently being making losses, ranging from DH 124
million in 1989 to DH 175 million in 1991. Empirical evidence points to the lack of
appropriate remuneration on deposits with the Treasury and a costly program of opening
of new post offices in rural areas as the main reasons for these losses (para. 1.12).
Until now, such losses have been essentially covered by profits from ONPT's
elecommunications branch.



- 28 -
QNPT's Financial Position
4.5         ONPT's summarized balance sheets for the telecommunications branch at the
end of 1988 and 1991, respectively, are shown below for comparison purposes:
Table 43: ONPT - TELECOMMUNICATIONS - BALANCE SHEETS
(DH mllion)
Assets   ~      2198   1221
Net. Fix. Assets    2623   7622
0th. Long-Term Assets    33    78
Inventory            158   201
0th. Short-Term Assets  2170  2431
of which -Priv. Recv.   (630) (1151)
-Govt. Recv.  (1231) (1027)
Cash and Banks      1191   1495
Total Assets        6175  11827
Liabilities
Net Worth           3965  5421
Long-Term Debt       801   3833
Short-Term Liabilities    967  2121
Net Income          .442   452
Total Liabllties    6175  11827
The above figures show the impressive increase in ONPT's asset base which took
place as a result of the accelerated expansion of the telecommunications
network. Concomitant with this increase was the rise in the company's
indebtedness, which resulted from an increasing recourse to external (mostly
concessional) borrowings to finance imported equipment. Nonetheless, ONPT's
telecommunications balance sheet structure remains acceptable, with a
debt/equity and a current ratio of 39:61 and 1.9, respectively, at the end of
1991. Although fixed assets, customer receivables and inventories will need
to be revalued and/or partially written off following completion of the
revamping of ONPT's accounting system (para. 2.7), this is not expected to
have a significant negative impact on the company's balance sheet; the latter
remains basically sound, with one exception, however, which is the excessive
level of accounts receivable (see para. below).



- 29 -
Accounts Receivable
4.6         By the end of 1991, private customers' receivables (53% of total
receivables) amounted to about five month. of consumption, a commendable
improvement over the 1988 situation, but still in excess of the three months
stipulated under loan 2798-MOR. Most importantly, at the same date,
receivables from Government agencies amounted to DH 1,027 million,
representing 24 months of consumption. Of this total amount, about 75% are
arrears accrued in the years 1986 through 1990. Payment of arrears up to the
end of 1991, have recently been made as a condition of Board presentation of
this loan, and payment of the 1992 arrears is a condition of loan
effectiveness. Furthermore, the Contrat de Programme provides an incentive
for timely payment of future Government receivables, through a procedure by
which delinquent customers would have their service cut-off and only be
allowed to receive calls.
Future Position
4.7         ONPT's forecast financial statements are shown in Annex 12.
Corresponding notes and assumptions are included in Annex 13. Table 4.4 below
shows a summary of ONPT's sources and applications of funds for the 1992-96
period.  It assumes that the base calling charge (taxe di base) will be
increased by 6.7% in 1993, to DH n.80 and will remain constant over the 3-year
period, (i.e. a reduction of about 17% in real terms), in order to allow ONPT
to self-finance at least 40% of its sizeable investment program in these two
years. This is based on the Government maintaining the monopoly tax at 10% of
telecommunications annual sales before VAT throughout the projected period (as
stipulated in the Contrat de Programme, para. 2.10). It also takes into
account the fact that the Government has allowed ONPT to deduct, from 1992
onwards, the VAT amounts paid to suppliers from the VAT amounts due to the
Government, thereby substantially alleviating the company's overall fiscal
burden (para. 4.3).



- 30 -
Table 4.4: ONPT-TELECOMMUNICATIONS: SUMMARY FINANCING PLAN (1992-1996)
DH (niln)    USS (mln)    Percent
SOURCES
Net internal cash generation              8,506          966.6        43
Borrowings:                               11,505        1,307.4       57
Of which:
- Proposed new IBRD loan                   (849)         (96.5)      (4)
- Other External borrowings 1/
. proposed project                      (4,701)       (534.2)     (23)
. future works                          (4,402)       (500.3)     (22)
- Local borrowings                        (1,552)       (176.4)      (8)
Other Sources                               10            1.1
TOTAL SOURCES                        20,021        2,275.1      100
APPLICATIONS
Construction requirements: IL             18,039       2,049.9       90
Of which:
- Proposed project                       (9,004)       (1,023.2)    (45)
- Future works                           (9,035)        (1,026.7)    (45)
Other uses                                 480           54.5         2
Change in working capital 2L              1.502          170.7        8
TOTAL APPIUCATIONS                     20,021       2,275.1       100
IL including eisting loans in the proposed project
2/ including cash surplus
37 excluding VAT
4.8         As shown above, ONPT's Telecommunications branch is expected to
self-finance 47% of its investment requirements, in spite of continued
substantial fiscal transfers to the Government, thereby keeping borrowings to
sustainable levels. As already mentioned (para. 3.8), the latter would
consist for a major part of tied external concessionary loans and export
credits, together with credits from the Bank and multilateral co-financiers.
Local borrowings would be kept wit1iin the DH 300-350 million p.e. range
considered appropriate by the Treasury authorities. Based on the above
assumptions (particularly those regarding tariffs and fiscal transfers),
ONPT's overall financial performance is expected to be satisfactory during the
project implementation period. Key financial indicators are summarized in
Table 4.5 below:



- 31 -
Table 4.5:   ONPT. TELECOMMUNICATIONS. FORECAST FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Years Ending Dec. 31                            1993        1994
Base call charge (DH)                0.75        0.80        0.80        0.80
Operating revenues (DH)              4739        6072        7298        8400
operating ratio (%)                    65          63          64          67
Rate of return on assets(%)IL          25          27          26          23
Self Financing (%)                     37          48          47          44
Current ratio                         2.0         1.5         1.7         1.6
Debt/debt & equity (%)                 51          54          56          58
Debt serv. cov. (times)               2.3         2.6         2.4         2.4
Operat. Cost./DEL (DH) 2/           1,548       1,416       1,327       1,270
UL partialty revalued assets
EL constant 1991 DH
4.9         Although the after tax rate of return would decline over the
projected period, mostly due to the partial revaluation of assets assumed in
the forecasts, it would still remain quite satisfactory, at 23% in 1995. In
fact the direct operating cost per DEL would decline by 6% p.a. on average in
real terms, primarily as a result of reduced wages in ralation to network size
and of productivity improvements resulting from new technology. Debt service
coverage would remain well above 2.0 and the debt-equity ratio would not
exceed a reasonable 5:62 by 1995. As under the first IBRD loan, and as ie
appropriate for a company facing a bulky and increasing investment program,
the key financial indicator to monitor would be the net internal contribution
to investment (self-financing); ONPT has agreed to maintain, starting in 1993,
a minimum internal cash generation ratio of 40% in any one year; the
prospects for compliance with this ratio in any given year (and the following
one) would be reviewed by June 30 of that year and corresponding measures to
ensure compliance taken promptly if necessary. Close monitoring of ONPT's
annual overall performance (para. 3.18) would also ensure that tariff
increases will not be proposed to compensate for inefficiency or waste or to
offset undue increases in ONPT's already heavy (direct of indirect) fiscal
burden. Finally, an investment limitation covenant (Bank to be consulted in
case of an increase of 15% or more of the investment program in any one year)
has been included under the proposed loan.
4.10        An important aspect of the future separation of the
Telecommunications and Postal/financial branches into distinct entities 4g the
need to establish full transparency in the financial relationship between
postal/financial services and the Government in order to promote the formers'
financial autonomy and eventual commercialization. The Contrat de Programme,
signed between ONPT and the Government, clearly states the principle of the
telecoms branch's financial autonomy and the resulting elimination, starting
in 1993, of its assumption of postal/financial losses.



- 32 -
V - PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
General Benefits
5.1         Tne development of the telecommunications infrastructure will
benefit all sectors of Morocco's economy and will be particularly beneficial
to business users and rural communities.  Greater access to telecommunications
will reduce costs of doing business in a number of ways:
(i)   by foregoing unnecessary transportation;
(ii)  by reducing the cost of locating production outside of the main
industrial centers;
(iii) by improving acceas to international markets and suppliers'
information;
(iv)  by improving the working of market mechanisms;
(v)   by providing productivity-enhancing value-added services (eg.
switched data transmission, cellular telephones, "intelligent"
services etc.); and
(vi)  by fostering the development of information-based services and
activities (eg. software development etc.).
5.2         Rural communities will also benefit directly from greater access
to telecommunications; isolated villages will gain better access to
agricultural and health extensions services; marketing of crops will be
facilitated. More generally, the decentralization of education and government
services will be enhanced, allowing for the reinforcement of the country's
cultural and political integration.
Least-Cost Solution
5.3         The project represents the least-cost solution for providing the
service levels planned in using digital technology already introduced in the
telecommunications network.  Digital equipment is produced at relatively low
cost, with much higher performance/price ratios than the previous analog
technology. Moreover, digital technology permits the provision of cost-
effective data transmission and other value-added services (existing and yet
to-be-developed), which are today essential for managing modern business
information networks. Access to international business information networks
and data integration is also dependant on digital technology. Furthermore,
digitalization allows easy integration of the national network and the
extension of telephone to rural areas. The timing and dimensioning of various
elements in the system as well as the design and compaxisons of alternative
network configurations are the result of studies made by ONPT. These
technico-economic studies are based on worldwide recognized engineering
practices and have been found satisfactory.



- 33 -
Financial and Economic Rates of Return
5.4         The incremental financial rate of return on the 1992-1994
investment program is defined as the discount rate that equalizes the stream
of expected revenues attributable to the program ( at projected levels of
tariffs) with the stream of capital and operating costs, all expressed in
constant 1992 dirhams and net of taxes and duties. It was estimated at 29%.
The incremental economic rate of return on the program is defined as the same
rate but using current tariffs (maintained constant in real terms) as a proxy
for the consumers, willingness to pay. That rate was estimated at 36%. These
high rates of return may, to some extent, be an indication that current and
projected tariffs are too high; in any case, they do understate the full
benefits of the program as they do not take into account all external benefits
associated with transport substitution, increased enterprife and Government
efficiency, economic decentralization, etc. Sensitivity analyses performed
show that the economic rate of return would remain acceptable even under
unfavorable scenarios (ee Annex 14 for details).
Risks
5.5         The main risk affecting the project is that of a slippage in the
formulation and implementation of the proposed sector restructuring inter
alia, due to opposition from unions representing ONPT's staff. In order to
mitigate that risk, two docurents have been discussed during negotiations and
signed: (i) a formal Statement of Sectoral Policy (Annex 3) and related a
dated Plan of Implementation of the Reform; and (ii) a Contrat de Programme
between the Government and ONPT (para. 1.20).
5.6         Another risk is that of delays in project execution if ONPT's
implementation capacity were to be overstretched by its ambitious investment
program. Although real, this risk would be minimized through the use of
turnkey contracts whenever possible and appropriate (para. 3.10) and the
carrying out under the project of related training and technical assistance
(particularly in the area of project management). A final risk is that some
of the funding shown in the financing plan would not materialize on time. As
already mentioned (para. 3.8), financing of switching and most transmisaion
equipment is most unlikely to be lacking due to intense competition among main
suppliers; if, however, some delays occurred on that account, timely
invrestments in local networks (which account for a major portion of Bank
funding) would remain justified since the number of switching lines currently
exceeds that of connected lines by a substantial margin. Failure to arrange
timely co-financing of the project would give rise to a loan suspension remedy
under ONPT's loan agreement (para 3.8).



- 34 -
VI - AGREEMENTS REACHED MND RECOMMENDATIONS
6.1    It has been agreed at negotiations that:
(i)   failure by either the Government or ONPT to comply with their
respective commitments under the Statement of Sectoral Policy,
(including its Plan of Action for Reform Implementation) and
Contrate de Programme would be an event of default under the loan
(para. 1.21).
(ii)  ONPT will have its accounts (as well as the Special Account and
SOEs), and the accounts for all project components, audited
annually by external auditors acceptable to the Bank, and submit
audited statements to the Bank within six months of the end of
each fiscal year (para. 2.8);
(iii) ONPT will take all necessary actions to achieve agreed:
performance indicators; furnish to the Bank, before June 30 of
each year a report on achievement of these targets and propose to
the Bank by October 31 any proposed revisions to the targets and
introduce agreed revisions for the next year (para. 3.19);
(iv)  ONPT will achieve a net internal cash generation ratio of at least
40% in 1993 and any subsequent year (para. 4.9); and
(vii) ONPT will consult with the Bank before introducing major changes
in its investment program, involving more than 15% of the
aggregate investments during any one year (para. 4.9).
6.2   As a condition of loan effectiveness:
The Government should have paid all its 1992 arrears for
telecommunications services to ONPT (para. 4.6).



- 35 -
ANEX 1
MOROCCO
TELECO3OUXCATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJ3ECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMXUNIC2?IONS (ONPT)
Growth in DELS and Expressed Demand
I.       PAST GROWTH OF TELEPHONE DELS IN SERVICE AND EXPRESSED DEMAND
(1987-1994)
Year      Expressed Demand    Connected        Satisfied Demand t&)
(end)           lines
1987           452,000         266,000               58.8
1988           491,000         286,000               58.2
1989            538,000         334,000              62.1
1990            595,000        402,000               67.6
1991            671,000        497,000               74.1
1992            775,000        660,000               85.0
1993           932,000         835,000               90.0
1994         1,062.000       1,020,000               96.0
II.       FORECAST DELS IN SERVICE AND ESTIMATLD DEMAND FOR TELEPHONE
SERVICE
[GRAPH]
DEL's (000's)               Ilephons Denasty per 100 Pop. -
1200
1100                                                          4.0
8000             ,
860  fe8g7   ne8n J99I9t2    3
700 
600 
500' 
400 -I sI                                                     .
300 
200                                                          1.,.
86   87   88   89   90   91   92   93   94
11 Foroat demand Is baed on ONPT'S estimated growth
phoetiven of about 3.5 Asia telephones (DZL's) per 100
populatlou by and MC9



MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECHMMUNICATIONS (ONPT)
Performance Indicators (Telecommunications)
----------------------- Actual ------------------------           ............................ Forecast ---------------------
Flc Year Ending December 31                1986      1987       1S88       1989       1990      1991       1992        1993       1994       1995        1996       1997
L TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE
(a) Tephonepexhe ge
capacty (000 lInes)                    288       293        334        416        537       675         836       1008       1081       1310        1520       1700
(b) MaIn tslepbone ines conneded
(000 DELs, auto and manual)            251       286        286        334       402        497        660        835        1020       1200        1380       1,560
(c) Telex excange capacy (ines)            -       8,100      8,100    10,500     11.870     11.870     11.870     11.870      11.870     11.870      11,870     11,870
(d) Telex subscriter connected             -       7,100      7.300     7,600      8.700      8.660      8.900      8.900      8,90O       8.900      8,900       8.900
Pines)
(e) Mainteance targets
( Fauts repoted per annum per           -        115        104        106        95        101         95         88          83         70          60         50
100 main :ephone ePes
4 FPent d faulls:                       -          61       60.9       602        592         59         68         74         78          82         84          88
cered wIIn 48 hours                 -          91       90.8       91.1      90.9         92         97         96         S9         100         100        100
- cleed wnnI 7 days
(I Merage cail conplehonW
percnage (durng buwy houms)             -          -          -         40       41.3       429          53         56         62         65          68         70             0
I) Localis                             -          -          -         21       25.4       27.9         40         48         50          53         55          57
U) Long didnce cas (STD)
111) InteAoncals                         -         -          -         20         22         23         32         40          43         45         46          47
- OutgoIng
IL FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
(a) Net itealicasshgenerl                  -          -         93         48        48         33         37         48          47         44          47         45
as % of constuction
(b) DZA servc.cowratlrfao (_mes)           -          -         6.8       6.5        4.5       3.1         2.3        2.6        24          14         2.3         21
(c) Rle of ret   (%)                       -          -         63         47        28         24         25         27          26         23          20         18
(d) Opeai  raio (%)                        -          -         57         57        62         61         65         63          64         67          70         73
(e) et/det & equfy()                       -          -         16         24        31         39         51         54          56         58          60         61
5)Cuwret ratio                             -          -         35        2.8        Z3         1.9        2.0        1.5        1.7         1.6        1.7         1.7
19)Prtvaco wnrev rwa   (%of               33         34         30         34        38         42         33         25          26         25          25         25
hlg to prte sector)
(l) Gormn _ut acotatreoeevae             382        332        28t       236        212        2M0         42         33          26         25          25         25
of  ng to GorNMe
aL b
-         26       24.5        23        20.7      2.8         19.5       16.8       14.9        1.6        1Z7         12.0
Saff per 1.000 DEhI 94
0rw.d
x



- 37 -
ANNEX 3
Part 1
page 1 of 15
MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
Statement of Policy for the Teleconnunication Setor
Introduction
In Morocco, the telecommunications sector is subject to considerable
pressure from both business enter prises and households. Demand for telephone
service has been boosted by demographic growth, and particularly by the
increasing concentration of the population into urban areas, so that demand has
steadily grown since the beginning of the 1980s.
Over the last 10 years, the number of telephone subscribers has grown
by an average of 9% per year.  However, the waiting list has expanded at a
s.milar rate, in spite of the considerable increases in connections in 1989
(17%), 1990 (21%), and 1991 (22%). As of end-December 1991, the unmet declared
demand for telephone service stood at 174,000, compared with 497,000
installations.
The pressure of demand varies from one region to another, but is
mainly focused on the automated networks, since these account for 97% of
subscribers. However, as of end-1990, such systems made up only about 16% of the
total.
Although only 15,000 subscribers are connected to the more than 1,000
manual and semiautomatic networks, these provide service for about 300 public
telephone booths located in isolated rural areas.   The equipment in these
networks is obsolete, their quality standard is inadequate, and they are often
connected to the national network by long overhead links that are expensive, and
difficult to maintain.
In addition, this demand arises in a context characterized by rapid
technological development, offering efficient solutions to the problems of the
rural networks and new and very useful services for both enterprises and
individuals.
These advantages - together with the productivity gains to be derived
from the new technology - argue in favor of an extensive modernization of the
networks and an increase in the range of services provided.   The volume of
investment required, therefore, will be all the larger.
In this particular context, telecommunications must be provided with
a more efficient structure, a regulatory framework that will ensure that the
various elements in both public and private networks will operate in a balanced
and dynamic manner, and a monitoring system to ensure that government policy is



- 38
ANNEX 3
Part i
page 2 of 15
enforced.
Consequently, the telecommunications sector must be restructured in
such a way that efficiency will be increased through a clearer definition of the
respective roles of the parties responsible on the one hand for the formulation
and enforcement of regulations, and on the other for the operation of the
systems, once the policy on infrastructure development has been negotiated with
the relevant government authorities.  This reassignment of roles will enable
network growth to be maintained at a sufficiently high rate to satisfy the demand
for all the various services.
After a transitional phase (consisting of internal restructuring),
the main components of the reforms will be the establishment of two statutory
bodies (6tablisrements publics; one to be responsible for posts and the other for
telecommunications), the opening-up to competition of value-added services, and
a more rational distribution of functions and responsibilities among the various
parties concerned.
To this end, the following objectives are to be achieved by the year
2000:
T.          obiectives
1.          Imorovements in the Oualitv of Communications. throuah Modernization
of the Network and of Management and Maintenance Methods
1.1         The quality of communications will be co. aiderably improved through
programs for modernizing switching centers, with digitization increasing from 70%
in 1991 to 92% in 1994 and 100% in 2000, while transmission links will be
digitized from the level of 60% in 1991 to 85% in 1994 and 100% in 2000.
1.2         Management methods will be modernized through the installation of
computerized systems for managing physical, financial and human resources, and
more particularly through the more widespread use of the computerized and
decentralized management of subscriber records.
1.3         A policy of decentralized training and personnel development will be
implemented, and a maintenance system based on the various switching centers will
be established.
2.          DeveloDment of Telephone Services to a Level of 7% by the Year 2000
In light of projections calculating that the population of Morocco
will be about 30 million by the end of the century, the objective will be to
provide service for about 2 million subscribers by the year 2000.



- 39 -
ARNEX 3
Part 1
page 3 of 15
As a result, the level of unmet demand will be reduced to 80,000 by
the year 2000, and the average time required for connections will be reduced from
18 months as of end-1991 to under three months by the end of the decade, the
objective being to reduce the waiting time in large urban centers to less than
one month.
In addition to this program of connections, the number of public
telephones will be increased from 3,600 as of end-1991 to 20,000 by the year
2000, an annual rate of increase of over 20%.
3.          Telephone Services in Rural Areas
The target for the year 2000 is to establish 331 new networks and
automate 400 manually-operated and semiautomatic networks, thus increasing the
automation rates to 99.5% for subscribers and 73% for networks.
Almost all public booths in rural areas will be made customer-
operated (250 out of the 287 in existence in 1991), and a further 250 automatic
booths will be installed in such areas, bringing the total to 500.
4.          Develooment of Value-Added Services and Cellular Networ'%s
The public data transmission network will be extended to cover all
major urban areas, and assistance will be provided to promote the activities of
service providers. The public video transmission network will be extended.
The mobile radiotelephone system will be increased from 1,800 to
20,000 subscribers and will provide coverage throughout the country. A public
voice mail network will be established.
Also established will be closed private networks - with provision
for access to the public network - for data transmission, video transmission and
line broadcasting.
II.         Sector Strateav
In response to the increasing demand for services, ONPT (the National
Office of Posts and Telecommunications) has drawn up a development strategy as
part of its Infrastructure Plan.   This is based on der-and projections and
technological and technical decisions on infrastructure design, system
architecture and service quality.
Consequently, ONPT's activities from 1992 to 2000 will be governed
by a policy formulated in response to the following needs:



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Part 1
page 4 of 15
5.          Mitiaating the Lack of Telecommunications Services
To achieve this objective, ONPT intends to expand the following
policies:
Strengthening the capacity of local, long-distance and international
installations, particularly through the use of fiber-optic cables
and satellite links. In particular, this will allow dedicated lines
to be made available to private operators and users.
Decentralization of planning,  implementation  and training,  by
providing the DRTs (Regional Telecommunications Directorates) with
all necessary technical, physical and human resources.
Technical standardization of network design, as a means of reducing
installation costs and time.
Modification of the regulations governing equipment installed in
buildings and lots, the main result being the generalized adoption
of prewiring.   Updating of regulations governing installations
placed underground and on public routes, in order to improve
coordination on the part of the utility services operating them.
Systematic subcontracting to private enterprises of construction
work on local subscriber networks.
6.          Reestablishing a Balance in infrastructure Distribution
There are wide disparities in existing infrastructure, as regards
both its geographical distribution (which favors the large urban centers), and
the priorities that have been selected because of the lack of resources, causing
the large economic and industrial centere (and especially enterprises and
government departments) to be favored over household subscribers and the outlying
areas of cities.
This prevents optimum use of the national network, because it means
that calls tend to be concentrated into working hours and exchanges have to be
overdesigned to deal almost exclusively with large-traffic subscribers, thus
increasing capital costs.
The problem could be solved if special efforts were devoted to
infrastructure problems, thus making it possible to satisfy the entire demand
from enterprises (particularly in the industrial areas), and also to respond to
the more than 1 million requests from households.
As a priority, the outskirts of cities would be provided with service
by reorganizing the architecture of urban networks, reducing the distances



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Part 1
page 5 of 15
necessary for making connections, streamlining distribution modes, and increasing
the number of public telephone booths.
7.          Reducing the Isolation of Rural Areas
*     Contit.uing the automation of systems in rural areas:
Investment has been mainly concentrated on locations situated along
the country's main highways.
Consequently, there is still a need to increase the number of
automatic systems in rural areas, because over 84% of telephone networks are
manual, even though almost all rural communes have cable or radio links.
The peripheral networks of exchanges that are already connected to
the national automatic system will be equipped with remote switching systems,
concentrators or radio-based time-division multiple access systems (TDMA). In
particular, the latter system will be used particularly for automating public
telephone booths designed also for receiving calls.
Improving the performance of the manual network, by the following means:
-     replacement of semiautomatic rotary equipment consisting of 377
automatic switching centers in rural areas (average capacity = 100
lines);
increase in the capacity of local and long-distance circuits through
a reallocation of the carriers registered when cable or radio links
were established on the routes serving the automatic exchanges;
rehabilita-ion of overhead links, particularly by converting 500 km
of these links to underground installations.
8.          Increasina the Reliability of Telecommunications Networks
Although the international network is comparatively reliable because
of the diversity of transmission methods employed (i.e. satellites, undersea
cables, radio links and underground cables), the domestic network is often
vulnerable because of a lack of alternative routings.
The following measures will be adopted to solve these problems:
*     Diversification of types of link and alternate routings:
Stricter linkages in the network will make it possible to
interconnect the major urban centers by using various routes, thus avoiding the
risk that they will be isolated as a result of breakdowns on sections of the



- 42 -
NEX 3
Part I
page 6 of 15
infrastructure.
*     Duplication of the major transmission connections:
The Casablanca/Marrakech/Agadir, Rabat/Tanger and Rabat/Oujda
connections will be doubled by means of fiber-optic installationo.
*     Decentralization  of  regional  and  national  transit  operation;,  and
extension of international transit operations:
New national transit exchanges will be established in Marrakech,
Tetuan and Agadir, and the existing --as in Meknes and Oujda will be extended.
The international transit exchange_ in Rabat and Casablanca will also be
extended, and a new one eatablished in Tetouan.
9.          Imorovino Business Relationshipos with Users
Efforts will be devoted to satisfying users by improving the quality
of service and of the information provided in response to queries.
Action at a commercia' level must precede and support the provision
of access to services and guide the process of identifying investment projects
and improvements in operations.
As new needs appear and increasingly efficient technologies are
developed, commercial action will serve to identify the most appropriate
initiatives for launching new products and promoting profitable services, thus
contributing to the formulation of those pricing policies that offer the greatest
incentives.
The following measures will have to be adopted:
*     Improvements in service quality through the replacement of the most
obsolete equipment, the modernization of maintenance tools,
mechanization and computerization of network management operations.
*     Introduction of a commercial operations service (to be responsible
for relations with subscribers, dissemination of information, and
the investigation of users' complaints and the monitoring of their
orders), as a result of the extension throughout the country of the
network of commercial branches (increasing from five in 1991 to 100
by 2000).
*     Organization of commercial activities for identifying potential
cuotomers and carrying out market studies.
*     Introduction of detailed billing for subscribers (to be brought into



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Part 1
page 7 of 15
general use in 1998).
10.         New Services
*     The introduction of new services and the extension of existing
facilities will be encouraged by the appearance of new operators
providing services for professionals and particular groups of
subscribers.
*     This will be the case with information services and the operation of
private networks, either with or without access to the public
networks and providing for radio transmission, data transmission,
video transmission and line broadcasting.
*     Current regulations on network interconnections -  particularly as
these apply to international systems - will be made more flexible,
thus encouraging new initiatives and the establishment of service
enterprises in telecommunications.   This will inevitably have a
positive impact on the development of computer applications and the
introduction of innovations benefiting both professional users and
the general public.
III.        The Role of the Government
11.         For the telecommunications sector to be restructured, a demarcation
must be drawn between those functions that should be fulfilled by the Government
alone, and those relating to the provision of public services and the management
and operation of the various installations, which can be contracted out to one
or more enterprises.
Amorg its new responsibilities, the Government will be particularly
concerned with enforcing the conditions under which services axe provided and
with acting as arbiter in any disputes that may arise from the various
operations.
12.         Consequently, the following zosponsibilities will be delegated by the
Government to the sector's supervisory agency (in this case, the Ministry of
Posts and Telecommunications):
(a)   Definition of sector policy and monitoring of the enterprises'
implementation performance on the basis of the operating income
generated and the physical works executed.
(b)   Issuance of regulations for the sector and monitoring of their
implementation. These will apply both to the provision of services
and the granting of permits, and to the standardization of



- 44 -
ANNEX3
Part 1
page 8 of 15
equipment.
The supervisory agency will be responsible for regula'ing the
conditions under which operators, private contractors and service
providers may exercise their activities, the conditions under which
contracts can be granted, and the technical standards applicable to
the installation and operation of equipment.   It will also be
responsible for publishing and disseminating the texts of these
regulations.
(c)   Definition of pricing policy and the procedures  for approving
tariffs for basic utilities.
As regards the modalities for setting telecommunications tariffs,
the Government had decided in 1985 to make the Board of ONPT
responsible for this task, as part of a plan covering a specific
multiannual period.
These modalities will be defined in a performance contract between
the new operator and the Government.
In the case of services other than basic utilities, rates must be
negotiated with the supervisory agency.
(d)   Definition and monitoring of indicators of the service quality
levels and financial performance expected from the enterprises.
The Government will be permitted to negotiate a performance contract
with each operator. This will define the duties and obligations
incumbent upon the operator, and the commitments and counterpart
conditions agreed to by the Government.
(e)   Consultation with other government agencies affected by any issue
relating to the operation of the networks and their interconnection
to the public network, protection from dangers to human life and to
the community, national security, and other government priorities
with regard to telecommunications.
(f)   Ensuring government representation in regional and international
telecommunications institutions dealing with general sector policy
issues, and entering into the relevant international treaties,
agreements, conventions and settlements.
(g)   Managing  the  radio-frequency  spectrum,  as  regards  both  local
allocations and regional and international notifications of
assignment, in accordance with the guidelines and recommendations of
the International Telecomn,unication Union, and protecting radio
installations throughout the country.



- 45 -
ANNEX 3
Part 1
page 9 of 15
IV.         Reoulation of the sector
13.         Legislation will be issued defining the limits to the exclusive role
reserved to the Government, which will essentially consist of the establishment
and operation of networks.
(a)         Networks
Networks established on public routes, radio networks accessible to
the public, and satellite transmission networks are the exclusive purview of the
Government and only a public-sector agency can operate these networks.
The following are not considered to fall exclusively within the
purview of the Government:
networks established in private systems or linking two private
systems by way of a public route, provided that they comply with
certain technical conditions approved by the supervisory agency and
are not connected to the general network;
-     closed private networks that have received the necessary approval.
(b)         Services
The Government is to have exclusive responsibility only for basic
services; namely, the telephone, telex and telegraph services. Other services
may be provided by competing private (and possibly public) operators, under
conditions determined by the Government.
In addition, legislation will identify both the agency to be
responsible for monitoring application of the regulations, and the conditions to
govern such monitoring.
(c)         Suiplv and Installation of Networks and Terminals
There is totally free competition in the manufacturing, distribution,
marketing and installation of equipment supplied to the public networks.
The supply and installation of approved terminals for connection to
the public network and equipment for private networks is entirely open to
competition.
14.         Conditions for the granting of permits to operate links, private
networks, or value-added services operated by private enterprises:
*     For operating contracts, the maximum period is 15 yea2-s.



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Part 1
page 10 of 15
*     The contractor is required to comply with specifications setting the
conditions that are to govern the activicies; in particular, the
need for the service in question to be universally accessible, and
acceptance of the supervision provided for in the relevant
legislation.
*     Concessions are not transferable.
15.         Conditions governing the operations of private enterprises:
*     compliance with all commercial, fiscal and labor regulations;
*     compliance with technical regulations and spe :ifications setting the
conditions under which services using tele immunications networks
may be supplied and operated.
16.         Conditions governing approval for the installation of subscriber
services, networks and equipment by qualified private entrepreneurs, and approval
of subscribers' equipment and ttrminals and issuance of standards governing
connections to the network:
Without wishing to prejudge the findings of the preliminary
feasibility studies that will determine the particular forms of operation to be
employed, and keeping in mind the revision of the regulations governing the
exercise of the profession, it can be assumed that private-sector activities
could extend beyond manufacturing, marketing and maintenance to the following
areas:
Su22lies. installation and maintenance
-     Installation of telephones (PABX and key telephone systems);
-     telex apparatus;
-     modems and data transmission terminals;
-     main and secondary telephone stations;
-     mobile radiotelephones;
-     private links;
-     fax apparatus and automatic answering machines;
-     stations requiring prepayment; metering devices.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Part 1
page 11 of 15
SupDlies of services
-     All telecommunications services, through specialized sales outlets;
-     electronic mail, through switching networks or dedicated lines;
-     voice mail;
-     use of the general network for accessing databases;
-     private networks with access to the public network, in compliance
with certain conditions.
Subcontractina and miscellaneous items
-     All civil works;
-     the installation and connection of cables along public routes;
-     installation of all items of equipment in the general network;
-     preparation of directories;
-     advice and studies.
V.          Pricina
17.         Pricing policy on basic services and value-added services:
So far, the methodology for setting tariffs has been based on trends
in prices as a whole and comparisons with tariffs set at regional  and
international level.
The advent of a management cost accounting system that will accurately
indicate the real cost of each of ONPT's services will enable the Office to refine
its pricing by providing it with a more precise breakdown o, capital costs and
allowing it to take greater account of productivity increases.
Calculation of the real costs of services will make it possible to
set the price levels for new services for particular groups of users more
accurately. This will be the case with data transmission, video transmission,
mobile radiotelephones, electronic mail, dedicated lines and other computer and
telecommunications applications.
Nevertheless, ONPT's mission to provide a public service means that
it must apply a single tariff to each of its basic services, regardless of the



- 48 -
ANNEX 3
Part 1
page 12 of 15
location in which t.ey are supplied (even though the Office is aware that the real
costs depend on each specific situation), and provide certain services that are
important to the community at large - whether or not these are profitable - such
as telegraph and operator-controlled telephone services. The policy of adjusting
the charges for basic services will be continued.
VI.         The Institutional Reform of the Sector
18.         Separation of posts and telecommunications:
The posts and telecommunications functions will be separated and,
after a transitional phase of internal restructuring, they will be organized into
two independent systems.   Each of these will be made responsible for the
management of its own operations and for its financial performance, and will be
bound by the performance contract signed with the Government.
19.         Legal   framework  for  the  statutory  body  responsible   for
telecommunications, guaranteeing it administrative and financial autonomy and
providing it with its own organizational se.ructure and internal financial,
accounting and personnel regulations:
The composition of the Board of the new telecommunications enterprise
should ensure that its responsibility for guiding and monitoring strategic
activities in the field of telecommunications will be carried out efficiently.
The Board will delegate all the powers necessary for managing the new
enterprise in accordance with its autonomous nature, and a form of financial
monitoring based essentially on the retrospective assessment of performance will
be applied to the enterprise's management, so that its Directorate will be
allowed all the necessary freedom to manage its resources in accordance with its
development plans and the policy endorsed by the Board. The Directorate will be
fully responsible for managing the budget, accounts and finances of the
enterprise. It will draw up the human resource development policy that appears
most appropriate for the sector and will assume full responsibility for the
outcome of its management, under the performance contract between the enterprise
and the Government.
20.         Personnel regulations and the flexibl.t salary structure:
The special nature of telecommunications - a particularly sensitive
sector that employs leading-edge technology and absorbs a considerable volume of
investment - and the opening-up to competition of many activities in this area
justify maintaining the new enterprise's competitive-ness with regard to
personnel hiring, career davelopment and compensation.
These special conditions make it necessary for a flexible salary
policy to be applied, in light of the enterprise'e needs, the particular



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Part 1
page 13 of 15
conditions existing in the employment market, and the profiles of the personnel
required.
21.         Management  tools  necessary  for  the  enterprise's  commercial
operations:   financial,  accounting and commercial organization within the
enterprise planning structures
The commercial units within the enterprise will be strengthened by
the hiring and training of technical and commercial specialists and the
allocation of a special budget for promoting the enterprise, disseminating
information, and identifying potential clients.
The main function of the commercial units will be to define a
commercial policy to be applied to pricing and the promotion of the services
provided for professional subscribers.
Extending the commercial network and computerizing the information
system that serves it will make it possible to improve the enterprise's image and
increase the efficiency of those units responsible for planning, recovery of
receivables, etc.
The new enterprise will be provided with a commercial, accounts and
financial management information system, together with a form of organization
that will facilitate the establishment of systems for monitoring management and
performing internal audits.
22.         Relationships between the Government and the telecommunications
enterprises, to be governed by performance contracts:
The performance contract defines the commitments of the Government
and the public operator over a period of years, together with the technical,
economic and financial objectives assigned to the operator, and the resources
necessary for achieving them.
The performance contract will stipulate that financial statements
will be subject to yearly external audits.
23.         Fiscal policy, and transfers to the Government:
The various operators will pay an annual user fee, to be deducted
from operating expenses, in addition to the corporate income tax required by
Dahlr (Law) No. 1-86-231 of 28 Rebia II, 1407 (December 31, 1986) and various
other taxes such as the license tax on the property of self-employed
professionals, the tax on the rental values of commercial or housing premises,
property taxes levied by communes, registration fees and customs duties.
Telecommunications services will be subject to value added tax, and
the same conditions regarding deductions will apply both to professional users



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Part 1
page 14 of 15
and to public and private operators, in compliance with the Appropriation Law
(Lol des finances) of 1992. In order to achieve the objectives and to carry out
the reforms refered to above, the Government will take the measures set forth in
the Annex to this Statement.
ANNEX
1.          The  Government  shall,  through  its  Ministry  of  Posts  and
Telecommunications (MPT), strengthen its institutional capabilities with respect
to regulation of the telecommunications sector, and introduce a computerized
system for the management and control of the radio frequency spectrum. To this
end, the Government shall maintain with ONPT arrangements pursuant to which ONPT
will be responsible for financing the consultants' services and equipment
necessary for the carrying out of the World Bank-financed Project for the
Restructuring of the Telecommunications Sector, as well as for the employment of
su^h cos.sultants and the aquisition of such equipment, and MPT:
(a) will be solely responsible, in accordance with the procedures required
by the World Bank for:
(i) the preparation of terms of reference for such consultanto and
bidding documents for such equipment;
(ii)   evaluation of the consultants' proposals and the offers
submitted by bidders for the equipment;
(iii) the negotiations of the terms and conditions of employment of
the consultants;
(b) will also be solely responsible:   (i) for the supervision of the
carrying out by such consultants of their obligations under their contract with
ONPT and (ii) for the carrying out of the recommendations of the consultants; and
(c) will make available to these consultants the necessary counterparts to
enable them properly to carry out their work.
2.          MPT has already prepared terms of reference for the consultants who
will assist in developing the plans to strengthen its institutional capabilities
and will prepare terms of reference satisfactory to the World Bank, not later
than March 31, 1993, for consultants who will assist in developing the
computerized system for the management and control of the radio frequency
spectrum. MPT will also be responsible for the preparation of bidding documents
for the new frequency control center.
3.          MPT wJll take the measures necessary to enable ONPT to:
(a) employ consultants, in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Part 1
page 15 of 15
the Employment of Consultants, not later than June 1, 1993, to assist in
developing MPT's institutional capabilities, and not later than September 30,
1993, to assist in developing the computerized system for the management and
control of the radio frequency spectrum; and
(b) e..sure the preparation by these consultants, not later than November
30, 1993, of plans for the strengthening of the MPT's institutional capabilities,
and not later than April 30, 1994, of the computerized system; and
(c) issue, not later than December 31, 1993, the invitation to bid on the
new radio frequency control center, with the objective of putting the center into
operation not later than December 31, 1995.
4.          MPT will prepare,  on the basis of the recommendations of the
consultants employed to assist in strengthening MPT's institutional capabilities,
and furnish to the World Bank, not later than November 30, 1993, a plan of
action, acceptable to the World Bank, for such strengthening; and thereafter,
will carry out such plan, with due diligence and efficiency.
5.          The Government will:
(a) prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than January 31, 1994, a
plan of actions (including a timetable for their implementation) designed to
achieve the objectives set forth in the penultimate paragraph of this Statement
of Sectoral Policy and in paragraphs 13, 14, 15, 16, 18 and 19 of this Statement;
and
(b) exchange views with the World Bank on this plan for its implementation.



MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PLAN OF ACTION FOR REFORM IMPLEMENTATION
_Measures already taken         2nd Semester 1992           1st Semester 1993          2rd Semester 1993           1994             Follouing years
SEPARATION OF           . iplemp entation of        .filing of remaining         launching of technical        implementation of        discussion and
POSTAL/FINANCIAL        ONPT's new                 vacant management           assistance program for       T.A. program              review of an
SERVICES AND            organization (de facto    positions                    PostalU financial                                     action plan
TELECONMISNICATIONS     separation)                                            services                                               implementing the
Goverrment's
intentions
concerning
telecommica-
tions
agreement on the       Legislation
elimination of the
suAsidization of
Postes' deficit by
Telecoms
definition of
technical assistance
program for
postal/financial
services
SECTOR REGULATION         Term  of reference                                     terms of reference for    . coipletion of           . implementation    . commissioning        n
for consultants'                                      assistance to management   consultant's                of new spectrum      of frequency
assistance to setting                                 of frequency spectrum.        assistance for           management           control center
up regulatory                                                                       setting up               system.
framework                                                                           regulatory framework
and agreement or a
satisfactory Plan of
Action.
. Launching of
satisfactory assistance
program for setting up
regulatory framework.
. satisfactory plan for
Implementation of
recommendatIons
Completion of tariff    . implementation of           . hiring of                start of
study                      recommendations              consultants for          frequency
spectru  mnagement    control center
construction
call for bids on       (IBRD
frequency control        financing).
center
Id                                                         F rd 1I
0   1 
i-Iet   tz1
U)



-2-
easures already taken       2nd Semester 1992           1st Semester 1993         2nd Semester 1993         1994             Folloting years
LIBERALIZATION OF      . initial drafting of                                                                                    . agreement on       . calls for
VALUE-ADDED            bid and licensing                                                                                        timing, forms        proposals on
SERVICES               documents for cellular                                                                                   and terms of         cellular paging.
and paging                                                                                               liberalization
for each
individual
service/product
with assistance
from above
consultants).
. finalization of       . finalization      . issuance of
satisfactory bid        of satisfactory     licenses for
docunents for           bid document for    cellular and
cellular and paging.   VSAT awn  PR         paging.
networks.
i initial drafting                          . calls for
of bid and licensing                        proposals on
documents for VSAT                          VSAT and PFR
and PYR networks.                           networks.
i fssuanice of
licenses for
VSAT and PUR       w
networks.
.start-up~ of
cellular and
paging networks.
I.start-up of
VSAT and PUR
*CORPORATIZATION *. hiring of external           . completion of                                        . external audit of    Id                   Id
OF ONPT                auditors (for 1988 to    audits.                                                 accoumts (for 1992
1991 accoumts)                                                                  accounts
. plan for settlement     . settlement of 1986      . settlement of 1992                                Id                   Id
of 1986-90 Government    Government arrears for   arrears (loan
arrears (and start of    1991.                      effectiveness).
l1cplementation)
. final draft of          . issuance of             . provision of adequate     . fulfillments of       Id                   Id
Statement of Telecoms    satisfactory Statement   budgets for Government        respective
Sectorat Policy           of Tetecoms Sectoral      for Government's            commitments included
Policy (by Board          telephone bills             in the Performance
presentation).                                        contract and anmual
_________ _________ _  __________review.
Ga  z
o N)
t'X



-3-
Measures already taken         2nd Semester 1992            1st Semester 1993           2nd Semester 1993           1994              Following years
. initial draft of            signature of                Launching of technical    . inplementation of        id                    Id
protocoles d'accord         satisfactory Contrats       assistance program for        new management
for Telecoms and           de Programme for             implementation of new         systems.
postaltfinancial            Tetecoms and                management systems.                                                           . effective
services.                   postal/financial                                                                                         transition to
services.  Raising of                                                                                    system of a
thresholds for prior                                                                                     posteriori
approval of                                                                                              control
expenditures by
I_Contr6leur Financier.
lb
h rt tz
xe:



MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES & TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPT)
Organization Chart
Genreal
Manager
Sodal                                           Internal
Actvitirs                                          Audil
I Social              .          .|Internatonal|
Facilities                                       Relations 
| LnGaJ#hlts k . q P~~~SatrnateOgy6 
Subskiarlaes &
.      Participations
Central Diectorate                                                                                     Central Directorate
Telecommuncatlons                                                                                     Postal/ilnancral Services                           Ln
| Plam [ *.... .. . ..  .. .. ... .... *                                                                                             IscUn|....... ........ .... fIseto|
Equipment  || Opeations  ||  Mlading                Fi<nance      Procurement    |  Personel  | nfrmats                    Postal         |Fi              Personnel||  Logistics   |
Depantment       Department        Department       Department       Depanment        Department       Depattmont         Dopanment        Depatment ||Department De Dtmet
Maintenance _                           nera_  Ie* on_el                                                                                    P               Procurement
Data           Conroli &Fiaca
TrNsmtwsl        NetWor             utme            iacsg&Ps
FTrsmslo  R[elations                                                                 1 Tresur               MaHe3n ctte                                        Inloatc



- 56 -
ANNEX 5
MOROCCO
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS IONP2!.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURIN2 PROJECT
Summary of Teleohone Rates
Dirbams
A.  Base call charge (cc)                          0.75
Connection charge                            300.00
Monthly rental                                20.00
Monthly maintenance charge                     2.50
Transfer fee                                 100.00
Recommendation fee                            25.00
B.  Domestic RaLes (automatic) 1 cc per period oft
Local                                      360 uec.
Up to 35 km                                120 sec.
From 35 to 65 km                            60 sec.
From 65 to 100 km                           27 sec.
From 100 to 150 km                          24 sec.
From 150 to 200 km                          18 sec.
From 200 to 300 km                          15 sec.
From 300 to 500 kms                         12 sec.
Above 500 km                                 9 sec.
C.  International Rates (automatic) lcc per period of:
U.M.A.                                   10.16 sec.
Africa                                    2.10 sec.
Canada, USA                               1.50 sec.
Middle East                               2.60 sec.
Western Europe                            4.00 sec.
Eastern Europe                            2.60 sec.
D. Tune of Day Discounts (40%)
a) Domestic calls:        Weekdays from 12:00 am to 7:00 am,
from Sat. 1:00 pm to Mon. 7:00 am,
and Holidays.
b) International calls:   Weekdays from 8:30 pm to 6:30 am,
from Sat. 1:00 pm to Mon. 6:30 am,
and Holidays.



- 57 -
AN X L
Page I of 2
MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RXSTRUCTURING PROJECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DEN POSTES ET TMECONNUNICATIONS ONPTI
Technical Assistance
1.   The technical assistance (TA) component of the proposed project is aimed
at: a) strengthening the regulatory expertise of the Ministry of PTT; b)
supporting the institutional development of the Telecommunications Directorate
(TD); c) strengthening the TD's technical skills; and (d) strengthening the
Postal/Financial Services Directorate.
2.   The main elements would be foreign consulting services and training in the
following areas:
a)    TA for Ministry of P&T (MPT) for strenghtening its regulatory
expertise and preparing itself to fulfill its new regulatory role:
(i)   development of the regulatory unit of the PTT ministry.
(ii) definition of structure, functions and responsibilities.
(iii) preparation of licenses to public and private operators.
(iv) training of expert personnel.
The total volume of this technical assistance is estimated at 24 man-
months.
b)    Assistance to MPT for settino up of a comDuterized freauencv
spectrum manaaement system.
(i)   Acquisition of specialized software.
(ii)  Consultants' assistance in customizing and implementing new system
(18 manmonths).
c)    Institutional imorovement of ONPT's Telecommunications Directorate.
This TA component will mainly support the implementation of recommendations made
in consultant studies financed under the first telecommunications project. Four
major areas are covered by these studies:
(i)   financial and accounting systems: implementation of the recommended
accounting and financial methodology practices and procedures, which
will require a large number of manmonths of the main consultant and
many more for limited jobs, mostly from local consultants, as the
quality of the present accounting system is poor; implementation of
the integrated computer-based financial and managerial accounting
system and of the financial planning system (48 manmonths).



- 58 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
(ii)  procurement and inventcry management: implementation of the
recommended methodologies and procedures and the associated
computerized system (6 manmonthe).
(iii) tariffs: implementation of the recommendations for tariff policy in
accordance with the adopted natural telecommunications strategy and
commercialization objectives (6 manmonths).
(iv)  human resource management: implementation of computer-based
personnel management and provisional staffing systems (6 manmonths).
An additional important component is the design and initiation of a
modern commercial department. In this area the main issues to be adressed are:
set up of a marketing network and strategy and improvement of the customers
management (48 manmonthe).
d)    Strenohteninq of the Telecommunications Directorate's technical
skills:
i)   Improvement of the maintenance structure and implementation of the
national maintenance program (PNAM) (12 manmonths).
(ii)  Development of the strategic planning unit and technical assistance
to develop computerized planning systems (12 manmonths).
(iii) Completion of the Technical Master Plan (35 manmonths).
(iv)  Improvement of the 7 regional training centers (102 manmonths).
e)    Technical Assistance for the Postal/Financial Services Directorate
(i)   reorganization of the commercial department (30 manmonths)
(ii)  setting up of new personnel management systems (36 manmonths)
(iii)  creation of independent data processing department (12 manmonths)
(iv)  creation of independent strategy and planning department (10
manmonths)
(v)   set up of traffic measurement and cost accounting systems (16
manmonths)
(vi)  postal and financial services pricing study (4 manmonths)
(vii) improvement in mail routing syste,.s (6 manmonths)



- 59 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 3
MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPTI
Description of Physical Components of the Proiect
General:
The proposed project consists primarily of ONPT's 1992-1994 investment program. The
proposed project mainly aims at the development of the local telephone network across the
country and at increasing the network penetration into the provinces and the less
developed rural areas. Under the project, the expansion of the domestic and international
long distance network will be consequently increased to cope with the additional traffic
resulting from the telephone subscriber base.
The expansion under the proposed project will further increase the coverage with
cilities using the digital technology to about 92% of the total installed switching
capacity and 85% of the trunk capacity.
The project will add about 406,000 new digitalized lines of exchange capacity,
replace 81,000 old analog lines by new digitalized lines and connect 420,000 new
subscribers. Automatic rural telephone services would be extented to about 780 new
villages.
Local Telephone Network:
a) Switching:
Local Switching Capacitv Installed by Reaion (7)
Region           1992         1993        1994        Total
South Region         23,800      23,244       11,500      58,544
Tensift Region        8,548       25,716       5,500      39,764
Center Reqion        79,588       59,580      36,500      175,668
North West           28,590       50,304      22,500      101,394
Region
North Center         20,300       16,700      12,000      49,000
Region
Western Region        9,500        8,000      12,000      29,500
South Center         20,200       11,500       1,000      32,700
Region
Total               190,526      195,044     101,000      486,570



- 60 -
ANNX 7
Page 2 of 3
Tranoit Exchange  Circuits  Transit Exchange  Circuits  Transit Exchange   Circuits
Casablanca      14,298        Tetouan        5,500         Marrakech      5,000
Rabat           12,600        Agadir         7,140          Total         58,178
Meknes            9,540        Oujda         4,100
b) Outside plant:
This project component includes expansion of local cable network representing about
420,000 connected lines. It comprises civil work, construction of ducts and installation
of cable systems, for the primary and secondary levels of local distribution networks and
also for inter-exchange optical fiber junction. The proposed network expansion is
estimated to include about 1,965,000 kilometer of cable pai= (KmP), 8950 kilometers of
underground duct cables (KmA), and 198 Kilometers of interexchange optical fiber cables.
To facilitate timely project implementation, ONPT will make extensive use of turnkey
contracts, and supply and erect contracts. The uqe of subcontractors for civil works is
now generalized.
Region           1992               1993                1994
KM-A    KM-P      KM-A      KM-P     KM-A      KM-P
CASABLANCA     700      200.000 720         210.000    730  220.000
RABAT          560      120.000 570         130.000      580  140.000
FES            390       80.000 400          90.000    400  100.000
MARRUKT*       420       60.000 430          66.000    430   70.000
SETTAT         330       50.000 340          60.000    350   70.000
OUJDA          220       50.000 230          55.000    240   60.000
AGADIR         300       40.000 300          44.000    310   50.000
Total       2.920   600.00   2.990   655.000  3.040   710.000
Subcontracted  2.482    150.00   2.542    229.50  2.584   355.000
(%) -   85%      25%      85%        35%    85%         S0%
Lona Distance Transmission
a) National
The transmission component under the project is mainly for the
digitalization and expansion of trunk links to handle and secure the new



- 61 -                                     ARX 7
Page 3 of 3
created traffic resulting from the new exchanges and the new connected
subscribers. Single mode fiber cables and microwave radio links are planned
to carry 140 Mbit/a %-, the main new routes. This component comprises 20
optical fiber trunks and 7 microwaves links. 4 microwaves radio links are
planned to carry 34 Mbit/" on regional interexchange trunks and 42 others to
carry 2 X 8 Mbit/s between the new primary center and switching nodes attached
to them. There will be also new 2 Mbit/s PCM systems installed on new
metallic pair cables to link remote switching units to main exchanges. 8 old
coaxial trunk cables will be digitalized.
b) International
The two international gateways in Casablanca and Rabat will be expanded
by 12,168 new circuits for Casablanca (CTI) and 10,104 for Rabat (CTI).
The earthetation connected on INTELSAT system will be expanded by 240
circuits and the earth station connected on ARABSAT system by 120 circuits. A
new earth station installation for INMARSAT system is planned in 1994.
One international optical fiber submarine cable between Morocco,
Portugal and France is planned for implementation in 1992, and another one
between Morocco and Spain in 1993.
c) Data Transmission
The data transmission network in service in the five economic capitals
will be expanded to other main provincial cities.
Rural Network
This component consists of the installation of telecommunications
automatic service to 780 rural areas. It includes the construction of 494
multi-access digital UHF radio system, 152 concentrators, 79 aerial cables
systems and 53 switching remote units. These systems will provide service to
rural areas through private lines or public call offices in distant and
isolated locations.
Information Systems and ComDuterization
Acquisition and development of computer systems for implementation of
ONPT's data processing master plan is based on recommendations of Consultants
studies financed under the first Bank loan.
Prezuency Control Center
Procurement and installation of equipment for the purpose of
computerized radio-frequency management and control, including fixed and
mobile monitoring stations.



- 62 -
MOROCCOA R                                                                            8
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ONPT. Investment Program
(millions of const-it 1992 OH)
1992           1        1993         I        1994        I     Total          1 1995 1 1996 1 1997 1 
..-- - -- - -- -I-- - -- - -- - --…        - -- - -- - -- - -I-- -- - -- - -- - I-- - -I-- - -I-- - -ITQata          I
ILoc.  For.  TotaL [Loc.  For.  TotaL 1Loc.  For.  Total ILoc.  For.  Totat [Total ITotatlITotat I                  I
I…--  -  - - - -  - - - I--  - -- -  - -- - -I-- - --   - - --  - -I-- -  -- - -  -- - -I-- -- - -- - -- - I-- -    -I--  - -I-- -  -I  …- - -
I Switching             I 395   515   910 I 384   422   806 1  503   424   9271I1282  1361  26431I1675 I 1516 I 1803 I 4994 
I  (of wh. VAT/customsl  330             330 I 338            338 1  332           3321I1000        0  1000 I        I       I       I      I
I Data Transmission   I   30    35    65 I   1 1    12    23 I   13    13    26 I 54    60   114 1 I                                   
I  (of wh. VAT/customsl    20             201    7               71    7              7!    34      0    34 1        I                 
I L.D. Transmission   I  386   473   859 I 352   412   764 1  500   571  10711I1238  1456  26941I940 I  856 I 563 I 2359 1
I  (of wh. VAT/customs!  309             3091  293            293 1  352           3521  954        0   954 1        I       I       I      I
I Radiocoimmunicationls 1   14    12    261   52    66   118 1   53    57   1101  119   135   254 I                  I       1       I      I
I  (of wh. VAT/customs!       6            6!    33            33 1   30             301   69       0    69 1        I       I       1      I
I Locat Networks        1  390   200   590 I  330   379   709 I  375   360   7351I1095   939  2034 I  975 I 1184 I 1196 I 3355 I
I  (of wh. VAT/customsl  175             1751  258            258 1  268            268!   701      0   701 1        I       I       I      I
I Rurat TeLecoms        I   64    67   1311  109   170   279!I  113   166   279!   286   403   689!   430 1411!   423 11264 1
I  (of wh. VAT/customsl    35             351   63             63!1   64             64!   162      0   162!1        I       I       I      I
1 Data Processing       1    5    35    40!    40    40    80!1   30    30    60!    75   105   180!1                !       I       I      I
I Training              I    0      9      9!      0    12    12!1    0    12    1.2!         0    33    33!1        1       I       I      1
1 Stud. & TACincl. MPTI    0    32    32 I    0    56    56 !    0    41    4iI!              0   129   129 I        !       I       I      I
I Land & Buitdings      I  114       0   114 I  160       0   160 1  138       0   1381I412         0   412 I        I       I       I      I
1 VehicLes &office eql   56         0    56!    64        0    64!1   69       0    69!   189       0   189 1        I       I       I      I
I     Total.            I 1454  1378  2832 1 1502  1569  3071 I 1794  1674  3468 I 4750  4621  9371 ! 4020 I 3967 I 3985 111972 I
1  (of wh. VAT/customs!  875             875 1  992           992 1 1053           1053 ! 2920         2920 1 1247 I 1230 1 1235 1 3712 I
…                      !  …      ……-- -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - …-- - - - -- - - -I - -- - - - - --…I - - - - - -- - - I - --I------…I------… I-- -- I
MOROCCO
TELECOMM4UNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
ON?,T. Investment Program
(mitLions of current DH)
1992            I       1993         1        1994        !      TotaL         1 1995!1 1996!1 1997! 1 
…-- - - -- - - - -I- - - - -- - - - -I-- - - -- - - -- -! - -- - - -- - - -I - - -I          --- --I-- -- !Total    I
1Loc.  For.  Total hLoc.  For.  TotaL !Loc.  For.  Total ILoc.  For.  TotaL ITotaL ITotatl. Total I                 I
… - - -- - -I-- - -- - - -- - -I-- - - - - -- --…                   - -- - - - - -- -   - - -- - - - - -- I - --I--- --…-- ---I-- -…       I
I Switchirg             I  395   515   910 I  453   475   928 !  635   496  11311I1483  1486  29691!2160 I 2072 ! 2612 I 6843 
!  (of wh. VAT/customs!  330        0   330!   399        0   399!1  419       0   4191 1148        0  1148!1        I       I       I 
I Data Transmissi5on   I   30    35    651   13    13    26!I   16    15    321   59    64   123!1                   I       I       !      !
1    (of wh.VAT/customsI    20     0    201    8         0      8!     9      0      9137          0    37!1        I       1       !      I
1L.D. Trensmlsson    I  386   473   859 I  415   463   879 !  631   668  12991!1432  1604  30371I1212 ! 1170 I  816 ! 3197 I
1(of wh. VAT/customs!  309         0   309!   346       0   346!1  444       0   444!1099          0  1099!1       !       I       I       I
I Radiocommiunicationls I   14    12    26 I   61    74   136 1   67    67   1341!142   153   295 I                  I       I       I      I
I  (of wh. VAT/customsl       6     0      61  39         0    39 138          0    38!    83       0    83!1        I       I       !      I
I Local. Networks       I 390   200   590 I  389   426   816 !  473   421   8941!1253  1047  23001I1257 I 1618 ! 1733 ! 4608 I
1  (of wh. VAT/CUstoSlS  175        0   1751  304         0   304!1  338       0   338!   818       0   818 1        1       I       !      I
1 Rural. Tetecoms       1   64    67   131 I  129   191   320 I  1'3   194   3371!335   452   788 I 554 !  562 I  613 I 1729 1
1  (of wh. VAT/customs!   35        0    35 I   74        0    74 !   e i      0    811I190         0   190 I        !       I         
I Data Processing       I    5    35    40!    47    45    92!1   38    35    73!    90   115   205!1                I       I       I      I
1 Training              I    0      9      9!      0    13    13!1    0    14    14!          0    37    37!1        !       1       !      I
i Stud. &TA(fnct. MPTI    0    32    32!           0    63    63!1    0    48    481    0   143   143!1              I       I       I      I
! Land & Buitdings    I  114        0   114 I  189        0   189 I  174       0   1741I477         0   477 1        I       I       !      I
1 VehicLesS&office eql   56         0    56!    76        0    76!1   87       0    87!   219       0   219 1        I       I       I      I
-- - - -  …   -- - - -I-- - - - - - ---…- - - -- - - - --I.. .. .. . .. .. .I-- - - - -- - - - I.. . .   .             .. .I-- - -I    …- - -
I  Total             ! 1454  1378  2832 1 1772  1765  3537 I 2265  1958  4223 I 5491  5101 10592 ! 5183 ! 5421 ! 577  116377 I
!(of wh. VAT/customsl  875             875 I 1170           1170 ! 1329      0  1329 I 3375        0  3375 I 1669!1 1745 ! 1857!1 5270 !
…-- - -- - - -I - -I -- - - - -- - - -I-- - - - -- - --…          I - - - - -- - --…I - - - -- - - --I--- --   --- --I-- - -   .…. .
Iof wh. phys. cJnt.  I    0        0      0!1   75    78   154!1   90    84   173!1  165   162   327!1  201!1  198!1  199!1  598!1
price cont.  I    0       0      0 1  195   117   312!1  381   200   581 !  576   318   894! 1    62!1 1745 ! 1857 14564!1
….. . .. . . .. . .I-- - - - - - -…11 -          - - - - - - - -                                             . . .I.. . .I-- - -!    …-- -



- 63 -
ANNEX 9
MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMNIC-ATIONS (ONPT)
Prolect Imvlementation Schedule
Item                        1992          1993            1994             1995
A.  Switching equipment
1. New exchanges 
2. Extension/replacement          l              -              - -
B. Transmission eauiPment
1. Long distance system                                  . 3    ..> -l
2. RegionaL/rural systems                        .         -       -
C.  Local networks
1. Equipment & installation                                        -       -
2. Civil works                       _      -      -               -
D. Miscellaneous equipment for:
*  Construction                                                    - _ 
/instatlation/
Maintenance/trainng                             -       - 
E.  Technical assistance
1. Consultants                                                     -       -       -
/training
F.  MPT Comonent
. Consultants
. Control center                                          _               -
Leged:
Phase of Implementation: 0-- Tender issuance/contract negotiation for tied procurement;
--x-- Signing of contract;
Start-up of delivery/installation/construction;
Provisional acceptance, or completion.



- 64 -
lMOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONFf
Schedule of Bank Loan Disbursnents
(1U$ Million eauiv.)
IBRD                            Cumulative
FY/Semester        Disbursement          Through
Ending           in Semester         Semester
FY93
Dec. 31, 1992                 0.0              0.0
June 30, 1993                 3.0             3.0
Dec. 31, 1993                16.0             19.0
June 30, 1994                15.0            34.0
Dec. 31, 1994                12.0            46.0
June 30, 1995                16.0            62.0
trn6
Dec. 31, 1995                 8.0            70.0
June 30, 1996                12.0            82.0
FY97
Dec. 31, 1996                 4.0            86.0
June 30, 1997                 8.0            94.0
FY98
Dec. 31, 1997                 6.0           100.0



- 65 -
ANM I1
page 1 of 3
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPT)
Income Statements (Dirhams million)
Revtennes                12                      2                     2Q1221
T,L   | Psr   I Tot    Tel. |.  Sr    Toe.I  Tel    psPt   Tot    TeL|
Telecom.                  2139      -   2139  2382            2382   2785       -    2785    3209      -     3209
Post                        -     212   212       -     228   228   -         2 -47    247     -    258       258
Fimancial services          -      72   7n   79    79                  -        98     98      -    112       112
Total Sales             2139    284  2423   2382      307  2689   2785       345   31W     3209   370      3579
OtherRevenues               10      3     13      4       1      5      6        2      8       8      3       11
Total Revenues            2149   287  2436  2386        308  2694   2791       347   3138    3217   373      3590
Charnes        JI2        a       Tot.   Tel.    PsLI  To      TeLl    iS    To.    TeLl               Tot.
Supplies                    17      4     21    18        5     23     65       14     79      68     15       83
Personnel charges          338    280   618   394       297   691    502       361    863     540   375       915
Indirect taxes             482    37   519  543          41   584    558        42    600     779    58       837
Services                   152    65   217   126         45    171    127       52    179     128    55       183
Financial charges           50     -      50     77       -     77    147             147     202      -      202
Depreciation               435    25   460   473         27   500    642        35    677     776    45       821
Provisions                  14      -     14    25       -      25     61       -      61      80      -       80
Total Charges             1488    411   1899  1656      415  2071   2102       504   2606    2573   548      3121
Gross income               661   -124   537   730    -107   623    689    -157    532         644  -175       469
Profit/losses              -33    -18    -51   -59       -29   -88   -140       -    -140      -7      -       -7
minus: Income tax          200      -    200   224       -    224    157         -    157     185      -      185
Net Income                 428   .142   286   447    -136   311    392    -1S7    235         452  .17S       277



-66 -                                      ANN      II
page 2 of 3
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMICATIONS (ONPT)
Funds Flow Statements (Dirhams million)
Soumsn                   22-                   122Q                   122
Tel    PSM   Tot    TeL|   PS£ Tot.                   TL    Tot.    TeL   PST       TOL
Net Income                 428   .142   286   447    -136   311    392    -157    235         452   -175      277
Depreciation               435     25   460   473        27   500    642        35    677     776    45       821
Provisions                  14            14    25       -      25     61       -    -61    80                 80
Cash Flow                  877   -117   760   945    -109   836   1095    *122    973    1308  -130          1178
Grants                       -                                         71              71      60              60
Long-Term Borrowing        426      -    426   801       -     801   1022 l          1022    1724     -      1724
Total Sources             1303   -117  1186  1746    .109   1637   2188    -122   2066    3092  -130         2962
|ilI~n  TeL|  PS|  Tot. TeLl             Tot.   T|L is.   Tr.j    TeLr  PSf             Tot
construction Expendit.     880    66    946  1789       115  1903   2024        68   2092    3040   192      3232
Fiancial ILvestment          -      -      -     13       2     16      13       7     20      13      9       22
Reimbursemcnt &             55      -     55    80        -     80    129       -    129      305     -       305
Interest Debt
Total ApplicaL             935    66  1001  1882        117   1999   2166       75   2241    3358   201      35S9
Sources minus              368   -183    185  -136    *226  -362       22    -197   -175    -266  -331        .597
Applicat.
minus: Gross Var. of
Wkg. Cap                   443    -97   346  -292        65   -227    -94      -96   -190    -298   -79       -377
Variation Cash             -75    -86  -161   156    -291   -135    116    -101        15      32  -252      -220



- 67 -                                          AINK 1_1
Page 3 of 3
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPT)
Balance Sheet (Dirha1ns millionx)
.              _o PL Tt                                    o.*Tt
TeL     PSL   TOt    TeL | PSfL  Tot.   Tel. I Pt          T        TeL    PSL      Tot
Net. FLx Assets           2623   394  3017  4004       416  .4420   5348     486   5834    7622    624    8246
Oth. Long-Term Assets      33    -       33    48       -      48     59      10     69      78      13       91
Inventory                  158    40   198   211        23   234   211        23    234      201      22     223
0th. Short-Term Assets    2170   136  2306  1995       197  2192   2316      215   2531    2431    221    2652
of which  -Priv. Recv.     630   482   548   637        34   671   849        44    893    1151      57    1208
-Adm. Recv.     1231   200  1431  1095        150  1245   1088      148   1236    1027    149    1176
Cash and Banks            1191  -908   283  1347   -1199   148.  1463   -1300    163    1495  -1552          -57
Total Assets              6175  -338  5837  7605    .S63  7042   9397    -566   8831   11827    .672   11135
T,iabilidles   |1                                2                    99                      2
|iaiie  I Tel. | Sf.T  Tot   TL                 TLot.    Tel.   PSf.    Tot.
Net Worth                 3965  -424  3541  4450    -634  3816   4952    -730   4222    5421    -902    4519
Long-Term Debt             801    -    801  1521        -    1521   2415      -    2415   3833        -    3833
Short-Term Liabilities     967   228   1195  1162      207   1369  1638      321    i57    2121    405    2526
Net Income                 442  -142   300   472    -136   336    392    .157    235         452    -175     277
Total Liabilities         6175  -338  5837  7605    .563  7042   9397    4566   8831   11827   -672   11155
-Gr-; Variation of
wyorking Cagital
Inventory                   34     9    43    53        -17    36      0       0      0      -10     -1      -11
0th. Short-Term Assets     227  -137    90  -175        61   -114   321       18    339      115      6      121
Provisions                  14     0     14    25        0    25      61       0     61       80      0       80
Short-Term Liabilities   -168   -31 -199   195         -21   174   476       114    590     483      84     567
Var. Gross Worling         443   -97   346  -292        65  -227    -94       -96   -190    -298    -79    -377
Capital
Var. Cash and Banks        -75   -86           156    -291  -135    116    -101       15      32    -252    -220
__:___________~~~~~~~~~~~~ ---_                                             _ __ - _ ..----- - ---______________________-_______



- 68 -
AMME2 1-2
page 1 of 4
OFFICE NATIONAL D)ES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU MAROC (ONPT)
BASIC DATA FOR PROJECTED TELECOMMUNICATIONS REVENUES
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
....        ..... ....       ....    ....      ...._
General data
Inflation rates: GD? deftators                   6.02    6.0%    7.02    6.0X    6.0%    6.02
1.13    1.20    1.29    1.36    1.45    1.53
MUV international              3.0X    4.0X    4.0X    4.0X    4.0%    4.0X
Physical data
.............
Telephone
Nb of tines: end year                       660000  835000 102000O 1200000 1380000 1560000
Nb of lines: mid year                       580000  747500  927500 1110000 1290000 1470000
1992    1 m      1994    1995    1996    1997
Tari ffs/Consumption
.................
Call charge - CC (Dirham)                       0.75    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80    0.80
Average CC per subscriber
Connections                                  1000      900    1215    1150    1380    1380
Rental                                        360      480     600      700     850    1000
Nation. communicat.                          4500    4360    4230    4100    3940    3780
Internat. communic.                          2930    2725    2560    2410    2310    2220
Revenues, excL. taxes tMDH)
Connections                                 120.0   126.0   179.8   165.6   198.7   198.7
Rental                                      156.6   287.0   445.2   621.6   877.2  1176.0
Nat. coomiunicat.                          1957.5  2607.3  3138.7  3640.8  4066.1  4445.3
Internat. communic.                        1274.6  1629.6  1899.5  2140.1  2383.9  2610.7
Total Telephone                            3508.7  4649.9  5663.2  6568.1  7525.9  8430.7
Telex                                       186.0   155.0   140.0   120.0   100.0    90.0
operat. miscellaneous                       272.0   280.0   310.0   350.0   390.0   440.0
....... ........................................
Total rev., excl. taxes                 3966.7  5084.9  6113.2  7038.1  8015.9  8960.7
VAT (122 up 91;19% from 92))              753.7   966.1  1161.5  1337.2  1523.0  1702.5
4720.3  6051.0  7274.7  8375.3  9538.9 10663.3
of which private subscr.               4109.7  5397.6  6575.6  7613.9  8671.8  9693.9
Government                     610.6   653.4   699.1   761.4   867.2   969.4
Nb of employees                                12892   14047   15201   16341   17485   18656
Increase                                      12.5X    9.0X    8.2X    7.5X    7.0X    6.7X
Nb of employees/1000 DEL                        22.2    18.8    16.4    14.7    13.6    12.7



- 69-                                                          ANNEX 12
page 2 of 4
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU MAROC (ONPT)
PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENTS
(DH million)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
....      .... .   ....    .... .   ....   ...... ........ .....
Revenues
Telecomm.                                  4720.3  6051.0  7274.7 8375.3  9538.9 10663.3
Various                                       18.0    20.0    22.0    23.3    24.7    26.2
Financial                                     1.0      1.0     1.0     1.1     1.1     1.2
Total                                   4739.3  6072.0  7297.7 8399.7 9564.8 10690.7
Charges
supplies                                     97.9   133.8   177.6   225.3   277.5   335.2
Personnel                                   669.4  804.1   968.3  1147.6  !3:5.6  1592.2
Value add. taxCVAT)                         753.7  966.1  1161.5  1337.2  1523.0  1702.5
Other indir. taxes                           146.2   173.6   201.6  245.4   290.0   331.7
Services                                     184.3  251.8  334.3  424.1   522.4  631.1
Depreciation                                986.9  1215.3  1487.3  1824.7  2222.6  2653.7
Bad debts (51, fr. 92 on)                   236.0   302.5   363.7  418.8   476.9   533.2
.................   ........................................ ..............  
Total                                  3074.5  3847.2  4694.4  5623.1  6666.2  7779.7
Operating income                            1664.8  2224.8  2603.3  2776.6  2898.6  2911.0
less: income taxes                          335.0   513.6  565.7  549.8  482.7  372.7
inter. on LT cred.                    332.1   439.3  581.7  698.3  890.4  1083.1
non oper. inc.                        -13.0    -7.0   -4.0       0.0     0.0     0.0
monopoly levy                         500.0   508.5   611.3   703.8  801.6  896.1
gvt's receivbles                      204.1
.....   -----. . .....  ..... .. -----  -----... ..w  ... ..   
Income to retain. earn.                     306.6   770.4  848.6  S24.7   724.0  559.1
Rate of return                               24.61   27.22   26.5%   23.41   20.4X   17.6X
Tol. rev./DEL (kDH)                           8.2      8.1     7.9     7.6     7.4     7.3
Operating Ratio                                 65X     63X    64%      671     70X    73n
Cash & banks/revenues ratio (month            6.2      3.4     3.6    3.3      3.0     2.7
Total taxes (excl. cust. duties)             36.6%   35.61   34.8X  33.81   32.4X  30.91
Operat. cost/DELCconst. 1991 DH)              1548    1416    1327    1270    1236    1216



- 70 -
ANNEXR 12
page 3 of 4
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU X4AROC (ONPT)
PROJECTED FUNDS FLOW STATEMENTS
(DH million)
1992-   1992-
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1994    1996
....       .... .   ....     .... . . ....     .... . . .  .....   .... ........ ........
Sources
Internal cash generat.
Operating income                              1664.8  2224.8  2603.3  2776.6  2898.6  2911.0  6492.9 12168.1
Depreciation                                   986.9  1215.3  1487.3  1824.7  2222.6  2653.7  3689.5  m6.8
Provisions
Non oper. inc.                                  13.0      7.0      4.0       0.0      0.0      0.0    24.0    24.0
.....  ------. ------  ......... .. .  ....  ------.. ------  ------....
Total int. cash gen.                        2664.7  3447.0  4094.6  4601.3  5121.2  5564.7 10206.4 19928.9
Long term borrowing
external borrowing                            1378.0  1991.0  2182.0
local borrowing                                249.0   174.0   229.0
,......    ......... ......    ......... ......    ......... ......    ................................
Total borrowing                             1627.0  2165.0  2411.0  2591.5  2710.5  2886.5  6203.0 11505.0
Subsidies                                          10.0                                                  10.0    10.0
e......    ......... ......    ......... ......    ......... ......    ........ .................. ...
Total sources                                   4301.7  5612.0  6505.6  7192.8  7831.7  8451.2 16419.4 31443.9
Applications
............
Debt service
Amortization                                   405.5   526.3   652.7   689.0   776.8   997.6  1584.5  3050.3
Interest                                       281.4   394.7   535.7   698.3   890.4  1083.1  1211.8  2800.4
.....    ....... .......... ......  ------... ......    ......... ...... ......... ..... ............
Total debt serv.                             687.0   921.0  1188.4  1387.2  1667.2  2080.6  2796.3  5850.8
Construction expend.:
Proposed project                              2832.0  3526.0  4203.0                               10561.0 10561.0
Future project                                                           5183.0  5421.0  5m.0          0.0 10604.0
tess VAT/import. equip.                     -417.0  -518.0  -622.0  -767.0  -802.3  -814.3 -1557.0 -3126.3
......   ........ ......   ......... ......  ......... ......  ......... ............ ..... ............
Total construct. expend.                    2415.0  3008.0  3581.0  4416.0  4618.7  4918.7  9004.0 18038.7
Financial investments                             26.0    26.0    26.0    27.6    29.2    31.0    78.0   134.8
Other applications:
Income taxes                                   335.0   513.6   565.7   549.8   482.7   372.7  1414.3  2446.8
Monopoly tax                                   500.0   508.5   611.3   703.8   801.6   896.1  1619.8  3125.2
Loss of gvt's recbles                          204.1                                                  204.1   204.1
Nisc. int. (cust., I1RD)                        50.7    44.6    46.0                                  141.3   141.3
.....        ..... .   .....   ..... .... .....  ..... ... ..... ...................................
Total other appilc.                         1089.8  1066.7  1223.0  1253.6  1284.2  1268.8  3379.5  5917.4
Incr.(dec.) in work. capital                    -659.1  -331.1       16.7      9.0   141.1   125.5  -973.5  -823.3
......  ........ ......  ------... ......  ......... ------  ........ .................. .........
Total applications                              3558.7  4690.6  6035.1  7093.4  7740.5  8424.6 14284.4 29118.3
.....    ..... .   .....   ..... .. .....    ..... .. .....    .......... .......................
Cash surplus                                     743.1   921.4   470.6    99...    91.2    26.6  2135.1  2325.6
Self financing (X)                                36.8%   48.5%   47.0%   44.4X   47.0X   45.01   44.8X   45.21
Debt service cov.(times)                            2.3      2.6      2.4      2.4      2.3      2.1      2.4      2.4



- 71-                                                         ANNEX 12
page 4 of 4
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS DU MAROC (ONPT)
BALANCE SHEETS
(DH million)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997
....... .......     .. ..    . ...     ....    ....     ......
Assets
Gross fixed assets                         12130.4 14875.5 18176.7 22372.8 27017.9 31953.8
Less: Depreciation                       4712.1  5955.7  7478.7 9348.3 11627.0 14350.5
...... ....... ....... ......... . .... ... . ......
Met fixed assets                           7418.2  8919.8 10698.0 13024.4 15390.9 17603.3
Work in progress                            1684.0  2038.0  2429.0  2786.0  2924.7  3102.4
Other L-T assets                             104.0   130.0   156.0   183.6   212.8   243.7
Current assets:
Inventory                                 160.8    96.5    88.8    93.9    92.5   111.7
Gross. Receiv.: goverrment                254.4   217.8   174.8   190.3   216.8   242.3
private                  1369.9  1349.4  1643.9  1903.5  2167.9  2423.5
.. ......    ......    ... ...    ---  .... ..    . ....._
Subtotal receiv.                       1624.3  1567.2  1818.7 2093.8  2384.7  2665.8
Other debtors                               70.7    71.4    72.1    72.8   73.6    74.3
Accrued accounts                           185.8   187.7   189.6   191.5   193.4   195.3
. ..... -- -- ...............  ........    . . ........ ..
Total curr. assets                     2041.7  1922.8  2169.2  2452.0  2744.2  3047.2
Cash & banks                               2442.2  1711.3  2181.9  2281.3  2372.4  2399.1
minus: cash equal.                       -1652.3
. ......  .......  ----  ... ............. .-..--- 
Total assets                              12037.8 14721.9 17634.0 20727.3 23645.1 26395.6
Liabilities
.....  ..
Equity:
Government equity                        2568.0  2568.0  2568.0  2568.0  2568.0  2568.0
Equipment subsidies                        141.0  141.0  141.0  141.0  141.0  141.0
Retained earnings                        2033.5  2803.9  3652.5  4477.2  5201.2  5760.3
Revaluation reserve                        52.1   115.0   190.5   282.7   391.8   516.8
... ...  . ............... ... .... ......... ..----_
Total equity                           4794.7  5627.9  6552.0  7468.9  8301.9 8986.1
Long term debt
Long term borrowing                      4966.5  6605.2  8363.5 10266.0 12199.7 14088.6
Government (personnel)                     88.0    88.0    88.0    88.0    88.0    88.0
... ....   ....    .   ...  .. ..   ....
Total L-T debt                         5054.5  6693.2  8451.5 10354.0 12287.7 14176.6
Current liabilities:
Suppliers                                 492.5   613.5   730.3   900.6   942.0  1003.1
Government taxes                          1067.4  1131.5  1210.7  1283.3  1360.3  1441.9
Other creditor^                           453.7   480.9   514.6   545.4   578.2   612.9
Accrued accounts                           175.0   175.0   175.0   175.0   175.0   175.0
----  ....  ......    ......    ......    ... ..
Total curr. liabil.                    2188.6  2400.8  2630.6  2904.4  3055.5  3232.9
.......  .......   .....  ..... ..  .. ..  .. ..
Total liabilities                          12037.8 14721.9 17634.0 20727.3 23645.1 26395.6
Debt/debt.equity ratio                          51%     54%     56%     58%     60%     61%
Current ratio                                 2.0      1.5     1.7     1.6     1.7     1.?
Earnings/equity ratio                            9%     38%     30%     23%     16%     11%



- 72 -
ANNEX 13
page 1 of 2
MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONP3)
Notes and Assumptions for the Financial Forecasts, 1992-1997
A.    INCOME STATEMENTS
1.    Operating Revenues
a)  Average consumption per DEL  is assumed to decrease by 3% p.a.
b)  Connection fee revenues are based on the increase in the
number of DELs in each year.
c)  Telex revenues are assumed to decrease by 5% p.a. from 1993
onwards.
d)  VAT calculated on sales revenues at the rate of 19%.
Corresponding amount is deducted under operating expenses.
e)  Proportion of government customers  is assumed to decrease
gradually from 14% in 1992 to 9% in 1995 and to remain at 9%
thereafter.
2.    ORerating Expenses
a)  Supplies and services - Average cost per DEL for 1991 assumed
to remain constant in real terms.
b)  Personnel - Average wage per employee for 1991 assumed to
increase by 4% p.a. in real terms.
c)  Depreciation - Based on weighted average rate of 9%;  building
and vehicles assumed to be revalued at local inflation rate;
equipments assumed not to be revalued, due to rapid
obsolescence.
d)  Provision for bad debts - Assumed at 5% of sales revenues.
e)  Income tax - Calculated at rate of 40% of net income (after
deduction of monopoly tax).
f)  provision of DH 204.1 million for write-off of unrecognized
government accounts receivable in 1992.
B.    EMNS FLOW STATEMENT
1.    Sources
a) Borrowings - Based on drawings on existing and future loans as
per program financing plan (sae Chapter 4)



- 73 -
ANNEX 13
page 2 of 2
2.    Applications
a)  Debt service - Based on actual schedules for existing loans.
Future concessional (mixed) credits assumed to carry weighted
average interest rate of 5.8% and maturity of 16 years (with 7
years average grace period). Conditions assumed for future
commercial credits are 10% interest and 16 years maturity
(with no grace period); 9% interest and 20 years maturity
(with 5 years of grace) for future multilateral (co-financing)
loans; and 11.2% interest and 5 years maturity (with no grace
period) for future local loans.
b)  Construction expenditures - As per investment program (see
Annex 8). Figures are net of VAT (which is deductible
starting 1992).
C.    BALANCE SHEETS
1.    Assets
a)  Gross fixed assets and work in progress - Asset capitalization
based on expected commissioning schedule for major plant and
equipment. See preceding note regarding asset revaluat-on.
b)  Other long-term assets - Corresponds to accumulated financial
investments shown in the funds flow statement (participations
in Intelstat etc.).
c)  Inventory - Assumed to decrease by 40% in 1993 and then to
progressively decline to 4 months of supplies by 1996.
d)  Receivables - Assumed at three months of billings from 1993
onwards (1994 for government receivables).
e)  Other debtors - Assumed to increase by 10% p.a.
f)  Cash and banks - Pending the issuance of separate detailed
balance sheets for telecommunications and postal/financial
services, the start-up cash balance for telecommunicatins at
end-1992 was estimated at about DH 750 million, representing
about 3 months of 0 & M and tax expenditures in that year
(correspondingly, an amount of DH 1,588 million is shown as a
one-time transfer to the postal/financial services branch).
2.    Liabilities
a) Suppliers - Assumed to increas;e in proportion with
investments.
b) Other creditors - Assumed to increase with inflation.



- 74 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (Q)
Rates of Return on ONPr's lvestment hrouram
For purposes of calculating the rates of return on ONPT's
investment program, incremental 1992 investments are based on the
equivalent of DH 168 million in foreign currency and the corresponding
amount in local currency. All investments for 1993 and 1994 are included.
The rates of return are calculated in constant terms and the
amounts of the investments are net of custom duties and VAT. The revenues
to be considered for the calculation of the rates nf return and
attributable to the investment program for the proposed period, are those
corresponding to the new connections: a small fraction of the 1993 new
connections, about half of those of 1994, all those of 1995 and half of
those of 1996. Revenues are calculated on a fifteen-year horizon.
The operating costs which are considered, also in constent terms,
exclude depreciation and deductible VAT taxes.
The financial rate of return is calculated at projected tariffs
which are expected to decline in real terms from 1995 onwards. The result
is 25% . The economic rate of return is calculated assuming that
subscribers would be ready to pay tariffs that would go up with inflation
until the last additional connections of the program are fully in service,
in 1996. It is a way to estimate the consumers' surplus. The result is
32%.
The senstivity analysis shows a financial rate of return of 18%
if, simultaneously, revenues are reduced by 10% and costs increased by 10%,
and of 14% if rovenues are staggered by two years.



MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATONS (ONPTI
RATE OF RETURN OF THE PROJECT
(DH million)
Rate of   return               Years            Cash flow                   Cash flow               Se n s it i v it y  a na.
costs revemuesf irnanct    costs revenueseconouiic    :costs1.1revens.9casa fl.delay: 2
Financial r.r.                1992     -238.6     0.0  -238.6    -238.6    0.0  -238.6          -262.4     0.0  -262.4  -238.6
Economic  r.r. 3199                   -2099.0    61.3 -2037.7   -2099.0   61.3 -2037.7         -2308.9   55.2 -2253.7 -2099.0
35.82X          1.994    -2610.8  591.2 -2019.6   -2610.8  672.1 -1938.7         -2871.9  532.1 -2339.8 -2610.8
Sstv.rev.0.9;cst.1.1            199S     -661.8  1743.9  1082.2    -661.8  1978.0  1316.2         -727.9  1569.6  841.6  -600.4
21.15X         1996      -664.0  2266.3  1602.3    -664.0  2724.6 2060.6          -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  -72.8
Sstv.rev.delay 2               1997      -664.0  2266.3  1602.3    -664.0  2724.6  2060.6         -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1079.9
16.22X         1998      -664.0  2266.3  1602.3    -664.0 2724.6 2060.6           -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3
1999     -664.0  2266.3  1602.3    -664.0 2724.6  2060.6          -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3
2000     -664.0 2266.3  1602.3    -664.0  2724.6  2060.6           -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3
2001      -664.0  2266.3  1602.3    -664.0  2724.6  2060.6         -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3
2002     -664.0  2266.3  1602.3    -664.0 2724.6  2060.6           -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3
2003     -664.0  2266.3  1602.3    -664.0 2724.6  2060.6           -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3
2004      -664.0  2266.3  1602.3    -664.0 2724.6 2060.6           -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3                          VI
2005      -664.0 2266.3  1602.3      -664.0 2724.6  2060.6         -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3                           1
2006     -664.0 2266.3  1602.3    -664.0 2724.6  2060.6            -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3
2007      -664.0  2266.3  1602.3    -664.0  2724.6  2060.6         -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3
2008      -664.0 2266.3  1602.3    -664.0  2724.6  2060.6          -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3
2009      -664.0  2266.3  1602.3     -664.0  2724.6  2060.6        -730.4  2039.6  1309.2  1602.3
0



- 76 -
ANNEX 15
MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OFFICE NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPI)
Main Documnents Available in Project File
*   ONPT. Pzojet de T6l6communicat.on - Etude de Faisabilite Technique de la
Deuxi&me Phase (Feb. 1991).
*   ONPT. Plan de D6veloppement des T616communications 1991-94 (Nov. 1991)
*   ONPT. Comptes de Synthbse Pr6visionnels Plan 1990-1994
*   ONPT. Recusil de Textes sur les T616communications (Dec. 1990)
*   Proposal for Strategic Plan Study for Moroccan Telecommunications -
Swedtel - (Jan. 1992)
*   Secteur des Postes et Services Financiers.  Diagnostic et
Recommendations - Jean Babin - (May 1992)
*   Protocole d'Accord entre l'Etat et l'ONPT - Draft - (March 1992)
* R6organisation de l'ONPT - (Annexe d la note de Service no. 258DG4)
(Dec. 1991)
*   Restructuration du Secteur des T616communications - MG4 Associates (Apr.
199i)



- 77 -
ANNEX 16
MOROCCO
TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
OEFIC? NATIONAL DES POSTES ET TELECOMMUNICATIONS (ONPT
Maln Documrt.a Available In Prolect File
*   ONPT. Projet de Telecommunication - Etude de Faisabilite Technique de la
Deuxieme Phase (Feb. 1991).
:   ONPT. Plan de Developpement des Telecommunications 1991-94 (Nov. 1991)
*   ONPT. Comptes de Synthbse Previsionnels Plan 1990-1994
*   ONPT. Recueil  de Textes sur les T6lecommunications (Dec. 1990)
*   Strategic Plan Study for Moroccan Telecommunications - Swedtel - (1992)
*   Secteur des Postes et Services Financiers.  Diagnostic et
Recommandations - Jean Babin - (May 1992)
*   Contrat de Programme entre 1'Etat et l'ONPT  (December 1992)
*   R6organisation de l'ONPT - (Annexe a la note de Service no. 258DG4)
(Dec. 1991)
*   Restructuration du Secteur des Teldcommunications - MGA Associates (Apr.
1991)
*   TORs for Strengthening of Regulatory Function at MPT
*   Various consultants' reports on TA for Improvement of Data Processing,
Procurement, Human Resources Management and Cost Accounting/Billing
Functions - Sofrecom/Coopers and Lybrand (1991-1992)
*   Les telecommunications marocaines a travers les chiffres - ONPT (Dec.
1990)
*   Tariff Study SOFRECOM (1992)
*   Circulaire No 68 CAB du Premier Ministre: Rationalisation et procedures
de reglement des consommations de tdlecommunications
*   Declaration de Politique Sectorielle des Tel6communications au Maroc.



IBRD 24480
MOROCCO                                                     'POWTUGAL bX             ;oEste   n. fPerpignan(FRANCE)
MOROCCO                                                                              \,Elpn           Prinn           Mediterranean
Penmarch (FRANCE)       T     EMarseille                              Sea
TELECOMMUNICATION PROJECT  PO                                                                                       T           i (FrANeill   odoor
PRTUGAL AND                                                             oo
FRANCE       \>
ic
OPTICAL FIBER CABLES 565/MBs PROJECI
_OPTICpAL FMIBNER CTAoBLES 140/565 M X                                                                                     g T m/eaouna te
IN IMPLEMENTATION                                                                                                             ToaPzAaIBRCBE 55MaPOJC  UD
ANALOG SUBMARINE CABLE                                                                    oKENIT
CABLE TO BE DIGITAUZED                                                  *                                                                            r J  /  Mothor  \
MICROWAVES 140 MBs PROJECT                           DAKAR,1             CAS/MEKNVi                                               Missour       Bouafa 
MICROWAVES 140 MBs IN IMPLEMENTATION                                   ElKJaAR<vyu El Jodido   7                                 oTissoufro                     >
MICROWAVES 34 MBs IN IMPLEMENTATION                                                  M/n                                                                Ft
MICROWAVES 1 tOMBs                                             7ssoufi   ~ ~ ~~             t                     ich    Boudnib       F-q    -
EXISTING:                                               O                          f                        BENI-MELLAL                        -
MICROWAVES 140MBS                                                   SAFI           (- /bOuaou                                         chdidia I
MICROWAVES 34 MBs                                                                            O_oouizo_eeatrrfouidia
'P      /    RRAKE            ~~~Demnote                   Efu 
---     ANALOG MICROWAVES 960 CHANNELS                            Essaouira                                                            Risscni ,  3>
..-  - TROPOSPHERIC MICROWAVES 120 CHANNELS                                                  OAmizmi
-e--   OPTICAL FIBER CABLES 140 MBs                                                             r 
DIGITAUZE COAX CABLES                                        AGAC               Truo Te
DOMESTIC SATELLITE NETWORK                                             |ghrem
g      ARABSAT EARTH STATION                                                                   T   ta                                           100        200        300
fI    INTELSAT EARTH STATION                                                 /                     -                                 I            I
K)    SPACE SEGMENT DIGO'AUZATION                                    I;f       °            MAkka *                                               KlLOMETERS
SPACE SEGMEW DiGrrAUZATION  ~GejiT                       Boutoizkorne                             This reap has hoa prepared by The World ank's staff -orl-ioly for
NAnONAL CAPITAL                                                                     r                           thie -n.e..eneou of-rddersan-d  frte nteroauseat Thw World
I                    San~~~~~~~.k Grop. The d-oninti-n uead ftir b-odarie tr-r on this
- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                        p   - mp donot inpl on the parof The Word ank Group, y judgment
Tan-Tori                                                          - o tir eIgal states of any territory or any endoroereo- or -rceptaoro of
- - -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY (Approximate)               -,-                               Isurir houndurie-.
DECEMBER 1992



