Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  07/19/2007 
Report No.:  AC3097
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Sudan 
Project ID:  P107256 
Project Name:  Blue Nile Start-Up Emergency Project 
Task Team Leader:  Joseph Hoenen 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date:  
Managing Unit:  AFMSD 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Sub-national government administration (100%) 
Theme:  Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P);Rural services and 
infrastructure (P);Education for all (S);Land administration and management 
(S);Nutrition and food security (S) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
8.02 
 
Multi-donor Trust Fund for North Sudan 
7.32 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
15.34 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The project has two key objectives: to contribute on the one hand to the supply of basic 
services and facilities to the respective conflict-affected populations; and to contribute to 
capacity building of the state government to enable it to more effectively execute its 
mandate, especially at the local (decentralized) level.   
 
3. Project Description 
The project is the first (Start-Up/Emergency) phase of the recovery and development 
program for Blue Nile State. It will address a number of emergency needs in basic 
services and capacity building in the short term (6-12 months).  As such it is being 
processed under OP 8.00, Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies.  
 
A
follow-on, longer-term (Recovery & Development Phase) project will feature a more 
comprehensive and integrated approach addressing the need for lean, efficient, effective 
and transparent government institutions.  
 
Page  2
The project consists of seven components as follows:  
 
•
Component 1:    Water Supply (US$ 2.775 million). This component will support 
the construction and rehabilitation of improved water sources (hand pumps and water 
yards).  
 
•
Component 2:    Rural Roads Maintenance & Spot improvements (US$3.725 
million). This component will support the construction of eight small one-lane bridges 
and ten box culverts, as well as clearing of 60 km and grading of 20 km of roads. 
Component 3: Basic Education (US$2.780 million).  This component will build on efforts 
of the Blue Nile State government to improve and expand access to primary schools.  
 
•
Component 4:    Humanitarian Demining (US$ 1.599 million).  This component 
will be implemented by the National Mine Action Center (NMAC) as part of its urgently-
needed work on demining suspected roads and other high priority suspected areas in Blue 
Nile State.  
 
•
Component 5:    Rural Households Livelihoods Support (Agriculture) (US$0.380 
million). In Blue Nile State, this new phase of the CLARIS program will benefit a 
minimum of 2,000 households (including returnees and IDPs) for a total estimated 
population of 20,000 with the distribution of kits of locally-produced agricultural hand 
tools.  
 
•
Component 7: Anti-malaria bednets (US$ 0.4 million). The component will 
support the marketing and distribution of long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) with the 
objective of raising coverage to 80 percent of rural households in Blue Nile State.  
 
•
Component 6:    Capacity Building for State & Local Government (US$ 2.950 
million).   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will focus entirely on Blue Nile State, one of Sudan’s Three Areas most 
affected by the North-South conflict.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Paul Jonathan Martin (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  3
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Possible impacts have been identified associated with Components 1 (Water Supply), 2 
(Rural Roads Maintenance and Spot Improvements) and 4 (Humanitarian Demining) as 
described below:  
 
Component 1 (Water Supply)  
 
Possible Impacts: Decreasing water tables and soil erosion around water points  
 
Component 2 (Rural Roads Maintenance and Spot Improvements)  
 
Possible Impacts: Possibility that activities are within protected areas, or are the cause of 
involuntary resettlement.  
 
Component 4 (Humanitarian Demining)  
 
Possible Impacts: Unnecessary soil erosion, removal of vegetation, pollution, or damage 
to cultural property   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
None.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not relevant.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
Screening and mitigation procedures will be applied in Components 1 (Water Supply), 2 
(Rural Roads Maintenance and Spot Improvements) and 4 (Humanitarian Demining) to 
ensure that no environmental or social risks arise that would require more detailed 
environmental or social assessment.  
 
Component 1 (Water Supply)  
 
Mitigation Interventions: Investments under this component will be screened to ensure 
that groundwater resources are sustainably utilized, and that waterpoints are hygienically 
designed to protect the health of humans and livestock.  This will be achieved by 
application of the guidelines for the Water & Environmental Sanitation (WES) program 
of UNICEF, which will implement this component under a (Partner) Grant Agreement.  
The relevant guidelines used are "The Sphere Handbook , 2004 revised edition".  
 
Page  4
Component 2 (Rural Roads Maintenance and Spot Improvements)  
 
Mitigation Interventions: Investments under this component will be screened to ensure 
that they include only (i) construction of small one-lane bridges, (ii) construction of box 
culverts, and (iii) clearing and grading to rehabilitate existing roads.  Further, these 
investments will be screened to ensure that they do not entail either (i) activities within 
protected areas, or (ii) involuntary resettlement.  Preparation of the design studies for 
these works will include development of EMPs to address potential temporary 
environmental impacts during the construction phase, and will also document any 
voluntary land acquisition, temporary or permanent, that may be necessary.  Works 
contracts will be screened to ensure that these EMPs are incorporated.  These screening 
procedures will be included in the Terms of Reference of the supervision consultant who 
will be contracted to work with MPPPU, and will be monitored by the PMU.  
 
Component 4 (Humanitarian Demining)  
 
Mitigation Interventions: To ensure that demining operations do not cause unnecessary 
soil erosion, removal of vegetation, pollution, or damage to cultural property, these 
operations will be undertaken in compliance with UN-approved International Mine 
Action Standards (IMAS).  These standards will be incorporated in the contracts for these 
operations, which will only be awarded to registered and accredited mine action 
organizations.  
 
Borrower Capacity  
 
The borrower’s capacity for implementation of safeguard policies is very limited.  This 
shortcoming will be addressed by:  
 
•
Establishment of a Project Management Unit with experience in the application of 
Bank policies and procedures, responsible for overall supervision of the Project, 
including implementation of the environmental and social screening and planning 
procedures described above;  
 
•
Implementing Component 1, Water Supply, through UNICEF, who will ensure 
application of WES program guidelines;  
 
•
Contracting a supervision consultant familiar with Bank safeguard requirements 
to work with MPPPU for the implementation of Component 2, Rural Roads Maintenance 
and Spot Improvements;  
 
•
Contracting only registered and accredited mine action organizations under 
Component 4, Humanitarian Demining, who’s contracts will include safeguard 
procedures compliant with IMAS.  
 
In order to help establish more permanent institutional capacity, including for the 
management of environmental and social risks, Component 6 aims to restructure and 
strengthen a number of ministries.  In particular, this component will help establish 
environmental and social safeguard policies and procedures in MPPPU, which will 
provide the foundation for more extensive physical investment to be supported through a 
Page  5
separate project under the proposed Recovery and Development phase of the 
reconstruction program.  
 
The first of the regular reviews will be carried out in April 2008 (end of dry season) and 
then every 12 months to assess progress, achievement of overall objectives, as well as the 
role of the different partners and to eventually reorient the Project if needed to ensure 
achievement of objectives.  The reviews will involve visits by specialists to selected sites 
for first-
hand assessment of executing entities’ performance.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The Government of National Unity of Sudan will be the recipient of the grant. The State 
Ministry of Finance and Economy of Blue Nile State will be responsible for the overall 
coordination of the project. The PMU will be responsible for overall management, 
including providing procurement and accountancy services as well as fiduciary assurance 
regarding use of funds for specific components (2 and 6). UN agencies (UNICEF and 
UNIDO) will take on this responsibility for Components 1, 3 and 5. For Component 7 
(anti-malaria bednets), the DHSDP (within the Federal Ministry of Health) will handle 
the fiduciary aspects as well as the organization and implementation of the activity. The 
World Bank will sign separate Grant Agreements with UNICEF and UNIDO to 
implement their components of the project.  
 
Component 1:  Improved Water Sources - Community Selection, Mobilization  & 
Organization  
 
Most areas have been surveyed and needs have been identified. Based on agreed criteria 
at state level, villages are/will be selected. The main criteria is no or inadequate water 
supply in the village. Once the village is selected, the community will be oriented and 
mobilized as part of the project implementation.  
 
The community is involved in the planning and implementation of all WES 
interventions. Once the community is identified – based on assessment and agreed 
criteria – they are mobilized to form Village Health Committee (VHC) who identify 
pump caretakers and mechanics. They will be trained during the implementation of the 
project. The VHC is involved in the mobilization of community to participate in the 
project as part of choosing technology option, place of construction and contribution to 
capital cost, etc. Although, no separate budget line is given for capacity building of 
community, all above mentioned activities will be undertaken. For example, drilling and 
installation of hand pumps includes all training activities related to hand pump. 
Equipment such as tools and spare parts will be provided only in those areas, where water 
schemes have been established or rehabilitated.  
 
Component 2:  Rural Roads Maintenance & Spot Improvements  
 
At the start of the project, a consultant will prepare the necessary detailed designs and 
budgets that will be used for the contracts (private sector). This consultant will also 
Page  6
supervise the works. Capacity building will be integrated into this activity as staff from 
respective departments of the ministry will participate in all phases of the project.  
 
Component 4: Demining  
 
NMAC will subcontract to registered and accredited local NGOs for undertaking 
various components of the project. NMAC will retain responsibility for the coordination, 
monitoring, supervision, quality assurance, and reporting of its local implementing 
partners.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
07/18/2007 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
07/19/2007 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
07/19/2007 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
Yes 
Page  7
policies? 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Joseph Hoenen 
07/19/2007 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Paul Jonathan Martin 
07/19/2007 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
07/19/2007 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Asif Faiz 
07/19/2007 
Comments:   
