Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC3098 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 07/19/2007 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Sudan 
Project ID: P107256 
Project Name: Blue Nile Start-Up Emergency Project 
Task Team Leader: Joseph Hoenen 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date:  
Managing Unit: AFMSD 
Lending Instrument: Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector: Sub-national government administration (100%) 
Theme: Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (P);Rural services and 
infrastructure (P);Education for all (S);Land administration and management 
(S);Nutrition and food security (S) 
SPF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
8.02 
 
Multi-donor Trust Fund for North Sudan 
7.32 
 Financing 
Gap 
0.00
15.34 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The project has two key objectives: to contribute on the one hand to the supply of basic services 
and facilities to the respective conflict-affected populations; and to contribute to capacity 
building of the state government to enable it to more effectively execute its mandate, especially 
at the local (decentralized) level.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The project is the first (Start-Up/Emergency) phase of the recovery and development program 
for Blue Nile State. It will address a number of emergency needs in basic services and capacity 
building in the short term (6-12 months).  As such it is being processed under OP 8.00, Rapid 
Response to Crises and Emergencies.  
 
A
follow-on, longer-term (Recovery & Development Phase) project will feature a more 
comprehensive and integrated approach addressing the need for lean, efficient, effective and 
transparent government institutions.  
Page  2
The project consists of seven components as follows:  
 
•
Component 1:    Water Supply (US$ 2.775 million). This component will support the 
construction and rehabilitation of improved water sources (hand pumps and water yards).  
 
•
Component 2:    Rural Roads Maintenance & Spot improvements (US$3.725 million). 
This component will support the construction of eight small one-lane bridges and ten box 
culverts, as well as clearing of 60 km and grading of 20 km of roads. Component 3: Basic 
Education (US$2.780 million).  This component will build on efforts of the Blue Nile State 
government to improve and expand access to primary schools.  
 
•
Component 4:    Humanitarian Demining (US$ 1.599 million).  This component will be 
implemented by the National Mine Action Center (NMAC) as part of its urgently-needed work 
on demining suspected roads and other high priority suspected areas in Blue Nile State.  
 
•
Component 5:    Rural Households Livelihoods Support (Agriculture) (US$0.380 
million). In Blue Nile State, this new phase of the CLARIS program will benefit a minimum of 
2,000 households (including returnees and IDPs) for a total estimated population of 20,000 with 
the distribution of kits of locally-produced agricultural hand tools.  
 
•
Component 7: Anti-malaria bednets (US$ 0.4 million). The component will support the 
marketing and distribution of long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) with the objective of raising 
coverage to 80 percent of rural households in Blue Nile State.  
 
•
Component 6:    Capacity Building for State & Local Government (US$ 2.950 million).   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
The project will focus entirely on Blue Nile State, one of Sudan’s Three Areas most affected by 
the North-South conflict.   
 
E.  Borrower
’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
The borrower’s capacity for implementation of safeguard policies is very limited.  This 
shortcoming will be addressed by:  
 
•
Establishment of a Project Management Unit with experience in the application of Bank 
policies and procedures, responsible for overall supervision of the Project, including 
implementation of the environmental and social screening and planning procedures described 
above;  
 
•
Implementing Component 1, Water Supply, through UNICEF, who will ensure 
application of WES program guidelines;  
 
•
Contracting a supervision consultant familiar with Bank safeguard requirements to work 
with MPPPU for the implementation of Component 2, Rural Roads Maintenance and Spot 
Improvements;  
 
•
Contracting only registered and accredited mine action organizations under Component 
4, Humanitarian Demining, who’s contracts will include safeguard procedures compliant with 
IMAS.  
 
In order to help establish more permanent institutional capacity, including for the management 
of environmental and social risks, Component 6 aims to restructure and strengthen a number of 
ministries.  In particular, this component will help establish environmental and social safeguard 
Page  3
policies and procedures in MPPPU, which will provide the foundation for more extensive 
physical investment to be supported through a separate project under the proposed Recovery and 
Development phase of the reconstruction program.  
 
The first of the regular reviews will be carried out in April 2008 (end of dry season) and then 
every 12 months to assess progress, achievement of overall objectives, as well as the role of the 
different partners and to eventually reorient the Project if needed to ensure achievement of 
objectives.  The reviews will involve visits by specialists to selected sites for first-hand 
assessment of executing entities’ performance.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Paul Jonathan Martin (AFTEN) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Possible impacts have been identified associated with Components 1 (Water Supply), 2 
(Rural Roads Maintenance and Spot Improvements) and 4 (Humanitarian Demining) as 
described below:  
 
Component 1 (Water Supply)  
 
Possible Impacts: Decreasing water tables and soil erosion around water points  
 
Component 2 (Rural Roads Maintenance and Spot Improvements)  
 
Possible Impacts: Possibility that activities are within protected areas, or are the cause of 
involuntary resettlement.  
 
Component 4 (Humanitarian Demining)  
 
Possible Impacts: Unnecessary soil erosion, removal of vegetation, pollution, or damage to 
cultural property   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
Page  4
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  07/20/2007 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  N/A 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
Emergency Safeguard Screening and Assessment Framework to be prepared by 07/20/2007.   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Joseph Hoenen 
07/19/2007 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Warren Waters 
07/19/2007 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Asif Faiz 
07/19/2007 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
