Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
RESTRUCTURING STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  07/12/2010 
Report No.:  AC5564
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Sudan 
Project ID:  P107256 
Project Name:  Blue Nile Start-Up Emergency Project 
Task Team Leader:  Abderrahim Fraiji 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date: December 3, 2007 
Managing Unit:  AFTCS 
Lending Instrument:  Emergency Recovery 
Loan 
Sector:  Roads and highways (25%);Central government administration (22%);Primary 
education (19%);Water supply (19%);Sub-national government administration (15%) 
Theme:  Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (29%);Rural services and 
infrastructure (29%);Education for all (14%);Land administration and management 
(14%);Nutrition and food security (14%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
8.02 
 
Multi-donor Trust Fund for North Sudan 
7.32
15.34 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [X] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
To initiate the recovery of basic infrastructure and social services provided to the poor 
people in the conflict-affected area of the Blue Nile State and to lay the foundations for a 
program addressing capacity building needs in key state ministries in order to ensure 
future improvements in service delivery especially at the local (decentralized) level.   
 
3. Project Description 
Additional funding is being requested to allow the project to scale-up its support to rural 
livelihoods. This will involve:  
 
Sub component 1: Increasing the allocation for the current program for enhanced 
coverage (US$0.4 million). The additional funding will be devoted to the strengthening 
of the existing program under the rural livelihoods component and to meet the high 
demand which could not be fulfilled as a result of low allocation of only US$0.38 for this 
component in the earlier project.  An additional sum of US$0.4 million will be set aside 
for additional coverage of applicant beneficiaries and scaling up the packages.  
 
Sub Component 2: This sub component will support the following activities.  
Page  2
(a) 
Targeting fishers and women engaged in artisanal fisheries (US$0.4 million). 
Fishers in Blue Nile state pursue subsistence fishing and are one of the poorest sections 
of the rural society. The interventions under this and other projects have bypassed the 
fisher community. A sum of US$0.4 million is proposed to be allocated to support 
artisanal fisheries pursued by them in waters of Blue Nile state. The funding will support 
training for the fishers in better practices, supplying the fisher unions with improved 
boats and fishing nets, improving local boat/net supply by training artisans and 
craftsmen; fisher visits to areas of better fishing gear and practices and fish marketing in 
neighboring countries. The trainings will be conducted by fisheries extension with the 
support of a fisheries consultant on location of fisher union sites. The sub-component will 
leverage a revolving fund for artisanal production fishery and also for processing of fish 
and fish products including fish smoking, fish packaging and fish drying primarily 
targeted at women. This is likely to mobilize additional resources of approximately 
US$0.25 million to fund activities of this sub component.  
 
(b) 
 Supporting infrastructure for artisanal fishery and fish marketing (US$1.70 
million).  To upgrade artisanal fisheries, the essential pre-requisites are improving fishing 
practices and strengthening  linkages with marketing chains. The sub component will 
support retailing and wholesaling of fish and fish products (locally, to Khartoum and 
other major urban centers). A sum of US$1.70 million will help establish a cooling 
chamber, ice making factory, marketing hall and union activity center; and improving 
transportation technology.  An ice making factory will be established at the central point 
of Damazine. One Fisheries Service Center (FSC) will be established at a site to be 
agreed with the fishers unions which will be shared by the nearby fisher unions. The land 
for the FSC will be provided by the fishers union. The FSC will comprise a cooling 
chamber for storage of fish until sold, a marketing hall and a union office cum meeting 
hall. The marketing hall will be equipped for fish auction or sale as agreed between the 
fisher union and the fish traders association. The FSC will include an appropriate space 
for women to undertake cleaning and packaging activities.  
 
Sub Component 3: Policy, institutional and capacity building (US$0.25 million). An 
allocation of US$0.25 million will support provision of technical assistance for the 
following group of activities.  
 
(a) 
Policy and institution building: Project funding will be provided to: (i) draw up a 
comprehensive plan for Blue Nile Fisheries; (ii) prepare a report for developing a 
fisheries research paper and establishing research infrastructure; and (iii) carry out an 
institutional study of the fisheries department in order to develop a re-structuring 
proposal for a research and outreach oriented departmental arrangement and for 
participatory management of fisheries resources.  
 
(b) 
 Capacity building:  (i) Support will be provided to strengthen the fisher unions 
through activities such as registration of the unions as cooperatives as is common practice 
in Sudan, providing office equipment (cash box, account and minute registers, etc.) and 
training the office holders in minute writing, book keeping, operating bank accounts and 
in group dynamics for better union operations and management.  All of the 16 unions will 
be covered under a program of institutional strengthening with the help and support of the 
Department of Cooperatives.  
Page  3
(ii) Fishers will be provided technical training in improved fishing methods. The 
Fisheries Department will carry out one to two-day training programs on fishing sites and 
beaches for the unions at their respective fishing sites.  
 
(iii) A group of 18, comprising 16 fishers (one from each union) and 2 women (one each 
from two groups engaged in fish processing), will be sent on a one-week study tour of 
progressive fisheries in neighboring countries. The group will be accompanied by two 
fisheries officers who will record important events of the visit for dissemination among 
members of the fisher unions and women groups on return. A record will also be made of 
the improved fishing gear, boat building and net making facilities, and lessons from visit 
to the fisheries training center for fishers and staff.  
 
(iv) The project will support a training program for fisheries specialists. Visits to 
progressive fisheries departments in neighboring countries will be organized. About 7 
staff members of the state fisheries department and 3 specialists from the federal fisheries 
department will benefit from this program.  
 
(v)  A consultant will be engaged to draft a Handbook (PIM) for implementing the 
fisher- focused activities and their linkage with micro credit to enhance the effectiveness 
of implementers.  
 
Support for PCU:  A sum of US$250,000 will be provided to cover costs of PCU 
operations for an additional period of one year.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The project will focus entirely on Blue Nile State, one of Sudan#s Three Areas most 
affected by the North-South conflict.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Yasmin Tayyab (AFTCS) 
Mr Abdelmonem Osman Kardash (AFTEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  4
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Sub component 1 could indirectly result in farm expansions through conversion of other 
lands into crop farming. Additionally, land preparation and cultivation using mechanical 
equipments and post-harvest storage facilities could also lead to impacts on the 
biophysical environment and manifesting through loss of vegetation cover, biodiversity, 
land degradation, soil erosion, and invasion by noxious weeds and other opportunistic 
plants.  
 
Under sub component 2, the activities that are likely to generate any environmental 
impacts include: civil works associated with the construction of the cooling chamber, the 
ice making factory, the marketing hall and union activity center; and the Fisheries Service 
Center (FSC).  
 
Also, fish processing facilities and fish packaging, under sub component 2 will have 
potential adverse impacts (solid and liquid wastes) that can cause soil and water 
contamination. Depending on the type of processing adopted, it may result in the creation 
of poor hygiene and generation of odors which could be detrimental to the health and 
safety of workers and the local environment.  
 
None of the additional financing project proposed components will trigger the 
involuntary resettlement safeguard policy as most of the activities will require additional 
land other than that which is being cultivated or has existing usufruct rights. The land 
required for the construction of the FSC will be provided by the fishers union. The 
project will not directly or indirectly restrict traditional access to fish resources,  
 
Most of the original components under the Blue Nile emergency project were 
implemented by UN agencies and unfortunately the project had no record of being 
reviewed or monitored for the preparation and implementation of the required safeguard 
instruments and procedures. However, in an effort to rectify the problem and identify 
whether any of the implemented sub projects have been detrimental to the local 
environment, the Bank task team conducted an audit review to assess the impact of each 
project component on the local environment. The results of the assessment concluded that 
no adverse environmental and social impacts resulted from implementation.  
 
The project will be required to develop an Environmental Management Plan (EMP) that 
describes measures to mitigate negative project impacts and environmental monitoring 
arrangements. The project will benefit from the existing ESMF that was developed for 
the Abyei emergency start up project, which has similar activities. Since the project is 
implemented under response to emergencies (OP/BP 8.0), the EMP can be completed 
within two months of project effectiveness.   
 
Page  5
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
There are no indirect or long term adverse impacts anticipated due to future activities in 
the project area.   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not relevant.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The borrower#s capacity for implementation of safeguard policies is very limited. To 
address this shortcoming, a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established. 
Qualified staff, familiar with Bank policies and procedures, has been recruited. The PCU 
will be responsible for overall supervision of the project, including implementation of the 
environmental and social screening and planning procedures. Additionally, the PCU shall 
hire, as needed, a short term consultant (STC) as a safeguards specialist to work closely 
with the PCU, implementing agency, and beneficiaries during the implementation of the 
activities under the additional financing.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
The Government of National Unity of Sudan will be the recipient of the grant. The State 
Ministry of Finance and Economy of Blue Nile State will be responsible for the overall 
coordination of the project. The PCU will be responsible for overall management, 
including ensuring compliance with World Bank safeguard requirements.   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 No 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
11/18/2010 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/29/2010 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
12/15/2010 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Page  6
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 N/A 
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  7
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Abderrahim Fraiji 
06/23/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Abdelmonem Osman Kardash 
06/23/2010 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Yasmin Tayyab 
06/25/2010 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Ian Bannon 
06/28/2010 
Comments:   
