 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14628

                 ICR Review
                 Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 04/17/2015

              Country: Sudan
            Project ID: P107256                                                   Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name: Blue Nile Start-up           Project Costs (US$M):                     15.3                18.9
                        Emergency Project
  L/C Number:                                        Loan/Credit (US$M):                       7.3                 9.8
      Sector Board:       Social Development         Cofinancing (US$M):                         0                   0

          Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  12/03/2007
                                                                Closing Date:            06/30/2011          06/30/2012
         Sector(s):       Roads and highways (25%); Central government administration (22%); Primary education
                          (19%); Water supply (19%); Sub-national government administration (15%)
         Theme(s):        Rural services and infrastructure (29% - P); Conflict prevention and post-conflict
                          reconstruction (29% - P); Land administration and management (14% - S); Nutrition and food
                          security (14% - S); Education for all (14% - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Erik A. Bloom             Christopher David       Christopher David         IEGPS1
                          Nelson                  Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:
 The project objective from the Project Proposal Document was:

To initiate the recovery of basic infrastructure and social services provided to the poor in the
conflict-affected area of the Blue Nile State and to lay the foundations for a program addressing capacity
building needs in key state ministries in order to ensure future improvements in service delivery especially
at the local (decentralized) level.

Different grant agreements and Bank documents have similar wording of this objective. For the sake of
this review, the above objective will be used.


b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Components:
 As originally designed the project had eight components:

Component 1: Water Supply (US$2.78 million – Implementing Agency: UNICEF). To support the
construction and rehabilitation of improved water sources throughout Blue Nile State. The component had
the objective of increasing access to potable water on a reasonable per capita per day rate (20 liters), as
well as increasing awareness on hygiene and environmental issues for 71,000 IDPs, returnees and
host/receiving community members.

Component 2: Rural Roads Maintenance and Spot Improvements (US$3.73 million). To support the
construction of eight small one-lane bridges and 10 box culverts, as well as the clearing of 60 km and
grading of 20 km of roads and to support capacity building as staff from the Blue Nile State Ministry of
Physical Planning and Public Utilities (MPPPU) participated in all phases of the project. The component
supported the purchase of some equipment was also included in the component: two trucks, six vehicles
(4x4), one tanker, one excavator, and one grader. Furthermore, the MPPPU would also rehabilitate two
trucks, one bulldozer (D8), one grader, and one tanker.

Component 3: Basic Education (US$2.78 million – Implementing Agency: UNICEF). To finance student
and teacher kits, and classroom equipment for primary schools and to make basic education more
accessible through the provision of a variety of interventions targeting school infrastructure and access to
water, latrines, and basic hygiene. The Component also supported the capacity of 1,300 teachers and
established the Focusing Resources on Effective School Health (FRESH) program in 30 schools.

Component 4: Demining (US$1.60 million – Implementing Agency: NMAC). The National Mine Action
Center (NMAC) implemented this component to demine suspected roads and other high priority
suspected areas in Blue Nile State. Where possible, registered and accredited local mine action NGOs
undertook clearance operations for mines, Unexploded Ordinances, and Explosive Remnants of War.

Component 5: Rural Households Livelihood Support (US$0.38 million, later increased to US$2.88
million) – Implementing Agency: UNIDO). Extension of the already implemented the Community
Livelihoods and Rural Industry Support (CLARIS) Program – Phase I from the South Kordofan State to
Blue Nile State. The Blue Nile sub-office made use of support staff already available to carry out the
selection and organization of target group training as required, employ existing blacksmiths for the
production of hand tools, and utilize its facility for the production of the Nuba hoes and ox carts.

Additional financing was provided to Component 5, including US$0.40 million to expand the planned
activities as well as US$2.1 million for the Strengthening and Modernization of the Artisanal
Fisheries for Fisherman Fishing in the Nile River.

Component 6: Capacity Building for State and Local Government (US$2.31 million, later increased
to US$2.56 million). To support the Blue Nile State Government’s capacity in financial management and
procurement and included: (i) institutional assessment and formulation of follow-up programs in Finance
and Economy, Local Government, Education, Physical Planning and Public Utilities, and (ii) construction
of basic office facilities and housing for local authorities.

Additional financing (US$0.25 million) was provided to strengthen capacity in the fisheries sector.

Component 7: Anti-Malaria Bed-nets (US$0.40 million). The component was to include the marketing
and distribution of 65,000 long-lasting insecticidal nets.

Since other partners were providing bed-nets, this was subsequently changed to supporting the
development of a Center for Disease Control.

Component 8: Project Coordination Unit (US$0.64 million, later increased to US$0.89 million). This
component was to fund technical assistance for the coordination of the project. This included establishing
a PCU within the State Ministry of Finance and Economy. A group of consultants with accounting,
procurement and project management expertise were recruited to work together with a group of
appointed young Ministry staff to operate the PCU.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Costs and Financing
The project was originally appraised at US$15.3 million, comprising US$7.3 million from the Multi-Donor
Trust Fund and government budget support of US$8.0 million. The Trust Fund committed an additional
US$3 million on June 29, 2010.

The actual cost was US$18.9 million, comprising US$9.8 million from the Trust Fund (134 percent of
appraised amount) and US$9.1 million from all government sources, including the Blue Nile State (114
percent of the appraised amount).

A total of US$0.5 million from the Trust Fund was cancelled when the project closed.

Dates

The project was approved on December 3, 2007 and became effective on January 24, 2008. It had two
level II restructurings on August 30, 2008 and June 29, 2010. The first restructuring changed the scope of
Component 7 to focus on other health issues. The second restructuring modified Component 5, provided
additional financing (US$3 million) and extended the project by one year. The project closed on June 30,
2012, one year after the originally planned closing date.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
Relevance of Objectives is rated High.

The project was prepared to support the 2005 Comprehensive Peace Agreement and was one of the
main instruments to support the reconstruction of the Blue Nile State. Within the Agreement, the Blue Nile
State was one of three states (known as the “Three Protocol Area”) that received special attention (page
7 of the Project Paper). The project was aligned with the 2005 Joint Assessment Mission, which outlined
Bank support for Sudan, as well as the Bank’s 2003 Country Strategy, which aimed at re-engaging with
Sudan, and was consistent with the 2008-2009 Interim Strategy Note (page 11 of the ICR).

The Second Pillar of the 2014-2015 Interim Strategy Note emphasizes “support to national and local
programs for service delivery focusing on key human development outcomes…especially in areas
emerging from conflict…” and makes specific references to the implementation of Comprehensive Peace
Agreement and the need to focus on the Blue Nile State (for example pages 3-4 and 26).

b. Relevance of Design:
The Relevance of Design is rated Substantial.

The project objective was to restore service delivery in Blue Nile State while improving the state’s
capacity. The project’s design responded to the drivers of conflict in Blue Nile State as identified by the
'Three Areas Strategy' articulated as part of the Sudan Post-Conflict Neeeds Assessment. It was built
around eight components each focusing on different areas of local service delivery (components 1, 2, 3,
5, and 7). These focus on the primary areas of responsibility of the local government. At the same time,
component 4 provides support for de-mining, an essential condition to restore basic services. Component
6 focuses on improving capacity and component 2 also includes capacity building. This approach
ensured that the project was covering the main elements of service delivery. The Project Paper provided
a justification for the activities that were selected, explaining what the challenges were and how the
project addresses these challenges (pages 8 to 16).

However, there were minor shortcomings. As designed, the program logic of the project did not
adequately cover how the various components were to function together, nor how these would be
effectively monitored over time. In addition, the results framework had a number of weaknesses. While
some activities were well covered by intermediate indicators (for example basic education), others were
weak (for example, capacity building) or non-existent (particularly, health). Likewise, the PDO level
indicators did not provide a good sense of how to identify when services were restored or how capacity
might have been strengthened. Given the extremely basic level of capacity as well as the project’s
location in a remote and conflict-affected region, these could have been more carefully incorporated into
the design.

The project was designed to engage both the government and international agencies as implementing
partners, and did this through the Project Steering Committee. While the project could have been better
at explaining how the interaction between the government authorities would function, it did institute
structures that encouraged State government engagement.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  The PDO can be divided into two sub-objectives, with the first focusing on restoring service delivery
and the second focusing on local capacity building. Given the nature of the project and its objectives, the
outcomes are largely expressed as outputs making it difficult to link these to any meaningful achievement
against the longer term aspects of the PDO.

PDO #1. Initiate the recovery of basic infrastructure and social services provided to the poor.

The achievement of this objective is rated substantial.

The project’s focus was on restoring roads, water supply, education, and livelihoods while de-mining
roads and other key areas. The project also provided some support to the health sector.

According to the ICR, the project supported efforts to increase water supply by constructing or
rehabilitating 117 water points. This effectively met the target in the project document (page 35 of the
project document) and provided water supply for an estimated 71,000 people from the general
population and an additional 100,000 students.

The project supported the reconstruction of a secondary transportation network, including restoring 107
kilometers of secondary roads (against a target of 80 kilometers) as well restoring 11 bridges
(against a target of 18). The ICR does not provide information on the importance of these roads or how
many inhabitants are likely to benefit.

In primary education, the project supported the construction of 64 latrines and provided 145,000
school kits to primary age children. In addition, 122 schools were provided with basic equipment
and materials, as planned in the Project Document. The Project Document explains (pages 10-11) that
many schools were not operating and those that were operating lacked basic equipment and supplies.
The ICR does not indicate the magnitude of these investments (for example, how many primary age
children live in the Blue Nile State) but additional information estimates that the project contributed to the
re-enrolment of 48,000 students and the retraining of some 1,336 teachers in methodologies and
supervision techniques.

In addition to supporting the rehabilitation of roads, the project also supported de-mining activities along
major roads and other areas. The ICR reports that the project cleared 14 high priority areas and roads,
affecting 33 communities and 54,000 people.

The project had a number of activities aimed at improving rural livelihoods. One major aspect of this
support was in the fisheries sector, where the project shifted its priorities based on the assessment of
needs. While only 1,300 fishing boats and gear were improved compared to a target of 2,598, the
priority was on the quality of these craft and the project chose to invest in more sustainable larger boats
rather than traditional craft, thus increasing fishing potential. The project was successful in restoring some
of the infrastructure for the fishing sector, including establishing an ice factory and fishing service
center as well as providing training for fisheries officers and cooperative members. The ICR does
not go into enough detail as to the impact of the provision of these services.

The ICR reports that many aspects of the rural livelihood programs proved to be inappropriate for the
state and that that the project moved to support fisheries (page 8 of the ICR). However, it appears that
some aspects of the original focus were retained. The ICR provides little information about the specifics
of these programs other than reporting that 200 farmers adopted new technology and that new seed
was not distributed as expected .

In the area of health, the project supported the construction of a Center for Disease Control, with
counterpart funds used to furnish and equip the center. This was considered a priority by the state
government (page 4 of the ICR).

Of concern in the ICR is the very limited reference to data collection methods and the number of
estimates made for beneficiaries with no explanation of how these figures were totaled. Eight of the
component indicators had baseline and post project outcomes that were exactly equal which is somewhat
questionable given the nature of delivering services in these environments. There is insufficient evidence
to support many of these claims and little effort in the ICR to reconcile these achievements against the
overall PDO.

PDO #2. to lay the foundations for a program addressing capacity building needs in key state
ministries.

The achievement of this objective is rated modest.

The ICR reports that the project supported the construction, rehabilitation, and equipping of 91
administrative buildings, against a target of 126. It also trained 2,058 government employees,
against a target of 1,720. This represented the first step in addressing the capacity building needs in the
state government.

However, there is no additional evidence on how these immediate steps were likely to have any lasting
impact on improving capacity. There is a vague reference to improved KPIs for disease control and the
collection of samples, but nothing on what this means in the context of farmers, how the results are used
and nothing on the likelihood that these departments will make any difference in the longer term to
improve service delivery. There is little explanation of how the training was formulated, how needs were
assessed and whether the training had any influence on changes to decentralized authorities. Without
considerably more evidence it is difficult to see the achievements as anything other than the delivery of
various preliminary inputs into the targeted regions. Thus the achievement is rated modest.

5. Efficiency:
 Efficiency is rated modest.

The project consisted of a number of different interventions from different sectors and was prepared
under emergency procedures. As such, there was no attempt to carry out a cost benefit analysis. Instead
the project focused on filling gaps that were critical to the state and were identified by the Comprehensive
Peace Agreement and the appraisal (page 5 of the ICR).

Despite the state’s low capacity, funds were disbursed largely according to schedule. In addition there
were no reports of corruption and the end of project audit generally indicated that the project resources
were spent efficiently and as intended. The project team confirmed projects supported by the Multi-Donor
Trust Fund (such as this one) have administrative costs that are lower than other projects in
conflict-affected areas of Sudan. This is discussed in the the independent evaluation of the Multi-Donor
Trust Fund.

However, even in an emergency project such as this one, there should be an attempt to assess the
economic benefits of the project and to get some estimates on the ERR. The project had clear and
monitorable inputs with identified targets and an estimate of the monetary value of these would help
support the claims against disbursements. The claim made on low cost supervision may well be
questioned in this case given the fragile environment in which the project took place and the need for
particular care in making it work in the longer term. There was no explanation of the more substantive
issues related to efficiency and thus the rating is modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                               Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                      No
    ICR estimate                   No
                                      * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
  The project’s outcome is rated moderately satisfactory.

The project had a highly relevant PDO, and a substantial rating for the project design. The project’s
objectives were to initiate reconstruction in the state which it achieved with moderate shortcomings and to
establish basic services which it achieved with significant shortcomings. Many of the outputs were
delivered which made a useful contribution to the reconstruction of the state, but there was insufficient
evidence tracking the impact of outputs on changing the provision of services at the regional government
level. While the program was delivered effectively through the appropriate channels, there was no
attempt to conduct a cost-benefit analysis or make estimates on the ERR even in a difficult operational
environment. This made it difficult to accurately assess the efficiency and value for money of this project
beyond the disbursement arrangements. With ratings of High and Substantial on relevance, Substantial
and Modest on Efficacy and Modest on Efficiency, the project is rated moderately satisfactory.

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   While the local government clearly supported the project and provided resources beyond what was
originally planned, the project's outcomes face a number of external risks. The region remains a
post-conflict area and there still exists the risk of further strife impacting the state. The ICR (pages 14-15)
provides some detail on these risks. In addition, Sudan remains at least partially isolated from the
international community, which restricts the Bank's capacity to provide financing. These factors put the
investment at risk.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
   The project preparation had significant shortcomings which cannot be explained by the emergency
nature of the project. Of particular importance is the lack of a Project Implementation Manual until
three years into the project implementation period (pages 5-6 of the ICR). Likewise, the project had an
extremely weak M&E framework, making it extremely difficult to adequately track progress against
project impacts.

The design of Component 5 was essentially "copied" from another state without appropriate
modification (pages 5 and 8 of the ICR) and the poor coordination with the national government
resulted in confusion regarding the high level of counter-part funds. The Bank's expectations on
counterpart funds was probably unrealistic given the chaotic state of both central and local
government authorities and their limited commitment to the long term reforms outlined by the project
(page 5 of the ICR).

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory
b. Quality of supervision:
  The Bank worked diligently to implement the project, including the provision of frequent and
hands-on supervision, including in areas that were difficult for the local implementers such as financial
management and procurement. The project team indicated that this included missions at least once a
quarter as well as frequent communication with the implementing agencies.

In addition, the Bank provided useful technical support. One of the Bank's main functions was to
coordinate four different grant recipients. It appears that the Bank was able to carry this out
successfully. For example, the ICR reports that the Bank was able to respond to problems in the
design of Component 5 and assist UNIDO to get back on track (page 8). In addition, the Bank was
supportive of changes to the project, such as the decision to change the focus of the health
component (page 4 of the ICR).

However, the results framework remained a shortcoming throughout implementation and there is little
evidence that the team made an effort to turn this around or seek alternative ways to appropriately
measure the success of the project. While it was updated as part of the additional financing, there
were still considerable areas for improvement.



  Quality of Supervision Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :          Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
   There are two elements of government performance, at the state and national levels.

The primary shortcoming at the national level was the lack of counter-part funding. As originally
envisioned and agreed, the national government was to provide US$8.01 million, while the actual
provision was only US$3.3 million. Furthermore, the ICR reports that the government was not
forthcoming about its decision to withhold funds (page 16). In addition, there is little evidence that the
national level government was committed to the long term aspects of the project given the time it took
to reach agreement on finding ways to deal with funding shortfalls.

There was stronger support by the government of Blue Nile State, which provided US$5.8 million. This
effectively filled the gap left by the national government financing. The ICR reported that the state
government also worked to support the project coordination unit as well as to ensure that the
investment was well-used (page 17). However, given the state governments have little influence over
finance, procurement or M&E it is difficult to see this performance as a viable gap filler for the limited
performance at the national level.


  Government Performance Rating                          Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
   The project had a variety of implementing agencies, including the state project coordination unit,
United Nations agencies (UNIDO and UNICEF) and the National Mine Action Center, a national
organization with national and international support. This section provides an overall rating of these
organizations.

Following the information in the ICR, most of the agencies performed well and carried out their
responsibilities as expected. In particular, the Project Coordination Unit in following Bank guidelines
despite the low initial level of capacity. While the ICR reports some minor errors, these did not appear
to have any material impact on the project. Likewise, it appears that UNICEF and the National Mine
Action Center were able to carry out their tasks as expected (pages 16-17 of the ICR).

The ICR does note that UNIDO had a number of serious shortcomings in its implementation leading to
delays (pages 8-9 and 17 of the ICR).


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :              Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
   When the project was prepared, there was virtually no M&E capacity in the state and the availability of
data (for example, on the number of school-aged children) was non-existent. As such, the results
framework was designed with output indicators that had a baseline of 0. While this can be a reasonable
approach, the coverage of the indicators was uneven-- for example, initially the indicators for capacity
building and rural livelihood support were weak. Although it would not have been possible to set a
baseline or targets, there was some scope to establish impact indicators to provide some guidance for
the project's direction. To some degree, this was done for rural livelihood and de-mining. The project
team argues that the large number of different implementing agencies created many problems in the
tracking of data, but there were steps that could have been taken to formulate some minimum
requirements on tracking the impact, particularly with regards to the training of state personnel and in
changes made to the capacity of the state government.

b. M&E Implementation:
  As the indicators were largely based on inputs and simple outputs, the project was able to collect this
data. However, there was little attempt to upgrade or adjust the results framework, for example when
additional financing was provided, the project adjusted the indicators associated with the new activities. It
did not attempt to change other aspects of the results framework. This prevented the project from
adequately measuring the indicators that were associated with impact.

c. M&E Utilization:
  It appears that the M&E framework was used primarily by the World Bank and the state government to
hold the different implementing agencies accountable to their commitments and as a way to measure the
project's production. For example, the Bank was able to provide additional monitoring on UNIDO and
eventually change the structure of their inputs.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
The project triggered the environmental assessment safeguard (page 25 of the Project Document). The
ICR reports that the Bank monitored compliance on a regular basis through its standard supervision
reports. Also the Bank commissioned a retroactive assessment of the environmental impact of the
project, which reported no significant negative impact (page 10 of the ICR).

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
The ICR provides no information on the project's fiduciary compliance besides indicating that the Project
Coordination Unit was generally successful in applying procurement and financial management
guidelines (page 17). The project team indicated that the project was audited annually and that there
were no exceptions or observations.

The ICR also reported that both UNICEF and UNIDO used their own fiduciary guidelines (page 8). The
project team indicated this was governed by a financial management framework agreement between the
World Bank and the United Nations.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                     IEG Review               Reason for
                                                                                     Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately          There were moderate shortcomings in
                                                            Satisfactory        the project achievements against the
                                                                                Objective and the efficiency of the
                                                                                project lacked an appropriate economic
                                                                                analysis. The collection of outputs,
                                                                                even given the emergency nature of the
                                                                                project, do not adequately justify a
                                                                                satisfactory rating against the expected
                                                                                outcomes of the project.
          Risk to Development Significant                   High                The project's achievements face
                     Outcome:                                                   significant external risk, including the
                                                                                possible resumption of violence.
           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
  The ICR provides a useful set of lessons (pages 17-19). Of particular importance is the need for
realism in local capacity and in the government's capacity to provide financial support. The lessons also
note the importance of adjusting to local context and of developing a good results framework even in a
weak environment.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is rated unsatisfactory.

The ICR presents a reasonable narrative on the design and the implementation that helps the reader to
understand the project’s history and context as well as the Bank’s role. The ICR also provides an
interesting and useful discussion of lessons. However, it suffers from a number of shortcomings that
reduces its value as an accountability tool. In particular, the ICR does not present sufficient analysis of
the project’s impact nor does it make any attempt to correct the limitations in the data set it has to work
with. The coverage and analysis in the efficacy section is inadequate and does not appropriately
reference where information and claims are coming from. While it is clear that the PDO focused largely
on outputs, there is no real discussion about the project’s contributions beyond a short discussion of the
results framework.

The ICR does not provide a full accounting of how resources were spent at the component level (annex
1). It does not provide any discussion on financial management. Although it may not be realistic to
provide a sophisticated economic analysis, there was some room to provide some basic observations on
the project's development contribution and the Bank's value added in Annex 3. And an attempt to provide
estimates for an ERR would have made the efficiency claims more robust. For these reasons, the ICR
quality is deemed unsatisfactory.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
