Report No. 23176
Report No: i074090 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/04/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF (SERB./MONT.) Project ID: P074090
Project: TRADE & TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE       Task Team
Leader: Graham Smith
Authorized to Appraise Date: January 31, 2002     IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: April 16, 2002    IDA Amount ($m): 6.76
Managing Unit: ECSIE     Sector: EV - Vocational/Technical Education &
Training; TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Project would seek two development objectives:
(i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.
The project is proposing to achieve these objectives by: (i) supporting
Customs modernization; (ii) improving the Customs information system;
(iii) creating a single electronic window for trade at the federal level
under the leadership of the Federal Customs Administration (FCA); (iv)
strengthening mechanisms of interaction and cooperation among border
control agencies and with the trading community; (v) disseminating
information and providing training to the trading community (private
sector); (vi) providing equipment to improve enforcement; and (vii)
implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new Customs procedures,
information technology, human resource management techniques, and
cooperation mechanisms for border agencies, including shared access to
information and intelligence systems, and training for interagency
awareness. In Montenegro, the project will also focus on facilitating
passenger processing at border crossing points, to improve the quality of
services provided to tourists.
Unlike other participants in the TTFSE program, the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia (FRY) and the Republic of Montenegro have received to date only
very limited support to implement a modernization program or improve
border facilities. The Federal Government adopted the FCA Modernization
Strategy in November 2001. The modernization process necessary to change
institutional cultures and ingrained behavior is expected to take a
substantial time, about 8 to 10 years. The modernization involves
simultaneous and sustained actions on : (i) change in the legal framework;
(ii) refining of staff profiles, and hiring, training and deployment
according to them; (iii) change in administrative and operational
procedures; and (iv) upgrading of information technology and regional
interconnection. This project will provide support to implement the
Customs modernization during the first phase (three years) of the



process. The project would support some specific aspects of the
modernization efforts of the Montenegrin Customs Administration (MCA),
notably related to processing at border facilities and clearance
terminals, as well as selectivity and targeting.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The proposed project consists of the following components:
Al. Modernization of the FCA
Includes: (i) Technical services to coordinate and integrate the various
modernization elements and donor contributions, and support to the change
process; (ii) technical services to review and revise laws, regulations
and guidelines to fulfill Customs functions while facilitating legitimate
trade, in cooperation with other agencies; (iii) technical services to
support the introduction of a Preventive and Enforcement Service in the
FCA; (iv) technical services to prepare and introduce new Customs
procedures and documentation, supported by training; (v) technical
services to strengthen human resource management; and (vi) equipment to
improve the quality and efficiency of checks. This technical support would
complement ongoing FRY efforts to implement the FCA modernization strategy.
In addition to the support from the US Government to fund part of this
component from April 2002 onwards, the FCA has requested support from the
French and British Governments, who had expressed interest in contributing
to the TTFSE project. The European Commission will propose a program to
supplement this approach in the first half of 2002.
A2. Modernization of the MCA
Includes: (i) Organizational and procedural review and related reforms at
border stations and clearance terminals, supported by the necessary
legislative and administrative changes; and (ii) introduction of
selectivity and targeting in Montenegro. It is expected that the European
Commission will provide most support to Customs modernization in
Montenegro.
Bi. Support to FCA Information System Improvement
Includes: Consulting services, training and equipment for the information
system to establish a fully functional Customs system and the first phase
of the Single Electronic Window Initiative. This initiative will enable
importers, exporters, brokers, banks, insurance, transport and freight
forwarding companies to carry out all trade-related interactions with the
Federal or Republic administrations through an integrated electronic
interface. The main components will be: (i) technical services for
business process re-engineering; (ii) technical services for solution
specification, software development and system integration; (iii)
technical training; (iv) telecommunication network equipment; and (v)
hardware and software to migrate to an open platform and support
e-documents implementation. The FCA will give priority to the introduction
of selectivity and management of transit.
B2. Support to MCA Information System Improvement
-2 -



Includes computer and telecommunication hardware to equip and connect the
various border crossing points and clearance centers and software
development to expand the current system and cover selectivity and transit
functions. The equipment will be used to implement the software solution
developed over the past two years for the MCA at a few pilot sites at
first, followed by a rollout to all Customs points at borders or inland in
a second stage, once the software is fully operational.
C. Trade Facilitation Development
Includes: (i) provision of conventional and distance learning training to
road transport operators, forwarders, customs brokers, and traders through
the YCCI/YUPRO and international professional associations; (ii) support
to the PRO-Committees in the formulation of proposals to facilitate trade,
building on a public-private dialogue; (iii) participation in the regional
TTFSE website to ensure full transparency of procedures and requirements
of border agencies as well as travel information; (iv) exchange programs
to stimulate experience-sharing on facilitation and border agency reforms;
and (v) development of a public outreach program and establishment of an
Internet-based, multi-national publication to host an analysis of
transport policy, procedures and practices in Southeast Europe to raise
awareness on border crossing issues and solutions.
D. Project Implementation
Includes the services required to support the implementation of the
project. These will include training for procurement and financial
management, procurement advisors, external auditors, support in the
establishment of a financial management system, and training for the
Project Manager and the Project Implementation Team.
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
None of the project components would have an impact on the environment.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: The project will primarily include technical services and
information technology. It would not have a significant environmental
impact.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)         Yes
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)    No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)      No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)        No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)    No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)      No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*         No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)       No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
- 3 -



Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
Not applicable
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
Not applicable
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
Not applicable
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Not applicable
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
Not applicable
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
-4-



Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Graham Smith    1/23/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Philip W. Moeller/Person/World Bank      1/23/02
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Bernard Baratz   1/23/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Hossein Razavi   1/23/02
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5-



