Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23888-YU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.5 MILLION
(US $ 6.76 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR THE
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
May 07, 2002
gillrzstructure and Energy Service Department
Souitheast Europe Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 16, 2002)
Currency Unit = YUM
100 YUM = USS1.50
USS I = 66.48
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CFAA          Country Financial Accountability Assessment
CON           Consultation
COL           Collaboration
EC            European Commission
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
EU            European Union
EU-CARDS      EU-Communitv Assistance for Reconstruction, Development
and Stabilisation
FCA           Federal Customs Administration
FIATA         Federation of Intemational Forwarding Agents
FMI           Financial Management Initiative
FMR           Financial Monitoring Reports
FMS           Financial Management System
FRY           Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IDA           Intemational Development Association
IRU           International Road Transport Union
IS            Information Sharing
MCA           Montenegrin Customs Administration
MOU           Memorandum of Understanding
OECD          Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development
PIT           Project Implementation Team
RSC           Regional Steering Committee
SECI          Southeast Europe Cooperative Initiative
SOE           Statement of Expenses
TSS           Transitional Support Strategy
TTFSE         Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project
UN-ECE        United Nations Economic Commission for Europe
UNCTAD        United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
YCCI          Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce and Industry
YUPRO         Yugoslav PRO Committee
WB            World Bank
WCO           World Customs Organization
WTO           World Trade Organization
Vice President:  Johannes F. Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:  Christiaan J. Poortman, ECCO4
Sector Director:  Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
Sector Manager:   Eva Molnar, ECSIE
Program Team Leader:    Michel Audige, ECSIE
Task Team Leader:    Gerald Ollivier, ECSIE



FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                       4
2. Key performance indicators                                                          4
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      5
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                          5
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 10
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 I 1
2. Key policy and institutional reforns supported by the project                      12
3. Benefits and target population                                                     14
4. Institutional and implementation anrangements                                      14
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          18
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies         18
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                19
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                   20
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                        20
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                           21
2. Financial                                                                          21
3. Technical                                                                          21
4. Institutional                                                                      22
5. Environmental                                                                      23
6. Social                                                                             23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                 25



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   25
2. Critical risks                                                                   25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   27
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          27
2. Other                                                                            27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        28
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       43
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 44
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                             47
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     48
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   72
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 73
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                74
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          76
Annex I 1: FCA Modernization Strategy                                                  78
Annex 12: MCA Modemization Strategy                                                    87
MAP(S)
No. IDA 31814 and 31815



FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA
TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSIE
Date: May 7, 2002                                 Team Leader: Michel Audige
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman          Sector Director: Hossein Razavi
Project ID: P074090                               Sector(s): TY - Other Transportation
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Public Sector
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    [X] Credit     [ Grant      [ ] Guarantee    [ Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 6.76
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.5% on undisbursed credit balance,  Service charge: 0.75%
beginning 60 days after signing less any waiver
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                        1.07           0.01          1.08
IDA                                                             0.45           6.32          6.76
FRANCE, GOV. OF (EXCEPT FOR MIN. OF FOREIGN                     0.01           0.43          0.44
AFFAIRS-MOFA)
UK, GOV. OF                                                     0.01           0.43          0.44
US, GOV. OF                                                     0.17           2.09          2.26
Total:                                                          1.71           9.27         10.98
Borrower: FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Responsible agency: FEDERAL CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION AND MONTENEGRIN CUSTOMS ADM.
Address: 155, Bd Avnoj-a Str., Belgrade
Contact Person: Dragan Dragovic, Milos Kostic
Tel: 381 11 311 6610           Fax: 38111 143 831            Email: dragovicd@fcs.yu
Other Agency(ies):
CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
Address: Bul. Oktobarske Revolucije 128, Podgorica
Contact Person: Olivera Zivkovic
Tel: 381 81 623 322           Fax:              Email: olivera(rmn.yu
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY          2003      2004       2005       2006
Annual      0.30      2.20       2.26       2.00
Cumulative     0.30       2.50       4.76      6.76
Project implementation period: 4 year
Expected effectiveness date: 07/15/2002  Expected closing date:  09/30/2006



The TTFSE: Key Design Concepts
How does this project differ from the typical project?
http://www.seerecon.org/Regionallnitiatives/TTFSE/
Regional character. This TTFSE project is part of a regional program in Southeast Europe. Albania,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, fYR Macedonia, and Romania signed a Memorandum of
Understanding in February 1999 to strengthen their mutual cooperation to foster trade in Southeast
Europe and with its main trading partners, while reducing smuggling and corruption at border crossings,
through a set of coordinated and simultaneous measures under the Trade and Transport Facilitation in
Southeast Europe (TTFSE) Program. The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Moldova
signed this Memorandum in November 2001 at the fifth meeting of the TTFSE Regional Steering
Committee (RSC) and were welcomed to join the Program by the initial six countries. This effort was
initiated by the Southeast Europe Cooperative Initiative'. The TTFSE Program has reached maturity in
terms of geographical coverage, by remaining manageable size-wise while generating strong regional
synergies.
The TTFSE Program aims at supporting the efforts of these countries in modernizing border agencies
and in particular their Customs Administrations in line with EU practice. The Program builds notably on
a number of regional mechanisms: (i) a high-level Regional Steering Committee gathering all countries,
meeting twice a year, to facilitate cooperation and experience sharing (five meetings to date); (ii) a
regional website presenting all requirements and procedures of border agencies; (iii) public-private
working groups interacting quarterly (PRO-Committees); (iv) regional conventional and distance
learning programs to harmonize the quality of transport service providers; and (v) paired local project
teams gathering all border agencies at pilot border crossing points with interactions across the border.
The TTFSE projects are part of the list of Quick-Start projects defined under the Stability Pact'.
Modernization combined with the provision of infrastructure. Customs modernization is at the core
of the TTFSE Program. Under the present project, the Federal Customs Administration (FCA) and the
Montenegrin Customs Administration (MCA) have defined comprehensive strategies (Annex 11 and 12)
to modernize their services and align themselves with the European Union, in cooperation with the
World Bank. The project will support the implementation of these strategies and focus on integrated
solutions at selected pilot sites located on main European corridors. These pilots will increase the
productivity of border agencies, enabling shorter processing time at border crossings and inland
terminals. They will also contribute to improve the interagency cooperation within the country. The
modernization plan, including the pilots, will need to be supported at some border crossings by the
upgrading of information technology infrastructure (extended to all border agencies) and of the facilities
in place (mostly covered by the European Commission and local funding).
Non-duplicative structure. One of the major challenges of modernization is the coordination of the
variety of inputs and support received to implement the Program. Under this project, the FCA has
clearly outlined the directions it intends to follow through its strategy, which will facilitate the
coordination. The project includes a close advisor to the FCA Director General and a change
management team to ensure the smooth implementation of the modernization and the coordination of
donor inputs to maximize their impact. In Montenegro, the support will come primarily from the
European Commission, while the TTFSE support will be focused on selectivity, targeting and
streamlining of procedures at clearance facilities and border crossing points. Most TTFSE technical
support will rely on grant funding from the USA.
Participatory approach. The design and implementation of the TTFSE Program is based on
- 2 -



participatory methodology to ensure that the projects belong to the participating countries and are
endorsed and owned by the various stakeholders, including the beneficiaries. Ownership is best
promoted by participation. Consultations with Customs officials and users have occurred during the
design phase and mechanisms are built into the project to obtain regular user input in the monitoring and
evaluation process.
Buildin2 on previous/on-going initiatives. Several intemational organizations have recognized the
need to help countries in the region improve transit across borders and have provided assistance. The EU
was the first in the Balkans to start addressing this issue. Its experience highlights the need for
comprehensive reforms and carefully selected upgrading of infrastructure. The European Conference of
Ministers of Transport has the removal of obstacles for international road goods transport at border
crossings as a priority on its agenda. The Southeast European Cooperative Initiative also promotes
economic and environmental cooperation among the countries in the region, with a focus on efficient
transit, and combating corruption and smuggling. The Governments of the United States, France, the
Netherlands and Austria contributed to the preparation of the TTFSE Program.
1. The initiative includes Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Hungary, Moldova, Romania,
Slovenia,JYR Macedonia and Turkey, and was established in December 1996 to promote regional economic and environmental
cooperation among the countries in the region. The initiative is being supported by UN-ECE, the US government, and the
governments of Italy and Austria.
2. The Stability Pactfor South Eastern Europe, adopted in Cologne on June 10, 1999 at a special meeting of Foreign
Ministers, representatives of international organizations, institutions and regional initiatives concerned with South East
Europe, commits these parties to the adoption of a comprehensive, coordinated and strategic approach to the region, replacing
crisis management with preventative diplomacy.
OCS PAD FDr Ro. Nh, zm
-3 -



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project would seek two development objectives:
(i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
(ii) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.
The project is proposing to achieve these objectives by: (i) supporting Customs modernization; (ii)
improving the Customs information system; (iii) creating a single electronic window for trade at the federal
level under the leadership of the Federal Customs Administration (FCA); (iv) strengthening mechanisms of
interaction and cooperation among border control agencies and with the trading community; (v)
disseminating information and providing training to the trading community (private sector); (vi) providing
equipment to improve enforcement; and (vii) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new Customs
procedures, information technology, human resource management techniques, and cooperation mechanisms
for border agencies, including shared access to information and intelligence systems, and training for
interagency awareness. In Montenegro, the project will also focus on facilitating passenger processing at
border crossing points, to improve the quality of services provided to tourists.
Unlike other participants in the TTFSE program, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) and the
Republic of Montenegro have received to date only very limited support to implement a modernization
program or improve border facilities. The Federal Government adopted the FCA Modernization Strategy in
November 2001. The modernization process necessary to change institutional cultures and ingrained
behavior is expected to take a substantial time, about 8 to 10 years. The modernization involves
simultaneous and sustained actions on: (i) change in the legal framework; (ii) refining of staff profiles, and
hiring, training and deployment according to them; (iii) change in administrative and operational
procedures; and (iv) upgrading of information technology and regional interconnection. This project will
provide support to implement the first phase (three years) of the Customs modernization process. The
project would support some specific aspects of the rnodernization efforts of the Montenegrin Customs
Administration (MCA), notably related to processing at border facilities and clearance terminals, as well as
selectivity and targeting.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
There are three broad types of performance measurements. The first set will measure the impact of the
Regional Program by monitoring the cost and time required for a standard full truck load shipment on
three regional itineraries through user surveys as well as occurrences of 'petty' payments for facilitation.
The second set will focus on the overall ratios of efficiency and effectiveness of the MCA and the FCA
(trade volume per staff, revenue collected by Customs compared to total Customs cost...). The third set
will focus on performance of all border agencies at pilot sites and their total impact on users. Indicators
at pilot sites will include : (i) number of physical or documentary examinations and their effectiveness; (ii)
total processing time; (iii) number of vehicles processed within a standard processing time; and (iv)
occurrence of corruption. Indicators on passenger processing are also included for Montenegro. The
following pilot sites have been included: for the FCA: Belgrade (inland terminal), Batrovci (HR), Gradina
(BG), Horgos (HU), Presevo (MK) (border crossings); for the MCA : Debeli Breg (Montenegro-HR) and
Podgorica (inland terminal). The FCA border crossing pilot sites are located on the Pan-European
Transport Corridor X and usually face existing pilot sites in neighboring countries. The pilot clearance
terminals are the largest terminals in use for clearance respectively in the FCA and the MCA. Monitoring
-4 -



will use the standard TTFSE methodology to ensure consistency and comparability with other countries in
the region (see http:./wvww.seerecon.org/RegionalInitiatives/TTFSE/TTFSE_Manual.pdJ to find out the
exact definition and methodology used for each indicator). Several sets of measurements have taken place
at pilot sites during project preparation to establish the baseline figures and projections.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Transitional Support Strategy R2001-49/1  Date of latest CAS discussion: May 8, 2001
The Economic Recovery and Transition Program worked out jointly with the Authorities, the World Bank,
the European Commission and other Donors lays out the short and medium term policy reform objectives
and provides a framework to guide donors in developing coordinated assistance strategies. Four major
reforms are underway and planned: (i) restoring macroeconomic stability and external balance; (ii)
stimulating growth and creating a basis for a sustainable supply response; (iii) improving social well-being
of the most vulnerable and building human capital; and (iv) investing in improved governance and effective
institutions.
The proposed TTFSE project was raised in the Transitional Support Strategy as one of the priority
investment projects. The project would have an impact on all four major reforms, through support to the
modemization of the FCA and the MCA. Modemized Customs will collect excise and Customs duties
more accurately and effectively, will facilitate trade, and offer an improved environment for traders and
road transport companies by reducing corruption and increasing transparency. Reliable, efficient and
competitive transport services are essential to move to a market-oriented economy strongly linked to the
European Union. Conventional seminars via the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce and Industry
(YCCI)/YUPRO Committee and distance leaming training in partnership with leading professional
associations will provide opportunities to build human capital to intemational standards in road transport
and freight forwarding.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Background
Foreign trade declined drastically during recent years due to the war and sanctions. In 2000, exports
(US$1.7 billion) were just over one-third of their 1991 level and corresponded to a mere 19 percent of
GDP, while imports (US$3.7 billion) were around 60 percent of their 1991 level or 41 percent of GDP.
Over the past ten years, FRY has been running a considerable deficit on the merchandise trade balance, a
slight surplus on the service balance and a very large current account deficit. The European Union is by
far the largest trading partner with about 41 percent of imports and 37 percent of exports respectively.
Trade data are relatively unreliable due to significant under-reporting. In the early nineties, Yugoslavia had
a transit agreement with the EU, recognizing the special significance of Yugoslavia as a transit country.
This agreement did not come into force but successor agreements were concluded between the EU and fYR
of Macedonia and Slovenia. The transit role was reinforced by the designation of the Pan-European
Transport Corridor X across Yugoslavia in 1997.
At the Southeast European level, the share of intra-regional exports has slightly increased (from 9 percent
of exports to 10) over the past three years, while the share of exports targeted to the EU has significantly
increased (representing 59 percent in 2000). The distribution of import shares has been stable since 1997
(EU 54 percent and intra-regional 6 percent).
The previous regime was characterized by an import-substitution strategy implemented through
- 5 -



quantitative controls resulting in massive state patronage and pervasive corruption. There was a dual
exchange rate and substantial levies on foreign trade transactions. Significant progress has been made with
the reform of the trade policy system in the period since January 2001. A new tariff structure with six rates
and a weighted average of about 8 percent has been introduced at federal level. Protectionist barriers like
licenses or quantitative restrictions on exports and imports have been abolished.
The Customs function, as per Article 77 of the 1992 FRY Constitution, falls under the jurisdiction of the
Federal State. Montenegro has however assumed control over the regulation of Customs and the collection
of duties and taxes on its territory. In July 2000, the Republic of Montenegro adopted a Temporary Act on
Customs Tariffs, introducing lower tariffs than at the federal level. The MCA operates de facto
independently and the FCA primarily covers the Serbian territory. Infornal and active cooperation has been
maintained, however, between the two administrations, notably regarding the maintenance of the
information system in place. The two juxtaposed Customs systems create opportunities and incentives for
corruption and smuggling. Checkpoints have been established at the administrative border between the two
Republics to address this issue. These checkpoints create an additional bottleneck for internal transit,
isolating Montenegro and reducing the competitiveness of transport through the Port of Bar.
An EU-brokered agreement (March 2002) on Principles of Relations between Serbia and Montenegro
within the State Union will lead to a discussion of the Constitutional Charter in the Federal and State
Parliaments. The current Principles defined under this agreement would call for some revisions of the
Constitutional Charter, that could impact the legal definition of the FCA and the MCA. While this would
potentially impact the project, it is expected that transitional arrangements will be designed to ensure a
smooth transition.
The FCA and the MCA, although isolated for ten years, and despite erratic staff policies, have maintained
a fair standard, but adaptation to modem market economy that relies on enhanced regional integration and
participation in the global economy requires significant procedural and operational changes to take place as
soon as feasible. Current performance ratios (e.g., workload and result indicators) apparently put the ECA
in the lower part of the bracket for the region, but this is probably due more to reduced trade than lack of
professionalism. Long waiting times at border crossings and inland terminals are caused not only by
Customs but also by other border agencies. The FRY's re-implementation in November 2001 of the TIR
convention will lead to an increase in trade volume and growth in transit traffic. This would likely result in
increased waiting times unless streamlined processing is introduced.
Traders in FRY, like in most of Southeast Europe, face excessive logistical costs for their export, import
and transit operations. Long delays and costly procedures increase the logistical costs and force companies
to carry excess inventories to ensure timely deliveries. These non-tariff barriers have the same impact as
protectionist measures. With the currently depressed trade, road transport operators face delays at border
crossings comparable to delays in neighboring countries. In addition to excessive waiting times, the
Customs Administration is perceived as one of the rnost corrupted institutions in FRY with frequent
requests for 'petty' payments as shown in recent corruption surveys (http://Aiw.clds.org.yu/htnzl/estut.ht7nl
). A comprehensive survey at the Serbian level indicated that 84 percent of respondents considered that
there was "much" or "very much" Customs corruption and that 75 percent considered that the majority of
Customs officials were involved. The corruption survey results also revealed that corruption was often seen
as a means to accomplish a goal for a large majority of respondents; some users routinely provide bribes or
gifts spontaneously at border crossing points assuming it will accelerate their passage or ensure they
receive a favorable treatment, notably when conducting 'suitcase trade'. A third of the respondents were
ready to pay a bribe to avoid paying Customs duty for example. One of the misleading factors is embedded
in the tendency to label all border staff as Customs officers when denouncing corruption. The new FCA
- 6-



and MCA management are committed to confront the legacy of the previous regime and to act swiftly to
reduce opportunities for corruption and sanction perpetrators -users and border officials.
One of the reasons why Customs officials are often more widely suspected of corrupt practices is that,
more than other officials, they have easy and direct access to, and control over, tangible wealth. For this
reason, legislation was drafted and procedures established based on a presumption of corruption in
Customs (for example, Customs are obliged to inspect every consignment to avoid favoritism). This in turn
encouraged officials to multiply bureaucratic steps to protect themselves, and created a non-transparent
system which itself generated new opportunities for corruption.
The strategic implications of these impediments are significant. While road transport through Yugoslavia
was the normal route from Turkey to Europe ten years ago, an estimated 30 percent of Turkish trucks now
completely by-pass the region using Ro-Ro ferries between Turkey and Italy. The Turkish ferry fleet's
rapid expansion may lead to up to 60 percent of Turkish traffic opting for maritime transport within the
next two to three years. The growth of an environmentally-friendly maritime leg in European trucking is a
positive transport policy development triggered by shortcomings in international transit throughout the
Southeast and Central European region. Transit itself if not combined with proper charging policies on the
use of infrastructure brings only limited economic gain, particularly when considering environmental and
safety externalities. Resumed transit would however contribute to restore confidence in FRY, not only as a
transit country, but more importantly as a trading partner by demonstrating its willingness and capability to
reintegrate economically with Europe and Southeast Europe.
Issues
The current system is affected by inefficient procedures, overlapping responsibilities and insufficient
coordination in terms of border management and inland enforcement, organizational and staffing issues,
inadequate infrastructure, insufficient interactions with the private sector and the need for more regional
cooperation. Many of the procedures in place do not enable the FCA or the MCA to perform the duties of a
modem Customs administration. It directly results in long and inefficient processing of vehicles at border
crossing points and clearance terminals. Transit monitoring (intemal and international) is inadequate.
The current legislation limits the role of Customs essentially to revenue collection activities, is not flexible
enough to allow adaptation to the rapid change in traffic or functions, and, like other laws, define the
Customs organization as opposed to its objectives. Legislation applied by Customs is very often drafted in
other ministries, with limited consultation. Present penal provisions in the Customs law are often
cumbersome and difficult to enforce, do not provide for swift punishment with a deterrent effect and would
not consequently be able to support modem selectivity-based procedures.
The human resource management over-emphasizes academic qualifications to the detriment of performance
or merit-based promotions. The FCA relies on the "Systematization" template system, which, in spite of its
flexibility, constrains the efficient redeployment of staff according to new priorities. Staff are currently
recruited in contradiction with usual civil service rules applicable in EU countries. Staff promotions based
on merit are practically impossible from one category of personnel to another when officers do not have the
required academic qualifications. This may lead to frustration, and can encourage unethical behaviors.
The absence of incentive schemes to retain specialist staff or reward performance is not conducive to
building a strong administration with a long term vision.
The current computer system in the FCA, introduced in 1995, is based on a mainframe architecture. The
system is reliable but costly to maintain (US$1 million annually) due to its dependency on one
manufacturer. Only few programmers can modify the software package based on an obsolete language
-7 -



(CSP), which makes any update difficult and costly. The database design is not optimized, creating an
overload of processing resources during queries. The redefinition of procedures and the need to introduce
new functions -Direct Trader Input, Electronic Data Interchange for freight information and Customs
declarations, selectivity, risk analysis and electronic payment - call for a complete redefinition of the
existing system. Similarly, the MCA has outsourced the development of a modem information system,
which will require significantly greater processing power and better communication links than what the
present information system offers.
Over the past few years, the existing infrastructure at border crossings on major European corridors
enabled the low level of traffic to be processed. With the foreseen increase in transit, tourism and recovery
of trade activity, this infrastructure will rapidly become insufficient and lead to significant bottlenecks.
Already, the border crossings are overloaded during holiday periods. About ten border crossings are in
urgent need of overall upgrading. The first four are located on the main international corridors. In most
cases, the upgrading could be staged starting with low cost upgrading (marking, additional lanes) to rapidly
improve the operational efficiency, followed by more significant investments once new procedures are in
place.
Consultation between government agencies and transport operators was until recently very limited, with no
established structure. New laws were introduced with no or very limited consultation, and issues faced by
operators were not addressed. The new administration is committed to integrate the opinion of operators in
the future. FRY has also seen the emergence in the recent past of a large number of small transport
operators and freight forwarding companies (400 companies) since there are no qualitative or quantitative
restrictions to market entry. This has brought both cost and quality of services down, as shown by the high
level of documents inappropriately filled (around 20 percent). Besides, the lack of proper licensing system
in FRY based on qualitative criteria is not in harmony with the practices in the EU and other European
countries. This can have a negative impact on the willingness of other countries to improve market access
opportunities for FRY truckes through bilateral road transport agreements and through increased allocation
of international road permits.
Road transport operators are constrained by the policies of Yugoslav trading partners regarding
international road permits, visas and insurance, even though FRY has recently made significant progress on
these aspects. Yugoslavia recently renewed its ECMT membership and expects to see some improvements
in obtaining ECMT international permits accordingly to supplement bilateral permits. The TIR Carnet
system (international road transit system) is now operational and guaranteed by the Yugoslav Chamber of
Commerce and Industry on the territory of Serbia. Eighteen road transport operators had applied as of
December 15, 2001. The suspension of Yugoslavia from the Green Card system was lifted on November 1,
2001, but truck insurance policies issued in FRY are still not recognized in many countries, creating the
need for double insurance.
The proposed program focuses on delays at road border crossings. Delays at rail border crossings are also
a cause for concem, particularly regarding long distance freight trains operating across Europe. Similarly
to road border crossing improvements, the most prornising solutions involve simplifying procedures,
shifting inspections and other formalities away from the border through advanced processing of data, using
information technology to speed up, process and improve the reliability of document transfer for rail
wagons and their content. The program does not dinrctly address rail transport, but rail traffic should
benefit from the mechanisms for enhanced cooperation among agencies and among govemments.
For a broader analysis, please go to the trade and transport sections of the Economic Recovery and Transition
Program at http://www.seerecon.org/FRYugoslavia/ERTP/pdf/ERTP_ Vol_2.pdf



Strategy of the Federal Government and of the Republic of Montenegro
The Governments were elected on a mandate of "breaking with the past." Yugoslav people have expressed
a strong desire for a fundamental shift away from the economic, social and institutional legacy. The
governments are committed to a market-oriented economy strongly linked to Europe, based on the lessons
of transition in neighboring countries. The Yugoslav authorities have elaborated a vision of a society where
sustained, broad-based increases in living standards are generated by a dynamic private sector that leads
growth; a society that is re-integrated into the international economy, Southeast Europe and the rest of
Europe, with good governance and accountable public institutions. Federal trade legislation has been
revised to remove most import restrictions. In parallel, work is under way to modernize customs rules,
prepare for a Stabilization and Association Agreement with the EU - the first step towards eventual EU
accession - and obtain membership in WTO, all of which are essential to stimulate healthy export growth
and private sector development.
The Federal Government has endorsed a comprehensive Modernization Strategy for the FCA. This
strategy aims at: (a) modernizing customs procedures and operations; (b) coordinating legislation and
improving cooperation with other border/governmental agencies; (c) modernizing the approach to
organization and staffing; (d) upgrading the information systems and border facilities; (e) improving
private-public interactions and the delivery of transport and trade services; and (f) strengthening regional
cooperation (see Annex 11). This strategy aims at achieving EU best-practice standards, based on the
implementation of the Geneva Convention on the Harmonization of the Frontier Control of Goods. The
FCA has prepared a draft Law on Customs to ensure that this strategy can be implemented and has
presented it to donors to receive their inputs. The new FCA management already achieved significant
progress in revenue collection (+60 percent or US$120 million between 2000 and 2001).
Similarly the MCA has drafted a new Customs Law for Montenegro and prepared a Modernization
Strategy. The new law provides for selective examination of goods, vehicles, and travelers, introduces
modem concepts such as post-release verifications, and recognizes the necessity for an investigative,
enforcement, and preventive, wing within the Customs administration, as is the case in EU countries. The
EC will review in details the law and plans to provide extensive support to the MCA in finalizing the law
and preparing new sub-legislation.
These strategies include a redefinition of the role of Customs and the introduction of integrated border
management. In that perspective, the FCA and MCA would graduate - like other Customs administrations
in EU or OECD countries - from an essentially revenue collection activity to a more global responsibility
ensuring that all goods crossing the border are compliant with the relevant legislation. This would lead
Customs to: (i) exercise a major support - and eventually coordination - role over all controls performed
by other border agencies and related to the import, export, and transit of goods, with correlated
streamlining of procedures; and (ii) improve compliance through better detection and prosecution of
offenses, and an expanded enforcement capacity.
Since the January 2001 change of Government, the Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications has
on its side been very active to progressively re-access all major international conventions like the TIR
convention, to obtain better transit terms from neighboring countries and to harmonize its rules and
regulations with the EU and other countries of Southeast Europe. Yugoslavia joined the Southeast Europe
Cooperative Initiative (SECI) Regional Road Transport Committee as of September 2001, by signing the
Memorandum of Understanding on Facilitation of International Transport of Goods in the SECI region.
This Committee, also supported by the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UN-ECE),
-9-



plays a major role in the harmonization of road tran sport related regulations in Southeast Europe. See
http://www.unece.org/trans/new_tir/seci/intro.htm. Yugoslavia endorsed the principle of using an international
weighing certificate (IWC) for road transport as proposed by the Committee. This coincides with the
recognition for Customs purposes of the IWC at the TTFSE Regional Steering Committee in November
2001. The certificate would be introduced in May 2002. The weighing scales to be procured under the
project will comply with the norms established to deliver such weighing certificate.
Yugoslavia, like all other participants in SECI, recognizes the importance of coordinated actions to address
the above issues and achieve the objectives of the Sitability Pact. Yugoslavia confirmed its commitment to
regional cooperation, together with Moldova, by acceding to the TTFSE Memorandum of Understanding in
November 2001 during the fifth meeting of the TTFSE Regional Steering Committee. This Memorandum
had been initiated in February 1999 by the six initial TTFSE countries. The TTFSE project is part of the
Quick-Start projects under the Stability Pact. It is also recognized that, to some degree, each country can
expect to gain more from actions to be taken by its neighbors than those it could take itself. The support
shown by the US Government, the European Commission and the UN-ECE, reflects the importance
attached to the development and stabilization of the region.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The Project would support the overall modernization program of the FCA and of the MCA by addressing
to different degrees the issues described above, apart from the rail issue and the improvement of border
crossing facilities, taking into account other extemal support to avoid overlaps. The project includes
technical services critical for the implementation of modernization program considering all its dimensions
and renewal of information systems. The program integrates a number of mechanisms to achieve benefits
that extend beyond savings achieved at the borders of one country. The regional dimension of the project
stems from: (i) the signing of the regional Memorandum of Understanding providing the needed high-level
commitment; (ii) the Regional Steering Committee cf high-level officials meeting twice a year focusing on
border crossing issues; (iii) the regional website harmonizing the provision of information; (iv) joint pilot
border crossings to ensure pragmatic improvements; and (v) regional training programs for the private
sector to build up communities of professionals with shared knowledge. The fight against corruption and
smuggling at border locations, launched by the new Customs management, will take into account both the
outcome of performance measurements and user surveys like the detailed survey listed in B.2. Despite the
commitment of the new management, this process, which requires deep changes in these administrations,
promises to be complex, and as such very targeted technical support has been included in the project to
support this transformation.
Successful modernization and automation of systems and procedures, strengthened enforcement and
prevention role of Customs, together with improved management of human resources are expected to lead
to a reduction in transaction costs, both informal and formal, for traders and shipment in transit, and
increase the country competitiveness. Early results of the TTFSE program in neighboring countries show
that in countries where the Customs Administration demonstrated a strong commitment to modernization,
reduction of waiting time of up to 75 percent at pilot border crossing points and 50 percent at the pilot
inland terminal could be achieved in about a year.
Given the interest of Yugoslavia in EU accession and the implementation of EU-compatible standards, and
the need to ensure the overall compatibility of the regional program, active relationships with the EC will
be maintained. The EC provisional plans include in particular significant support in the implementation of
training programs, the building up of investigation and enforcement capacity and the development of
sub-regulations.
- 10-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The proposed project consists of the following components:
Al. Modernization of the FCA
Includes: (i) Technical services to coordinate and integrate the various modernization elements and donor
contributions, and support to the change process; (ii) technical services to review and revise laws,
regulations and guidelines to fulfill Customs functions while facilitating legitimate trade, in cooperation
with other agencies; (iii) technical services to support the introduction of a Preventive and Enforcement
Service in the FCA; (iv) technical services to prepare and introduce new Customs procedures and
documentation, supported by training; (v) technical services to strengthen human resource management;
and (vi) equipment to improve the quality and efficiency of checks. This technical support would
complement ongoing FRY efforts to implement the FCA modernization strategy.
In addition to the support from the US Government to fund part of this component from April 2002
onwards, the FCA has requested support from the French and British Governments, who had expressed
interest in contributing to the TTFSE project. The European Commission will propose a program to
supplement this approach in the first half of 2002.
A2. Modernization of the MCA
Includes: (i) Organizational and procedural review and related reforms at border stations and clearance
terninals, supported by the necessary legislative and administrative changes; and (ii) introduction of
selectivity and targeting in Montenegro. It is expected that the European Commission will provide most of
the support for Customs modernization in Montenegro.
Bl. Support to FCA Information System Improvement
Includes: Consulting services, training and equipment for the information system to establish a fully
functional Customs system and the first phase of the Single Electronic Window Initiative. This initiative
will enable importers, exporters, brokers, banks, insurance, transport and freight forwarding companies to
carry out all trade-related interactions with the Federal or Republic administrations through an integrated
electronic interface. The main components will be: (i) technical services for business process
re-engineering; (ii) technical services for solution specification, software development and system
integration; (iii) technical training; (iv) telecommunication network equipment; and (v) hardware and
software to migrate to an open platform and support e-documents implementation. The FCA will give
priority to the introduction of selectivity and management of transit.
B2. Support to MCA Information System Improvement
Includes computer and telecommunication hardware to equip and connect the various border crossing
points and clearance centers and software development to expand the current system and cover selectivity
and transit functions. The equipment will be used to implement the software solution developed over the
past two years for the MCA at a few pilot sites at first, followed by a rollout to all Customs points at
- 11 -



borders or inland in a second stage, once the software is fully operational.
C. Trade Facilitation Development
Includes: (i) provision of short training sessions to road transport operators, forwarders, customs brokers,
and traders through the YCCI/YUPRO and local professional associations; (ii) provision of distance
learning programs in cooperation with the Intemational Road Transport Union for road transport operators
and the international Freight Forwarder Association (FIATA) for freight forwarders; (iii) support to the
PRO-Committees in the formulation of proposals to facilitate trade, building on a public-private dialogue;
(iv) participation in the regional TTFSE website to ensure full transparency of procedures and requirements
of border agencies as well as travel information; (v) exchange programs to stimulate experience-sharing on
facilitation and border agency reforms; and (vi) development of a public outreach program and
establishment of an Internet-based, multi-national publication to host an analysis of transport policy,
procedures and practices in Southeast Europe in order to raise awareness on border crossing issues and
solutions.
D. Project Implementation
Includes the services required to support the implementation of the project. These will include training for
procurement and financial management, procurement advisors, extemal auditors, support in the
establishment of a financial management system, and training for the Project Managers and the Project
Implementation Team.
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                   Sector        Costs     % of     financing   Bank-,
(US$M)    Total      (US$M)   financing
Al. FCA Modernization            Institutional         3.01      27.4       0.53       7.8
Development
A2. MCA Modernization            Institutional         0.44       4.0       0.36       5.3
Development
B1. Support to FCA Information   Other Transportatio   5.56      50.6       4.80      71.0
System
B2. Support to MCA Information   Other Tra:nsportatio  0.86       7.8       0.69      10.2
System
C. Trade Facilitation Development  Vocational/fechnica  0.54      4.9       0.00       0.0
I Education &
Training
D. Program and Project Implementation                  0.57       5.2       0.38       5.6
Non-Sector Specific_____
Total Project Costs                   10.98     100.0      6.76     100.0
Total Financing Required                    10.98     100.0      6.76      100.0
Figures in the table include taxes and contingencies
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
Stimulating growth and creating a basis for a sustainable supply response are at the core of the
Government strategy. The project will support the on-going policy and institutional modernization seeking
the following objectives:



a. Modernizing the FCA and the MCA
The capacity building component of the Customs Modernization Strategy addresses in particular the
following issues:
*   approximation with the European Community legislation and implementation regulations, with
reference to the acquis communautaire (all treaties, policies and Community legislation in force in the
European Union, that must be accepted by all countries wishing to join) and implementation and
enforcement of related legislation;
*   review of the schedule of penalties to strengthen their deterrent effect on offenders;
*   adoption of simplified and standardized Customs and border inspection procedures (compliance
measurement and selective inspection based on risk assessment);
*   development of analytical expertise to create and maintain targeting and selectivity tools;
*   enhanced human resource management to develop Customs/border inspection expertise and raise
integrity;
*   training to Customs personnel to ensure the uniform application of new legislation, to improve the
fulfillment of the Customs mission and to enhance integrity;
*   building up of the prevention and enforcement capacity;
*   creation of a partnership among border inspection agencies and the trade/industry community to better
coordinate working hours, procedures and information exchange;
*   progressive introduction of effective post-release controls, audits and account management processing
to facilitate trade data exchanges; and
*   improved revenue collection as a result of all of the above and of the information system upgrading.
b. Strengthening of Information System
Improvement in information systems in use would have the following impacts:
* elimination of multiple data entry and creation of a single government interface for trade and
international transport related transactions;
*   creation of databases accessible in real time at all main Customs locations to support selectivity and
targeting procedures;
*   exchange of information with other government agencies for processing and enforcement purposes;
* support of international Electronic Data Interchange/XML standards to rapidly integrate into the
international trading community;
*   development of a state-of-the-art infornation system;
*   possibility of electronic payment from users to the Govenmment;
*   official acceptance of electronic documents in Customs procedures;
*   monitoring of Customs performance, traffic pattems and optimization of processing capacity;
*   information exchange with other governments in the region; and
*   reduction in corruption opportunities by decreasing and monitoring human intervention.
c. Strengthening Regional Cooperation
The project will lead to greater regional cohesion through several channels affecting both the
administrations and the private sector. The Regional Steering Committee gathering all TTFSE countries
and observers (Turkey, Greece, Donors) will continue to facilitate cooperation and experience sharing.
This forum is instrumental in comparing the standard TTFSE performance indicators across countries,
- 13 -



review the difficulties in introducing approaches new to the region like selective processing, request the
preparation of facilitation proposals and make policy decisions at a regional level. During the fifth RSC
meeting, the Intemational Weighing Certificate was recognized for Customs purpose for example,
removing the need for multiple weighing on a given itinerary. See the minutes of all the RSC meetings at
http://www.seerecon.org/Regionallnitiatives/ttfse/ltfse-rsc.htnz.
The regional TTFSE website presenting all requirements and procedures of border agencies will offer, from
June 2002, advanced information tools for operators in the region and from abroad. The quarterly
meetings of public-private working groups (PRO-Committees) have led to the creation of a number of
working groups aimed at addressing specific facilitation issues. Regional conventional and distance
learning programs in cooperation with the International Road Transport Union (IRU) and the Federation of
International Forwarding Agents (FIATA) will enable harmonization of the quality of transport service
providers. Paired local project teams gathering all border agencies at pilot border crossing points with
frequent interactions across the border of Croatia, Bulgaria and fYR of Macedonia will strengthen regional
cooperation at both local and headquarters levels.
3. Benefits and target population:
a. Benefits
The Customs modernization coupled with proper facilities and infornation technology will lead to
transparent Customs procedures, a more reliable business environment, and economic growth as a result of
lower prices for imports and more competitive prices/services for exports. The benefits will spill over to
govermment agencies and private companies in other trade partner countries. This would translate into:
*   cheaper import goods / inputs for consumers and industries;
* better and more reliable business environment for private sector activities, particularly for the trade
activities of SMEs;
* a more predictable and reliable economic setting for foreign companies;
* time savings linked to improved conditions for transit traffic;
* reduction of corruption and smuggling opportunities;
* improved revenue collection by the FCA and MtCA; and
*   fewer errors, time savings and lower transaction costs resulting from a simplified interface to submit
documents to government agencies.
In the longer run, the project will also contribute to the regional integration in Southeast Europe and the
approximation with EU standards and procedures in the field of Customs, as part of the European
integration process.
b. Target Population
The beneficiaries of the reform would be transport operators, importers, exporters, freight forwarders,
other trade industries, foreign investors, and ultimately, consumers and producers inside and outside the
region. Cross-border trade in the vicinity of the borders will be made easier for local companies. Travelers
and tourism would also benefit. Improved facilities and procedures will shorten their waiting time and
imnprove their travelling conditions.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
a. Implementation Period
- 14 -



The TTFSE FRY project is to be implemented over a four-year period (2002-2006); it would be completed
by March 30, 2006 and closed by September 30, 2006. The Customs modernization in its entirety would be
implemented in about 8 - 10 years.
b. Executing Agencies
The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will be the borrower and will negotiate the Credit Agreement. The
Customs Services of the Federation and of the Republic of Montenegro will be the executing agencies. A
Subsidiary Credit Agreement will be signed between the Federal Ministry of Finance and the Montenegrin
Ministry of Finance for the Montenegrin component.
The implementation arrangements will include the following elements: (i) a Federal coordinator and a
Montenegrin coordinator; (ii) two project managers (one for FCA, one for MCA) and a joint project
implementation team; (iii) a Single Electronic Window coordinator; (iv) a facilitation coordinator, (v) a
website coordinator; and (vi) the TTFSE Regional Steering Comrnittee (RSC). These implementation
arrangements are extensions of existing institutions and use people already involved in similar functions.
The Director General of the FCA has been designated by the Federal Govermment as the Federal
Coordinator. The Director General of the MCA has been designated by the Montenegrin Government as
the Montenegrin Coordinator. The Federal Coordinator and the Montenegrin Coordinator are high
Government representatives representing FRY and Montenegro respectively on the Regional Steering
Committee, during which they will be empowered to speak on behalf of all the border agencies (respectively
Federal and Montenegrin). These Coordinators will call and chair coordination meetings of the various
border control agencies and manage their input when required. They will ensure that a suitable mechanism
is established across border agencies to provide all information related to border crossing requirements to
the Website Coordinator. The Federal Coordinator shall also ensure that: (a) the FCA Modemization
Strategy shall not be amended without prior agreement by the Association; and (b) the Borrower's actions
in the area of customs modemization, including activities supported by technical assistance, regardless of
the source of funding, are consistent with the Project Appraisal Document and Project objectives. The
Federal Coordinator and the Project Implementation Teamn will review in particular any proposal for
support to the FCA and ensure that they are not in conflict with the project components and the FCA
Modemization Strategy.
The project will include one Project Manager in the FCA and one Project Manager in the MCA,
responsible for the efficient implementation of the project and for the preparation of suitable terms of
reference or technical specifications. These Project Managers will use a shared Project Implementation
Team (PIT), based in the FCA, to cover procurement, credit management and reporting functions in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank. In addition the team will include one member in the FCA and one in the
MCA to monitor the implementation of progress at pilot sites. The Single Electronic Window
Coordinator will be the Head of the Customs Information System Department in the FCA. He will
coordinate the inputs of the members of existing working groups established for that purpose. He will also
monitor progress in improving the Customs Information System.
The YCCIIYUPRO Committee has created several working groups to facilitate trade and transport
including a specific TTFSE working group. The YUPRO Committee is a public-private committee
covering Serbia and Montenegro with the objective of facilitating trade and transport. The YCCI/YUPRO
will implement the trade facilitation component of the TTFSE project, including the delivery of
-15 -



conventional training sessions and the establishment and maintenance of the data related to Yugoslavia in
the TTFSE website, and the active delivery of inputs by the established working groups. The
YCCI/YUPRO committee has nominated a Facilitation Coordinator and a Website Coordinator to that
end.
Similarly to other TTFSE countries, Yugoslavia will participate in the TTFSE Regional Steering
Committee, meeting twice yearly at the regional level. Yugoslavia will host the next meeting in June 2002.
The RSC will oversee the overall implementation of the regional program. The RSC is constituted of the
National/FederalVRepublican Coordinators of each participating country and includes donor representatives
and Facilitation Coordinators as observers. The RSC provides a forum for exchange of best practice in
sector policy and reform decisions. Meetings rotate among the participating countries, with the Project
Manager of the host country providing support services to the Committee. See the minutes of the RSC meetings
at http://www.seerecon.org/Regionallnitiatives/ttfse/ttfse-rsc.htm.
In order to provide better understanding of border crossing problems, monitoring will take place at five
pilot border crossings and two pilot inland terminals. Neighboring countries will progressively treat as
pilot stations the facilities on the other side of the border, as part of the program. A set of indicators for
project monitoring has been agreed upon (Annex 1). These indicators will be used by each country to
examine and allow the evaluation of comparative performance.
This framework provides an assessment tool for identifying problems and tracking the success of the
solutions applied in each case, providing an evolving case study. The results will be progressively updated
each quarter by the PIT and offered to the RSC for review and comparison. The lessons leanmed from these
case studies will be extended to other specific border crossings in the participating countries and to change
management in general. Sharing the case studies, along with other project reports, with the customs
services and transport associations in countries not associated with the TTFSE will set quality targets in
customs reforms beyond the region.
c. Procurement
Goods and services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. The
PIT includes a procurement specialist satisfactory to IDA. The procurement specialist will receive
additional training, notably related to procurement of information technology, prior to effectiveness, and
will be supported by outside Bank procurement advisors as required. The procurement advisors will be
individuals with satisfactory country and World Bank procurement experience, to be funded by the credit
proceeds. The project components not financed by the Bank will be procured in accordance with Yugoslav
regulations or the procurement regulations of the co-financing institution.
The project elements, their estimated cost and procurement methods are summarized in Table A of Annex
6. A procurement plan detailing the packaging and estimated schedule of the major procurement actions is
presented in Table B2 of Annex 6. Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review, the capacity of
the implementing agency in procurement, technical assistance requirements and the allocation of credit
proceeds are found in Annex 6.
d. Financial Management Accounting, Financial Reporting, Auditing Arrangements and
Disbursements
The PIT, established within the FCA, will be in charge of all the financial management aspects of the
Project. The PIT includes a Financial Manager and an Accountant. All financial management and
- 16 -



disbursement procedures will be in accordance with the relevant World Bank guidelines. The Government,
through the FCA has established and will maintain a project financial management system (FMS) in a
format acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with OPIBP 10.02 and the World Bank Financial
Management policies and requirements.
Before Board presentation, a World Bank accredited Financial Management Specialist has performed a
detailed assessment of the system in accordance with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 and the World Bank
Financial Management requirements. The result of the assessment is that the Project meets the minimum
Bank financial management requirements. Additional actions and steps agreed with the borrower to
strengthen the system are included in the Financial Management Action Plan.
Financial Accounting and Reporting. The PIT will keep separate Project Accounts, for each financing
source and for each project component and activity. The Project Accounts will then be consolidated in the
accounting records of the FCA, by the FCA accounting department. The PIT will prepare quarterly
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) for the Project in accordance with formats agreed with the Bank
during negotiations. The FMRs will be submitted to the Bank no later than 45 days after each quarter's
end. The first quarterly FMRs will be submitted after the end of the quarter in which disbursements
commence, most likely the third quarter of 2002 and will be due on November 15, 2002, for the quarter
ended September 30, to be consistent with the other six TTFSE countries.
Audit arrangements. The project annual financial statements will be audited each fiscal year in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, based on terms of
reference agreed with the Bank. The engagement of selected auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, is a dated
covenant (by September 30, 2002) in the Credit Agreement. Copies of the audit reports will be submitted to
the Bank within six months after the close of the fiscal year (calendar year). The audit report will cover the
Project Financial Statements, Special and Project Accounts' Statements, as well as all the Statement of
Expenses (SOEs).
Disbursements. Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be made based on traditional disbursement
methods (i.e., from the Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures
(SOEs) ana full documentation, and direct payments from the Credit Account). The Government will
establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a separate Special
Account denominated in the Credit currency. A Country Financial Accounting Assessment for Yugoslavia
is being carried out and will indicate whether any banks in the country can be considered totally reliable
and financially sound, or whether the Special Account will be kept at a bank abroad. The PIT will use a
local project account for local contributions to the Project.
e. Reporting
The PIT will prepare quarterly progress reports and submit them to IDA and the RSC secretary. These
reports will include: the progress of each project component, key performance indicators, and procurement
issues (actions dealt with, actions planned, and an update of the procurement implementation). The report
will include performance measurements against the implementation schedule and compliance with credit
covenants. Overall, project monitoring will be based on the performance targets and indicators listed in
Annex 1.
f Supervision and Evaluation Arrangements
Each October or November during the implementation of the project, IDA together with the PIT and the
- 17 -



other contributors (US, EC) will conduct a review of project execution. The review will assess the status of
regional and national implementation and cooperation, progress made at the level of pilot sites compared to
targets, development of the information system, implementation of the donor programs, and the
productivity of the FCA and MCA. The review will offer refined targets and objectives for the following
year and a set of recommendations. The schedule of procurement for the coming year will be agreed at the
time of the review, considering the progress to date in the institutional reform.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project forms part of the TTFSE program, for which several alternatives were considered, before it
was decided to move forward with a regional investment program. Two major alternatives were considered
in the context of Yugoslavia: a project including civil works and a project covering only the Federal
Customs Administration.
The inclusion of civil works in the project was rejected for strategic reasons, considering the likely
availability of grants from donors in that area and the more urgent need for timely support to the
modernization process. The Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) included a TTFSE project focused on the
provision of timely technical assistance to the Customs Administration, without the inclusion of border
crossing infrastructure. The addition of a new border crossing facility in the project would have delayed
project preparation by six months and led to doubling the estimated IDA funds needed for this project,
while not being fully consistent with the TSS. Instead the Bank has initiated an active discussion with
parties involved in the EU-CARDS integrated border management program to identify well-justified
projects, which could attract EC grant funding, in particular for low-cost but effective improvements.
Originally the project covered only the FCA to keep both legal and implementation arrangements simple.
Following the requests of the Republic of Montenegro to participate in the project, the Bank reviewed the
implications of its potential inclusion and worked out a joint implementation mechanism and a relatively
straightforward legal solution to associate the Republic of Montenegro with the project. The participation
of the MCA will also strengthen the cooperation between the two administrations, instrumental to both their
fight against corruption and facilitation of trade. The inclusion does raise, however, the risk profile of the
project.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.  .  .    -               : --' Latest-Supervisioni
. Sector Issue                    ProJect                 (PSR)-Ratings      l
.      .                .             . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~(Bank-flnanced proJects only)|
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Customs reform/trade facilitation  TTFSE Albania                    S            S
Customs reform/trade facilitation  TTFSE Bulgaria                  U             S
Customs reforn/trade facilitation  TTFSE Bosnia and                 S            S
Herzegovina
Customs reform/trade facilitation  TTFSE Croatia                   S             S
Customs reform/trade facilitation  TTFSE fYR of Macedonia          U             S
Customs reform/trade facilitation  TTFSE Romania                    S            U
- 18-



Transport/trade facilitation       fYR of Macedonia Transit         HS            HS
Facilitation Project
Cthay d3voly rnent agencies
EU                                 EU-PHARE and EU CARDS
programs
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
Five of the cniginal TTFSE projects are satisfactory in terms of development objectives and most of them in terms
of implementation progress. A couple of them experienced country-specific issues on implementation progress, and
one on development objectives. The unsatisfactory rating on implementation progress in fYR of Macedonia is linked
to the social unrest in 2001. The unsatisfactory rating of the TTFSE Bulgaria on implementation progress results
from frequent changes of Customs Directors and delays in selecting a suitable National Coordinator in 2001, both
of which considerably slowed down the implementation of the procurement plan in 2001. These country-specific
issues arc in ths procass of being resolved. In Romania, recent changes in legislation prevent significant progress
at pilot sitas and Customs reform.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The I^CA anc the MCA want to modemize their services through a comprehensive approach. Experience
under other projects emphasizes that the border crossing problem, by its nature, requires coordinated and
mutually reinfbrcing actions in many areas.
The FYR of Macedonia Transit Facilitation Project completed in 1998 (ICR# 19408) highlighted the need
to: (i) tailor the complexity of the project design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii) ensure the
capability of implementing agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the borrower; and
(iv) maintain flexibility to ease implementation.
EU PI-ARE's experience shows that to lessen transaction costs at border crossings, investment in border
crossing facilities need to be supplemented by: (i) reliable traffic data; (ii) accurate infornation on waiting
times; (iii) adequate remedial actions on both sides of a border crossing; (iv) attention to multi-agency
needs; (v) linkage to national transport policies; (vi) reliable telecommunication infrastructure and
equipment; (vii) communication with users; and (viii) coordination and simplification of customs
procedures and removal of state controls on international trade. While this project will not provide funding
for facilities, it will prepare for it by addressing items (ii) to (viii).
The fLrst year of implementation of the TTFSE program underlined a number of factors of success and
risks, as well as a number of reasons for delays that could be prevented. The successful implementation of
Customs modernization requires full ownership by the country, its Government, and its Customs
management. In particular, stable upper management (Director General and his team) for the Customs
Administration, a clear govemmental mandate, the nomination of an active national coordinator willing to
frequently interact with all border agencies, and empowerment of local project teams in proposing improved
procedures have proven critical to succeed. The modemization of Customs calls for very different
relationships with other border agencies and deep behavioral changes at all levels within the administration.
As such, this change effort needs to be constantly managed. For example, all current TTFSE countries
have experienced difficulties in introducing selectivity and targeting due to legal obstacles and the
introduction of deep changes in practices. The recent availability of performance indicators at pilot sites
has been useful in justifying this need, but the introduction of such an approach will require constant efforts
of education and awareness raising. The TTFSE program was also slowed down by the relatively slow
mobilization of consultants and the multiplicity of donor contributions calling for active coordination. Last,
given the multiplicity of parties involved in trade and transport facilitation, coordination and cooperation
with Chambers of Commerce and PRO-committees has proven to provide a good momentum, although it
did require the formalization of a partnership with these parties.
- 19-



This TTFSE project has benefitted from the experience acquired under the six on-going TTFSE projects.
Strategies have been approved by the Federal and Montenegrin Government respectively for the
Modemization of the FCA and MCA, and both the Govemment and the Customs management are strongly
committed to change. A National Coordinator and Republican Coordinator have been nominated. The
FCA and the MCA have already set up performance measurement mechanisms and the FCA has collected
information for six months. Local Project Teams have been established at the pilot sites. New Customs
codes for the FCA and the MCA are in an advanced stage of preparation and include selectivity and
targeting. An amendment to the current Federal Customs law -made in December 2001- already authorizes
the FCA to do selective processing. The project will provide a special advisor to the FCA Director to
coordinate all donor inputs and a change management team to support the modemization efforts within the
administration and with outside parties in particular in case of delays in inputs by other donors, whenever
necessary. Agreement has been reached for cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce and
Industry/YUPRO Committee.
The project was tailored to respond to stakeholders' concerns following active consultations. Customs
users will receive training to enhance their professional skills and will get access to distance leaming
training with certification created under the program. They will be encouraged to voice their concems and
priorities through the regional TTFSE website and the YUPRO committee and will receive accurate and
timely information on existing procedures.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and owinership:
The commitment of Yugoslavia to break away from its recent past is one of the strongest in the region. The
commitment to reform and modemization is deeply anchored in the strategy of the Federal and Montenegrin
Govermments to restore growth, notably through trade expansion and liberalization. All parties met in the
Govenmment and in the trading community considered the time was ripe for a TTFSE FRY project. The
FCA and MCA demonstrated its strong commitment through extensive discussions on customs
modemization with the Bank prior to finalizing its strategy and while preparing its draft law. The new FCA
management managed to increase revenue collections by 60 percent (or US$120 million) in 2001 compared
to 2000, showing the effectiveness of its approach. A further sign of commitment is the scheduled
organization by Yugoslavia of the next RSC meeting in June 2002.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The regional dimension of the TTFSE program is achieved in full with the inclusion of Yugoslavia. From
the time the new Government came into place in Yugoslavia, the authorities requested the Bank to support
them in their Customs modernization and in particular their new Customs management, using an approach
similar to the one successfully developed in the six neighboring countries. This inclusion allows a complete
coverage of Southeast Europe, all the more significant because of Yugoslavia's central location for transit
as shown on the maps. Yugoslavia is expected to become a vigorous champion in the regional efforts to
modernize Customs and border agencies. This will translate into fruitful regional exchanges about Customs
modernization, regional cooperation and simplification, or information system compatibility. Performance
measurements using the TTFSE methodology will allow comparisons across countries. The partnership
between the TTFSE program and Chambers of Commerce/ PRO-committees will also ensure a permanent
link to the business community with rapid feedback on their needs. Furthermore, the Bank, through its
broader lending and country assistance strategies, is well placed to help promote cooperation and
coordination of policies.
20 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$9.6 million; ERR = >50 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
The project is expected to have high rate of return. The project would have an impact spreading over
Yugoslavia since the main investments include procedure improvements and related information systems.
Two benefits have been quantified: (i) lower transport costs due to the reduction of waiting times at border
crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the project.
The following additional benefits will be monitored over the project life, but were not quantified for the
purpose of this evaluation: (i) time savings to passenger traffic at the border crossings and impact on
tourism; (ii) increased quality of services provided by the border agencies to the private sector (and
potential impact on foreign direct investments); (iii) availability of a state-of-the-art single electronic
window with a potentially high commercial value; (iv) increased market share of transport service
providers through their education; (v) reduced maintenance cost of the information system; and (vi)
increased revenue collections (although not per se an economic benefit). The time savings are based on
meeting the performance targets agreed upon (Annex 1) compared to the foreseen performance without the
project. The analysis indicates that the project would have a significant economic impact even if the
modernization objectives were only partially accelerated through the project, as indicated by the switching
values. The reduction in costs to trade and the increased reliability of delivery times are expected to lead,
in the medium run, to a significant increase in trade volumes, which would make use of the existing excess
production capacity.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
The introduction of a WTO-consistent standard processing fee per declaration destined to fund the
maintenance of the FCA computer system will ensure the sustainability of the information system, one of
the major component funded by the project.
Fiscal Impact:
The fiscal impact of the project is expected to be highly positive. Even by regional standards, the collection
of duties and taxes by the FCA is low. The real volume of trade is probably higher than shown by official
records, considering under-reporting and under-valuation. Improvement in overall performance, enhanced
integrity, more selective approach to controls and stronger enforcement capacity will enable Customs to
both expand the official volume of trade and avoid frequent mis-classifications, under-reporting and
undervaluation, thereby generating additional customs duties and taxes. The Government counterpart
contribution would be limited to applicable taxes and duties.
3. Technical:
The creation of a comprehensive Customs information system requires highly skilled professionals, with
strong and clear leadership. The FCA and the MCA submitted realistic implementation plan for the
creation of their respective systems. The FCA, where most software development will take place, has a
staff of fifty specialists, recently recruited and being trained, to create the system. The FCA will receive
- 21 -



technical support throughout the project to ensure that the right elements of project management and
quality control are in place. Special efforts will be :paid by supervision missions to follow closely
implementation progress of the information system.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The FCA and the MCA will be the two executing agencies.
4.2 Project management:
Implementation will be overseen by two Project Mamagers (one in the FCA and one in the MCA) and a
joint Project Implementation Team (PIT), based in the FCA. The Federal and Montenegrin Coordinators
will assist the PIT in obtaining inputs from the other agencies involved. The Federal Coordinator,
supported by the PIT, will ensure that all technical support provided to the FCA, regardless of the source
of funding, is consistent with the FCA Modernization Strategy and does not overlap or is not in conflict
with the TTFSE project components. The Regional Steering Committee (RSC) meets twice a year and will
oversee the coordination and implementation of the Program. The RSC is constituted of high level officials
of the participating countries empowered to decide on and implement necessary sector policy and reform
decisions.
4.3 Procurement issues:
Goods and services financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with IDA procurement guidelines. A
procurement specialist satisfactory to the Bank has been appointed. This specialist will receive training
specifically in procurement of information systems and will be supported by outside procurement advisors
as required. The procurement advisors will be individuals with satisfactory World Bank procurement
experience to be funded by the credit. The project components not financed by IDA will be procured in
accordance with the procurement regulations of the co-financing institutions.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The TTFSE Project will be one of the first IDA credits received by Yugoslavia after the embargo period.
The evaluation of the framework for financial arrangements for all projects in Yugoslavia is currently being
carried out and expected to be ready in early 2002. When finalized, the Country Financial Accountability
Assessment (CFAA) will present in detail the financial management risks for the country and the
implications for World Bank operations. The local banking system is risky, although it is perceived that,
by opening the Special Account at a major foreign bank, in Yugoslavia or abroad, the banking risk can be
kept at an acceptable level. The macroeconomic and currency risks are still relatively significant.
Yugoslavia has a weak public sector financial management, with a lack of accountability in the Federal
Government's overall accounting and reporting functions and no independent audit of accounts.
From the financial management perspective, the Project is considered a high-risk operation, although the
risks, described in Annex 6, are considered manageable due to the various risk mitigation measures
proposed. The separate Financial Management Assessment presents in detail a full description of the risks
and the corresponding mitigation measures.
Significant protection measures must be taken to protect the Project assets against fraud, waste and abuse.
The risk that the Credit funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined investment progran is
judged acceptable by introducing several measures, in principal the 'ring-fencing' of the project through the
- 22 -



establishment of the project implementation team, with a comprehensive staff structure and the creation of
the specialized tearns within the executing agencies, segregation of duties within the unit, requiring
representatives of the FCA and MCA to certify the goods delivered and services rendered before payments
are made to the suppliers, proper supervision from the IDA team and an independent yearly audit of project
funds by a reputable audit firm, acceptable to IDA.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
There are no environmental issue in the project.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not applicable.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: NA
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not applicable.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The project will enable Customs officials to better enforce the terms of intemational conventions and
agreements relating to the environment. Especially relevant will be the regulations included in such
agreements as: (i) the European Agreement Concerning the Intemational Carniage of Dangerous Goods by
Road (ADR) of September 1957 with its Protocol of October 1993; (ii) the Convention on the Intemational
Trade in Endangered Species (CITES); (iii) the Convention on the Intemational Carriage of Perishable
Foodstuffs and on the Special Equipment to be Used for Such Carriage (ATP), of September 1970; and the
Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal,
of May 1992.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Companies in Yugoslavia and in particular traders are seriously impacted by delays, regularly caused by
improper knowledge of current border requirements. Regularly changing procedures affect all companies,
but in particular SMEs with limited resources to follow up on changes. Large companies usually dedicate
a team to monitor changes in procedures. The regional TTFSE website will allow access to all the
procedures and requirements of border agencies regarding trade and intemational transport, improving
transparency to a large extent, thereby reducing opportunities for illegal payments. The access to the site
will be promoted by the Chamber of Commerce and the road transport operators' association. While not all
companies use the intemet, a system of automated notification will inform by email registered users of new
changes. The provision under the project of both conventional and paper-based distance leaming training to
service providers will also improve access to knowledge related to trade, transport and logistics. The
partnership with the local professional association will increase the availability of training materials. The
electronic forum under the website will empower the business community in the region and outside by
enabling it to voice its opinion on the quality of the border services received and to propose corresponding
- 23 -



recommendations to facilitate trade and transport activities.
The project will have an indirect impact on the pooI by reducing corruption and waiting time at border
crossing points. Faster and smoother border crossing both for trucks and passenger transport will remove
some of the constraints affecting people commuting frequently through the border or visiting their family in
neighboring countries. It will proportionally have a larger impact on short distance trips. It will also reduce
the routine, yet often unsolicited, paymnents that currently take place at border crossing points. Like for
other TTFSE projects, interactions with other organizations dealing with smuggling and trafficking (in
particular human trafficking) problems, like the Crime Center in Bucharest, will be maintained.
The reduction in border crossing delays will reduce trade and transport costs and, in turn, the cost of
imported goods, leading to benefits to consumers and lower cost of inputs required for local manufacturing,
with corresponding creation of new jobs. The import effect, however, will be partly offset by losses
incurred by local producers when new imports replace local products.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The program design reflects views expressed by principal stakeholders including such Customs users as
truckers and freight forwarders. Bank staff have conducted extensive interviews to identify trade
impediments and their remedial actions during the preparation of the Economic Recovery and Transition
Program. Another detailed analysis of traders, transport and forwarding companies, using the methodology
developed under the TTFSE program will be available during the summer 2002. This analysis includes in
particular a detailed review of the issues related to clearance of goods and border crossing. In addition,
activities planned under the Trade Facilitation Development component will foster opportunities for closer,
more frequent and transparent contact and feedback; between Customs and the trading community through
YUPRO. Principal stakeholders, for example truckers and forwarders, are members of YUPRO and will
therefore be actively involved in monitoring border delays and corruption. A change management team
hired as consultant will support the FCA in ensuring the participation of external and internal stakeholders.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The project has been prepared in collaboration (COL), consultation (CON), information sharing (IS) with
the following:
a. Primary Beneficiaries and Other Affected Groups
*   Exporters, importers, producers and consumers (CON)
*   Road transport operators and their association (CON)
*   Freight forwarders/shippers (CON)
*   Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce and Industry and YUPRO (COL)
*   Foreign investors (IS)
*   Ministries of Finance, FCA and MCA (COL)
*   Ministry of Interior and border police (COL)
b. Other Key Stakeholders
*   The US Government, the European Commission, and other development partners (COL)
* IRU and FIATA - ( Federation of International Freight Forwarding Agents) (COL)
*   WCO (CON)
*   UN-ECE, UNCTAD (COL)
-24 -



* SECI Crime Center (IS)
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The partnership with the YUPRO Committee, which gathers representatives of the main stakeholders will
enable monitoring of the impact on users.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The Trade Facilitation Component will provide, at a regional level, specific performance indicators on
reduction of corruption, access to training and access to border agency requirements. A regular review of
major social development outcome is embedded in the annual survey of users.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         0 Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project will support concepts and techniques that are critical to fulfilling Yugoslavia's long-term
objective of achieving sustainable growth and joining in the EU. Once the Customs administrations are
modernized, the transparency in customs operations, regular cooperation among border agencies including
those of other countries, and the gains captured by all parties involved in legitimate trade will become the
main driver of sustainability. Continuous upgrading of Customs services, procedures, management, and
equipment based on a suitable budget will enable the Customs to cope with trade and traffic growth,
technological advancement, and continued compatibility with the EU. Systematic peer comparison using
similar indicators will also create some stimulus for sustainable improvements.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex l):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Poor cooperation among border agencies      S        The selected Federal/Montenegrin Coordinators
creates inertia and strong resistance.               are entitled to request meetings of the various
border agencies.
Political commitment is not adequate to    M         A broad-based support is generated by the
- 25 -



resist pressure groups (public and private)         YUPRO committee to counterbalance pressure
and to ensure the success of the                    groups.
institutional program.
Coordination by the RSC is not effective.  M        As performance indicators become available, the
RSC meetings can become more operational and
targeted, as shown by the fifth RSC meeting.
Regional cooperation issues prevent the    S        The MOU, the RSC, the regional website, the
achievement of regional goals.                      benchmarking and the willingness to cooperate
with the EU and the UN-ECE will create a
favorable environment for proper cooperation.
Cooperation between the MCA and the        S        The use of consistent approach in both
FCA deteriorates.                                   administrations (pilot sites), regular exchanges
on the IT components and the RSC would
facilitate interactions. Components are also
relatively independent.
From Components to Outputs
The targeting and selectivity techniques   S        The performance at pilot sites wil. be reviewed
are not effectively implemented at an               in the context of other Bank operations.
operational level.
High turnover of staff slows down          S        The project will support the introduction of
implementation.                                     suitable human resource policies and staff
trained will commit to remain in the project for
three years.
The Constitution may be amended,           H        Components are independent and the proposed
making implementation more difficult.               implementation arrangements are viable even in
that scenario. It is expected that solutions of
continuity will be identified.
Political changes lead to a change in the  H        The definition of a strategy and approval of the
management of the FCA or MCA                        draft law by the Govemment will provide
continuity in project implementation and
strategic directions.
The PIT experiences difficulties in        H        The financial management capacity has been
managing project funds according to IDA             built up during project preparation with the
requirements.                                       creation of a specific financial management
system and the definition of an operational
manual defining in details the management of
funds. Additional training will be provided
during implementation.
The PIT experiences difficulties in        H        The PIT has received training during
following IDA procurement rules.                    preparation and will be supported by extemal
consultants during implementation as required.
Donor funding fails to materialize.        H        The first year of US funding is pending the
re-certification of Yugoslavia by the US
Congress; EC funding is likely to become
available in due time if other donor funding does
not materialize.
Overall Risk Rating                        5        This is a substantial risk, good-return project
with a potential high return
26 -



Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The facilitation of trade and fight against corruption require substantial efforts acting on multiple fronts.
The International Convention on the Harmonization of the Frontier Controls of Goods (Geneva 1982)
(Http://www.unece.org/trans/conventn/harmone.pdf) calls for a coordinating role by the Customs to ensure
the efficient processing of vehicles. In Yugoslavia, this will require a repositioning of the Customs
Administrations toward other border agencies. The strategies adopted confirm that this approach is
suitable.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) The Coordinators of the Borrower and the Republic of Montenegro and all border agencies have
entered into a memorandum of understanding providing the Website Coordinator with up-to-date and
publicly available information on waiting time and opening hours at border crossings, bylaws, and
procedures of border agencies;
(b) The FCA has introduced selective processing of vehicles and goods at its pilot locations, and has
introduced a WTO-consistent standard declaration processing fee sufficient to fund the maintenance of the
FCA computer systems; and
(c) The Federal Government of the Borrower has submitted to the Federal Parliament a new Federal
Customs Code proposal, satisfactory to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) By November 15 of each year, the Borrower and IDA will review progress achieved under the project
including results at pilot sites based on agreed performance indicators, and will confinm the implementation
program (including procurement packaging) and performance targets for the following year.
(b) The Borrower shall maintain its participation in the RSC, participate in the preparation of its agenda
and organize a meeting of the RSC in turn.
(c) Except as IDA may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary measures to achieve the
following targets:
(i) the total number of customs declarations, which result in a physical inspection by the FCA at its
pilot inland tenninal does not exceed, on a monthly basis: (a) 75% by September 30, 2002; (b) 30% by
September 30, 2003; and (c) 10% by September 30, 2004.
(ii) the number of trucks completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland
terminal exceeds, on a monthly basis: (a) 2% by September 2002; (b) 10% by September 30, 2003; and
(c) 20% by September 30, 2004.
(iii) the number of incoming trucks opened at its pilot border crossings does not exceed, on a monthly
basis: (a) 60% by September 30, 2002; (b) 30% by September 30, 2003 and (c) 20% by September 30,
2004.
(d) Except as IDA may otherwise agree, the Republic of Montenegro shall take all necessary measures to
- 27 -



achieve the following targets:
(i) the total number of customs declarations, which result in a physical inspection by the MCA at its
pilot inland terminal does not exceed, on a monthl.y basis : (a) 80% by September 30, 2002; (b) 50% by
September 2003 and (c) 30% by September 2004..
(ii) the number of trucks completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes at its pilot inland
terninal exceeds, on a monthly basis: (a) 10% by September 30, 2002; (b) 12% by September 30,
2003 and (c) 15% by September 30, 2004.
(iii) the number of incoming trucks opened at its ipilot border crossings does not exceed, on a monthly
basis: (a) 70% by September 30, 2002; (b) 50% by September 30, 2003 and (c) 35/o by September 30,
2004.
e. Condition of Disbursement. No withdrawal shall be made in respect of components A2 and B2 unless
(i) the Component Implementation Agreement has been executed by the Federal Government of the
Borrower and the Government-of the Republic of Mbintenegro, and all conditions to the e lffectiveness of
such agreement have been fulfilled; and (ii) the Republic of Montenegro border agencies have entered into a
memorandum of understanding providing for and ensuring continuous processing of passengers during
working hours by all such agencies at the pilot border crossing point of Debeli Breg.
H. Readiness for Implementation
ED 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first yeaz's activities are complete and ready fqr the start
of project implementation.
1 1. b) Not applicable.
Ol 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
El 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The major terms of reference and technical specifications for contracts funded by the Bank under the first
year of implementation are ready.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
a 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Mich I Audige              Hossen                            Christiaan J. Poortman
Tea   Leader                     Sector Dire or                    Country Director
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJECT
Key PerFormance        Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                     Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sectorl country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Restoring macroeconomic    Customs collected revenues  FCA annual report       Wealth is distributed
stability and external balance  increasing from US$200                         appropriately to alleviate
million in 2000 to US$350 in                         poverty.
2004
Imports of goods increasing
from US$3.7 B in 2000 to
US$5.7 B in 2004
Exports increasing from
US$1.9 B in 2000 to US$2.9
B in 2004
Stimulating near-term growth Quality of customs services  User surveys and official  Facilitating trade expansion
and creating the basis for a  gradually improving    statistics                will lead to higher GDP
sustainable supply response                                                    growth.
-Trade volume/number of
staff increasing from $1.6M to
$2.5M in 2004
-Annual number of
declarations/customs staff
increasing from 132 in 2000
to 400 in 2004
-FCA cost/revenue collected
decreasing from 3.1% to 2.1%
-FCA salaries/revenue
collected
decreasing from 2.2% to 1.1%
-Revenue collected/customs
staff increasing from
US$63,000 in 2000 to
US$250,000 in 2004
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
Reduce non-tariff costs to  (see Table I and 2 for values)  Annual survey via Chamber  Business environment
trade and transport       -Transport cost to/from the  of Commerce and Industry  (competitive market,
three main trading partners  using TTFSE methodology  post-privatization corporate
decreasing annually by 2   and performance           governance and judicial and
percent on average from year measurements at pilot sites  regulatory systems) will be
2002 (in US$)                                        improved
-Import clearance time down
at pilot inland terminal                             Reform in the
-Clearance in less than 15 'up                       banking/insurance sector will
-Average entry/exit time down                        reinforce trade activities
-(for MCA) processing time
for passenger vehicles down
- 29 -



during peak periods.
Reduce smuggling and      -Occurrence of corruption  FCA/MCA records
corruption at border crossings cases up initially and then
down
-Petty payment frequency and Annual survey of
value decreasing          business/truckers in the region
- 30 -



|                         |    Key Performance      | Data Collection Strategy l
Hierarchy of Objectives         Indicators        I                        I Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:         (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Modernized Customs     (see Table 1 and 2 for   FCA/MCA and Annual        Cooperation among border
Administration and        values)                  review/supervision missions  agencies will be effective.
Procedures; and           At the pilot terminals:
2. Improved Information   -Physical inspection down                          Border agencies will be
Systems                   -Irregularities/number of                          allowed to introduce new
examinations down in the                           procedures at pilot sites.
FCA and up in the MCA
Political commitment will be
At pilot border crossing points                    adequate to resist pressure
-Truck examination (%) down                        groups (public and private)
-Irregularities/number of                          and to ensure the success of
inspections up                                     the institutional program.
-Surveyed occurrence of
corruption up initially and                        Regional cooperation through
then down                                          the RSC and other
-Risk assessment and                               mechanisms will accelerate
selectivity effective by the end                   the achievement of regional
of 2002                                            goals.
-Number of hits by mobile
enforcement units                                   The Customs management
team will remain in position
at least until the
modernization process is well
advanced.
3. Good access to border  -Provision of all border/trade  TTFSE Website
agency requirements, active  agency requirements on the
dialogue with service     TTFSE website
providers, enhanced skills  - Two distance learning
among road transport      programs available online on
operators and forwarders  the TTFSE site, approved by
IRU and FIATA
4. Project and program    -Professional management of WB Annual review
implementation support    project and performance
measurements
- 31 -



Key Performance       Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators                                    Critical Assumptlons
Project Components I      Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                          Outputs)
Amounts in US$ with tax
and contingencies
(mm=man-month)
1. Customs Administration                           Quarterly progress reports,  The FCA/MCA will
Modernization                                       supervision reports, annual  implement their
* Federal: 129 mm,                3,011,000        reports and project evaluation modernization programs
equipment                                                                  using the consultants' inputs
* Montenegro :15 mm               442,000                                    and other agencies will
actively participate in the pilot
sites
2. Information System
Component
* FCA: 48rmm, 58 servers,         5,556,000
WAN for 70 locations
* MCA: 8mm, 7 servers,            861,000
160 workstations
3. Trade Facilitation
Component
* website, 24 seminar units       544,000
4. Program and Project
Implementation
* training, consulting            569,000
services
Indicator values after 2004 will be established during the mid term review.
Federal Customs Administration-Agreed Performance Targets
Indicators                           2000      Sep 2001       Sep 2002        Sep 2003      Se 2004
Actual      Actual        Target          Target         Target
1. Performance of Customs (FCA)_
Pflot Inland Terminal of Belgrade
Import Clearance Time (min.)                     242            200             120            60
Physical Examination (%)                          I10__          75             30             10
Trucks cleared in less than 15 min. (%)                          2 2             10            20
- 32 -



Irregularities/ No. of examinations (%)                35              35              5-12            5-12
Pilot Border Crossings
Truck Examination (%)                                  85              60               30              20
Irregularities/ No. of Examinations (%)                2               3                4              5-12
Average Border Exit Time (min.)                        30              28               25              20
Average Border Entry Time (min.)                      180              100              50              20
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption
(index)
2. Development Objective Achievements                 2001            2002             2003            2004
Revenue collected/customs staff (US$      63           100            140              200             250
000)
Total FCA Cost/Revenue collected (%)      3.1          2.9            2.5              2.2             2.1
Salaries/Revenue collected (%)            2.2          2.0             1.7             1.5              1.1
Trade Volume/ Number of staff (US$        1.6          1.8             2.0             2.2              2.5
million)
Annual Number of Declarations/ Custom     132          148            200              300             400
Staff
Transport Cost for the main export                    100              98               96              94
commodity traded with the three main
trading partners (US$- base 100 in 2001)
Value of Recorded Imports for Yugoslavia  3,711       4,506          4,944            5,315            5,693
(US$ mil.)
Value of Recorded Exports for Yugoslavia  1,923       1,989          2,234            2,598            2,880
(US$ mil.)                                                                                             __
Source of actual values                         2000
Total FCA Revenue Collected                                200
(US$ mil.)
Total FCA Cost (US$ million)                        6.14
Total Number of FCA Staff                         3,151
Total FCA Salaries (US$ million)                     4.46
Annual Number of Declarations                      417,137
Trade Volume for Serbia (US$ million)                  5,077
Indicator values after 2004 will be established during the mid term review.
Montenegrin Customs Administration-Agreed Performance Targets
Indicators                               2000       Sep 2001        Sep 2002         Sep 2003        Sep 2004
Actual       Actual          Target           Target          Target
1. Performance of Customs (MCA)
Pilot Inland Terminal of Podgorica
Import Clearance Time (min.)                     326             250              150              60
Physical Examination (%)                         100              80               50              30
Trucks cleared in less than 15 min.               0               10               20              30
Irregularities/ No. of examinations (%)           0              5-12             5-12            5-12
Pilot Border Crossings                                       _
Truck Examination (%)                            100              70               50              35
Irregularities/ No. of Examinations (%)           0              5-12             5-12            5-12
Average Border Exit Time (min.)                   16              15               15              15
Average Border Entry Time (min.)                  65              50               40              20
Surveyed Occurrence of Corruption
- 33 -



(index)__                                        _ ___                                   _ _  _ _ _
2. Development Objective Achievements             2001           2002            2003          2004
Revenue collected/customs staff  283         293            300             330           370
(US$000 )_.__
Total MCA Cost/Revenue collected  2.12       2.07           2.05            2.0            1.9
.
Salaries/Revenue collected (%)   1.38        1.25           1.2             1.1            1.0
Trade Volume/ Number of staff (US$  2.06     2.12           2.30            2.50           2.7
000)
Annual Number of Declarations/    127         138           170             250            500
Custom Staff
Transport Cost for the main export            100            98             96             94
commodity traded with the three main
trading partners (US$- base 100 in
2001)                          _
Presupposes assistance from other donors outside the TTFSE project
Source of actual values                      2000
Total MCA Revenue Collected (US$ mil.)                 70.8
Total MCA Cost (US$ million)                            1.50
Total Number of MCA Staff                               250
Total MCA Salaries (US$ million)                       0.98
Annual Number of Declarations                         31,654
Trade Volume (US$ million)                             515.0
Indicator values from 2004 onward will be established during the mid-term review.
Regional Performance Indicators
2003
Itinerary                                 2000        2001         2002        2003       as % of
2000
I. Istanbul-Bucharest Avg Time (hours)          80           78           75         71          89
Average Cost (DEM)       2,030        2,000        1,950       1,880         93
II. Istanbul-Tirana  Avg Time (hours)           192         189          182         172         90
Average Cost (DEM)       5,600        5,520        5,380       5,200        93
III. Sarajevo-       Avg Time (hours)           40          40            39         38          .95
Ljubljana            _
Average Cost (DEM)        1,500       1,480        1,460       1,440        96
IV. Istanbul-Zagreb  Avg Time (hours)                       60           57           53          90
Average Cost (DEM)      =             1,800        1,750        1,675         93
Base-year values are estimates by Bank staff for a single 20-ton truck-load, based on a survey of freight
forwarders in the Southeast Europe region.
- 34 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJECT
Costs in the table are base costs (without taxes and contingencies) while costs in the header
include taxes and contingencies.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$3.01 million
A-1. Modernization of the FCA
Component        Sub Component       Investment                          Detail
(US$)
1. Integration of  1.1 Harmonization of  600,000     * Provide support in coordinating the different inputs to
project           inputs                 30 m/m      the modernization program and phases of the project,
components                             (US funding)  and advise the FCA on the planning/implementation of
the modernization process.
(TA)                                                 * Facilitate the inputs from all border agencies to prepare
a streamlined processing scheme for all cross-border
transactions and clearance activities.
* Assist in preparing legislation and regulations to
accompany the modernization process, and support their
implementation
* Organize seminars, training and study tours for
relevant officials.
1.2 Assistance to the  260,000     * Identify, cooperate with, and assist, all the key players
change management      13 m/m      (border control agencies and other government officials)
process                            involved in (i) drafting, (ii) managing, (iii)
coordinating legislation and regulations related to
cross-border issues, and (iv) introducing a selective
approach to the processing of goods.
* Provide support in systematically monitoring
progress/obstacles on the various dimensions of the
modernization plan.
* Provide support in ensuring effective public relations
efforts for the modernization plan.
* Define and support the implementation of a strategy to
address the change/human aspects of modernization and
I_generate momentum at all levels.
1.3. Establishment of  360,000     * Establish programs to implement new border
pilot sites            18 m/m       processing procedures and practices on a test basis, with
(US funding)   a view to expanding the use of successful ideas
nationwide. Areas to be addressed include procedures,
staffing, automation and cooperation among agencies.
* Assist in preparing automated procedures to collect
management data, in particular performance indicators.
1.4. Training          40,000      * Elaborate a training program to provide staff with the
programming             2 m/m       knowledge, skills and attitudes required to handle the
(US funding)   new procedures and techniques.
- 35 -



2. Introduction of  2.1. Support to the  80,000     * Review organization and current practices.
new procedures   implementation of      4 m/m         Assist in drafting regulations and guidelines for new
EU-aligned          (US funding)  prceurst including post-releas antroui audito
(TA)              procedures and                    procedures, including post-release control/audit.
standards                          * Participate in the reorganization process, including the
use of IT systems, notably for selectivity and targeting.
2.2. Technical        240,000      * Specialist courses in Customs techniques and
training               12 in/m     organization.
(US funding)
* Training of trainers.
2.3. Foreign training  40,000      * Training seminars and visits abroad for selected
(US fusrding)  trainers.
2.4. Selectivity      120,000     Support the FCA in introducing selectivity through
6 mJm      required technical assistance, institutional building and
6r inm    training. Apply selectivity and targeting in particular to
(UK funrding)  the various pilot sites.
* Provide initial training to trainers.
* Establish a national risk profile management unit
* Design a mechanism for building, updating, and
disseminating risk profiles.
* Ensure feedback.
* Support IT developments.
2.5. Targeting         120,000     Establish an integrated border management concept
destined to identify suspicious individuals, vehicles, and
6 mn/in     consignments, while enabling legitimate traffic to
(UK finding)   proceed rapidly.
* Provide initial training to trainers and design training
modules.
* Work on an integrated approach (in liaison with the
pilot site / local project team - LPT - of the TTFSE),
and review organization and procedures.
* Establish the necessary linkages to sources of
intelligence and data.
* In liaison with component 2.6. below, prepare a
staffing and organization plan.
2.6. Combat            120,000     As a complement to 1.1. and 1.2. above:
smuggling, illegal     6 m/m       * Provide training and recommend the appropriate
immigration, and                   organization and inter-agency linkages to optimize the
organized crime     (UK funding)   role of Customs in combating smuggling, illegal
immigration and organized crime.
* Establish a cross-designation system for border
officials.
* Establish coordination with investigation services.
3. Support to the  3.1. Preparation of a  120,000   Balance, through targeting, selectivity methods, and
introduction of a  detailed strategy     6 m/m      improved enforcement techniques, the relaxing of the
Preventive and   adapted to Customs                 current comprehensive and overlapping checks carried
Enforcement Unit processing and         (French     out on imported goods, and at the borders on individuals
anti-smuggling         funding     and vehicles
36 -



in the FCA
activities              sought)     * Prepare and seek the approval of the authorities for an
(TA)                                                  action plan covering (i) identification, re-deployment,
and allocation of existing staff, (ii) organization of the
P&E service, (iii) training, and (iv) exposure to best
practice standards.
* Initiate a training plan
* Establish several pilot mobile units.
3.2. Develop the       120,000      Identify all areas, including those that are not
Preventive and          6 m/m      revenue-related, where Customs can provide a service to
Enforcement service    (French     the community including illegal immigration, organized
funding     crime, intellectual property, and environment issues.
sought)     * Identify areas and prepare a work methodology.
* Conduct initial training.
* Establish operational agreements with other agencies.
* Prepare cross-training of all law enforcement officers.
3.3. Legislative and    80,000      This task will provide the legislative and organizational
institutional support   4 mim       framework.
* Review existing legislation, prepare operational
(French     guidelines, and introduce MoUs between relevant
funding      agencies.
sought)     * Assist in promoting inter-agency cooperation
* Establish international contacts.
3.4. Organization      120,000      The purpose of this activity is to design a modern job
6 m/m       process destined to (i) support the P&E service, (ii)
facilitate its integration in the Yugoslav environment,
(French     and (iii) optimize its outputs.
funding      * Prepare HR management systems and assist in the
sought)     phased introduction of the P&E service through (i)
staffing, (ii) regulations, (iii) exchange of information
and use of IT solutions, and (iv) management of checks
by objective.
* Integrate the P&E service in the overall Customs
process, in particular in support of post release audits and
investigations.
* Organize seminars and training for judges, prosecutors,
other officials.
3.4. Foreign training   80,000      * Orientation and training visits for selected officials.
(UK funding    * Local visits by international staff.
sought)
4. Management of 4.1. Introduction of     40,000      * Identify procedures and situations leading to unethical
human resources   an anti-corruption      2 m/ni      practices.
strategy             (US funding)   * Assist in introducing initial measures and defining a
(TA)                                                  long- term plan.
* Contribute to the measurement of progress and use of
feedback from users.
4.2. Staff              40,000      * Prepare staff rewards and incentive schemes.
management              2 m/m       * Participate in drafting legislation, regulations, and
(US funding)   guidelines to support these schemes, and identify
- 37 -



corresponding resources.
* Elaborate a flexible and output-oriented HR
management system.
5.Search          5.I Equipment to        50,000      * Fiber optic scopes, busters, and other portable search
5.~  ~ Serc    1.qimn o              5,0         and detection equipment.
equipment         improve verifications
and expedite                        * Accessories or accompanying equipment for checking
clearance of                        vehicles.
legitimate traffic                 * Equipment for unloading and checking trucks.
5.2 Vehicles for       108 000     * Vehicles to enable rapid interventions on the premises
clearance checks1,                 of traders benefiting from simplified or customized
clearance checks          ~~clearance procedures.
5.3. Vehicles to        20,000      * Cars for the P&E service, to enable roadside spot
accompany and verify      ,         checks on transit traffic not held up at the border.
transit traffic                     * Accessories (signaling) to facilitate such checks.
6Veriaton 6 . Mobile weighing  300*  Five mobile weighing devices to be rotated among
6Veruipmcatio     6.1ic.                              border stations and selected inland locations to allow
selective weighing of trucks.
*    This activity will serve both Customs enforcement
purposes and enforcement of maximum load regulations
under the highway code, subject to the necessary
legislative. amendments.
Total without tax                       2,780,000     US$2,780,000 out of which donor funding sought
and contingencies                                    US$2,320,000: US$1,440,000 (US);
and_______________________________ __________s        US$440,000 (France); US$440,000 (UK).
Project Component 2 - US$0.44 million
A-2. Modernization of the MCA
Component        Sub Component       Investment                          Detail
(USS).
Procedure         1. Streamlining at     150,000      * Organizational and procedural review at border
Modernization     border stations                    stations, inland terminals, supported by the necessary
7.5 mn/m    legislative and administrative changes.
(TA)
2. Valuation and       150,080      * Reinforcement of the valuation and post-release audit
2.st-Valuati  andi150,0             capacity of the MCA, in connection with the introduction
7.5 m/m      of selectivity
Total without tax                        300,000
and contingencies
- 38 -



Project Component 3 - US$ 5.56 million
B-1. Support to FCA Information System Improvement
Component        Sub Component      Investment                         Detail    ..
___________                    ~~~ ~~(US$)
1. Consulting     1.1. Business          60,000      * Support in simplifying and standardizing customs
services         re-engineering                      procedures, with the introduction of EDI, selectivity and
risk assessment, electronic payments. The process would
lead to the definition of fully automated procedures with
minimal human intervention.
1.2. Solution          40,000      * Support in defining technical solutions to implement
specification                     the simplified procedures and create a platform for the
Single Window Initiative, built on the use of Customs
e-documents as the exchange method between all
institutions/parties involved in Customs operations.
1.3. Software         200,000      * Development of specific parts of the solutions defined
development                        during Task 1.2 including : (i) definition of e-documents
and data format standards to be used for the information
interchange with the other entities involved in the
Customs operations; (ii) implementation of the interface
with other border agencies; (iii) document management
and workflow system; and (iv) accounting system.
1.4. Specific software  100,000    * Purchase of EU proprietary technology for international
acquisition                        information exchange.
1.5. International     60,000      * Specification of international e-document standards
e-document standards               and related implementation.
1.6. Specific technical  90,000    * Training for members of the IT department in: (i)
training                           managing and implementing e-documents; (ii) Web base
system security and transactions.
1.7. Project           200,000     * Direct support to the FCA in project management,
management                         quality control, introduction of software development
assistance           (US funding   tools, methods and training. It comes in addition to an
sought)     existing USTDA grant.
1.8. Specialized      200,000      * Technical assistance to address unforeseen difficulties
technical assistance               in the development of the system (several small
contracts).
2. Hardware       2.1. Processing       2,530,000    * Field servers : 50 servers to be located in the Customs
Infrastructure                     offices not linked by high-speed lines to the center.
* Central servers: 8 servers located at central level: (a) I
Customs operations data processing, (b) 1 data storage
and statistics processing, (c) 2 for development and
testing, (d) 2 for transaction monitoring and data
- 39 -



interchange. (a) and (b) will be duplicated for mirroring
purpose. Software licenses as required.
o Uninterruptible power supply at 50 locations.
o Workstations : PCs and printers to upgrade existing
work stations at Customs Offices, and security access
devices such as smart cards.
o Technical training for rolling out the Processing
Infrastructure.
o Air conditioning equipment for Customs office servers
(50 locations).
2.2. Communication     800,000      e WAN : Upgrades and purchase of telecommunication
infrastructure                      hardware. It would include upgrading 70 routers to
support digital lines, and wireless devices for the
connection of Customs locations not connected in the
current Wide Area Network, or connected through
unreliable lines.
o LAN: TCP/IP LAN switches and hubs for 80 Customs
Offices.
2.3 Communication       90,000      o Outsourced support to install, configure and test the
installation and                    system.
assistance
ota&l without tan                        4,370,000    Includes US$200,000 of US funding sought.
sind ecantimgeneles
Project Component 4 - US$0.86 million
B-2. Support to MCA Information S stem Improvement
Component        Sub Component       Investment                           Detail     .     .
_ _ _ _ _(USS         ,
l. Heirdwtire     1. 1. Communications   425,000      e Servers: seven servers to be located at a central level.
and Processing
Infrastructure                      Workstations: about 160 workstations for border
crossing points and clearance terminals.
Wide Area Network equipment necessary to link the
various Customs points in Montenegro.
1.2. Local Area         30,000      o TCP/IP switches and hubs for Customs Offices in
Network Equipment                   Montenegro.
2. Software       2.1 Extensions of       150,000     o Support to add new functionalities to the Customs
Main Application                    information system.
Software
Total without tan                        605,000
smnd contingencies
-40 -



Project Component 5 - US0.54 million
C. 7'rnde IFnciiftafimnn Develleopment (US Graift IFtunding Sought foir this Component)
(outponent     t      Component I Investment                           Detail
(uS$)    I
11. rgtenhgDneing  1.1. Establish and      60,000   o Participate in implementing the TTFSE regional
ofT 1r5v&te-PmbHc  maintain FRY's input              website for road transport operators and forwarders and
l?arnytmersDp    to the regional                    maintain suitable mechanisms to provide up-to-date
TTFSE website and                 information related to FRY. The website will enable
strengthen trade                  transparency on policies, legal and regulatory framework
facilitation                       and cooperation at a local, national and regional level
interactions                       among private and public parties. It will offer
comprehensive information on border crossings and
inland terminals, and on procedures of all border
agencies in the region, supporting implementation of the
TTFSE Program. All training materials developed under
the Trade Facilitation Development will be made
available on the site.
1.2 Support to           110,000   o Provide direct support to YUPRO working groups, its
YUPRO                              public outreach program and its annual survey of
business climate for road transport operators. Facilitate
the participation of YUPRO members in exchange
programs related to information technology and change
management.
2. Hlmnuprovenmnent  2.1. Expert services  330,000   o Develop and implement a series of conventional and
off the           and training                       distance- learning programs in trade, transport, and
rffToIn-nnnce of                                     logistics focused on facilitating trade. Seminars would
tnnude ffailuliattun                                 be offered through YUPRO and YCCI in Serbia and
ngenns                                               Montenegro. The distance learning programs to be
launched through IRU and FIATA respectively will
consist of: (i) a study guide; (ii) study sessions; (iii)
reference readings; (iv) frequently asked questions; (v)
exams; and (vi) certification by lead professional
associations. Materials will be available either
electronically on the website or in the form of paper
copies printed out at YCCI.
11 oni (1U$)                              500,000
without
connTugennenes
-41 -



Project Component 6 - US$0.57 mililon
D. Program and Prroect impllRemenmonn
Component        Sub Component      Inmst1: 1ent '                      Detail
PIT               Staff costs (FCA)         42,500   o Non Bank financed.
Staff costs (MCA)          7,500   o Non Bank financed.
Operating costs           80,000   o Operating costs (travel, translations 80% Bank
(FCA)
Operating costs                    financed)
(MCA)
0 Operating costs (travel, translations 80%  Bank
20,000   financed)
PIT support               150,000  o Procurement support, financial management system,
translation, training for the PIT and accountant  (ECA
US$130,000/ MCA US$20,000).
Auditors          Consultant services      100,000
Total (US$m)                               400,CCC
without taxes or
contingencies
- 42 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJECT
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe                                   %     % Total
Components Project Cost Summary                                  (US$ '000)          Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign   Total   Exchange Costs
A. FCA Modernization
Integration (IDA)                                           117     208      325        64       3
Integration (US)                                              -    1,000    1,000      100      10
Introduction of New Procedures                                -    1,320    1,320      100      13
Search and Verification Equipment                            11     200      211        95       2
Subtotal FCA Modernization                                    128    2,728    2,856       96      29
B. MCA Modernization
Procedure Modernization                                     126     243      369        66       4
Subtotal MCA Modernization                                    126     243      369        66       4
C. Support to FCA Information System Improvement
ISCS Development and Integration                            461     852     1,313       65      13
Hardware/Network                                            176    3,330    3,506       95      36
Subtotal Support to FCA Information System Improvement       637    4,182     4,819       87      49
D. Support to MCA Information System Improvement
Hardware/Network                                            114     455      569        80       6
Software                                                     38     150      188        80       2
Subtotal Support to MCA Information System Improvement        151     605      756        80       8
E. Trade Facilitation Development
Developing Public Private Partnership                       51      119      170        70       2
Training and Seminars                                        99     231      330        70       3
Subtotal Trade Facilitation Development                       150     350      500        70       5
F. Program and Project Implementation
PIT Operating Cost                                          170     200      370        54       4
Auditors                                                     22     100       122       82       1
Subtotal Program and Project Implementation                   192     300      492        61       5
Total BASELINE COSTS                                         1,384   8,408    9,792       86      100
Physical Contingencies                                      116     546      662        82       7
Price Contingencies                                         209     320      529        60       5
Total PROJECT COSTS                                          1,710   9,274    10,983      84      112
-43 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJECT
The Principles of the Economic Evaluation:
The proposed modernization of the FCA and the MCA will impact both border crossing processing and
clearance at terminals on the full territory of Yugoslavia. While the costs are relatively straightforwardly
identified, the marginal benefits linked to the project are subject to a wide margin of uncertainty, especially
as regards the causal link between technical assistance inputs and their impact on behavior. However,
specialist estimates and switching values indicate both high expected return and only a small probability of
failure, even in case of substantial delays in the implementation.
The economic cost-benefit analysis compares the economic costs and benefits of the project over the
implementation period and over an assumed 5-year economic life. Detailed calculations on costs and benefits
are shown in Table 4.1. All costs and benefits are expressed in constant 2001 prices. All investment costs are
net of import duties and of either taxes or subsidies.
Talble 4.1
COSTS         BENEFITS
Year                                      Net Benefits
(in US$ million)  (in US$ million) (in US$ million)
2002          1.36            1.28         -0.07
2003          4.17           5.24           1.08
2004          3.93           5.61           1.67
2005          0.06           4.45           4.39
2006                         2.91           2.91
2007                         2.59           2.59
2008                         2.22           2.22
2009                         2.08           2.08
Total         9.52          26.39          16.87
Internal Rate of Return                        >50%
IDiscount Rate                    12%
INPV @ 12%  |             7.411        17.0            9.6
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Costs
The project cost considered for the economic evaluation amounts to US$9.5 million excluding taxes and
including physical contingencies. It includes the following components: (i) technical assistance to the FCA
and the MCA; (ii) information equipment for the FCA and the MCA; (iii) trade facilitation development
- 44 -



measures; and (iv) the cost of the program and project implementation.
Benefits
Two benefits have been quantified: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of waiting times at
border crossings and clearance terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade expansion resulting from the
project. The following additional benefits will be monitored over the project life, but were not quantified
for the purpose of this evaluation: (i) time savings to passenger traffic at the border crossings and impact
on tourism; (ii) increased quality of services provided by border agencies to the private sector (and potential
impact on foreign direct investments); (iii) development of a state-of-the-art single electronic window with a
potential high commercial value; (iv) increased market share of transport service providers through their
education; (v) reduced maintenance cost of the information system; and (vi) increased revenue collections
(although only a transfer payment to the Government, not a net benefit to the FRY economy per se).
Trade and Transport Costs Reduction. The annual savings on transport costs at border crossings and
inland terminals under the project would progressively reach about US$5.6 million at the end of 2005,
compared to a slower modernization without the project. Delays at border crossings and inland temninals
are symptomatic of a number of issues associated with deficiencies in trade related services: procedural
complexity, lack of interagency cooperation, cumbersome documentation requirements, systematic checks,
slow customs clearance steps, absence of standard service times and inadequate infrastructure.
Wider Economic Impact of Increased Trade. In practice, the likely impacts on trade under the project
comes from: (i) economies of scales in downstream markets; and (ii) increased reliability in the delivery of
goods. Both will facilitate industrial and logistic service restructuring and facilitate the integration of local
companies into international production chains. In the medium run (from 2003) these two elements should
enable a significant increase in trade volumes. Such trade gains are obtained by combining trade creation
and trade-substitution effects. The trade creation effect is the increased demand in the importing country
for a commodity from an exporting country, resulting from the price decrease associated with the
elimination or reduction of distortions. Trade substitution accounts for the tendency of importers to
substitute goods from one source to another in response to a change in the import price of supplies from
one source. Imports would be the most affected initially, since the border inefficiencies bear mostly on
imports. However the regional nature of the project would simultaneously impact exports. Increased import
volumes would benefit local consumers (inclusive of local companies relying on foreign inputs for their
production) by increasing their consumer surplus and would create a loss for some local manufacturers,
whose products become replaced by new imports. Increased export volume would benefit local producers
by opening new market opportunities and would reduce local consumer surplus by reducing the quantity
available on the local market at the initial price.
The broad economic impact of cheaper and better trade services on existing market failure is complex to
analyze even in countries with valid statistical data and requires general equilibrium models taking into
account the monetary/foreign exchange impacts of new trade patterns. Given the current level and quality
of data available on Yugoslavia, such a detailed evaluation would not be realistic. Various studies, notably
" The welfare implications of transport improvements in the presence of market failure", Anthony
Venables, London School of Economics and Michael Gasiorek, School of European Studies, describe this
phenomenon and show additional benefits ranging between 20 and 30 percent over the transport savings
generated. For the purpose of this evaluation, 20 percent was considered as the most appropriate. Variation
within a likely range would not lead to a different conclusion on the viability of the project.
-45 -



Main Assumptions:
The project would accelerate the pace of modernization and as a result increase the time savings expected
from the modernization. The waiting time reduction with the project compared to the current performance
is based on the agreed performance indicators in the project scenario. The progressive reduction of border
crossing entry time (from entering the border area in one country to exiting the border area in the next country) to
forty minutes for incoming traffic, in line with the performance targets, has been used as the basis to
calculate the transport cost savings with the project. Even without the project some reduction in waiting
time is expected. This waiting time reduction without the project compared to the current performance is
based on estimates of modernization progress without the project using regional experience in border
agency reform. Processing time without the projecl was estimated to be reduced: (i) by 5 percent annually
from year 2004 to year 2006 at border crossing facilities; and (ii) by 10 percent, annually from year 2004
to year 2008 at border crossing facilities; and (iii) by 40 minutes from 2002 onwards due to the
introduction of the TIR carnet system. The absence of needed telecommunication infrastructure to support
the single electronic window without the project would impose a limit to the efficiency that could be
achieved (in terms of selective processing and pre-clearance). The current average waiting time for trucks
is based on repeated surveys using the TTFSE methodology carried out since August 2001.
The average value of time for trucks was obtained through interviews (US$350/day), and is conservative
compared to other studies carried out in Yugoslavia (see project files). Traffic recovery will be impacted by
several broad parameters: (i) the recovery of the C:roatian, Yugoslav and Bosnian economies and increase
in regional trade; (ii) the resurgence of transit traffic; (iii) the intensification of local cross-border
movements; and (v) the increase in Yugoslav exports and imports. Overall traffic growth was assumed at 6
percent for the period under study compared to current traffic.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The internal rate-of-return would remain above 30 percent even in the case of a drop in traffic by 20
percent combined with an increase in investment cost by 20 percent. The project is robust as shown by the
highly achievable switching values. If the impact of the project was delayed by two years the economic rate
of return would still be above 30 percent.
Table 4.2. Switching Values (to reach 12%)
| Switching Value  Original Value
Daily Truck Value (US$/day)  l    140           350
Trade-related Benefit Coeff.      <0            20%
Traffic volume/existing traffic  40%       100%+6% annual
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _grow th
Minimum Time Savings at BCP
Pilot Sites (in minutes)          72            160
-46 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJECT
Years Ending
US$' 000
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Y Year1 I    Year 2  | Year 3  | Year 4  | Year 5   | Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs        1382.0     3537.0    3386.0    2109.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs          183.0      187.0     169.0       30.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs       1565.0    3724.0     3555.0    2139.0       0.0        0.0      0.0
Total Financing           1565.0     3724.0    3555.0    2139.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRD/IDA                300.0     2200.0    2260.0     2000.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Govemment                90.0      374.0     480.0      139.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Central               60.0      284.0     350.0      112.0       0.0      0.0        0.0
Provincial            30.0       90.0     130.0      26.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Co-financiers          1175.0     1150.0     815.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
User Fees/Beneflciaries      0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other                        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Project Financing  1565.0     3724.0    3555.0    2139.0        0.0      0.0        0.0
Other                       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
The project recurrent costs are the costs of auditors and of the Project Implementation Team. The upgrade of
the existing information system is expected to reduce the annual recurrent cost of the system and as such does
not lead to an increase in recurrent costs in the post-project period.
-47 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILiTATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PFtOJECT
Procurement
Procurement - General
All Bank-financed procurement would be in accordance with the Bank Guidelines. Procurement for goods
and works would follow the Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995 as revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999). Procurement
of consulting services would follow the Bank Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank Borrowers (January 1997 as revised in September 1997 and January 1999).
Procurement Responsibility
All procurement will be carried out by the Federal Customs Administration (FCA) with the participation of
the Montenegrin Customs Administration (MCA) for the contracts which are to be signed and implemented
by the MCA. A full-time technical staff member from the FCA has been assigned to carry out the
procurement activities within the existing FCA structure. The responsibilities of the procurement specialist
would include inter alia: (i) preparing and submiting to the Bank all procurement documents which require
the Bank's prior review; (ii) carrying out any procurement action; (iii) updating and submiting to the Bank
the procurement schedule; (iv) updating the General Procurement Notice and prepare Special Procurement
Notices; and (v) ensuring that the procurement process is conducted based on principles of efficiency,
economy and transparency.
Procurement Capacity Assessment of the PIT
During project preparation, an assessment of the FCA capacity to conduct procurement was carried out.
At that time the Country Procurement Assessment Review had not yet been finalized. During the
assessment it was determined that FCA had no previous experience in Bank procurement, while public
procurement experience in general was quite limited. 'This was mainly due to the last 10 years of isolation
from the international community, during which the enforcement of public procurement legislation was very
weak. Based on these considerations, this PIT was rated high risk. An action plan to enhance the PIT
capacity to conduct procurement was prepared. This action plan stipulates that the FCA will: (i) appoint
one full-time technical expert as procurement officer for the project; (ii) build up the capacity of the
procurement staff; (iii) prepare a procedural manual defining the composition of the tendering committee,
procedures, flows of documents, signatory powers, and ethical requirements for the procurement staff; (iv)
use Bank standard and sample bidding documents; and (v) secure international technical assistance in
procurement during project implementation.
Training
During project preparation, procurement training was conducted for the benefit of the procurement team in
the FCA. It included a presentation of the Bank Guidelines (Goods and Consultants) and of the Bank
Standard Documents. The procurement team was also trained in how to use the procurement database on
the Bank website. Hands-on training was provided for the preparation of the first contract to be procured.
In addition, the mission organized an informal IT/IS procurement seminar for both FCA and MCA to
ensure that the overall logic of the procurement documents and processes be understood. Further training
will be provided according to the Action Plan.
-4B-



Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice will be published by end of January 2002 to announce the bidding
opportunities under the project and invite interested eligible suppliers and consultants to express interest
and request any additional information from the FCA. The General Procurement Notice will continue to be
updated annually. Specific Procurement Notices will be published for the IT procurement packages in UN
Development Business and relevant technical journals and at least one newspaper of national circulation.
Procurement Methods
(i) Goods
International Competitive Bidding (ICB): would be used to procure goods for contracts estimated to cost
USS 100,000 or more each.
International Shopping (IS): would be used to procure goods for contracts estimated to cost less than
US$100,000 each, up to an aggregate amount of US$ 100,000. The Borrower shall obtain quotations from
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries, which may include the Borrower's. To
minimize the risk of getting only one or two quotations, clients are advised to initially request more than
three quotations. The Borrower may also at the time of the request, verify whether those being invited will
make an offer or not. Quotation for foreign goods located in the Borrower country and offered by a firm
located in the Borrower country, are considered as quoted from abroad for purposes of satisfying the "two
different countries" rule. This is applicable, for example, to items such as computers, vehicles, etc., that
are normally imported by dealers of the foreign manufacturers who are also able to provide after-sales
service.
National Shopping (NS): would be used to procure goods and technical services for contracts estimated to
cost less than US$50,000 up to an aggregate amount of US$100,000.
Direct Contracting (DC): will be used to procure software of a proprietary nature such as cross
border/international information exchange software, i.e. proprietary technologies required to interface with
the IBM/Oracle MT-SERIS system of the European Taxation and Customs Union (TAXUD) - up to an
aggregate amount of US$150,000.
Prior and post review by the Association of goods contracts: all contracts for the supply of goods
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more will be subject to prior review as well as all
contracts awarded without competition. All other contracts will be subject to post review.
(ii) Consulting Services
Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS): would be used to hire consulting firms to provide technical
assistance and training under contracts estimated to cost more than US$100,000.
Selection under a fixed budget (SFB): would be used for specialized technology training services.
Least Cost Selection (LCS): would be used for the contract for audit services.
Consultants' Qualifications (CQ) would be used for contracts amounting to less than US$ 100,000,
including technical assistance for software customization.
Inlviduals: would be hired to provide technical assistance in accordance to Section V of the Guidelines.
Prior and post review by the Association of the Consultanting Contracts: all contracts estimated to cost
the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more per contract with firms and US$ 50,000 with individuals will be
subject to prior review. All other contracts will be subject to post review except for the first contract under
- 49 -



the CQ selection method, and all Terms of Reference which will be subject to prior review.
(iii) PIT Incremental Operating Costs
Items for operation of the PIT (US$150,000) will be procured in accordance with an agreed budget and
schedule.
Procurement Implementation Schedule and Advance Procurement Actions:
The agreed procurement plan ( Table 6 B 2) will be used as a basis for procurement monitoring. The
following major advance procurement actions have been identified: preparation of tender package for: (i)
FCA and MCA communication infrastructure; (ii) FCA technical assistance in the change management
process; and (iii) MCA technical assistance for selectivity.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                            N t   ICB  . : CB  Other  N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                            0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                            4.94            0.00          0.32         0.00        5.26
(4.55)          (0.00)        (0.28)       (0.00)      (4.83)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          2.35         3.14        5.49
Technical assistance and           (0.00)         (0.00)         (1.82)       (0.00)      (1.82)
training
4. Operational expenses             0.00            0.00          0.15         0.08        0.23
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.1 1)      (0.00)      (0.1 1)
Total                            4.94            0.00          2.82          3.22       10.98
(4.55)          (0.00)        (2.21)       (0.00)      (6.76)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
i Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs
related to managing the project
- 50 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCSS  QBS      SFB    LCS      CQ     Other  N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              1.17    0.00    0.13   0.14     0.51   0.00    3.14     5.09
(0.94)  (0.00)  (0. 1 0)  (0. I 1)  (0.41)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.56)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00     0.00   0.40    0.00     0.40
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.26)  (0.00)  (0.26)
Total  1.17    0.00    0.13   0.14     0.51   0.40    3.14     5.49
_  (0.94)  (0.00)  (0.10)  (0.1 1)  (0.41)  (0.26)  (0.00)  (1.82)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 51 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'
Contract Value                               Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category        (US$ thous.              Method                (US$ thous)
1. Works                        N/A                     N/A                     N/A
2. Goods                      >US$100                   ICB                 4,942 (100%)
DC
(aggregate: 150)          150 (100%)
US$50-100                   is                     N/A
<US$50               (aggregate: 100)            N/A
NS
(aggregate: 100)
3. Services                     Finns
>100                    QCBS                 1,167 (100%)
SFB                  133 (100%)
(aggregate: 133)
Audit                   LCS               35 (25%)-first year
(aggregate: 138)           contract
<100                     CQ
(aggregate 507)      50 (10%)-first contract
Individuals
Section V               203 (50%)
(aggregate 406)
prior review >USD 50
TOTAL contracts                 7,616                                        6680 (88%)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Special attention should be given to IT procurement: supervision. Given the high risk rating, post review
will cover at least 20 percent of contracts. The intensity may decrease in the subsequent years depending
on the progress of the project.
- 52 -



Table C Procurement Plan
I                  Procurement schedule
Package Description of No.  Type of   Procurement   Estimated   requalification Preparation Bid/Proposals Contract Contract
No      Package    Lots Procurement   Method        Cost                    of Tender  1. Invitation  Signing Completion
US$ thousand                Documents       2.
(with                      and     Bid/Proposal
contingencies)               Bank no    submission
objection  3. Evaluation
A 1-___  __________ _      .________               __________                 ________    4. Award 
Al -
Modernization of
FCA Technical
Services and
Equipment                                          _ ._.                                              __..:
1.   Assistance in  I      CS         QCBS         384           N/A       Dec. 2001-  March -     August. Dec. 2004
the change                                                             Feb. 2002  July 2002    2002
management
rocess
2.    quipment for  I       G           is          59           N/A        Mar.-June  July 2003    Sept.  Nov. 2003
erification                                                             2003                  2003
nd clearance
f legitimate
traffic
3.   Vehicles for   I       G          ICB          142          N/A        Mar.-June  June - Sept.  Oct.  Dec. 2003
clearance                                                                2003    2003          2003
checks
4.   Mobile         I       G           IS          36           N/A        Mar-June  June 2003     Aug.   Oct. 2003
eighing                                                                2003                   2003
evices
5.   Integration of        CS          NBF         1,032         N/A
roject                        US funding
components
6.   Introduction of       CS          NBF          744          N/A
ew                              US/UK
procedures     _      _           nding
7.   Support to the        CS          NBF          534          N/A
introduction of                UK/French
Prevention                     Funding
nd
Enforcement
Service
8.   Management            CS          NBF          80           N/A
of Human                       US funding
Resources
A2 -
Modernization of
MCA Technical
Services                                                          .                          .             .
9.   TA for: (a)    I      CS         QCBS         442           N/A        December  February-      July   une 2003
Streamlining of                                                         2001-    June 2002     2002
border station                                                         January
rocedures and                                                           2002
organization;
and (b)
Strengthening
aluation and
p ost-release
audit
procedures
- 53 -



Table (C Procurement Plan
Procurement schedule
Package Description of No.    Type of    Procurement   Estimated   Prequalirication Preparation Bid/Proposals Contract Contract
No       Package    Lots Procurement     Method        Cost                     of Tender  1. Invitation  Signing  Completion
US$ thousand                 Documents       2.
(with                       and     Bid/Proposal
contingencies)                Bank no    submission
objection  3. Evaluation
___________  ___________   __________                                    4. Award
Bl - FCA
Information
System                      .                                                                                        ...   X
Improvement:                                   ....            -             -                -  -
Application                .*: :. ;  ,                      .*. .. XX       -          -          .
Des-elopment Sub-
project                        .          ._._.
10.   Business       3        CS        Indmiidual      100           N A      June-July                Aug 2002 Apr2004
Process Re-                       Consultant                              2002
engineering
TA (3-months)
11.   Single Window  2        CS        Individual      65            N/A        July-Aug      N/A         Sept.  Dec. 2002
Initiative                        Consultant                                 2002                    2002
Technical
Specifications
TA (2 months)               _                               _
12.   Software                CS          NBF           205           N/A          N/A         N/A      Dec. 2001 Dec. 2004
development                       US funding
tools, methods,
training,
quality
assurance, sub-
project
management.
13.   Application    I        CS         QCBS           341           N/A         April-   Oct. 2002-     March   March 2004
Development                                                                September Feb.2003        2003
outsourced                                                                   2002
support -
Border agency
sub-system.
Document Mgt.
and Workflow
system,
Administrative
accounting
system,
Customs client
interface
system
14.   Cross-border/  2        G           Direct        150           N/A        October-      N/A      Dec. 2003 Feb. 2004
intemational                     Contracting                               November
information                                                                  2003
exchange
software
(proprietary)
15.   e-Document     I       CS            CQ           87            N/A        August-   September     Oct. 2003 Mar. 2004
ntemational                                                               September 2003
standards                                                                    2003
implementation
secification 
16.   Specialized    I       CS           SFB           133          N/A         May-June  July-Nov.    Dec. 2002 Dec. 2003
technology                                                                   2002    2002
training                                        _                _
-54 -



Table C Procurement Plan
I                ~~~~~Procurement schedule
Package Description of  No.     Type of    rocurement   Estimated    Prequalification  Preparation of Bid/Pro osals Contr Contract
No      Package      Lots  Procurement    Method        Cost                           Tender      1. Invitation  act  Completion
US$ thousand                    Documents and       2.      Signin
(with                          Bank no     Bid/Proposal   g
contingencies                     objection    submission
3. Evaluation
4. Award
17.   Specialized     5         CS          CQ          287             N/A           July 2002        N/A       N/A  N/A
technical                                                                      -March 2003
assistance (up
to 5 contracts
of 2 months)
BI-FCA
Information
System                                          . .
Improvement:                       .
Processing
Infrastructure Sub-
project                                                         _ 
18.   Serters8         I      Goods         ICB         3016            NIA         December 2002 Niarch-July   Aug. Dec 2003
main and 50                                                                   - February 2003 2003         2003
field), 1000
workstations,
250 printers,
smart card
technologies,
50 UPS, and
technical
training
19.   Air              I      Goods         NS           35             N/A           July 2002   Aug. 2002      Oct. Mar. 2003
conditioning                                                                                               2002
equipment
B1- FCA
Information
System
Improvement:
Communications
Infrastructure Sub-
20. Cu.mmunicationi    2         G           ICB          964             N A        December 2001- June-Oct      No%   Feb 2003
Infrastructure (two                                                                 May 2002     2002         2002
lots) and training:
LAN and WAN
technologies
21. Communications     2         CS          CQ            133            N/A         Apr.-June2002  July 2002    Nov. Mar.2003
installation,                                                                                                 2002
configuration, and
testing assistance
B2 - MCA
Information
System
Impro vement                                        .                           .      ,   _.
22.  Extensions to    l         G           ICB          215\            N/A         December 01- Feb-July 2002 Augus July 2003
Main                                                                            January 2002               t 2002
Application
Software
- 55 -



Packa   Description of  No.    Type of   Procurement    Estimated  Prequalificatio Preparation of Bid/Proposals Contract Contract
ge No      Package     Lots Procuremen     Method         Cost           n          Tender      1. Invitation  Signing Completion
t                   US$ thousand                 Documents        2.
I(with                      and       Bid/Proposal
contingencies)                Bank no      submission
objection   3. Evaluation
4. Award
23.  LAN                I       G           NS            43           N/A         October-   December      January  March 2003
Technologies (10                                                             November    002            2003
sites)                                                                   _     2002
24.  Communications     2       G           ICB          605           N/A      December 01- Feb-July 2002   August January 2003
and Processing                                                              January 2002                2002
nfrastructure -
two lots (a) WAN
Technologies and
technical training,
(b) Servers,
workstations,
printers, standard
software, DBMS,
nd technical
D- Trade
Facilitation
Development                                             _
25.  FRY contrbulion           CS          NBF            65           N A           W9A         N1A         Apnl    ApnI 2004
to TTFSE web site                                                                                       2002
26.  Support to                CS          NBF           120           N/A           N/A          N/A        April    pril 2004
YUPRO working                                                                                           2002
groups_
27.  Support to                CS          NBF           360           N/A           N/A          N/A         April  April 2004
distance learning                                                                                       2002
mechanisms for
private sector
trade participants                                                                                        =
E - Program and
Project
Implementation
Support
28.  PIT Staff Cost         Operational    NBF           80            N/A
costs     Own funds
29.  PIT operating                                       145           N/A                        NA          NA     NA
costs
30.  Specialized               CS        Individual      241           N/A
training and                       consultants
support to PIT,
MS I____
31.    uditors                 CS          LCS           138           N/A                    anuary 2002    April   lune 2002
_________ ______1'           2002   (renewable)
These contracts will be awarded during the project implementation as needs for support or training arise
and will include procurement support.
- 56 -



Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance Requirements
Brief Statement
A capacity assessment of the Borrower was conducted during project preparation. The Borrower has no
previous experience with Bank or other IFI procurement and the national procurement legislation is now under
review to be aligned to internationally acceptable principles for public procurement. Therefore, an action plan
was prepared to enable the Borrower to conduct procurement under the project in accordance with Bank
procurement procedures.
Country Procurement Assessment     Are the bidding documents for the procurement actionsfor the first
Report: is currently under preparation  year ready by negotiations:
by the Bank.                       Tender documents for the following contracts will be in an advanced
stage of preparation: FCA and MCA communication infrastructure,
FCA consulting services for the change management process; MCA
consulting services for selectivity.
TRAINING INFORMATION AND DEVELOPMENT ON PROCUREMENT
Estimated Date   Date ofpublication  Indicate if there is  Domestic   Domestic Preference for
of Project       of General         procurement subject to  Preference  Works, if applicable:
Launch           Procurement Notice:  mandatory SPN in   for Goods:
Workshop:       Jan. 2002           Development                       N/A
July 2002                         Business:            No.
Yes, for specialized
contracts.
Retroactive Financing: No                                 Advance Procurement:
Explain:                                                  Yes.
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
Procurement information will be collected and recorded by the Borrower and submitted to the Bank as part of
semi-annual progress reports prepared by the PIU. This information will include (ii) revised cost estirnates for
individual contracts; (b) revised timing of procurement actions including advertising, bidding, contract award
and completion time for individual contracts; and (c) compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of
procurement; (d) actual data for contracts already procured, indicating the contracts subject to prior and post
review.
Cof inancing: Explain briefly the Procurement arrangements under co-financing: N/A
SECTION 4: PROCUREMENT STAFFING
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staffpart of Task Team responsible for the procurement in
the Project: Name: Irina Luca Extension:87092
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: To be determined
- 57 -



Procurement Action Plan
As part of the pre-appraisal mission an assessment of the capacity of the Federal Customs
Administration (the FCA) to implement procurement was carried out. The FCA has no previous
experience in Bank procurement while its experience in public procurement is limited. In order
to address some of the weaknesses identified and develop the capacity of the FCA to conduct
procurement according to World Bank procedures, the following Action Plan is recommended:
ACTION                                                DUE DATE
The FCA to designate one staff member with English language  Appointment by pre-appraisal
abilities to work full time in the project as procurement  (November 2001).
specialist. The specialist will be particularly trained in IT  IT training by May 2001.
procurement.
The capacity of the FCA's procurement department will be  By Effectiveness.
built in order to ensure the institutional support of project
procurement. In house and regional training to be provided.
The FCA will formulate operational procedures related to  By the end of January 2002
procurement (participants, roles, signatory powers). The role of
the Montenegro Customs representatives to be defined.
Requirements of ethical behavior by the procurement staff to be
included.
Technical assistance in procurement during project    During project implementation
implementation by international consultants with experience in  as needed.
World Bank procurement procedures and practices.
The latest version of the IDA standard/sample bidding  Latest version to be
documents shall be used:                              downloaded from the web. The
For purchasing Goods:                                 web address is:
Standard Bidding Document: Procurement of goods dated
January 1995; revised March 2000 and January 2001.    http://www.worldbank.ora/ht
Standard Bid Evaluation Form of January 1/96.      ml/opr/procurelbdocDacze.ht
For hiring Consultants:                               ml
Standard Request for Proposals, Selection of Consultants,
July 1997, revised April 1998 and July 1999;          For eligibility check:
Sample form of evaluation report for Selection of  hftp://www.worldbank.org/ht
Consultants of October 1999                           ml/pic/PROCURE.html
Recommended sample documents to be provided by the Bank
for International and National Shopping,, selection based on  Electronic copies were
Consultant Qualifications and individual consultants.  provided during appraisal.
IDA to organize a project-launching workshop.         July 2002
IDA assistance and advice in procurement.             During project
preparation/implementation
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 58 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement. Disbursements against the categories described in Table 6.C would be made upon receipt
by IDA of fully documented applications, except for contracts valued at less than US$100,000 for
consulting firns with the exception of the first contract, US$50,000 for individual consultants, goods under
contracts costing less than US$100,000 each and for incremental operating costs, which would be made
against certified statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained
by the Borrower and made available to IDA during supervision. The minimum size of application for
direct withdrawals and issuance of commitments from the IDA Credit account would be 20 percent of the
amount of the Authorized Allocation to the Special Account.
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in
one of the major foreign commercial banks on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA -based on the
ongoing Country Financial Accountability Assessment- to cover the share of expenditures by IDA. The
Authorized Allocation for this special account would be US$0.3 million, representing about four months of
average expenditures made through the Special Account. During the early stage of the project, the initial
allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US$150,000. However, when the disbursements
under the Credit have reached the level of SDRO.5 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the
Authorized Allocation of US$0.3 million by submitting the relevant Application for withdrawal.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of
the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment
would follow standard Bank procedures as described in Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank
statements of the Special Account, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, would accompany all
replenishment requests.
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
1. (a) Equipment, Goods and Materials      3.70            100% of local expenditures, 95% of
FCA                                                              foreign expenditures
1. (b) Equipment, Goods and Materials      0.60            83% of local expenditures, 80% of
- Montenegro                                                     foreign expenditures
2. (a) Consulting Services, incl. auditing  1.50         70% of services by individuals, 80% for
and training -FCA                                                  services by firms
2. (b) Consulting Services, incl.          0.30          75% for services by foreign individuals,
auditing and training - MCA                               68% for services by local individuals,
81% for services by firms
3. (a) Incremental Operating Costs-FCA     0.10            83% of expenditures incurred until
December 31, 2003, 60% of
expenditures afterwards
3. (b) Incremental Operating Cost-MCA      0.02            83% of expenditures incurred until
December 31, 2003, 60% of
expenditures afterwards
4.   Unallocated                           0.54
Total Project Costs                        6.76
Total                                      6.76
- 59 -



Financial Assessment
1. Executive summary and Conclusion
Yugoslavia is currently in its first year after the long embargo period. The country has a weak public
sector financial management and the perceived levels of corruption are high. The Project is to be
implemented by the PIT established within the FCA.
Prior to Board presentation, a World Bank accredited Financial Management Specialist has performed a
detailed assessment of the system in accordance with the Bank's OP/BP 10.02 and the World Bank
Financial Management requirements. The result of the assessment is that the Project satisfies the minimum
World Bank financial management requirements. A. financial management action plan was developed and
agreed with the Borrower to further strengthen the financial management arrangements of the Project.
A summary of the financial management assessment and conclusions are as follows:
Financial Management Assessment   Rating        Comments
1. Implementing Entity             Satisfactory  Newly created PIT within FCA, must become
fully familiar with WB rules
2. Flow of Funds                   Satisfactory  Simple flow of funds envisaged
3. Staffing                         Satisfactory  Financial Manager and Accountant
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Satisfactory  An operational manual was developed to
document internal control policies
5. Internal Audit                       N/A     No reliance placed on internal audit
6. External Audit                   Satisfactory  The project will be audited annually.
Appointment of acceptable auditors will be a
dated covenant.
7. Reporting and Monitoning         Satisfactory  Quarterly FMRs are prepared
8. Information Systems              Satisfactory  Customized software system
Overall Financial Management       Satisfactory
Rating
2. Country Financial Management Issues
A Country Financial Accountability Assessment is currently being carried out by the Bank. A
back-to-office report and a summary of the main results and findings of the CFAA mission were issued at
the end of the year 2001. The documents identifiy issues of extremely weak public sector financial
management, including public sector budgeting, accounting, reporting and auditing and also an
environment of pervasive corruption.
A summary of key country financial management issues in FRY is given below:
>      There have been no reforms in the out-dated public sector financial management of the Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY). The federal government continues to operate under existing legislation -
Law on Public Revenue and Law on Public Expenditure.
>      The federal budgets are not very realistic and not well managed (both in terms of revenue forecasts
and expenditure management), and there would be significant variances between actual and budgeted
revenues and expenditure for the year ending December 31, 2001.
Sk     The Federal MOF does not apply the IMF Government Financial Statistics (GFS) economic and
-60 -



functional classifications for its budget preparation and reporting, and the 2002 budget will continue to be
based on the old chart of accounts.
>      Not all budget users (especially extra budgetary funds, donor funds, and debt) are included in the
annual consolidated budget.
>      There is no parliamentary finance committee to provide independent review of the budget proposals
and also budget execution reports.
>      There is lack of accountability in the Federal government's overall accounting and reporting
functions. No single institution, in fact, is responsible of the complete budget accounting and reporting. One
the one hand, the Federal Mutual Services Agency administers the accounts and other bookkeeping and
administrative services of all direct budget holders (Ministries and Agencies), except some key institutions
(such ministry of Defense, which accounts for over 70 percent of federal expenditure), but it does not
prepare consolidated budget execution reports. On the other hand, the ZOP (part of national Bank of
Yugoslavia) prepares annual and half-yearly consolidated budget execution reports for the parliament,
based on the returns received. At the same time, the ZOP also performs "quasi-audit" functions of the
reports received by spending units, which poses a problem of conflict of interest. Finally there is no
ownership of the consolidated budget execution reports because the ZOP only responsible for the
consolidated budget execution reports and not for the overall budget process.
>      The central control of budget execution is essentially one of control of the cash flows. There is a
lack of commitment control and there are no plans to develop a treasury system.
>      There is currently no Intemal Audit (IA) function in the Westem sense operating in FRY. The
Budget Inspectorate prepares the compliance audit work to check whether intemal control procedures are
being properly followed, but it lacks appropriate staff and resources. However, it is understood that the
Budget Inspectorate is not independent, as it reports to the Federal MOF but has never carried out
inspections of the Federal MOF.
>      There is currently no Supreme Audit Institution in FRY and no independent extemal audit is
carried out on Federal Government accounts. There is, therefore, very limited transparency and financial
accountability over the use of public finances.
3. Financial Management System Assessment
3.1 Project Management and Coordination
The PIT established in the FCA includes all key staff agreed upon (Manager, financial manager,
accountant, procurement specialist). The PIT will draw upon the experience and expertise of the FCA
staff (a number of technical experts will provide technical assistance in developing the technical
specifications for procurement, mainly in IT areas).
The Govemment, through the FCA, has established and will maintain a project financial management
system (FMS) in a format acceptable to the Bank and in accordance with OP/BP 10.02 and World Bank
Financial Management requirements.
The PIT will be responsible for the project's overall financial management system. All procurement,
financial management and disbursement procedures for the Project will be centralized in the PIT and be in
accordance with the relevant Bank guidelines.
The PIT has prepared a complete outline of responsibilities for the various members. The Procurement
Specialist, Finance Manager and Accountant will provide their services to both the FCA and the MCA. The
PIT will closely interact with the General Director of the FCA, the General Director of the MCA and the
FCA Deputy Director for Information Technology. The Montenegrin MOF and the MCA confirmed their
- 61 -



agreement with these implementation arrangements. In addition to this core team, other employees from the
Customs Administrations (notably from the Legal Department) will get involved when required. In
Montenegro, the Secretariat for Development will provide support to the MCA in developing technical
specifications for information technology equipment.
3.2 Staffing of the Accounting / Finance Function
The accountant will handle all financial accounting records, ensure that accounting records are kept up to
date within the accounting software and will be in charge of the petty cash arrangements. The finance
manager will supervise the accountant and will be responsible for the planning, budgeting, auditing and
reporting aspects, reporting to the PIT Manager. The finance manager will also establish permanent
contacts with the beneficiaries, the accounting department of the FCA, auditors and the MOF.
Training for the finance manager and the accountant will be needed, mainly on the World Bank's financial
management and disbursement procedures. It is recommended that specialized training courses are
considered. It is advisable that training is offered in the very early stage of the project (either before and/
or shortly after effectiveness).
3.3 Accounting and Internal Controls
The PIT will maintain the project accounts in accordance with the cash basis of accounting and will
integrate the project accounts within the FCA accounts, reporting to the World Bank and to the
Government.
The PIT will maintain all documentation related to project expenditures and keep financial records in
accordance with sound accounting practices. The PIT will be responsible for keeping the full accounting
records of the Project, in charge of all payments, operating the accounting software, handling the Special
Account (SA) and the Project Account (Govemment contributions), prepare all bidding documents,
reporting both to the Bank and the Government, planning, budgeting, disbursement and auditing.
All the original project documents, contracts, payment orders, bank statements and all other relevant
accounting documents will be kept by the PIT, filed on a timely basis and organized in a manner to ensure
the full audit trail with the accounting software records.
The PIT staff will be responsible for: preparing the bidding documents; receive the offers and evaluate
them in accordance with the Bank's regulations; submit the evaluations to the Bank for no objection; sign
contracts in an acceptable format; supervise the works performed by the contractors; certify (jointly with
the beneficiaries' representatives) the acceptance of the goods, works and services provided in accordance
with the terms of reference, contracts and the relevant technical specifications. The payment documents
will be prepared by the PIT only after the fulfillment of the above steps. No project funds may be passed
over to beneficiaries or any other parties. The PIT is the only entity authorized to make payments to
suppliers.
PIT staff are responsible for developing detailed financial statements, reporting formats and methods,
intemal control procedures, disbursement and flow of funds arrangements, assigned staff responsibilities in
order to ensure a complete segregation of duties.
Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and its sub-components. The accounts also
reflect: the status of payment against each contract; utilization of the Special Account (SA) and
- 62 -



replenishments made by the Bank; utilization of the Government contribution and uses of the funds. The
PIT will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by source,
summary of withdrawals and forecasts, statements of progress achieved to date and the objectives for the
forthcoming quarter and semester. The PIT will submit the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports
(FMRs) to the Bank starting with the period ended September 30, 2002 and quarterly thereafter, no later
than 45 days after the relevant quarter's end.
3.4 Computerized Accounting System
The existing accounting software in use at the FCA was developed about 10 years ago by SDC Ltd., a
Serbian - Canadian software company. The system - "Mozaikus", operates under the AS 400 operating
system, and is relatively limited and slow. The report writer used is under Cobol programming language,
thus with limited report writing capabilities. The system is only available in Serbian language. The export
capacity is very limited, as only text and ASCII files can be used (i.e. not Excel, Word, etc). The existing
system has an unfriendly text (TUI) interface (i.e. not the modem user friendly graphic (GUI) interface of
modem financial management software systems).
A new accounting software system for the TTFSE Project was developed, customized and installed by the
financial management consultant selected by the Borrower (Blue Soft Ltd.) in order to respond to the
Terms of Reference agreed between the Bank and the FCA and to overcome the above mentioned
shortcomings of the existing system. The system was designed to fully respond to the specifics of the
Project. The system features a customized chart of accounts (based on the statutory one), detailed financial
statements, reporting formats and methods, etc. The new system is able to produce reports for expenditures
by project components, sub-components and activities, by categories and procurement methods.
The system can produce a trial balance, balance sheet, a statement of sources and uses of funds, income
and expenditure statement, special and project account statements.
Usual journals and ledgers are also produced by the system, such as separate journals for goods, consulting
and training, and operating costs. The system also features the bank accounts ledger, the accounts
receivable and accounts payable ledgers, the general ledger and a fixed assets register. FCA and MCA will
become responsible for recording in their own registers the fixed assets purchased under the project and
ensure their safe custody.
The consultant, together with the PIT key staff and the Bank's FMS involvement has developed, customized
and installed the draft version of the system. The accountant and the finance manager will be the primary
operators of the software with the PIT Manager responsible for authorizing all payments (in combination
with the MCA Project Manager for MCA contracts). The procurement specialist will have the right to
access the software only on procurement-related aspects. The initial training in the use of the system was
provided to the PIT staff.
The software system is able to produce the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports as requested by the
Bank's Financial Management requirements. The format of the FMRs was agreed with the PIT and the FM
consultant.
3.5 Audit arrangements
The project annual financial statements will be audited each fiscal year in accordance with Bank guidelines,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with Intemational Standards on Auditing
- 63 -



(ISA). Conclusion of a contract with selected auditors, satisfactory to the Bank, is a dated covenant in the
Credit Agreement.
Copies of the audit reports will be submitted to the Bank within six months of the close of the fiscal year
(calendar year). The audit report will cover the Project financial Statements, Special and Project Accounts'
Statements, as well as all the Statement of Expenses (SOEs).
3.6 Planning and Budgeting
The PIT will prepare reports showing detailed budgeted and actual expenditures, uses of funds by source,
summary of withdrawals and forecasts, statemLents of progress achieved and the objectives for the
forthcoming quarter and semester.
Detailed accounts will be kept for each project component and its sub-components. The accounts also
reflect: the status of payment against each contract; utilization of the Special Account (SA) and
replenishments made by the Bank; utilization of the Government contribution and uses of the funds. The
PIT will submit the quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) to the Bank starting with the period in
which disbursements will commence, most likely the quarter ending on September 30, 2002 and quarterly
thereafter, no later than 45 days after the relevant quarter's end.
The budgeting and financial forecasting are an integral part in the process of preparing the FMRs. These
activities will involve the PIT Manager, the finance manager, the accountant and the procurement
specialist.
3.7 Financial and Accounting Procedures Manual
The PIT will adhere to sound internal control procedures and practices, to ensure that the Project funds are
used with economy and efficiency and only for the purposes intended. The PIT will report to the FCA
Director and relevant Ministers and will inforrm in a timely manner about project implementation and
progress.
All PIT staff must become familiar with the Bank's regulations (legal, disbursement, procurement,
fnancial management, etc) applicable to their relevant area. A Financial and Accounting Procedures
Manual was developed by the PIT staff members, documenting all the various types of financial
transactions, approval and authorization steps, the flow of documents within the PIT and between the PIT
and the beneficiaries, the accounting department of the FCA, to the MOF, PIT's staff responsibilities and
measures to ensure a complete segregation of duties, as well as other intemal control procedures. The
manual also documents the day-to-day intemal procedures for each type of activity (such as
correspondence handling, contracting and payment procedures, operation of all bank accounts, petty cash,
authorization mechanism, reporting, budgeting, planning, filling, etc.).
3.8 Conclusion
It is concluded that the financial management arrangements of the Project satisfy the minimum WB
financial management requirements because:
>      The PIT has implemented an acceptable computerized accounting system for the Project;
>      The PIT has developed a detailed financial, accounting and intemal control manual describing the
accounting policies and procedures, intemal controls, delegation of responsibilities and authorities,
transaction flows, reporting, planning and budgeting;
- 64 -



Sk     The PIT has an accounting/finance department, consisting of a finance manager and an accountant
acceptable to the Bank;
>      The PIT will contract independent external auditors, acceptable to the Bank (dated covenant in the
Credit Agreement).
4. Flow of Funds
The Credit Agreement will be signed between the World Bank (IDA) and the Federal Government of
Yugoslavia. The Government will authorize the FCA, through the PIT to handle the credit amounts
through the Special Account (SA). There will be a single SA, without sub-accounts, for the project
implementation, since each expenditure will directly be attributed to a Federal or to a Montenegrin
component.
The PIT established within the FCA will be in fully in charge of operating the SA. The SA is to be opened
at a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank, either in Yugoslavia or abroad, in accordance with the
Bank's requirements.
Government contribution will be received in a separate project sub-account of the main budgetary account
of the FCA and of the MCA respectively, that will just be used specifically for the Government
contribution to the project. Government contributions will be received monthly, directly from the MoF, as
part of the annual budgetary process. These contributions will be reflected as a separate line in the budget
of FCA and MCA.
The PIT will have the full rights to operate both the special and the project accounts. All documentation
pertaining to the project (relating to Credit funds, to the Government contributions and other donors as
applicable) will be kept at the PIT.
As agreed between the FRY, IDA and the US Government, the funds outlined in the Project as being
financed by the US Government would not be managed directly by the PIT, but would be directly managed
by the US Government, using the US Customs Administration and other mechanisms.
5. Financial Monitoring Reports
The PIT will maintain accounts of the Project and will ensure appropriate accounting of the funds
provided. The format of appropriate financial monitoring reports (FMRs) was finalized and agreed with
the Borrower. The PIT will prepare the FMRs on a quarterly basis. The FMRs include:
*      Project Sources and Uses of Funds
*      Uses of Funds by Project Activity
*      Special Account Statement Plus Local Bank Account Statement
*      Physical Progress Reports
*      Procurement Monitoring Reports
6. Financial Risk Analysis
From a financial management perspective, the proposed Project is considered a high-risk project. A
summary of the consolidated risk assessment for the project is as follows:
IRisk                            IRating               Icomments
- 65 -



Inherent Risk
l. Country Financial Management Risk  High               Based on the CFAA work, there is generally low financial
management capacity and accountability in the public sector
2. Project Financial Management Issues  Moderate       -Timely counterpart funding could be an issue.
3. Banking Sector                  High                  High liquidity and credite risks in a weak banking sector.
4. Perceived Corruption            High                  CFAA work notes pervasive corruption at all levels of the
economy
Overall Inherent Risk              High               =
Control Risk
1. Implementing Entity             Substantial         Newly established PIT within FCA
2. Funds Flow                      Moderate              Simple arrangements envisaged
3. Staffing                        Moderate              Staffing completed, training required
4. Accounting Policies and Procedures  Moderate          The manuals documents policies and procedures
5. Internal Audit                  N/A                   No reliance placed on internal audit
6. Extemal Audit                   Moderate              Appointment of auditors will be a dated covenant
7 Reporting and Monitoring         Moderate              Enhanced capacity for the project
8. Information Systems             Moderate              New software system put in place for the Project
Overal Control Risk                Moderate
A description of the main financial management risks of the Project is presented below:
Country generic risks
The first Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) for Yugoslavia is currently being carried
out and will be finalized in early 2002. Until that dlate, the Project team is keeping a close contact with the
financial management specialists working on the CFAA. A summary of the main country generic risks is
given below.
After the long period of embargo the banking system in Yugoslavia is perceived as risky, as about a quarter
of the local banks have liquidity problems or are in the process of liquidation. A few major foreign banks,
such as Societe Generale, Raiffeisen, HVB - Bank Austria, have entered the Yugoslavian banking sector by
establishing their own subsidiaries. It is perceived that by opening the SA at a major foreign bank, in
Yugoslavia or abroad, the banking risk is kept at an acceptable level.
The Yugoslavian currency (denar) is linked to the German mark. The exchange rate established during
2001 (1 DM = 30 +/- 0.5 denars) is still applicable. Following this measure, yearly inflation was cut
drastically from 3 and 4 digit figures (in 2000 and before) to about 30-40% year-on-year in the period 2000
- 2001. In addition, the overall macroeconomic situation in Yugoslavia has improved in the last year,
following the elections and the formation of the new democratic Government. While inflation is decreasing,
the current levels are still high and may built significant pressures on the exchange rate. It is thus perceived
that the macroeconomic risks are still relatively hig8h.
Yugoslavia has a weak public sector financial management, as no reforms have been carried out in the
out-dated public sector of FRY. There is lack of accountability in the Federal Government's overall
accounting and reporting functions. There is currently no SAI in FRY and no independent external audit is
carried out on the Federal Government accounts. The internal audit function in the Western sense is
practically non-existent. All these aspects lead to a high risk in respect of the public sector fnancial
- 66 -



management.
As this is one of the first Bank Projects in Yugoslavia, after the embargo period, significant protection
measures must be taken to protect the Project's assets against fraud, waste and abuse. The risk that the
Bank's funds will not be used as intended for financing the defined investment program is judged as
acceptable by introducing several measures, in principal the 'ring-fencing' of the project through the
establishment of the project implementation team, with a comprehensive staff structure and the creation of
the specialized teams within the beneficiaries' entities, segregation of duties within the unit, requiring
beneficiaries' representatives to certify the goods delivered and services rendered before payments are made
to the suppliers, proper supervision from the World Bank's team and an independent yearly audit of project
funds by a reputable audit firm, acceptable to the Bank.
Project specific risks
One risk is the PIT assuming the authority and responsibility for every aspect of the project, thereby
exposing it to possible risks of collusion and corruption. To address this risk: (i) all payment orders will be
signed jointly by the PIT Manager and finance manager and a high official (such as the Director of the
FCA/MCA respectively) and (ii) the beneficiaries' representatives will certify the acceptance of the works
done, goods delivered and services rendered before the payments are made by the PIT. In addition, these
representatives will be involved in the development of the technical specifications. Moreover, the complete
segregation of duties amongst PIT staff members will have to be achieved, i.e. the functions of
implementing and overseeing will not reside with the same PIT staff member. In addition, the project
financial statements, will be audited by an extemal auditor, acceptable to the Bank.
The second risk is that the project is exposed to delays in payments to suppliers: (i) due to the signatures
required on both Bank Credit funds and Government contribution and (ii) inadequate counterpart funds in
the Govemment project account. The PIT will have full rights to operate the above accounts and since it is
located within the FCA, all the signatures required will be obtained in a timely manner.
The amounts to be used as Government contribution to the project for the year 2002 will have to be
included in the 2002 FCA budget. The amounts for the year 2002 (first year of the Project implementation)
will be limited, as the project will most likely become effective on or about June 30, 2002. The borrower
stated that the amounts for 2002 will not constitute a issue, as sufficient amounts are already included in
the draft budget of the FCA and the 2002 Govemment contributions to the project are relatively limited in
size. Then, the Government annual contributions for 2003 and thereafter will be requested and allocated in
advance, as a separate budgetary line, within the FCA budget, by the time when the yearly state budget is
prepared and submitted. The risk of 'lower than requested' Govemment contribution still remains
significant, as it is understood that this is an annual occurrence.
The third risk relates to the fact that the PIT was just recently established and the TTFSE Project is among
the first WB Projects after many years of embargo, so the experience with the World Bank procedures is
very limited. By having selected as key PIT staff qualified individuals, with experience in project
management and financing, customs procedures, budgetary statutory requirements, trade and commercial
accounting skills, auditing, etc., it is perceived that this risk can be kept at a relative moderate level.
This risk can be further reduced to a lower level by training the PIT staff to become fully familiar with the
Bank's procedures. To this end it is recommended that the relevant financial management, procurement and
disbursement training is provided.
- 67 -



Overall, the above mentioned risks are considered as manageable due to the various risk mitigations
measures proposed.
7. Costs andfinancialperformance
The project's financing plan, which includes the IDA Credit, and the project's planned expenditures, have
been realistically estimated. In order to facilitate lhe implementation, the project's cost tables include an
appropriate cost matrix, which adequately shows the relationship between the credit agreement categories
and project components.
8. Auditing Arrangements
For Bank reporting purposes, the annual financial statements of the project will be prepared in accordance
with cash accounting, which is a basis of accounting other than International Accounting Standards (IAS)
and audited by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with the International
Standards on Auditing (ISA) and the Bank guidelines on auditing and financial reporting such as the World
Bank Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook and the World Bank Project Financial
Management Manual. The cost of the audits are to be financed from the Credit.
The PIT has already started the procurement activities related to the selection of independent auditors in
accordance with the World Bank guidelines. A Request for Proposals is currently being prepared by the
PIT and will be sent to the World Bank for no objection in accordance with the Financial management
action plan (attached).
As part of the CFAA work on Yugoslavia, an assessment of the 'big-five' audit firms present in
Yugoslavia is being performed, to assess whether ithese firms can respond to the auditing requirements of
the WB. Subject to the results of this assessment, the auditors shortlist will be finalized and the RFP will be
sent to the audit firms short listed.
Appointment of independent auditors acceptable to the World Bank is a dated covenant (by September
30th, 2002) specified in the Credit Agreement.
9. Disbursements
Disbursements from the IDA Credit will be made based on traditional disbursement methods (i.e., from the
Special Account with reimbursements made based on Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) and full
documentation, and direct payments from the Credit Account).
Disbursements would be made upon receipt by IDA of fully documented applications, except for contracts
valued at less US$100,000 for consulting firms, US$50,000 for individual consultants, goods under
contracts costing less than US$100,000 each and for incremental operating costs, which would be made
against certified statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained
by the Borrower and made available to IDA during supervision.
The minimum size of application for direct withdrawals and issuance of commitments from the IDA Credit
account would be 20 percent of the amount of the Authorized Allocation to the Special Account.
To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account in one of the major
foreign commercial banks, either in Yugoslavia or abroad on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
- 68 -



-based on the ongoing Country Financial Accountability Assessment- to cover the share of expenditures by
IDA.
The Authorized Allocation for this special account would be US$0.3 million, representing about four
months of average expenditures made through the Special Account. During the early stage of the project,
the initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US$150,000. However, when the
disbursements under the Credit have reached the level of SDRO.5 million, the initial allocation may be
increased up to the Authorized Allocation of US$0.3 million by submitting the relevant Application for
withdrawal.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of
the amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment
would follow standard Bank procedures as described in Disbursement Handbook, Chapter 6. Monthly bank
statements of the Special Account, which have been reconciled by the Borrower, would accompany all
replenishment requests.
10. Special Account
A Special Account will be opened at a commercial bank, either abroad or within Yugoslavia, acceptable to
the WB. As the CFAA for Yugoslavia is under preparation, the selection of such a Bank will have to
adhere to the recommendations that will be included in the final CFAA. The result may lead to the SA
being opened at a reputable major foreign bank, either among the few ones already present in Yugoslavia or
at a commercial bank abroad.
11. Financial Management Action Plan
Action                                              Responsibility   Due date
Establishment of financial management system
* Prepare a TOR acceptable to the Bank for the project's  PIT / Bank  Completed
accounting and reporting software system
* Select accounting software system                   PIT / Bank    Completed
* Actual start of activity on the development and  PIT / Bank / FM  Completed
customization of the accounting software system       consultant
. Installation and testing of the customized accounting  PIT/ FM    Completed
software system and provision of initial training     consultant
* Final draft accounting manual documenting the project's  PIT      Completed
accounting and internal controls procedures
* Final accounting manual documenting the project's      PIT        Completed
accounting and internal controls procedures
* Completion of training to PIT staff               FM consultant   Completed
Financial Manager and Accountant
* Appointment and actual start of activity               PIT        Completed
Audit arrangements
* Send audit Request for Proposals (RFP) and shortlist of  PIT       4/4/2002
auditors for no-objection to the Bank
* Confirm no-objection to audit RFP and shortlist       Bank        4/14/2002
* Send RFP to shortlisted auditors                       PIT        4/15/2002
- 69 -



* Submission and opening of the offers                  PIT        5/15/2002
* Final evaluation and recommendation for selection sent to  PIT   5/25/2002
the Bank for no objection
* Confirm no objection to the evaluation and selecticin  Bank      6/10/2002
* Final draft contract agreed with the auditors sent to the  PIT   6/20/2002
Bank for no objection
* Confirm no objection to the contract                  Bank       6/25/2002
* Conclude contract with selected auditors              PIT         6/30/2002
12. Impact ofprocurement arrangements
The PIT is staffed with a procurement specialist that will be in charge with the procurement aspects of the
Project on behalf of both FCA and MCA, and will draw upon the existing expertise of FCA and MCA
specialists in their area of competence.
The intemal control manual also details the procurement procedures in a separate section of the manual and
establishes the links between procurement and financial management / disbursements procedures.
13. Credit Agreement covenants
The following are the covenants relating to financial management matters:
*      The Government will complete the agreed financial action plan for strengthening the project
financial management systems by June 30, 2002.
*      Not later than September 30 of each year, the Government will furnish IDA the annual project
implementation work programs for the FCA for the next year, including procurement and financing plans,
and will review these plans with IDA before implementing them.
*      The Government will submit to IDA, commencing upon Credit effectiveness, quarterly Financial
Monitoring Reports, not later that 45 days after the end of each quarter outlining progress made in the
implementation of each project component, as well as the problems encountered and how they are being
addressed.
*      The Government will cause the FCA to have the TTFSE Project financial statements audited each
year, by independent auditors acceptable to the WB, commencing with the accounts for the year ending
December 31, 2002.
*      The engagement of auditors, satisfactory to IDA, by September 30th, 2002.
*      The standard condition of effectiveness (set forth in the General Conditions) will be the approval
and ratification of the Credit Agreement by the appropriate authorities in the FRY and receipt by IDA of
the related legal opinion.
14. Supervision Plan
The development for further strengthening the financial management system will be monitoredof procedures
and staff development before effectiveness, during the first supervision missions and throughout project
implementation.
The reports of the progress of the project implementation will be monitored in detail during supervision
missions. FMRs will be reviewed on a regular basis by the field-based FMS and the results or issues
followed up during the supervision missions. Financial audit reports of the project will be reviewed and
- 70 -



issues identified and followed up. The field based FMS would monitor the agreed action plan to ensure
appropriate actions have been implemented by the FCA.
- 71 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJECT
Project Schedule       -. Planned                                              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       6                            7
First Bank mission (identification)             07/01/2001                    07/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                      12/16/2001                   01/31/2002
Negotiations                                    01/31/2002                    02/06/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/15/2002
Prepared by:
Ministries of Finance, Federal Customs Administration, Montenegrin Customs Administration, and Bank
Team
Preparation assistance:
Marie Laygo, Irina Turea
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Michel Audige                      Program Team Leader
Gerald Ollivier                    Task Team Leader-Transport Specialist
Michel Zarnowiecki                 Senior Customs Specialist
Graham Smith                       Lead Transport Specialist
Irina Luca                         Procurement Accredited Specialist
Craig Neal                         IT Procurement Specialist
Bogdan Constantinescu              Financial Management Specialist
Joseph Paul Formoso                Sr. Disbursement Officer
Gennady Pilch                      Legal Counsel
Kenneth Gwilliam                   Peer Reviewer
James Walsh                        Peer Reviewer (IMF)
- 72 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
*   Project Implementation Manual
*   Montenegro Customs Information System Project: Design, Development and Implementation
*   Performance Indicator Manual
*   Trade Facilitation Component: Role and Responsibilities
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*   Customs Institutional Review (Aide-Memoires)
*   Economic Recovery and Transition Paper (Transport and Trade Facilitation Assessment)
*   Financial Management System Assessment
*   Procurement Capacity Assessment
C. Other
*   Federal Customs Administration Strategy for the Modemization
*   Montenegrin Customs Administration - Customs Service Development Strategy
*   "Gap Analysis for Technical Assistance in Customs and Taxation Services", European Commission
*   TTFSE Programn Website - www.seerecon.org/TTFSE
*   "Building Peace in South East Europe: Macroeconomic Policies and Structural Reforms since the
Kosovo Conflict"
*   "Corruption in Serbia" Center for Liberal-Democratic Studies
*   "The welfare implications of transport improvements in th presence of market failure" by Anthony
Venables and Michael Gariorek.
*   "TTFSE: Provision of Consulting Services in User Survey Design and Implementation", by
PlanConsult.
*Including electronic files
- 73 -



Annex 9: Statemenit of Loans and Credits
YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST EUROPE
PROJECT
03-Jzan-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                disbursements
Project ID     FY    Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA         SF                Cancel.    Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
P074136        2002 EMG ELEC PWR RECN                                     0.00       0.00       6.00                  0.00       5A0        1.80       0.00
P074124        2002 SOC ASST                                              0.00       0.00      10.00                  0.00       0.80      -8.20       0.00
P074127        2001 FIN SEC DEVT TA GRANT                                 0.00       0.00       6.00                  0.00       5.70       1.90       0.00
P074145        2001 PRIV SECT DEVT TA                                     0.00       0.00       6.00                  0.00       5.96       1.66       0.00
Total:        0.00        0.00      28.00                  0.00       17.86      -2.84       0.00
- 74 -



YUGOSLAVIA, FED. REP. OF
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
OCT-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                      Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity    Quasi   Partic
1982/87            Igalo                         2.49    0.00     0.00    0.00    2.49    0.00    0.00    0.00
1985               Jugobanka                     3.92     0.00    0.00    0.84    3.92    0.00    0.00     0.84
1980               Monte Hotels                   2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
1980               Radoje                         1.17    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.17    0.00     0.00    0.00
1980               SMSIE Yugo                     1.08    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.08    0.00     0.00    0.00
1987/89            VB                            20.03    0.00    0.00    5.79   20.03    0.00     0.00    5.79
Total Portfolio:        30.69    0.00    0.00     6.63   30.69    0.00     0.00    6.63
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi     Partic
2002               MFB Yugoslavia                   3.65      0.00      1.00     0.00
2002               MFI MEB Kosovo                   0.00      0.00      1.12     0.00
2002               Raiffeisen I Yug                 0.00      0.00      1.00     0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        3.65      0.00      3.12     0.00
- 75 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE FPROJECT
ELirope &   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                              Yugoslavia.   Central   middle-
Fed. Rep.      Asia   Income      Development diamond
2000
Population. mid-year (millions)                        10.6      475      2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method. US$) 1/                  990      2.010     1.140
GNI (Atlas method. USS billions) Il                    10.5      956      2.327
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population (%)                                          0.2       0.1       1.0
Labor force (96                                         0.5       0.6       1.3     GNI                    ,         Gross
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                               per          .         .       primary
capita         -    .-       enrollment
Povertv (X of population below national poverty line)                               ci                           enrollment
Urban population (9 of total DoDulation)                52        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        72        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                1 3       21        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               2          .        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of Dopulation)     ..        90        80
Illiteracv (X of ooDulation ace t5t)                                3        15
Gross primarv enrollment (9of school-age population)    69        100       114       -     Yugoslavia, Fed. Rep.
Male                                                  69       101       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                70        99       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                              ..       ..      10.3       9.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                                    11.1      14.3
Exports of qoods and services/GDP               ..       .       20.8      28.3                  Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                      ..       ..      -2.4      -2.5
Gross national savinos/GDP                      ..       ..       6.1       9.9
Current account balance/GDP                     .        .       -7.4      -4.4 
Interest payments/GDP                          ..        ..       0.8       0.5     Domestic       -      .
Total debt/GDP                                                            136.1     savings         .             Investment
Total debt service/exports                      ..       ..       4.7       2.2                      .
Present value of debt/GDP                      ..
Present value of debt/exports                  ..        .
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000    2000-03                     Indebtedness
(average annual growth)
GDP                                    ..      ..     -15.7       6.0       4.8             Yugoslvia. Fed. Rep.
GDP per capita                        ..       ..     -15.7       6.0        ..             Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services          ..      ..    -45.6       18.6      14.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GDP (%)
(X of GDP)
Agriculture                                    ..      18.2      26.5        ..     20
Industry                                       ..     42.5       35.8        0.
Manufacturing                                                                     -20     95    ss    9r    98         00
Services                                              39.3       37.7               J0      a
Private consumption                            ..        ..      75.3      77.2     60
General oovernment consumption                 ..        ..      27.1      25.3                   -  GDI          0  GDP
Imports of qoods and services                  ..       ..       34.2      45.1
1980-90  1990-99      1999      2000      Growth of exports and Imports I(%)I
(average annual growth)                                                             Grwho     xot    n  mot %
Agriculture                                    ..      -4.1       1.2        ..     40
Industry                                       ..     -7.1      -25.6        ..     20
Manufacturinq                                 ..       ..        ..                    _1_
Services                                       ..     -6.5      -32.5        0.           o s    96    97    9S    99
Private consumption                            ..       ..      -12.9       9.S    -20     0                                I
General qovernment consumption                 ..       ..       -7.1      -3.0    -40
Gross domestic Investment                      ..       ..      -38.1      17.1                -     Exports     2  Imports
Imports of goods and services                  ..       ..      -32.8      14.9
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv fin bold) compared with its income-qroup average. If data are missinq. the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 76 -



Yugoslavia, Fed. Rep.
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation 1%)
Domestic prices                                                                   5
(% change)
Consumer prices (e.o.p.)                       ,.      ..      49.9     113.5    l
Implicit GDP deflator                         ..       ..      55.6      77.8
Government finance 21
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                               o
Currentrevenue                                ..       ..        ..      38.8           9s     96    97   9s    99     0
Current budget balance                        ..       ..        ..       2.5                 GDP defator 4 S  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..        ..      -0.1
TRADE
1980     1990      1999     2000      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
(USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                           ..       .,     1,677     1,923    5,o00
Food                                                          352.4 352
Fuel and energy                              ..                                 40 0  ..
Manufactures                                 *-       *,      453              3a000
Total imports (fob)                           ..       ..     3,296     3,772    2.000
Food                                         ..       ..      330
Fuel and energy                              ..      ..       396               1.000
Capital goods                                ..       ..      725         ..      0
94  9g    96   97   98   96   00
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..
Import price index (1995=100)                  .                                              Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                     ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                              1980    1990       1999     2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                 ..       ..     2,148    2,547
Imports of goods and services                 ..       ..     3,539    4,004         9    95   9a   97   98
Resource balance                              ..       ..    -1,391    -1,457    -2 -
Net Income                                     ..      ..       -41      -62
Netcurrenttransfers                           ..       ..       668     1,119   -4*
Current account balance                       ..       ..      -764     400      46
Financing Items (net)                         ..       ..       653      607
Changes in not reserves                                         ill.11  -207     4
Memo:
Reserves Including gold (US$ millions)        ..       ..        ..      505
Conversion rate (DEC, local/USS)              ..     11.3      19.6      42.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999     2000
(US$ millions)                                                                    ComposIton of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..       ..        ..    12,267
IBRD                                        ..       ..        ..     1,096                  G: 572  A: 1,096
IDA                                          ..      ..        ..        0                      -          C:151
Total debt service                            ..       ..        ..       56                               N   D: 611
IBRD                                        ..       ..        ..        0
IDA                                         ..       ..        ..        0
Composition of net resource flows                                                  F: 4,118
Official grants                             ..       ..        ..      271
Official creditors                          ..       ..        ..      213
Private creditors                           ..       ..                 16
Foreiqn direct investment                   ..       ..        ..       25                                 E: 5,003
Portfolio equitv                            ..       ..        ..        0
World Bank program
Commitments                                 ..       ..        .,        0      A - IBRD                  E Bilateral
Disbursements                               ..       ..        ..        0      B - IDA  D - Other multlateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        ..       ..        ..        0      C -IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                     ..      ..        ..        0
Interest payments                           ..       ..        ..        0
Net transfers                               ..       ..        ..        0
Development Economics                                                                                             9/17/01
- 77 -



Additional Annex 11:: FCA Customs Strategy
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: TRADE AND T-RANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE IPROJECT
CUSTOMS SERVICE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
(approved by the Cabinet of Ministers on November 30, 2001 (493-42/2001))
CURRENT STATE OF CUSTOMS SERVICE
Customs services in Federal Republic of Yugoslavia became less efficient, less competent and less
professional in the past ten years. Late in the eighties it used to be one of the most appreciated in Europe,
today it is hardly an average one with all defects typical for Customs in this part of the world. It happened
for a number of reasons, but the most important are:
- Law regulations used by Customs authorities (foreign trade, Customs and tax regulation) are not
appropriate for the time we live in because of a ten-year break in relation with the rest of the world, and
inherited red-tape regulations of SFRY where the Customs service had above all fiscal matter
responsibilities.
- For the last ten years, the legal system has been totally devastated, partly due to absence of competence,
partly because of a criminalized society.
- Bureaucratic organisation of the Customs service is obsolete and it has not been changed for the past
sixty years, bringing complete ineffectiveness. The selection of staff was unprofessional, and mainly
guided by political reasons.
- The Customs service was budgetary financed or partly self-financed (for the last six years), breaking the
law constantly. There were neither well-defined cost estimate of CCustoms activities, nor clear-cut
indicators of their efficiency.
- The Customs service equipment is inadequate, and the very bad financial situation affects staff that are
hardly motivated, there is little progress in technology or in modernization of the computer center and
anti-smuggling campaign services. The work of all expert services thus became more difficult, let alone
advanced training.
This situation has led to lack of uniformity of technical equipment at Customs posts, because
even equipment was a political matter not dependant on real necessities.
- Corruption as an everyday phenomenon is one of the biggest problems in Customs activities. This
phenomenon has spread to the whole society and Customs are part of it.
- 78 -



NEW STRATEGY OF CUSTOMS SERVICE DEVELOPMENT
To eliminate the above negative effects, to accomplish indispensable progress, and draw closer to EU
countries as well as other developed countries, it is necessary to define clearly the role of the Customs
service and to apply the knowledge that comes from international experience corresponding with our
economic and legal system. To define clearly the role of the Customs service and to enable it to function
properly, it is necessary to achieve the main following goals:
- to provide for traffic flowing smoothly at border crossings as well as a reduction in non-clearance
charges;
- to fight smuggling and corruption and to authorize the Customs service to exercise control over all the
Customs territory;
- to collect import duty in an efficient and timely manner;
- to cooperate with other government agencies;
Proceeding from intemational experiences and govemment needs, the above goals should be reached as
follows:
1.     Development of a New Customs System
A new Customs system must operate in coordination with economic and govemrnment needs. A whole set of
legal decisions will provide for smoothflow of traffic at border crossings and make less complicated the
Customs clearance outside custom posts. A new Customs system addresses non clearance-charges as well
(forwarding charges, wasted time of transporters who are waiting for customs formalities or government
regulations, unloading and reloading etc.) In particular, Customs procedures which will be aligned to the
World Customs Organization's Kyoto Convention, will provide for (i) clearance of goods with limited and
risk-based upfront physical examinations, supported by (ii) greater reliance than at present on post release
audits and verifications.
Direct Computer Link between Participants in Customs Procedure and Customs Authorities
To reach such an objective some essential changes have to be made in Customs procedures. The first is to
oblige forwarding agents or importers to feed data necessary for the Customs procedure into computer
without regard to location. In this way we would save time compared to current practice i.e., the Customs
declaration already filled by the forwarding agent is re-registered in the Customs computer system at the
Customs post. Besides unnecessary data copying, the Customs procedure is also prolonged.
2.     Preliminary Declaration
The preliminary declaration will be adopted for the first time as well as the elimination of Customs
supervisory documents. which would reduce the number of steps in Customs procedures, and speed up the
tumover of goods. Using modem means of communication (fax, Intemet etc.) the importers are in
possession of commercial and transport documents before the arrival of goods and means of transport.
Submitting the preliminary declaration by e-mail will enable Customs and state authorities at border
crossings to make necessary preparations for Customs proceedings. At the arrival of vehicles the whole
procedure would be completed in no time, while respecting all current regulations.
For all that, a declaration on paper still remains but it will be printed at a border crossing along with
- 79 -



commercial and transport docurnents.
3.     Cooperation and Coordination of State Authorities at Border Crossings
In order to make more efficient the work of state authorities on border crossings there is a need for
coordination among these authorities (border control, inspection authorities and Customs service). The
Customs service is supposed to provide initial information on goods and transport (using its own IT
system). The inspection authorities will use these data for their control functions.
Considering that Customs authorities at border crossings are those who start the procedure (doing what is
necessary for the import of goods and border crossing) the Customs service should co-ordinate the work of
inspection services as described, not interfering in their field of activity or regulations use.
4.     Providing and Distribution of Data by Single Electronic Window System
To achieve this goal and to speed up the Customs procedure at border crossings a particular system for
data providing and its distribution among state authorities called Single Electronic Window will be
adopted.
This way of data providing presumes developed information technology and an advanced computer system.
When a forwarding agent or importer enters the infornation on goods in his/her computer, these data will
be distributed by electronic post through computer net within the Customs service information system to all
relevant authorities at border crossings so that they will be able to prepare everything for the clearing
process for goods that would arrive. And vice versa: there will be a sort of feedback mechanism starting
from inspection services to Customs authorities who will go on with the procedure and other state
authorities who will deal with imported goods control, Customs investigation and proper functioning of
Republic Revenue Service (regular sales tax collection).
5.     Standardization of Documents and Data in Customs Procedure
Customs documents and data will be standardized in accordance with UNCTAD, UNTDED, and WCO,
standards, while particular standards are to be adopted for particular national instruments. In some cases
of Customs procedure, commercial documents already standardized according to intemational experiences
of developed countries, will be used.
6.     Targeting and Selectivity
We are preparing two new operations: targeting and selectivity applied already in EU countries and some
countries in our neighborhood. Targeting is a Customs control measure consisting in choosing certain
vehicles if there is a founded suspicion based on certain information and adopted criteria that the good
being transported need to be particularly examined (drugs, weapons etc.) Selectivity represents the choice
of goods and vehicles that will become subject to detailed Customs examination, either at border crossings,
clearance facilities, or outside Custom posts, in accordance with economic, security, medical, fiscal and
other standards to be adopted and stored in a computer in order to eliminate Customs officers' subjective
judgment in Customs procedure.
It means that a Customs officer will get information from computer regarding a vehicle or consignment to
examine in particular. The vehicles not particularly examined would be directed inside the country or
released from Customs inspection applying other legal steps within the competence of Customs services.
-80 -



7.     Electronic Control of Bonded Warehouses and Other Area(s) under Customs Custody
There is a completely different control of bonded warehouses to be adopted, the computerized and physical
one. Customs officers will provide physical security to bonded warehouses while on the other hand an
"'electronic control" will be adopted which means that the Customs service will have very accurate official
figures by Customs declaration about quality, type, tariff schedule and value of non-cleared goods. In this
way very accurate information on goods and their location necessary for the Federal Government and
Federal Ministries' competence in an area will be provided.
In this way the goods can be transferred from one bonded warehouse to another under the efficient control
of the Customs service.
It is also possible to release goods from Customs control only in part being paid for and not the whole
quantity cleared according to the declaration.
8.     Efficient Collection of Import Duty
There are new instruments being prepared in order to ensure efficient collection of duties and other taxes in
due time.
An "electronic reservation" would be done in the first stage through the Accounting and Payment Agency
(ZOP) and in the second stage through commercial banks which are obliged to fulfill all requests made by
the National Bank of Yugoslavia and it represents the amount of duties that an importer or forwarding
agent has to pay for cleared goods according to the actual declaration. The Customs service is the one who
makes electronic reservation of certain amount to be paid in time. If payment is in arrears, the owing
amount will be automatically removed from the bank account on the basis of payments arrangements made
with the bank.
9.     Rule Infringements Prevention
Using the best experiences of Customs service in EU as well as suggestions by certain international
institutions considering a new organization of the Customs service and in order to protect the local market
and to be efficient in collection of payments and proper application of relevant regulations, there is a plan
for completely different role of Customs service in prevention of rule infringements and handling customs
investigations.
In order to prevent rule infringements and to ensure its application in a consistent manner the special
customs service will make goods and vehicles control as a preventive measure, during the Customs
procedure and later. To achieve this goal it is necessary to authorize the Customs service to control goods
and vehicles and to implement certain procedures in Customs border-area as it does at border crossings, on
main roads or in enterprises; such a procedure includes control of commercial, financial and legal
documentation before the procedure is concluded, search of person or premises because of suspected black
marketeering and other illegal activities (founded on court decisions and filed criminal charges).
All these activities will be realized with maximum respect of human and civil rights of United Nations
Charter and other intemational instruments so there will be no violation of civil rights or legal entity rights.
- 81 -



Because of the above-mentioned needs, it is indispensable to organize services for smuggling prevention
and Customs investigations at border crossings along with reduction of personnel now dealing with
Customs control and other activities within the Customs procedure. They should be organized as mobile
teams within the country with the aim to control goods and vehicles after the Customs procedure at border
crossings as well as highly qualified teams aimed at Customs investigation in enterprises and stores. This
also implies a modem procedure for dealing swiftly and fairly with minor Customs violations, based on a
well managed and controlled transactional arrangement scheme.
10.    State Authority Cooperation with Authorilies in Charge for Collection and Control of
Budgetary Revenue Collection.
An extremely important segment of the new strategy of the Customs service is the different type of
cooperation with the Republic Agency for Public Revenue in the first place, and with other state authorities
authorized for local market protection and budgetary revenue collection. This cooperation implies exchange
of information obtained in check, and coordination of targets and methods of control. In this way the
Republic Agency for Public Revenue will obtain infommation on imported goods, on their value established
after clearance necessary to avoid non payment of the value-added tax. The Customs service will obtain
information from this agency on market prices of imported goods in order to control the previously declared
duty base.
11.    Transit Passage of Goods
Bearing in mind the fact that FR Yugoslavia is a transit country and that considerable revenue for the
country is expected from it, the transit passage of goods, as a very important aspect of the Customs
procedure, will be the subject of special regulations and implementations in the manner stipulated by EU
countries. Thereby, the transit passage of goods will be implemented on the basis of the TIR carnet and on
the basis of T documents, in case that corresponding intemational treaties or conventions with the said
countries and other interested countries are signed. T'his implies standardization of documents and data in
the manner stipulated by legislation of EU countries, strict implementation of the already signed treaty with
IRU on electronic data exchange and strong support by the Customs information system.
12.   Developing a New Information System and New Information Technologies
The analysis of procedures and processes conducted by Customs authorities can be classified into four
types of activities to be supported by a new information system of the Customs service:
* stages of Customs procedure and Customs system ( customs control before clearance, clearance,
collection of customs duties, regulations, information processing for other services within the scope of
Customs etc.)
* informing legal and physical persons (advising, giving information of interest for their business activities
etc.)
* cooperation and provision of data and information needed for work of other Federal and Republic
authorities (Ministries, Inspection authorities, Federal and Republic Institutes for Statistics, Central Bank
of Yugoslavia, Ministry of Internal Affairs etc.)
* cooperation and information exchange with intemational organizations (European Union, World
Customs Organization, IRU, Customs Administrations of Europe and the World).
On the basis of three-decades experience in the domain of Customs procedure automation, a need for
-82 -



complete updating of the information system of the Customs service was observed, for the purpose of
meeting the state and economic needs of the country, since an accelerated economic growth is expected,
which enables the increase of the volume of import and export, as well as carrying out of Customs
procedures.
For the purpose of approaching the latest technological achievements in this field, a multi-layered
architecture for building the new information system will be prepared. It means that all functions will be
available through Intemet and Intranet, both to intemal and extemal users, respecting all parameters from
the environment that have an impact on the final look of the information system of the customs service
(ISCS), such as telecom infrastructure and other.
The basic criteria to be met by the future ISCSs are the following:
1.     IS functions must be built in a form of a service
2.     Flexibility of data processing
3.     Flexibility of program packages
4.     Flexibility of software architecture
5.     Multilingual support
6.     Open standards support
7.     "Smart" tariff
8.     Standardized e-documents and definition (description)
9.     Flexibility of installation, use and maintenance
10.    Flexibility of selectivity algorithms
On the occasion of building a new system, a browser will be included as a tool and assistance to a faster
procedure, and all services in the framework of ISCS will be designed in web environment (application for
clearance, advice of arrival of goods, storage of goods, Customs tariff, data on value, regulations,
collecting revenue etc.)
Database that will be used in ISCS is the model proposed by the group G-7, which was adopted, with
minor modifications, by the World Customs organization (WCO) and all of its members, among which the
European Union.
Although world trends were working in favor of decentralization of computer systems, the appearance of
Intemet has made its re-centralization a topical issue, so bearing in mind the said trends, the programs have
to be designed in the manner to be able to work in the conditions ranging from completely decentralized to a
fully centralized system.
Applications that will be made in the scope of ISCS must be adaptable to the data they are processing, and
start from the clearly defined structure of Customs service, so that each Customs officer can have clearly
defined work activities that he should perform within the framework of his job. In accordance with it, those
activities will be subject to different applications of special purpose.
Apart from two alphabets, in the scope of the new ISCS different languages will be at the users' disposal,
which will facilitate the inclusion into world economy both of the Customs service and corporate subjects.
In accordance with the aforesaid, the new ISCS and new information technologies will contain the
following wholes:
- 83 -



e Inspection
e Declarations processing (import, export, procedures in different kinds of traffic, regulations etc.)
. Customs clearance
e Warehousing
* Data necessary for fighting smuggling and for Customs investigation
* Passenger traffic
* Statistic reports
o Collection of revenues
 Management of information systems
* Administrative procedure
Being aware of the need and importance of exchange of information between Customs organizational units
and Customs service, as well as other state bodies, one comes to the inevitable conclusion that costs of
maintenance and administration of such a system should be decreased. By designing the system in the
above manner, the period of duration of necessary operations is decreased and the transparency of the
whole procedure increased. In this way, the direct contact of Customs officers is reduced, as well as their
influence on the course of the whole procedure, thus drastically increasing the control, both of state officers
and users, during the whole procedure, and eventually gaining the control of all procedures defined by the
Law.
Regarding coordination of communications, in order to enable linkage of information system, the starting
point will be the solution based on open standards, which increases the possibility of the future growth and
extension of the system, decreasing the dependency on enterprises that had offered deigning services, whose
solutions were applied.
The communication infrastructure will be based on the existing network of the Public Post, Telephone and
Telegraph of Serbia, which will be optimally used.
13.    Customs Service Rules
For the purpose of more effective fighting of corruption in the Customs service, which has resulted from
the happenings in the past ten years, and bearing in mind similar institutes in Customs administrations in
other countries, the neighbouring countries in the first place, designing and passing of the Ethic Codex of
the Customs Service - the Customs service rules - is being prepared. This will contain the provisions that
will stipulate the manner of wearing Customs uniforms; the manner of carrying and using weapons, for
those Customs officers who carry them; the marnner of communication with other participants in the
Customs procedure; the obligation of professional and efficient performance of one's duty; measures of
remunerations and promotions for success achieved at work, regardless of educational qualification;
disciplinary and penal measures for executing duty in unprofessional and irresponsible manner, dismissal in
case of corruption, theft, abuse of authority and unauthorized use of weapons. This Codex will also
regulate the transfers of Customs officers, not only for the needs of service, but also as an award or
punishment.
The objective of this Codex, that will be designed on the model of the Service Rules of the Yugoslav Army
(that is why it will be titled "Customs Service Rules") is not only to prevent corruption, but also to
contribute to building the moral profile of a Customs officer, to influence his professional attitude towards
his work and his colleagues, shipping agents, importers and other participants in the Customs procedure,
and to implement as much as possible the principle of equity, meaning that professional and efficient work
-B4 -



will be followed by award, and irresponsible one by punishment.
Without going deep into the Law on Employment of the Republic of Serbia, Law on Customs Service and
other legal regulations from this domain, these Service Rules, that should be prescribed by the Director of
the Federal Customs Administration, are supposed to round up this matter and to raise this part the
Yugoslav Customs Service to the level of Customs administrations in developed countries.
14.    Organization of Customs Service
The present manner of organizing the Customs service has not changed since the end of World War II,
except that some organizational units were added, such as customhouses, Customs posts, sectors or
departments in the Federal Customs Administration.
Organizational structures of Customs administrations in the EU countries and in other developed countries
have recently changed to a great extent, for the sake of their rationalization and improvement of work
efficiency.
In order to achieve the new work strategy, the Yugoslav Customs service has to be organized in a different
way, as well, including the precursory rationalization. i.e. reduction of number of employees.
The following criteria set by the International Monetary Fund, European Union Commission and other
subjects relevant for determining the number of Customs officers in the Customs service are here specially
kept in mind:
* Annual number of declarations per Customs officer,
* Annual amount of Customs duties collected per officer
* Annual expenses per Customs officer
Different models of possible organization of the Federal Customs Administration were prepared, bearing in
mind the importance of this matter, particularly new functions, such as introduction of selectivity,
procedure of Customs authorities before courts and other competent bodies, giving different authority to
services for fighting smuggling, new information technologies and functions of the new ISCS. These
models will be forwarded to a certain number of Customs organizations for making suggestions and
remarks, after which criteria will be set for the purpose of passing corresponding Acts by the Director of
the Federal Customs Administration.
15.    Professional Training of Customs Officers
The expertise of Customs officers has been substantially reduced in the past ten years, and training of
Customs officers during the last six years have been reduced to a mere formality. In such circumstances
more and more mistakes are being made in the Customs procedure, both of formal and material nature,
affecting the participants in the Customs procedure, i.e. exercising their rights, as well as the correct
implementation of provisions and accurate and timely collection of duties.
After having studied the world experiences in this field, the conclusion was made that the training of
Customs officers has to be updated in compliance with updating of the Customs system and their working
environment, thus in the future the basic and specialist trainings will exist within the service itself. All the
newly employed workers that will deal with Customs activities will have to pass the basic training, in the
scope of which are envisaged, apart from the classical Customs subjects, studying of a foreign language
- 85 -



and computer training related to the platform in use, with the knowledge of elements of information
technologies.
After completion of the basic training and practical work in custom-houses, Customs officers would be sent
to a special training, necessary for carrying out their activities, such as those of Customs inspectors,
fighting smuggling, doing revisions etc.
Customs officers would also attend special courses for revealing and fighting narcotics smuggling,
revealing explosives, work with certain software products etc.
Regardless of their positions, all Customs officers will be regularly and periodically subject to knowledge
tests and capability tests for work on certain positions, which will have an impact on their assignment and
advancement in the service.
16.     Support of International Organizations to the New Strategy of Development of Customs
Service
Representatives of international organizations, first of all experts of the World Bank, in the scope of
implementation of TTFSE Project, have been acquainted with the concept of Customs service updating.
During several visits of the World Bank experts between June - November 2001, all aspects of updating
were considered, as well as its components; with their help and suggestions were carried out regulation
drafts, new working technologies, designing of new information technologies and new computing system;
new functions of Customs service were considered and world standards accepted, and the positive side of
experience was studied.
After preparations have been carried out, as well as the necessary activities, all aspects of the new Customs
system and procedure in the scope of the new strategy will be realized and implemented by means of the
credit granted by the World Bank.
-86 -



Additional Annex 12: MCA Modernization Strategy
FED. REP. OF YUGOSLAVIA: TRADE AND TRANSPORT FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJECT
THE REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
MONTENEGRO CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION
V/1-D-NUMBER461/1
Podgorica, January 17, 2002
CUSTOMS SERVICE DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
By the Decree on the Amendment to the Decree on the Organization and Manner of Work of State
Administration ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Montenegro", 31/99), administrative matters in the
field of customs system have been conferred on the Montenegro Customs Administration.
In accordance with the policy of the Customs Service of the Republic of Montenegro in terms of coming
closer to EU countries as well as other developed countries, it is necessary to define clearly the role of the
Customs Service applying the knowledge acquired from international practice.
Having in mind that strategic objectives of the Republic of Montenegro are development of tourism and of
tourist economy, it is necessary to achieve fast implementation of new customs legal concepts of targeting
and selectivity, as well as introduction of integrated customs information system, for the purpose of
facilitating and speeding up the traffic at the border crossings.
1.     Building New Customs System
The Republic of Montenegro is in the phase of adjusting its legal framework to new needs and standards
relating to customs, foreign trade and tax systems. The Parliament of the Republic of Montenegro has
passed the Law on Value Added Tax that comes into effect on July 1, 2002, and the Government of the
Republic of Montenegro has verified the Draft Customs Code and submitted it to the Parliament of the
Republic of Montenegro to be passed and come into effect on the same day as Law on VAT. By the new
Customs Code, legal concepts and procedures in compliance with regulations of the European Union shall
be introduced.
Montenegro Customs Administration has, in cooperation with foreign experts, drafted the Customs Code
and Customs Service Act (Customs Administration Act). Both Laws were adopted by the Parliament of the
Republic of Montenegro at its session on January 29 this year, whereby the Customs Service Act is
expected to be applied in February, and the application of Customs Code has been envisaged to start on
July 1, 2002.
Model for drafting the Customs Code is the EU Customs Code, which means that the new Customs Code
of the Republic of Montenegro comprises modem customs legal concepts and customs procedures that
comply with the standards of the World Customs Organization and the World Trade Organization (WCO
and WTO).
- 87 -



Customs procedures that are in compliance with the standards of the World Customs Organization and
Kyoto Convention provide for the clearance of goods with limited and risk analysis-based physical
examinations, relying more on the customs inspection and verification after the goods have been released
than it has been the case so far. In order that the Customs Service can play its role in stimulating legal trade
and imnproving the collection of revenues based on higher compliance with regulations, it is necessary to
prevent illegal trade flows and improve cooperation among state authorities.
The new Customs Code regulates the customs territory of the Republic of Montenegro, customs/border
crossings, powers of customs officers in customs procedures and other issues of importance for conduct of
clearance procedure, customs supervision and sanctioning of customs violations, as well as the rights and
liabilities of persons and powers of customs authorities relating to goods and persons crossing the customs
line. This Code is in compliance with international regulations, whereby it qualifies as a general legal
document governing this field, which implies regulating this subject matter in more detail through the
Implementing Provisions as this is an EU trend.
The Customs Service Act (Customs Administration Act) has been drafted on the premise that the Customs
Service is an authority with powers precisely defined. By this Law, the Customs Service becomes
competent and authorized for imported, exported and goods in transit on the whole territory of the
Republic, whereby it performs its fiscal, protective and securing function in the manner that this has been
resolved in modem European countries. This Law also provides for the special training of customs
employees, the obligation of taking professionad exam, professional improvement imposed by new
standards, as well as the possibility of subsequent testing of the knowledge acquired.
In order that the Customs Service could achieve progress and come closer to customs services of EU and
other developed countries, it is necessary to clearly define its role for the purpose of performing basic
functions of each customs service: collection of revenues and fight against smuggling and corruption.
Therefore, objectives of development of the Customs Service of Montenegro are as follows:
- facilitating and speeding up the traffic at border crossings and decreasing non-customs expenses;
- fight against smuggling and corruption exercising powers of control over the whole customs territory;
- risk analysis, selectivity and targeting;
- timely and efficient collection of import duties;
- cooperation with other state authorities;
- cooperation with customs services of other countries.
According to international practice, as well as the needs of the Republic of Montenegro, these objectives
should be achieved in the following manner:
a)     Facilitation and speeding up of the traffic at border crossings implies provision of conditions for
speeding up the clearance procedure and release of goods after they have been cleared. This implies
selective examination of consignments (at the present time, the percentage of examined consignments is
100%), that is, the ability of Montenegro Customs Administration (MCA) to, based on successful
assessment (targeting), choose a customs declaration requiring further check and physical examination
(selectivity). The above metioned shall become feasible through:
- computer support by building integrated information system;
- defining customs procedures in terms of intensifying control after border crossings have been passed
through, as well as strengthening control over procedures of valuation of goods;
- 88 -



- preparation of data on customs violations based on intelligence and processing of information collected;
- forming a specialized organizational unit in charge of selectivity;
- bringing customs documentation and data in line with standards;
- establishing computer connections with other participants in customs procedure.
b)     Having in mind the unique position of the Republic of Montenegro in terms of trade and transport,
and for the purpose of preventing violation of regulations and fighting against smuggling and corruption
(organized crime, illegal immigration), Customs Service shall carry out control of goods and means of
transport during the customs procedure, with the view of prevention, as well as subsequently.
In that sense, units for fighting against smuggling and for conducting customs investigations will be
organized at border crossings, whereas the number of employees now performing operations of customs
supervision will be decreased. Those units will work inland, as mobile teams, on the control of goods and
means of transport after the procedure at a border crossing has been completed, and as units specially
trained for conducting customs investigations in enterprises, and so on.
With the view of achieving the above mentioned goals, the new Customs Code provides for adequate
powers of Customs Service as well as for rights, liabilities and coordination of different state authorities at
the border, avoiding the overlapping and doubling of duties. This also implies establishing of department
for prevention and department for prosecution, as well as development of investigation and intelligence
departments within MCA.
For the purpose of highly efficient fighting against corruption within Customs Service, which is the
consequence of the events that have been taking place in the last ten years, and having in mind similar legal
concepts applying to customs administrations of other countries and our neighbouring countries, the
Customs Service Act, apart from the above mentioned, also regulates: the manner of wearing Customs
uniform; the manner of communication with other participants in the customs procedure; the manner of
carrying and using arms; the obligation of professional and efficient carrying out of duties; measures of
rewarding and promotions for achievements in work, disciplinary measures and sanctioning of carrying out
of duties in an unprofessional and irresponsible manner; fning from work in the case of corruption as well
as in the cases of abuse of authorizations and of unauthorized using of arms.
The new Customs Service Act will serve as the basis for establishing adequate organization and
sistematization of jobs on the model of modem customs services of European countries that are similar to
Montenegro in respect of their size.
c)     For the purpose of timely collection of customs duties and other taxes that are collected in the
customs procedure, new legal concepts will be prepared for the purpose of timely and efficient securing of
collection of duties electronically, with a reliable system of bank guarantees.
Based on the adoption of the Law on Value Added Tax that comes into effect on July 1, 2002, Customs
Service will have a significant role in the application of this Law as well as intensive cooperation and
exchange of information with the Department of Public Revenues.
Successful cooperation with the state authorities competent for control of trade on domestic market and
collection of the budget revenues implies exchange of data, agreements on common objectives and methods
of control as well as exchange of information after the control has been carried out. In that manner, DPR
will possess authentic data on imported goods, especially on the value of those goods determined after the
clearance for the purpose of preventing evasion of paying the taxes, VAT and excise. By collecting VAT
on the import of goods, Customs Service shall participate in the application of the Law on Value Added
Tax. On the other hand, MCA will obtain the Register of Taxpayers from DPR.
- 89 -



d)     For the purpose of increasing the efficiency of work of all state authorities at border crossings, it is
necessary to establish coordination of work among the following state authorities: border police, different
inspections (sanitary, veterinary...) and the Customs Service, avoiding the overlapping and doubling of
duties. Since it is the Customs Service that practically starts customs procedures at border crossings, or, in
other words, since the Service is the one that performs operations necessary for import of goods and means
of transport crossing the customs line, it is logical that the Customs Service should coordinate the work of
the authorities present at border crossings, with the clearly defined scope of work of each authority
separately. In that sense, Montenegro Customs Admnmistration will strive for the application of the Geneva
Convention on Border Controls standards and the recommended EU approach of Integrated Border
Management. This implies adjustment of the legislation to the new role of Customs Service, establishing of
respective liabilities and duties of authorities participating in the state border management.
Considering its position in the region and the fact that Montenegro is a transit country, and having in mind
that transit of foreign means of transport is expected to generate considerable amount of revenues to the
country, internal transit procedure, as a significant legal concept related to the customs procedure, shall be
specially regulated and conducted in the manner provided for in the countries of the European Union.
The internal transit procedure shall be carried out o basis of TIR carnet and T documents when the relevant
international treaties or conventions have been signed. This implies standardization of documents and data
in the manner envisaged by the legislation of the E1U countries, strong support of the customs information
system and electronic exchange of data.
Two new legal concepts are envisaged to be introduced: targeting and selectivity, that have already been
applied in the EU countries and in some of our neighbouring countries. Targeting is a measure of customs
control that represents a manner of choosing particular means of transport where there is a reasonable
doubt based on certain information and previously adopted criteria that the goods transported must be
subject to special examiination (drugs, arms, etc.). Selectivity represents choosing goods and means of
transport that shall be subject to detailed customs inspection, either at a border crossing or inland,
according to economic, safety, health, fiscal and other criteria that shall be determined and subsequently
incorporated into the information system. This means that the computer will give the information to the
customs officer relating to the vehicle that needs to be subject to detailed inspection, in which manner the
subjective judgement of the involved customs officer will be avoided. Vehicles that should not be placed
under special examination shall be permitted to go straight inland or shall be released from customs
supervision with subsequent application of other legal measures deriving from the comptence of the
Customs Service.
In the manner described above, commercial consignments shall be cleared and released for circulation
promptly, both at the border and inland. MCA will, for that purpose, introduce target groups (individuals
and means crossing the border) and selectivity.
As on clearance of commercial consignments, data on passengers must be processed quickly, whereas
prospective suspects or vehicles should be identifie(d and extracted from the routine work for the purpose of
further investigation. MCA shall also seek for the implementation of standards prepared on basis of the
Geneva Convention on Border Crossings and EU has recommended the approach of integrated border
management system. The Customs must be capable of intercepting the transport of goods that evaded
control at the border, by using mobile customs squads in the interior. Customs Service must provide that
prohibited goods or those subject to customs duties may not enter the country at some points on the border
other than those designated for that purpose, which imposes the need for border squads.
90 -



2.     New Customs Information System
New customs information system must support the legal and legislative framework in accordance with the
needs of the republic of Montenegro.
Procedures and processes carried out by the customs authorities may be classified in four groups of
operations that will be supported by the new customs information system:
- all phases of the customs procedure and customs system (customs control before clearance, clearance,
collection of customs duties, legal framework, processing of data for other departments operating within the
Customs, etc.);
- issuing infornation to legal and natural persons (notifying, giving information of importance for their
business operations, etc.);
- cooperation and provision of data and information required for work of other state authorities (ministries,
inspections, statistics, the Central Bank of Montenegro, etc.);
- cooperation and exchange of information with international organizations (European Union, World
Customs Organization, IRU, customs administrations in Europe and worldwide).
For the purpose of coming closer to the latest technological achievements in this area, building of the
customs information system will be based on architecture with multiple layers. This means that all the
functions will be available through the Intemet and the Intranet, both to internal and external users, in
accordance with all the surrounding parametres that influence the final design of the customs information
system (CIS), such as the infrastructure of Telecom, etc.
Taking into consideration the trends throughout the world, as well as the geographical position and
infrastructure of Montenegro, the customs information system will carry out centralized data processing.
The application will be able to adjust itself to the data it processes, based on the clearly defined structure of
the Customs Service, so that each customs officer will have clearly defined personal tasks and duties,
which will, it the need arises, be subject to the applications for different purposes.
In accordance with the above mentioned, new CIS and new information technologies shall comprise the
following sections:
- supervision;
- processing of declarations (import, export, procedures depending on different types of traffic, legal
framework, etc.);
- clearance;
- data required for fighting against smuggling and for customs investigations;
- passenger traffic;
- statistical reports;
- collection of revenues;
- information system management;
- administrative procedure.
New customs information system with its new technology will enable direct computer connection with other
- 91 -



participants in the customs procedure (forwarding agents, importers, etc.). In that manner, forwarding
agents and importers will be enabled to enter themselves the data necessary for the customs procedure to be
carried out in their own computers, regardless of the geographical location. Thus, the time needed for that
purpose will be shortened in comparison to the current practice, i.e. customs declaration will be entered by
the forwarding agent and registered within the customs information system without the need for its being
re-entered by the customs officer.
By further development and by establishing computer connection among the participants in the customs
procedure, the previous declaration will be accepted whereas the customs supervisory documents will be
eliminated, in which manner the number of documnents required in the customs procedure will be reduced
and the flow of goods will be quickened. By using contemporary means of communication (fax machine,
the Internet, etc.), importers have at their disposal commercial and transport documents before the arrival
of goods and means of transport. Submitting of the preliminary declaration by e-mail shall enable the
customs and other state authorities at border crossings to do the necessary preparation for conduct of the
customs procedure.
The customs declaration in paper shall continue to exist, but will be printed at the very border crossing,
accompanied by commercial and transport documents.
Customs documents and data shall be brought in line with UNCTAD, UNTDED and WCO standards,
while the standards for the data necessary for specific national instruments shall be specially regulated. For
certain phases of the customs procedure, commercial documents already standardized at the international
level shall be used, as they are used by customs services of developed countries.
In order to support the implementation of this plan, MCA should promote its working standards through:
- training;
- recruitment and staff policy;
- measures for fighting against corruption;
- flexible organization and the possibility of efficient deployment of available resources where the need
arises.
3.     Support of the International Organizationls to the New Customs Service Development
Strategy
The concept of modemization of the Customs Service has been presented to the representatives of
international organizations, primarily to the World Bank experts within the implementation of the TTFSE
Project.
During a couple of visits of the World Bank experts in the period of September-December 2001, all aspects
of modemization were assessed, as well as its components; on basis of their support and suggestions, the
new working technology, i.e. new computer system was under consideration; new functions of the Customs
Service and standards accepted worldwide were deliberated upon; positive experience of foreign countries
was studied.
After the preparations and necessary activities have been carried out, supported by the credit from the
World Bank intended for the modernization of the Customs Service within the TTFSE Project, all aspects
of the new customs system and procedure shall be implemented within the new strategy.
* 92 -



At the same time, representatives of the European Commnission from Brussels are preparing the assessment
of the necessary support and help to the Customs Service of Montenegro, which will be reflected in
technical assistance to the implementation of new regulations and supply of the equipment required for
fighting against smuggling (apart from computer equipment).
D I R E C T O R,
Miodrag Radusinovic
- 93 -






| c-ERMANY                         CZECH REP  r                   ...                        6' ,                              .1!             .ThF-: i  T F F  E t FE: I
(  l-  -  SLOVAKREP   oFr Frn France  UKRAINE                   TRADE AND IRANSPOT
FACILITATION IPJ SOUTHEAST
EUROPE PROJErT
i  ~&                                                             r.- r      - I  I i_  ,-   - i  if  r 
sx SLOVENIA                  1   -
__                                 ~~~~~~~ROMANIAJ
|                                                                    -  _  xJ  \  s  .w.  . R  ! ___  R  -  . sx \ 45 - Worb fimg sib 10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5~4.- Wa,oaa,rra
_ \ '- >; s 5tl4 ; ~~~~~FEr)FD^ -AlS9mt
"Iowanr                                              |-.-                                              5h.aawarar
0                                                          P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IfI10"
^-j1       _   -   F   _     ~~~~~~Expoals. Imporls.  ..- < 
!                                                               praTt '       0s _  , _   \   '.   From      -\                          .   rxa/ araao
Russian Federation
| ,= > ,aO -9-n-83,BULGARIA                                   e  r  a  a  a ,
Sf00  Q  mray ena
*  \.- *  a,     MACEDONIA              -it-                                                      $500Q Npan-,a,
\                                  -|               L ALBANIA'
[ \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                                                                                   as-  - s :1--- r|
I ,.  ,   ..  \                     d   ..                      . I     1--  \                              ^~~~~~~~~~      ~~~~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ .N,,,a,,,   ..  sa,,
-    *        ; F    ,    RECE           nettn7r_ _ TURKEY  *aO.  02 13.70 j65 I
- - *_B-1 1ATIONALOBUNDARIES
APRL2Q 2






IBRD 31815
_ _~~~~~~~~~~~-,I.J_.,  ;V.'  av  K                        I I-  ~' 1-,         .> .  ,'  - 
- AUSTA U S T RI A                                                  - :,                     KRA INE
*~~                                               ~    ~~~~~~~~~ J s  - I 
- I  _,                               0C.      U  K  P A   I N   E
- -                             -H IJ NG A R Y0.
- -; '4 ' O O~               0 0           -      '  -      'I I     -'                   I  S ;---
~~LI.LIH...I*  ~ ~ Na                                                   0
'> SLOVENIA  \-        h 9                 I            ROMANIA
I      .-,tI,.L llun I *   ,                      -'                                   O 1
T <- * o l- \ > > j ~~~~~~~~R O M A N I A $ 
CROATIA    -                                                 .
I  ,   , I      ,  '  , _  ^      ,;    ,,   ,         .O,          I.  H  -
~~iiT1-.~ ~ ~       ;      -                        r '''F.          l 
B OS N IA A N D  - e-1- 
HERZEGOVINA     -   FED. REP. OF                           _, ---
K  -  ; 1   YUGOSLAVIA    ,
I T A  L Y                     '     '               0 
,                   ,    ,~1                      '       BU L G A R I 
0''                    I_BULGARIA
tI ;. *~~ -'  !;:             Ij* ' ;'               l' 
scurFIl:-.- tiltlil |11 : IL'.I-,.I!  ' -,_                           '  - -  
TRADE AND TRANSPORT                   <hI       - *
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST                                                            - -
E'JU;OPE PROJECT                                  FYR     -   :_
I>,.,'.  MACEDONIAi       _
*                      -- .-.            .. . '             T U R K E Y
ALBANIA,, -  E E. C 
* -. ; ~~ _. R E EIC-E
0 ~ ~ ,.   wI   .L .                             ".TRE



