                             Document of
                          The World Bank




                                                        Report No:ICR0000113




   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                             (IDA-36510)




                                 ON A

                   CREDIT IN THE AMOUNT OF
                     SDR 5.5 MILLION CREDIT

                 (US$6.76 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                   TO

                       The Republic of Serbia

                                   and

                     The Republic of Montenegro

               (formerly called Serbia and Montenegro)

                                  FOR

 Trade and Transport Facilitation in South East Europe Project (TTFSE)




                             May 10, 2007


Sustainable Development Department
South East Europe Country Unit
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                (Exchange Rate Effective-April 30, 2007)

                    Currency Unit = New Serbian Dinar
                    New Serbian Dinar 100 = US$1.68
                   US$1.00 = 59.68 New Serbian Dinar

                              FISCAL YEAR

                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

     BCP                Border Crossing Point
     CAFAO              Customs and Fiscal Assistance Office (EU)
     CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
     DTI                Direct Trader Input
     EDI                Electronic Data Interchange
     ECMT               European Conference of Ministers of Transport
     EU                 European Union
     FCA                Federal Customs Administration
     FIATA              Federation of International Forwarding Agents
     FMS                Financial Management System
     FMR                Financial Management Report
     FRY                Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
     IBM                Integrated Border Management
     MCA                Montenegro Customs Administration
     MOF                Ministry of Finance
     MOU                Memorandum of Understanding
     PIT                Project Implementation Team
     QAG                Quality Assurance Group
     RSC                Regional Steering Committee
     SaM                Serbia and Montenegro
     SCA                Serbian Customs Administration
     SCC                Serbian Chamber of Commerce
     SECI               Southeast European Cooperative Initiative
     SEE                Southeast Europe
     SEW                Single Electronic Window
     SCGPRO             Serbia and Montenegro PRO Committee
     SME                Small and Medium Enterprises
     STAT               SECI/TTFSE Advisory Team
     TTFSE              Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe
     TSS                Transitional Support Strategy
     VAT                Value-Added Tax
     WCO                World Customs Organization
     YCCI               Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce and Industry
     YUPRO              Yugoslav PRO Committee


     Vice President: Shigeo Katsu
   Country Director: Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
    Sector Manager:  Motoo Konishi
Project Team Leader: Gerald Ollivier
  ICR Team Leader:   Gerald Ollivier

                             THE REPUBLIC OF SERBIA
                        THE REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO
           Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project




                                             CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 6
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 10
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 25
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 27
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 28
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 29
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 36
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 38
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 40
 Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 43
 Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 50
 Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 51
 MAP IBRD 31815

A. Basic Information

                                                                    Trade & Transport
                                                                    Facilitation in South
Country:                Serbia                Project Name:
                                                                    East Europe Project
                                                                    (TTFSE)
Project ID:             P074090               L/C/TF Number(s):     IDA-36510
ICR Date:               06/04/2007            ICR Type:             Core ICR
                                                                    FEDERAL REPUBLIC
Lending Instrument:     SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                    OF YUGOSLAVIA
Original Total
                        XDR 5.5M              Disbursed Amount:     XDR 4.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Montenegro Customs Administration
Serbia Customs Administration
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review:        09/05/2001    Effectiveness:       01/07/2003          01/07/2003
Appraisal:             12/11/2001    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/04/2002    Mid-term Review:
                                     Closing:             09/30/2006          03/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:           Not Applicable

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:      Not Applicable

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:          Satisfactory




                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                                 QAG Assessments
      Performance                Indicators             (if any)                  Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                     Quality at Entry
                                                                        None
at any time (Yes/No):                             (QEA):
Problem Project at any                            Quality of
                           No                                           None
time (Yes/No):                                    Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                           Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                 Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                 100                 100


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Administrative and civil service reform                           Primary           Primary
Infrastructure services for private sector development            Primary           Primary
Regional integration                                              Primary           Primary
Trade facilitation and market access                             Secondary           Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                        At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:            Shigeo Katsu                        Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:          Orsalia Kalantzopoulos              Christiaan J. Poortman
Sector Manager:            Motoo Konishi                       Eva Molnar
Project Team Leader:       Gerald Paul Ollivier                Gerald Paul Ollivier
ICR Team Leader:           Gerald Paul Ollivier
ICR Primary Author:        Liljana Sekerinska



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The Project has two development objectives: (i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and
transport; and (ii) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




                                                 ii

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally     Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised      Achieved at
                                                approval          Target     Completion or
                                               documents)         Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Revenue collected by Customs staff (US$000)-SCA
Value
quantitative or 100                         250                             1358
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2004                      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Strong trade expansion, VAT introduction and full computerization of the SCA

achievement)    contributed to this strong increase in productivity.

Indicator 2 :   Revenue Collected by Customs staff (US$000)-MCA
Value
quantitative or 282                         370                             526
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2004                      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Strong trade expansion, VAT introduction and full computerization of the MCA

achievement)    contributed to this strong increase in productivity.

                Total Customs Cost/Revenue collected SCA (percent)
Indicator 3 :   Total Customs Cost/Revenue collected MCA (percent)

Value
quantitative or SCA 4.76                    SCA 2.1                         SCA 1.53

Qualitative)    MCA 2.35                    MCA 1.9                         MCA 1.74

Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2004                      12/31/2006
Comments
(incl. %        Strong growth in revenues enabled both the SCA and MCA to exceed the target.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target      Formally    Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                     Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised    Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values  Target Years
                Pilot Inland Terminal-Import Clearance Time-SCA
Indicator 1 :   Pilot Inland Terminal-Import Clearance Time-MCA

                                                                            Belgrade: 49

Value                                                                       minutes

(quantitative   Belgrade: 242               Belgrade: 60                    Podgorica: 56

or Qualitative) Podgorica: 326              Podgorica: 60                   minutes(average
                                                                            over first three
                                                                            months of 2007)



                                                iii

Date achieved 09/30/2001                    09/30/2004                      03/01/2007
Comments
(incl. %       The performance improvement linked to the implementation of new procedures

achievement)   and the rollout of a new information system exceeded expectations.

Indicator 2 :  Pilot crossing-Average Entry time-SCA (in minutes)
               Pilot crossing-Average Entry Time-MCA (in minutes)
Value
(quantitative  SCA:180                      SCA:20                          SCA:42

or Qualitative)MCA:65                       MCA: 15                         MCA: 26

Date achieved 09/30/2001                    09/30/2004                      03/31/2007
Comments       The reduction in border crossing time has been remarkable, even if it did not
(incl. %       fully meet the original target. Most of the remaining time delays relates to
achievement)   activities by other parties than Customs.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived                DO                          IP              Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/21/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/18/2002           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     06/14/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  4     12/30/2003           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.54
  5     06/28/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.55
  6     12/16/2004           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.62
  7     05/03/2005     Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                    1.51
  8     01/20/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      3.38
  9     08/10/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      4.06
  10    12/22/2006           Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      6.09



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




                                                iv

I. Disbursement Profile




                           v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Country Background: Following several years of conflict and the overthrow of the Milosevic
regime, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) joined the Bank in May 2001. In February
2002, the Belgrade Agreement set out the general framework for a union between the Republic of
Serbia and the Republic of Montenegro. It anticipated that the republics would implement
separate, but partly harmonized trade and customs regimes with a view toward eventual
integration with the EU. It also allowed for a referendum on continuation of the union after three
years of implementation. The Constitutional Charter for the State Union of Serbia and
Montenegro, which replaced FRY, was adopted in February 2003. Under that Charter, the FRY
was transformed into the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro (SaM). These major
constitutional changes called for a flexible program design.

Sector Background: The Customs function, as per Article 77 of the 1992 FRY Constitution, was
under the jurisdiction of the Federal State. However, Montenegro assumed control over the
regulation of Customs and the collection of duties and taxes on its territory and in July 2000, it
adopted a Temporary Act on Customs Tariffs, introducing lower tariffs than at the federal level.
De facto, the Montenegro Customs Administration (MCA) operated independently and the
Federal Customs Administration (FCA) primarily covered the Serbian territory. Informal and
active cooperation was maintained between the two administrations, notably regarding the
maintenance of the information system in place. The two juxtaposed Customs systems were
considered to create opportunities and incentives for corruption and smuggling. Checkpoints were
established at the administrative border between the two Republics to address this issue. These
checkpoints created an additional bottleneck for internal transit, isolating Montenegro and
reducing the competitiveness of transport through the Port of Bar.

Performance of both FCA and MCA required significant procedural and operational changes to
meet international practice and catch up with progress made in the rest of the region. Their
system led to long and inefficient processing at border crossing points and clearance terminals.
However, excessive waiting times at border crossings and inland terminals were considered a
result not only of Customs performance but also performance by other agencies.

Inefficiency derived primarily from Customs legislation, which emphasized the revenue
collection role of Customs, and did not allow the selective examination of goods, vehicles and
passengers, nor modern concepts such as post-release verifications. Legislation also lacked penal
provisions to enable better enforcement through better detection and prosecution of offences. The
Customs system lacked human resources management that would encourage ethical behavior and
incentive schemes for better performance.

The computer system in the FCA, utilized at project preparation, had been introduced in 1995,
and was based on a mainframe architecture leading to high maintenance costs (US$1 million
annually). Updates of the system were difficult, as the software package was based on an obsolete
language (CSP). As such, the system required a complete redefinition.

Corruption represented a deep-seated problem for the Customs Administration, which was
perceived as one of the most corrupt institutions in FRY. A comprehensive corruption survey
carried out in 2001 at the Serbian level indicated that 84 percent of respondents considered that



                                                 1

there was "much" or "very much" Customs corruption and that 75 percent considered that the
majority of Customs officials were involved.

At that time, even though the country saw an emergence of a large number of small transport
operators and freight forwarding companies, interaction between government agencies and the
private sector was very limited, and had no established structure.

Following the Government changes in January 2001, both the Federal Government and the
Government of Montenegro embarked on the preparation of modernization strategies of the
respective Customs Administrations. Both strategies were grounded on a redefined role of
Customs from an essentially revenue collection activity to a more global responsibility of
ensuring that all goods crossing the border are compliant with the relevant legislation and the
introduction of integrated border management.

Rationale for Bank Involvement: At the time of project initiation, only very limited support to
implement a modernization program or improve border facilities was available to both
governments. As such, the Bank involvement through the regional trade and transport facilitation
program in Southeast Europe (TTFSE) was exceptionally relevant and timely to support the
modernization strategies designed by both administrations and provide targeted technical
assistance to ensure that the modernization programs would have a solid impact for traders and
transporters at major border and clearance facilities.

Also at the time of project development, the Bank had already started the implementation of the
regional TTFSE program in all countries bordering with SaM. The regional approach to trade and
transport facilitation in the region was considered highly appropriate. Trade promotion and
reduction of corruption associated with cross-border trade are trans-boundary issues - by
definition - that no one country could effectively handle on its own. Most TTFSE countries
(including SaM) provide corridors for long-distance transport, for instance for goods in transit
from Turkey and Greece to the EU. TTFSE was also considered a means of promoting
reintegration in a region and a facilitation tool for experience exchanges and the best practices
adoption.

The Bank's support to the initiated reforms managed to attract US funding to support: technical
assistance for pilot sites, support to the creation of new procedures and training, introduction of
selectivity and risk analysis, and trade facilitation development enabling distance learning
training and seminars via the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce and Industry (YCCI)/YUPRO
Committee to build human capital in road transport and freight forwarding, at a time when this
service industry was facing fast transformation.

Toward the end of project preparation, the EU, through its CAFAO office, launched the
preparation of a sizeable program of technical assistance to support systemic changes at
organizational and legal levels aligned with EU requirements. Close interactions took place to
ensure that the modernization would be driven by the SCA and MCA with a coordinated support
among donors.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The Project Development Objectives were:
    (i)   reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and
    (ii)  reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.



                                                  2

The project included three broad types of performance measurements, including:
    (i)    a set measuring the impact of the Regional Program (by monitoring the cost and time
           required for a standard full truck load shipment on three regional itineraries through
           user surveys as well as occurrences of 'petty' payments for facilitation);
    (ii)   a set measuring the overall ratios of efficiency and effectiveness of the MCA and the
           SCA (trade volume per staff, revenue collected by Customs compared to total Customs
           cost); and
    (iii) a set measuring the performance of all border agencies at pilot sites and their total
           impact on users.

The indicators for the third set of measurements at pilot sites included:
    (i)    number of physical or documentary examinations and their effectiveness;
    (ii)   total processing time;
    (iii) number of vehicles processed within a standard processing time; and
    (iv) occurrence of corruption.

Indicators on passenger processing were also included for Montenegro.

The pilot sites were decided at project appraisal.

         For the SCA: inland terminal: Belgrade; border crossings: Batrovci (Croatia), Gradina
         (Bulgaria), Horgos (Hungary), Presevo (Macedonia).

         For the MCA: Debeli Breg (Montenegro-HR) and Podgorica (inland terminal).

The FCA border crossing pilot sites are located on the Pan-European Transport Corridor X and
usually faced existing TTFSE pilot sites in neighboring countries. The pilot clearance terminals
are the largest terminals in use for clearance respectively in the SCA and the MCA.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

The project objectives were not revised.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The entire trade community including transport operators, importers and exporters, freight
forwarders were expected to be the direct beneficiaries of the project since they were seriously
impacted by delays, regularly caused by improper knowledge of border requirements.

The regional TTFSE website intended to provide access to all the procedures and requirements of
border agencies regarding trade and international transport, thereby increasing certainty of the
business climate. The distance learning training to service providers was developed toward
improving access to knowledge related to trade, transport and logistics.

The project was seen to have an indirect impact on the poor by reducing corruption and waiting
times at border crossing points. Faster and smoother border crossing both for trucks and
passenger transport would remove some of the constraints affecting people commuting frequently
through the border or visiting their family in neighboring countries.




                                                  3

Benefits from the reduction in border crossing delays would translate to consumers and producers
since the reduced trade and transport costs bring about reduction of the import cost, leading to
benefits to consumers and lower input costs required for local manufacturing, with corresponding
creation of new jobs.

1.5 Original Components

The project consisted of the following components:

A1. Modernization of the FCA. Original base cost: US$2.86 million
The component included: (i) technical services to coordinate and integrate the various
modernization elements and donor contributions, and support to the change process; (ii) technical
services to review and revise laws, regulations and guidelines to fulfill Customs functions while
facilitating legitimate trade, in cooperation with other agencies; (iii) technical services to support
the introduction of a Preventive and Enforcement Service in the FCA; (iv) technical services to
prepare and introduce new Customs procedures and documentation, supported by training; (v)
technical services to strengthen human resource management; and (vi) equipment to improve the
quality and efficiency of checks.

In addition to the support from the US Government to fund part of this component, the FCA
requested support from the French and British Governments on aspects (ii) and (iv), who had
expressed interest in contributing to the TTFSE project. These elements were integrated as part of
the European Commission/CAFAO program in the first half of 2002.

A2. Modernization of the MCA. Original base cost: US$0.37 million
The component supported: (i) Organizational and procedural review and related reforms at border
stations and clearance terminals, supported by the necessary legislative and administrative
changes; and (ii) introduction of selectivity and targeting in Montenegro. It was expected that the
European Commission would provide most of the support for Customs modernization in
Montenegro.

B1. Support to FCA Information System Improvement. Original base cost: US$4.82 million
The component provided consulting services, training and equipment for the information system
to establish a fully functional Customs system. Priority was given to the introduction of
selectivity, electronic submission of declarations and management of transit. It also provided a
basis for the first phase of the Single Electronic Window Initiative. This long-term initiative was
envisaged to enable importers, exporters, brokers, banks, insurance, transport and freight
forwarding companies to carry out all trade-related interactions with the Federal or Republic
administrations through an integrated electronic interface.

Its main components were: (i) technical services for business process re-engineering; (ii)
technical services for solution specification, software development and system integration; (iii)
technical training; (iv) telecommunication network equipment; and (v) hardware and software to
migrate to an open platform and support e-documents implementation.

B2. Support to MCA Information System Improvement. Original base cost: US$0.76 million
The component provided computer and telecommunication hardware to equip and connect the
various border crossing points and clearance centers and software development to expand the
current system and cover selectivity and transit functions. The equipment was to be used to
implement the software solution developed over the past two years for the MCA at a few pilot



                                                  4

sites at first, followed by a rollout to all Customs points at borders or inland in a second stage,
once the software was fully operational.

C. Trade Facilitation Development. Original base cost: US$0.50 million

The component, funded by a US and Dutch grant, included: (i) provision of short training
sessions to road transport operators, forwarders, customs brokers, and traders through the
YCCI/YUPRO and local professional associations; (ii) provision of distance learning programs in
cooperation with the International Road Transport Union for road transport operators and the
international Freight Forwarder Association (FIATA) for freight forwarders; (iii) support to the
Public-Private Committee on Trade Facilitation in the formulation of proposals to facilitate trade,
building on a public-private dialogue; (iv) participation in the regional TTFSE website to ensure
full transparency of procedures and requirements of border agencies as well as travel information;
and (v) exchange programs to stimulate experience-sharing on facilitation and border agency
reforms.

D. Project Implementation. Original base cost: US$0.49 million
Included the services required to support the implementation of the project. These included
training for procurement and financial management, procurement advisors, external auditors,
support in the establishment of a financial management system, and training for the Project
Managers and the Project Implementation Team.

1.6 Revised Components

The components were not revised.

1.7 Other Significant Changes
The project was approved by the Board on June 4, 2002 and was signed on June 14, 2002.
Effectiveness was scheduled for July 15, 2002, but delays in the approval of the draft Customs
Service Law and in the appointment of auditors led to extensions until January 7, 2003.

The initial closing date of September 30, 2006, was extended on two occasions, initially to
December 31, 2006 and then until March 31, 2007. Both extensions were requested so as to
finalize the activities related to the completion of the Information system, which as a result of the
delays at the start of the project could not be timely completed.

The project faced some setbacks during 2004, when the US Congress made Serbia ineligible for
US funding. Financing of the US-funded Customs Advisors (STAT team) working in Serbia was
suspended for a period of six months. During this period, the SCA continued monitoring
performance at pilot sites. The Bank discussed with the SCA and CAFAO, the possibility to
substitute US support by CAFAO support in three areas: (i) modernization of procedures at
TTFSE pilot sites; (ii) definition of practical solutions regarding integrated border management;
and (iii) specialized assistance for EU Customs information system. Given that these items were
included in the work program of CAFAO and that cooperation between the two programs was
effective, this was seen as a natural expansion of their activities. The US team briefed the
CAFAO team to that end. Despite this setback, the US advisory team provided highly timely and
relevant advice to both Customs administrations as repeatedly mentioned by Customs
management.




                                                   5

The funding suspension also reflected on several activities which had to be cancelled, including:
training on internal affairs, enforcement, and communication with drivers/passengers. It also
affected the team supporting the project, as it was downsized from three to one advisor. Close
cooperation with CAFAO enabled the program of modernization to continue receiving support.
There were no other major changes in implementation arrangements over the course of the project.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Soundness of the Background Analysis Supporting the Project, Lessons Learned
Incorporated, and the Rationale for the Bank's Intervention. The team considered the success
and risk factors, appointed by the original TTFSE projects, as well as reasons for delays that
could be prevented, and thus acknowledged the importance of full country, government and
Customs Administration ownership for successful implementation of Customs modernization.
The modernization called for effective relationships with the other border agencies and deep
behavioral changes at all levels within the administration. Consequently, the Bank insisted on the
nomination of a National Coordinator willing and capable of frequent interaction with all border
agencies. The National Coordinator and Republican Coordinator were nominated by appraisal.
Local project teams created at pilot sites were empowered to propose procedural modifications as
per the performance measurements.

Following the Government vision and initiative, the project included the establishment of a single
electronic window (SEW) in the FCA and realistically set the goal to only initiate SEW and
provide for its piloting. Preparations were made in line with the Recommendation No. 33 of the
United Nations Centre for Trade Facilitation and Electronic business (UN/CEFACT).

The legal obstacles experienced by the original TTFSE countries in introducing selectivity and
targeting were mitigated through the advance preparation of new Customs Codes for the FCA and
the MCA that already provided legal ground for selective processing. Both Codes were in an
advanced stage of preparation at appraisal, and a condition for effectiveness. Furthermore,
implementation experiences showed a slow down resulting from the multiplicity of donor
contributions, thereby calling for active donor coordination. In response, the project provided a
special advisor to the FCA Director to coordinate all donor assistance and avoid overlaps,
particularly with the large parallel EU program. Also, agreement was reached for cooperation
with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry/YUPRO Committee.

The project design took into consideration the needs highlighted in the FYR of Macedonia Transit
Facilitation Project completed in 1998 (ICR# 19408) to: (i) tailor the complexity of the project
design to what can be achieved under a single loan; (ii) ensure the capability of implementing
agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the borrower; and (iv) maintain
flexibility to ease implementation.

Assessment of the Project Design. The Transitional Support Strategy (TSS) included TTFSE as
one of the priority investment projects since it was considered to have impact on all four major
reforms identified in the Economic Recovery and Transition Program. These reforms planned: (i)
restoring macroeconomic stability and external balance; (ii) stimulating growth and creating a
basis for a sustainable supply response; (iii) improving social well-being of the most vulnerable
and building human capital; and (iv) investing in improved governance and effective institutions.




                                                 6

The project components were in line with the objectives. The approach to the modernization of
customs services was based on the sound principles of selective physical inspection, fully
automated systems, provision of information to the trade community, and concerns for facilitating
the movement of legitimate trade. The team was correct to assess that modernization is a longer
reform process which spans beyond project life and accordingly focus on priority interventions
which could yield quick, visible and impact-intensive results. Also, the team rightly addressed
customs modernization from all aspects: legislative, information technology, equipment, training,
and involved the private sector as a relevant actor in the reform process.

Since the project covered both the FCA and MCA, the project implementation included two
project managers, one in each administration, but using a shared Project Implementation Team,
based in the FCA, to cover procurement, credit management and reporting functions. The
participation of both administrations was considered a possibility for cooperation strengthening,
particularly important for their fight against corruption and efforts to facilitate trade.

Adequacy of Government's Commitment, Stakeholder Involvement, and/or Participatory
Processes. The team correctly considered the government commitment key to the success of the
customs modernization efforts. At the time of project preparation, the country confirmed its
strong will to reform and modernize the Strategies of the Federal and Montenegrin Customs
Administration. The FCA and MCA held extensive discussions throughout the process of strategy
creation and law drafting, jointly with the Bank. FRY confirmed its support to the region efforts
for improved trade and transport facilitation by actively joining the work of the Regional Steering
Committee and organized the 2002 Regional Steering Committee meeting.

Throughout project preparation, active consultations were held and included exporters, importers,
producers, road transport operators and their association, freight forwarders/shippers. Bank staff
conducted extensive interviews to identify trade and transport impediments during the preparation
of the Economic Recovery and Transition Program.

Assessment of Risks and Mitigation Measures. Project risks taken into account were mainly of
political nature and implementation capacity nature, and included: (i) risk of the cooperation
between FCA and MCA deteriorating; (ii) risk that the Constitution might be amended, making
implementation more difficult; (iii) risk of PIT experiencing difficulties in managing project
funds according to IDA requirements; and (iv) risk of PIT experiencing difficulties in following
IDA procurement rules.

Regarding risks (i) and (ii), the project was designed to have components which were
independent and implementing arrangements which were viable even in the most drastic political
scenarios. The independence of the Republic of Montenegro, since May 2006, was followed by a
continuously smooth implementation.

As per the risks connected to the PIT capacity, the Bank allowed training of PIT staff during
preparation and planned further training possibilities during implementation. At appraisal, the
implementing agency prepared the Project Operational Manual so as to established readiness for
implementation.

It is assessed that even though the Government and the Bank carefully discussed the capacity of
the PIT and designed training programs to address shortfalls, additional skills training about Bank
procedures, particularly in procurement, financial management, would have enhanced the
implementation dynamics, considering that several changes in fiduciary staff took place in 2002-
2004.


                                                   7

2.2 Implementation

The project was not restructured; there were no major changes made to the design, and the project
was never at risk. There was no mid-term review.

Initial implementation was slow for the first two years, beginning with a seven-month delay in
effectiveness (explained in section 1.7). Shortly after the project became effective, the SCA
Director General and the IT Manager, who had been strong champions behind the modernization
program, the project design and components, were replaced. This affected the ownership for the
project in Serbia, and little progress was made until mid-2004 when new management took over
the SCA. Since then, ownership has been strong and implementation has picked up considerably.
Nonetheless the overall schedule was delayed and the SCA IT strategy took longer to implement
than originally foreseen. As a result, while a first phase of the SEW preparation was completed
during the project, it was not piloted as initially intended.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E Design. Implementation progress was measured against three sets of performance
measurements, showing: (i) impact of the regional program, (ii) overall ratios of efficiency and
effectiveness of the MCA and FCA, and (iii) performance of the border agencies at pilot sites.
These measurements were linked to the achievements of the project outcomes and were projected
for the entire implementation period. Indicators relating to the performance of border activities
were set and measured according to the standard TTFSE methodology used in the other projects
so as to enable comparability and consistency throughout the region. Pilot sites where
measurements were carried out were all Pan- European Transport Corridor X and thus were
correctly chosen so as to ensure biggest impact as they are trade and transport most intensive. As
several sets of measurements took place during the project preparation credible baseline figures
and projections were established.

Performance targets were set for the period until 2004, when indicator targets for the remaining
period were confirmed. These provided a continuous assessment regarding progress and
achievement of PDO (the detailed targets and achievements results are available in Tables 1 to 4,
in section 3.2).

Learning from the experience of the other TTFSE projects, the monitoring also included a
Customs survey of users comparing the situation in 2002 and 2006 to obtain quantitative data on
the quality of Customs services and the occurrence of corruption. (See Annex 5)

M&E Implementation. Indicators were collected regularly, with the assistance of the US
Advisory team. Although SCA maintained monitoring performance, the discontinuity of US
support in Serbia impacted negatively the project as it happened at a time when major elements of
the modernization were taking place. Results were reported in monthly reports and included also
insight in relevant activities at the pilot sites and a breakdown underlining the contribution to
waiting time of the various stakeholders.

M&E Utilization. During project implementation the evolution of indicators was regularly
monitored and considered a key indication of bottlenecks at the pilot sites. Pilot site teams
analyzed results jointly with the STAT teams in the effort to introduce on the spot solutions for


                                                    8

trade facilitation. The STAT team provided timely and relevant advice to Customs, and this
contribution was praised and considered vital by both Administrations. In addition, the
measurement results have provided incentive to local customs authorities to achieve better results
as results from pilot sites were regularly presented at the joint pilot sites meetings. The later
provided an opportunity for exchange of positive experiences and application of successful
activities to all Border Crossing Points (BCP).

The experiences of the BCP Presevo (with Macedonia), demonstrated how monitoring and
evaluation has been successfully utilized by the local border team to improve border operations.
Namely, for the long part of project this BCP had been a poor performer, and based on the M&E
the local Customs team designed an Action Plan for the BCP together with the Customs
Management and soon managed to reduce processing time by 83 percent and maintain better
operation thus turning into one of the lead performers.

Sustainability of the M&E Arrangements Beyond the Operation's Implementation Period
(e.g., utilization and strengthening of the existing M&E systems and capacity). Indicators
from pilot sites will continue to be collected by SCA and MCA as they have been accepted to
represent a valuable managerial tool to monitor performance of customs and service quality. In
that sense, the Business Strategy and Plans for the MCA for the period 2006-2007 envisages not
only the continuous use of performance measurement but also application of measurements on all
border and inland terminal locations. Both administrations possess the necessary capacity and
sufficient experience to continue monitoring on their own.

It is to be expected that the dynamics of monitoring will be modified to shorter periods of time for
measurement, due to the limited financial and personnel resources of the Administrations.
Consequently, continuing support of this activity in the auspices of a second Bank project is
suggested.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project was rated "C" for environmental assessment purposes because there were no
environmental issues in the project. During the life of the project no such issues arose and thus
the original rating was justified.

Counterpart funding was timely.

Financial management was satisfactory and acceptable. The financial management function for
the project was adequately staffed by two qualified and experienced specialists. Although the
Project Implementation Team lost its previously trained financial management specialist, due to
low civil servant salaries, it succeeded to overcome this hurdle through ongoing coordination and
assistance from the Bank side and provided proper fulfillment of Bank procedures.

Annual audits performed by an independent auditor expressed clean opinion on the project's
financial statements. Since appropriate accounting software was never put in use, and accounting
evidence and Financial Management Reports (FMR) were prepared using Excel files, reliability
of the reports was considered limited. Later efforts to use a separate accounting system were
considered a hindrance to implementation at such an advanced project stage since they would
have required extensive testing of the system and training of staff resulting in delays. Despite this,




                                                 9

Quarterly FMRs were submitted timely and reasonable assurance regarding accuracy of the
reports was obtained. Internal controls were in place.

Loss of staff in the procurement part of the PIT also burdened the performance of the PIT. The
PIT received training and assistance from the WB procurement specialists and the TTL; however,
additional training might have augmented capacities to handle the work load more efficiently.
Procurement faced difficulties in terms of large load of work, which at several occasions led to
delays. However, the commitment of the PIT members and the committed support from the Bank
team enabled the function to be carried out in a satisfactory manner and in accordance with World
Bank procurement procedures.

As implementation progressed, experience in procurement according to Bank rules led to speedier
procurement practices.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The SCA expressed its strong interest in continuing cooperation with the Bank upon completion
of the TTFSE project. The proposed approach would be to:

    (i)      extend to all critical border and clearance locations (covering at least 90 percent of
             freight traffic) the concepts that have been successfully piloted under the TTFSE; and

    (ii)     further progress in terms of integrated border management, single electronic window,
             strengthened integrity, risk management and selectivity (second generation),
             efficiency of Customs internal affairs and public relations, while upgrading border
             facilities and equipment (X-ray) based on traffic priorities.

A total of 10 crossings have been pre-identified at this stage as requiring investments, although
the list of economically justified crossing is likely to be shorter. Construction would take 3 to 4
years. These components could be coordinated by Customs, even though they may benefit
various border agencies.

The MCA has also projected a continuation of cooperation with the World Bank through the
preparation of the Second TTFSE project. As elaborated in the Business Strategy of the MCA, the
project should involve all border agencies and address remaining bottlenecks to trade and
transport. The ongoing E-government project in Montenegro will also support such activities
aimed toward the shortening of time and paper documentation required by administrative
procedures and will thus provide additional overview of customs progress in procedures
modernization.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

The objective was important to Serbia's and Montenegro's administration reform and economic
development. The project provided timely and appropriate focus on rationalizing and
strengthening the SCA and MCA with a view to improve the services and reduce the associated
trade and transport impediments. As mentioned in section 1.1, the project was consistent with the
Bank TSS for FRY.




                                                  10

The project supported the goals set in the CAS of 2004, as it made efforts to: (i) ensure more
effective functioning of the SCA and MCA; (ii) establish a comprehensive anticorruption system
within the two Administrations; (iii) remove barriers related to the clearance of goods; and (iv)
support capacity development of the private sector. This was accomplished through: (i) extensive
support for the formulation of a proper legal and regulatory framework; (ii) extensive support for
enhanced human resource management, and for organizational restructuring; (iii) training; (iv)
inspection equipment; and (v) a modern information system, while ensuring that new procedures
are duly implemented at border crossing points and clearance facilities.

The design of the project, which focused around the modernization of Customs procedures and IT
system was a suitable approach as it allowed swift and tangible improvements in customs work
and assured the maintaining of results through greater transparency and private sector
participation. A key feature of the project was the effort to restructure otherwise inefficient and
costly border crossing procedures, which undermined the competitiveness of exports, exacted a
cost from businesses, reduced the ability of domestic firms to participate in global production
networks and made them less attractive to foreign investment.

In addition, the project supported the goal of private sector development, not only by creating a
more favorable and transparent environment for trade and transport, but also through boosting the
capacity of the private sector to operate in a more intensive trade environment and to cooperate
and confer its views/needs to the public sector.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The achievement of the development objectives (i) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and
transport; and (ii) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings, is rated satisfactory. It
must be noted that the project interventions regarding non-tariff costs were intended to only a
portion of those costs, namely those resulting from border and inland clearance procedures for
road transport.

The SCA and MCA were successfully transformed into more efficient and professional agencies
in several directions:
    (i)      their procedures and organization was modernized (new organizational units were
             established, simplified procedures introduced, adequate IT system installed),
    (ii)     this modernization was passed to the operation practices and results at BCPs and
             inland terminals, and
    (iii)    the integrity of the customs service was secured by changing the mind set of customs
             and the other participants in the process (brokers, freight forwarders).

Achievement of Objective (i): To reduce Non-tariff Barriers to Trade. Achievement is rated
satisfactory, as shown by the significant reduction of clearance times and import processing times
and the sustained implementation of selective examinations. The project contributed successfully
to customs reform, which in turn led to improved operating procedures at border crossings and
inland terminals, thereby reducing non-tariff barriers.

Comparing the seven pilot sites in the first 3 months of 2007 to the same site in 2002, processing
times have been reduced by 73 percent on average. In other words, over 44 thousand truck days
are saved each year to carry the same trade through those seven pilot sites.




                                                 11

The key feature of the project's contribution is the transformation of operating procedures at
border crossings and inland terminals. The main reform was the adoption of selectivity of
inspections based on risk analysis, as opposed to 100 percent physical inspection of trucks. This
transformation of operating procedures was enabled and further strengthened by the installation
of the new information technology system. It resulted in the adding of new functionalities such
as: (i) direct trader input; (ii) e-submission; (iii) risk analysis; (iv) the introduction of VAT; (v)
data exchange with Tax Administration, and partially with neighboring Customs Administration
and relevant border agencies; (vi) management information system; and (vii) preparation of the
system for the use of the EU TARIC and NCTS systems.

This resulted in reduced clearance times without compromising customs revenue collection or
security objectives. At the same time, the introduction of electronic submission of declarations
additionally cut clearance time, as some of the following advantages were allowed:

         one of the biggest bottlenecks in the customs procedure -data input from the declarations
         in the ISCS- has been eliminated;
         this has in turn relieved a large number of customs workers now available to undertake
         other tasks;
         savings in time for clearance are very tangible (from 4 hours down to less than 1 hour);
         the system created the conditions to introduce simplified customs procedures based on
         simplified declarations; and
         the system established the foundation for the introduction of a single electronic window.




                Improving the Clearance Times at the Belgrade Inland Terminal

    Although a key terminal, the Belgrade Inland Terminal suffered from excessively long
    clearance times. The initial project activities managed to reduce clearance times, but they
    still stayed between 150 and 250 minutes up to late 2005. Incorrect submission of
    declarations by brokers was confirmed to represent one of the main reasons for such
    operation, therefore making e-submission one of the main priorities of the SCA regarding
    the terminal.

    The possibility to submit declarations electronically was very quickly embraced by the
    private operators, and included 90 percent of shipments soon after the introduction of e-
    submission. As a result, total clearance time sharply dropped to the range of 42 to 72
    minutes in the period December 2005  December 2006, and the terminal has been
    consistently achieving the target times since June 2006. (See Chart 1)

    The savings in time at Belgrade have particularly high impact keeping in mind that the
    terminal receives 50 thousand vehicles on a yearly basis, and this figure continues to
    grow.




                                                   12

                                 Chart 1: Import Clearance Times at the Belgrade Clearance Terminal

                                                                                     Serbia, Belgrade Clearance Times



                 250

                 200
          setun  150

               mi100

                  50

                   0
                           50-l                                                                                                      6
                                        05           05                                                                                         6                                                06           06
                               Ju         g-uA         p-eS       50-t         50-v           50-c          60-n          60-b
                                                                      Oc           No             De            Ja            Fe      r-0aM      r-0pA  60-y          60-n         60-l

                                                                                                                                                            Ma            Ju           Ju          g-uA         p-eS       60-t         60-v         60-c
                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Oc           No           De

                                                                  Import Clearance Time                                                    20           Trendline (Clearance Time)


       Chart 2: Examination Ra tes and Irregularities Detection at the Belgrade Clearance Terminal


                                               Serbia, Belgrade Examinations and Irregularities Detection


       30.0%

       25.0%

       20.0%

       15.0%

       10.0%

        5.0%

        0.0%
                     Jul-05       Aug-05       Sep-05       Oct-05       Nov-05         Dec-05             6
                                                                                                      Jan-0         Feb-06         Mar-06    Apr-06           May-06             6
                                                                                                                                                                            Jun-0        Jul-06        Aug-06       Sep-06       Oct-06       Nov-06       Dec-06

                                        Act. Exam.                                   Act. Detect.                                Trendline (Act. Exam.)                                         Trendline (Act.Detect.)



  Operations at the Inland Terminal were further strengthened by the introduction of the Semaphore
  system, publicly showing the status of processing of declarations in the Terminal hall. The system
  significantly increased transparency of work of customs officers, and provided insight in the
  deficiencies of the system, allowing further procedural improvements. More importantly,
  Semaphore stimulates competition among brokers, thus inciting better performance on their side
  and reducing the need for Customs-brokers informal interactions. All of this combined results in
  better performance by both customs and brokers, thereby leading to better services for the end-
  user.


Throughout the project, performance at BCPs for entry time remained above the set targets, but
results strongly improved since the end of 2005. For example, performance at Presevo improved
significantly, falling to 21 minutes in March 2007 (having been at 156 minutes in September
2005, 96 minutes in November 2005, and 35 minutes in June 2006), as a direct result of the
implementation plan agreed between the SCA and the Bank in November 2005. Selective


                                                                                                                  13

controls were introduced systematically with a reduction in physical examination from 26 percent
of shipments to 6 percent on average for border crossing points being monitored, exceeding the
target of 20 percent and bringing Serbia closer to common practice in OECD countries (2 to 3
percent). In parallel, the level of detection rose by about one percent during the period at pilot
sites, a trend also witnessed at the country level. While the relatively low level of detected
irregularities can be attributed in part to more transparent procedures and capacity building
among forwarders, it also underlines that the introduction of selectivity and targeting typically
takes at least five years to reach maturity, and that the essential first step requires setting up
ongoing institutional capacity to continuously upgrade it, as done under this first reform phase.

BCPs entry times have been reduced by 64 percent on average despite the sharp increase in traffic
Serbian borders have been facing following 2001. The achievements in clearance time's
reduction and selectivity at pilot border crossing points and the inland terminal are shown below
in Table 1.

                                   Table 1: Serbia Pilot Site Performance
       Year               2002         2003          2004           2005        2006         2007
                      Targ.  Act.  Targ.  Act.   Targ.   Act.   Targ.  Act. Targ.  Act.  Targ.  Act.

Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Belgrade Inland Terminal
Import Clearance
Time (min)             N/a    N/a  144     190    60      228     60    211  60     58    60     49

Physical
Examination (%)        N/a    N/a   49     48     10      38      10    17   10      9    10     17.1

Irregularities/No. of
Examinations (%)       N/a    N/a  22.18  2.66     9      3.5     9      0    9    12.72   9     3.93

Batrovci Border Crossing
Average Border
Entry Time (min.)      140    63    68     70     20      62      20    95   20    52.25  20     46

Average Border
Exit Time (min.)       28     41    25     38     20      15      20     5   20      4    20     3.5

Truck Examinations
(%)                    60     28    44     23     20      14      20     5   20     7.3   20     8.9

Irregularities/No. of
Examinations (%)        3      0    5.4   0.23     9      0.9     9    0.25   9    2.67    9     3.2

Horgos Border Crossing
Average Border
Entry Time (min.)      100    145   68     108    20      92      20    59   20    60.5   20     49.3

Average Border
Exit Time (min.)       28     11    25     24     20      12      20     6   20     3.8   20     3.3

Truck Examinations
(%)                    60     31    44     37     20      18      20    13   20     8.9   20     9.3

Irregularities/No. of
Examinations (%)        3      0    5.4    0.7     9      2.5     9    0.59   9    0.375   9     1.26

Gradina Border Crossing
Average Border
Entry Time (min.)      137    274   68     129    20      125     20    123  20     56    20     50

Average Border
Exit Time (min.)       28     17    25     46     20      75      20    142  20     195   20     23

Truck Examinations
(%)                    60     15    44     21     20       9      20     4   20     2.9   20     3.8

Irregularities/No. of
Examinations (%)        3      0    5.4    1.2     9     1.45     9     1.3   9    1.91    9     1.06

Presevo Border Crossing
Average Border
Entry Time (min.)      140    110   68     95     20      74      20    135  20    36.91  20     22

Average Border
Exit Time (min.)       28     27    25     32     20       7      20     6   20     3.6   20     3.6

Truck Examinations
(%)                    60     31    44     48     20      24      20     4   20    5.47   20     3.2

Irregularities/No. of
Examinations (%)        3      0    5.4    0.4     9     1.63     9      0    9      0     9      0




                                                     14

The project supported the transformation of the SCA to a modern, efficient and professional
national agency, which has established itself as the leader in trade facilitation efforts of the
country. SCA has shown a continuous improvement in its performance, shown by the
continuously increased collection of revenue and trade processing. The productivity of Customs
measured through the total customs cost as a share of the revenue collected increased and this
ratio shows a decrease from 3.77 percent in 2000 to 1.53 percent in 2006. Revenue collection in
the mentioned period increased almost 22 times. (See Table 2).

                                        Table 2: Performance of the SCA
         SERBIA               2000        2001      2002        2003       2004        2005          2006
Total Customs Revenue        162,950      315,921   566,935    700,860     853,820     2,399,000   3,561,480
(Thousand USD)
Total Customs Cost             6,140       15,051               23,210      30,620       32,000       54,620
(Thousand USD)
Total Customs Staff            3,151        3,154     2,904      2,414       2,422        2,340        2,623
Total Customs Salaries         4,460        8,616    10,572     12,470      13,477       14,600       23,260
(Thousand USD)
Annual Number of             417,137      466,985   698,640    782,517     809,633                   979,151
Declarations
Trade Volume (Million          5,634        6,495     7,264      9,396      12,930       13,712       16,710
USD)


Revenue Collected/            51,713      100,165   195,255    290,331     352,526     1,025,214   1,357,789
Customs Staff
Total Customs Cost/            3.77%       4.76%     0.00%       3.31%      3.59%         1.33%       1.53%
Revenue Collected
Salaries/Revenue               2.74%       2.73%     1.86%       1.78%      1.58%         0.61%       0.65%
Collected
Trade Volume/Staff          1,788,004   2,059,290 2,501,377   3,892,295  5,338,563     5,859,829   6,370,568
(USD)



In Montenegro, the project contributed to the reform of operating procedures at border crossings
and inland terminals, since it introduced the adoption of selectivity of inspections based on risk
analysis, and introduced electronic submission of declarations (by May 2006, over 50 percent of
customs declarations were being submitted electronically) and simplified procedures. Table 3
presents the improved clearance times at the Montenegro pilots.

                                  Table 3: Montenegro Pilot Site Performance
       Year               2002           2003          2004            2005          2006           2007
                      Targ.  Act.    Targ.   Act.  Targ.   Act.   Targ.   Act.   Targ.   Act.   Targ.    Act.

Pilot Sites Clearance Performance
Podgorica Inland Terminal
Import Clearance
Time (min)             250    238    180      178    60    204      60     227    60      147    60       56

Physical
Examination (%)        80     100     62       47    30    21       30     31     30     30.6    30       24.5

Irregularities/No. of
Examinations (%)       8.5     0      8.5      8    8.5    15.6     8.5    18     8.5    5.34    8.5       0

Debeli Breg Border Crossing
Average Border
Entry Time (min.)      50      47     48       44    20    41       20     31     20      27     20       26.1

Average Border
Exit Time (min.)       15      6      15       9     15     6       15      7     15      6.4    15       7.1

Truck Examinations
(%)                    70      93     58       52    35    33       35     30     35      28     35      28.89

Irregularities/No. of
Examinations (%)       8.5     0      8.5      0    8.5     0       8.5     0     8.5      0     8.5       0




                                                       15

Even though the Podgorica Inland Terminal has not managed to achieve the 60 minute target for
import clearance time for a long time, it has been showing drastically improved results since the
beginning of 2006. Namely, during year 2006 clearance times were decreased by 72.1 percent,
coming down to 81 minutes in December 2006. Having in mind that measurements indicate that
60 percent is spent on submission of documents to customs, 30 percent on payment of duties and
only 10 percent on actual customs proceedings, results are expected to improve as electronic
submission of documents is used more frequently. A large portion of the improvements in 2006
were exactly a result of the adoption of e-submission by 50 percent of the brokers. Results
provided by MCA over the first 3 months of 2007 indicate that the Podgorica Terminal now
meets the 60 minute target (the average import clearance time during this period is 56 minutes).

At the end of project implementation, the MCA is performing better both in the revenue
collection and productivity in operations. Gains in productivity are reflected in the increase in
annual number of declarations processed by staff which rose from 137 in 2002 to 480 in 2006.
This is attributed to the improved performance of customs officers, following the new procedures,
and use of detection equipment, both supported through the project. (See Table 4).

                                 Table 4: Performance of the MCA
    MONTENEGRO             2000     2001      2002       2003       2004         2005       2006

Total Customs Revenue      72,800   84,777    159,873    235,892    249,854       281,671  262,247
(Thousand USD)
Total Customs Cost          1,500    1,990      2,955      3,157      4,798         4,253    4,550
(Thousand USD)
Total Customs Staff           250      300        327        365        464          505       499

Total Customs Salaries    980,000 1,197,935 1,687,386   2,956,810  3,406,328    3,308,975 3,369,561
(USD)
Annual Number of           31,654   31,639     44,822     84,498    121,332       322,357  239,689
Declarations
Trade Volume (Million         623                 802      1,145                    1,639    1,794
USD)


Revenue Collected/        291,200  282,592    488,908    646,282    538,479       557,766  525,545
Customs Staff
Total Customs Cost/         2.06%    2.35%     1.85%       1.34%      1.92%        1.51%     1.74%
Revenue Collected
Salaries/Revenue            1.35%    1.41%     1.06%       1.25%      1.36%        1.17%     1.28%
Collected
Declaration/Staff             N/a       N/a       137         232        261          638      480


Evidence shows that cooperation and discussion between the Customs Administrations and the
business community has been strengthened and this cooperation has an active role in the
modernization efforts of the Customs service. The established discussions ensure a direct
feedback mechanism from business to Customs. Namely, the Belgrade inland terminal initiated
and is maintaining the practice of holding bimonthly meetings with brokers where practices by
both sides in the clearance process and results are discussed with the aim to initiate improvements.
The SCA signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Serbian Chamber of Commerce thus
confirming the Chamber's relevance for the public-private dialogue and its position as a
knowledgeable and relevant partner for the discussion on border issues, liberalization, and
harmonization of procedures.

MCA strengthened its cooperation with the private sector by including the private business
associations and associations of brokers in the discussion of new regulations and provision of
training. In that sense, the MCA organized exams for broker licensing, which improved the




                                                 16

performance of the brokers, decreased mistakes in declarations and thus reduced time spent
during clearance.

Commendable success in the training of freight forwarders by the Chamber of Commerce
supported through the project led to the FIATA validation of the web-based material for the
training of freight forwarders in Serbia. This validation means that the Chamber is now able to
train professionals in freight forwarding with content that matches international expectations, and
is entitled to issue a FIATA Diploma recognized in most countries by professionals in freight
forwarding. Similarly the SCC received accreditation from the International Road Transport
Union, to deliver Certificate of Professional Competence for road transport operators, in line with
EU regulations.

Achievement of Objective (ii): To Reduce Smuggling and Corruption at Border Crossings.
The project resulted in reduced smuggling, as it (i) introduced selectivity and risk analysis which
allows better detection of irregularities, and (ii) provided new border control equipment for
detection by Customs. SCA developed a number of criteria for risk analysis, which showed good
results because in 27 percent of examined consignments, irregularities were found. The fully
equipped BCPs in Montenegro allow enhanced intra-agency cooperation in the integration of
information regarding taxation, security and money laundering. The installed communication
network leads to significant savings for communication. These novelties resulted in reduced
clearance times without compromising customs revenue collection or security objectives. Due to
the space for further improvement of irregularities detections, and particularly their notification,
achievements are rated satisfactory.

The project achieved its role in the reduction of corruption at border crossings, since it: (i)
supported the development of a new legislation framework and customs organizational structure,
ensuring effectiveness in corruption fighting; (ii) introduced procedures (electronic submission,
selectivity), which combined with the reduction in waiting times, reduced the opportunity for
corruption; (iii) established regular dialogue between the private sector and Customs, creating
fertile ground to combat corruption; and (iv) increased transparency in operations and allowed
access to information, which reduced the opportunities for corruption. Informal payments to
Customs however still exist and Customs needs to maintain its efforts to cease these payments.
Overall, achievements are considered satisfactory.

The wide training activities of the private sector going in parallel to the modernization efforts of
the Customs Administrations ensured increased understanding by these mainly small and medium
enterprises of the rules and procedures for goods clearance. Improved knowledge of procedures
was not only helpful in reducing the number of errors in filling out forms, but also provided a
check on unscrupulous officials by making the legal requirements for clearance more transparent,
thus helping reduce the opportunities for corruption. Evaluations of the training by the
participants confirmed the positive impact of the training by showing that 90 percent of them
rated the training as highly relevant and meeting their needs.

During 2006, both Customs Administrations carried out corruption surveys (detailed results are
available in Annex 5). Results are very encouraging as they show that the image of Serbian
Customs has significantly evolved from negative five years ago to more positive today. The
majority of Customs service users consider they are being treated by Customs on an equal footing
with other companies, that the behavior of Customs is more standardized, and that Customs are
fast (efficient) in performing customs procedures. As brokers and traders further improve their
awareness of new opportunities, through the improved dissemination efforts and regular meetings



                                                17

with Customs, this image should further enhance. It is these facts in conjunction with the decisive
move to penalize unethical behavior, while better rewarding staff that ensures the maintenance of
efforts to reduce corruption in the service. However, it must be noted, that informal payments to
Customs still exist and Customs must maintain its TTFSE initiated efforts to cease these
payments. An internal and external public relation campaign has been designed to that end to
clearly outline the rights, responsibilities and expectations of Customs and users.

Legislative and human resources measures combined with the increased public insight in
Customs work resulted in the reduction of corruption instances and opportunities. The MCA open
line in the enforcement department, allows citizens to directly phone and report irregularities in
the application of Customs procedures and regulations. The Ethics Code of Public Servants and
Officials further defined integrity topics of Customs officers. In June 2006, MCA carried out a
survey on the level of corruption in the Montenegro Customs Service. The report confirms
noticeable improvements in all categories (transparency, equality, standardization of procedures,
ability to lodge a complaint, frequency of petty payment). Corruption in Customs is assessed as
Low-medium (2.26 out of a 1 to 5 scale). As in the case of the SCA, curbing informal petty
payments remains a challenge.

Further outcomes by component are presented in Annex 2.

3.3 Efficiency

The project had an estimated net present value of US$35 million, based on the methodology used
during the project appraisal. Reduction in border processing time was considerable (over 73
percent on average at pilot sites between 2002 and 2007). It started rapidly with the introduction
of selective control at the project outset, and traffic turned out to be much higher than anticipated
for both Serbia when international traffic through the Pan-European Corridor X resumed and for
Montenegro as Montenegrin trade expanded. The economic rate of return was above 50 percent
and the net present value much higher than the originally forecasted US$10 million. The total
annual savings for users, resulting from reduction in border crossing time at pilot crossings is
estimated at US$18 million annually as of 2007. It is worth noting that in line with the overall
project objective of facilitating trade, both Serbia and Montenegro experienced solid trade
expansion during the project life, which is not considered directly as part of the analysis since it
results from many different factors. It is likely that the estimated trade benefit equivalent to 20
percent of transport benefits (US$3.6 million per annum as of 2007) used in the evaluation is an
understatement of the actual impact of improved border crossings and clearance facilities. The
economic impact of laboratory equipment purchased under the project was not included in this
evaluation. The impact of the information system rolled out throughout the territory is not
calculated, although it is expected to be significant.

The fiscal impact of the project is considered very positive, as a result of improved procedures
and information systems for Customs throughout the country, in a manner that also supported the
seamless implementation of value added tax collection by Customs on imports. The two Customs
administrations increased their tax collections from US$400 million in 2001 to US$3.8 billion in
2006. The overall efficiency indicators also underline major improvement in Customs efficiency
over the period with a reduction in Customs cost to revenue collected to about 1.5 to 1.8 percent
on par with good performers in the region. Since the Customs Administrations are not revenue
earning entities, no financial rate of return were calculated. Part of the increase in revenue
collection can be associated to the enhanced processing by Customs, particularly at pilot sites.
The calculation of direct fiscal impact was however not possible since many factors played a role



                                                  18

(trade increase, reduction in tariffs, free trade agreements) and attribution of impact would be
highly subjective.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the discussion and ratings given in Sections 3.1, 3.2, and 3.3, the overall outcome is
rated as satisfactory.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The entire trade community including transport operators, importers and exporters, freight
forwarders were the direct beneficiaries of the projects as they benefited from (i) modernized
customs; (ii) proper facilities and information technology; (iii) lower expenses; (iv) more reliable
business environment; (v) time savings; and (vi) reduction of corruption. Travelers and tourism
benefited as well due to the shortened waiting times and improved travel conditions enabled by
the improved facilities and procedures.

The regional TTFSE website, funded through a parallel US grant, allowed access to all the
procedures and requirements of border agencies regarding trade and international transport,
thereby increasing certainty of the business climate. However, as some parts of the website were
not timely updated, its impact was limited. The improved transparency also reduced opportunities
for illegal payments. The electronic forum under the website empowered the business community
in the region and outside by enabling it to voice its opinion on the quality of the border services
received and to propose corresponding recommendations to facilitate trade and transport activities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
The project resulted in a substantial institutional change and strengthening of the Customs
Administrations. In Serbia particularly, the TTFSE project changed the minds and hearts of the
Customs workers. The institutional strengthening/change is evident through the following:

Procedural Changes in Customs Work. The project was instrumental in the implementation of
new concepts at pilot sites stemming from the new Customs Codes, which introduced new
procedures such as: selectivity and risk analysis, simplified procedures, direct trader input,
electronic submission of declarations, introduction of red/green channels at airports. It further
supported the training of customs staff in the use of equipment provided through the project.

Modernization of IT System. The project provided for the creation and implementation of a new
IT system that enabled the operationalization of the new procedures. In addition, it allowed for
the improved communication between BCPs and headquarters and exchange of information
between border agencies.

In Serbia, the project supported the design and preparation of the first phase implementation of
the single electronic window, further creating possibilities for faster and cheaper goods clearance.

Human Resources Management in Customs. TTFSE strengthened the management capacity of
the Customs Administrations through the introduction of new human resources management
organizational structures and introduction of anticorruption systems. Customs Administrations



                                                 19

have now the tools to better run. As explained in section 3.2, staff productivity improved
significantly over the implementation period. The Customs Administration increased their
capacity for public relations.

Monitoring Performance. A key achievement of the project was the adoption of performance
monitoring as a managerial and operational tool of Customs.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts

No major unintentional impacts or outcomes of the project were noticed.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

See Annex 5.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low

The aim for accelerated integration toward the EU represents a major incentive to sustain the
achievements of the project and continue progress on customs reform and improvements in the
control of corruption.

The implemented reforms are considered an irreversible event as it is unlikely that development
outcomes could be jeopardized due to the following:

    i)    Project Supported Values that are Critical to Fulfilling the Long-term Objective
          of Achieving Sustainable Growth. Continuous upgrading of the Customs services,
          procedures, management, and equipment based on a re-engineered budget would
          enable Customs to cope with trade and traffic growth, technological advance, and
          continued compatibility with the EU.

    ii)   Project Outcomes and Goals are Deeply Embedded in the Customs Program. The
          project goals are now incorporated into Customs objectives as part of its annual plan,
          key staff at pilot sites is supportive of the program reforms, and capable of moving
          forward with support from upper management; and strong commitment from MOF to
          the program are the main factors which strengthen the sustainability on development
          outcomes since they have resulted in continued pressure on Customs to continue
          expansion of program concepts.

    iii)  High Public Awareness and Interaction between Private Sector and Customs. The
          wide publicity given to the achieved results, and the availability of public information,
          makes it difficult for government to backtrack. The risks are controllable as
          transparency in Customs operations is ensured through the newly designed procedures
          and legal framework. Local oversight and private sector participation make all relevant
          institutions more accountable.

    iv)   Performance Monitoring. Monitoring using key indicators will be continued beyond
          project life, as Customs management is determined to follow-up on performance
          monitoring. In addition, Customs management is determined to gradually roll out
          monitoring to all border and Customs inland locations. This suggests that the gains



                                                20

           under the program will likely be lasting and extended to cover the totality of the
           Customs crossing points.

    v)     Inter-agency and Cross-border Cooperation. The approach and culture promoted
           through the project are further supported by the EU-funded program on Integrated
           Border management (IBM).

    vi)    Second TTFSE Project. The MOF has already initiated activities for the preparation
           of the second Trade and Transport Facilitation Program, agreeing with its extended
           objectives for integrated border management and increasing the role of border agencies.

The Chamber of Commerce indicated that it will likely continue to offer some training courses to
be funded primarily by the participants. Regional cooperation is likely to continue, especially
among the SECI PRO committees in view of the strong Chamber of Commerce and private sector
interest in these fora.

Risks that require specific mitigation measures and monitoring for the maintaining of the
development objectives are as follows:

    i)     Coordination among agencies at the national level, which although improving is
           essential to achieve the two main program objectives. Customs has managed to
           establish itself as a potential `lead' agency that would take on the responsibility for
           coordination, however it has to continuously receive high-level government support in
           order to be able to maintain coordination between the numerous agencies with border
           competences.

    ii)    RSC Meetings. It is unclear whether the RSC meetings of the Customs Directors will
           be continued after the program has ended. The extent to which the RSC will be
           sustainable depends on country interest and ownership.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Satisfactory

Bank performance during the identification, preparation and appraisal of the project was
satisfactory. The project was prepared in an optimal period of six months by a core team of two
specialists with a good skill mix (customs specialist, and transport/trade facilitation specialist)
with a consistently good working relationship with the Borrower. Such a skills mix ensured that
the modernization issues were handled from all relevant aspects, which in turn resulted in a well
targeted project for trade and transport facilitation within a broad modernization framework. The
team was assisted by three additional specialists, including a procurement specialist, an IT
procurement specialist, and a financial management specialist. The extensive collaboration and
consultation with all beneficiaries and other affected groups ensured adequate identification of
needs, priorities and necessary interventions, and secured strong country ownership from the
preparation stage. In addition, the project was prepared in collaboration with the US government,
European Commission, and relevant UN agencies.




                                                  21

The role of the project at the time on inception was critical to maintain the momentum for
customs modernization and support the envisaged reforms.

The team considered project alternatives to include civil works in the project and cover only the
Federal Customs Administration and correctly decided against both of them. Namely, the design
stressed the importance and urgent need of support to the modernization of processes, which
represent the core of customs improvement. Modernization of border facilities was considered a
focus of the other donors, chiefly the activities of the EU. The inclusion of MCA in the project
allowed the improvement of customs processes and was further seen as an opportunity to
continue cooperation between the administrations, particularly in corruption fighting and trade
facilitation efforts.

The project rightly pointed out to potential political risks and identified adequate safeguards in
the loan agreement and project component design. The team adequately took into consideration
the time span between the last WB projects in the country and the TTFSE project and lack of WB
procedures experience thereof. In accordance with the Borrower fiduciary capacity assessment,
staffing of the PIT was completed at appraisal and necessary training was planned.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

The ICR considers the Bank's performance during the implementation of the project as
satisfactory, having remained flexible and responsive, in the context of major constitutional
changes, with strong impact on Customs. Despite the split of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
into two new countries, the project managed to achieve its objectives through a highly intensified
supervision effort and strong leadership from Customs Management in the second half of the
project. Aside from regular and formal supervision mission, a full range of tools were used to
maintain the momentum:

    (i)      regular interactions between Task Team Leader and PIT to both prepare and follow
             up missions;
    (ii)     formal supervision missions twice every fiscal year;
    (iii)    close interactions between the field-based Project Officer and PIT;
    (iv)     monthly report from US Team on performance at pilot sites;
    (v)      PIT quarterly progress reports;
    (vi)     meeting with the National Coordinator and PIT Manager at Regional Steering
             Committee meetings (twice a year);
    (vii)    regular   meetings     between     Bank/Client   team   with    UNCEFACT/Stability
             PACT/WCO/UNCTAD/UNECE;
    (viii)   quarterly participation in regional meetings of public private committees for trade
             and transport facilitation representing all TTFSE countries; and
    (ix)     frequent conference/video calls to keep track of progress.

Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised
and closely monitored. The Bank's relationship with the client was cordial and productive.
Review teams included specialists in customs, trade facilitation, IT, transport, financial
management, and procurement, allowing the adequate handling of all arising issues.
Implementation progress was adequately reported, and implementation problems were identified
early and addressed proactively. The field-based Project Officer ensured close follow up on such
aspects. Performance ratings given in the Project Status Reports (PSRs) were realistic, and
sufficient attention was paid to the project's likely development impact.


                                                  22

Supervision paid careful attention and made effective use of Monitoring and Evaluation as a tool
for management, oversight, and public promotion. Indicators were consistently discussed with the
Borrower thereby allowing the planning of procedural/legal/technical improvements to be
initiated. Supervision reports were sufficiently detailed and well written and highlighted key
issues, with action plans for next steps.

Stakeholders expressed unvarying praise for the responsiveness and expertise of World Bank staff
and consultants. Working relationships with the second largest co-financing donor, the US State
Department, have been effective, although impacted by limitations placed by the US Congress on
technical assistance programs to Serbia.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed in Section 5.1
(a) and (b), Overall Bank Performance is rated as Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Government performance is rated satisfactory. During preparation, the borrower showed the
necessary level of commitment to the project by initiating and carrying out the initial reform
measures. The Federal Government endorsed a comprehensive Modernization Strategy for the
FCA and the Montenegro Customs Administration drafted a new Customs Law for Montenegro
and prepared a Modernization Strategy. The Government put in place the necessary legislative
framework, allowing selectivity, mandating Customs to act as trade facilitators, and introducing
electronic submission of declarations. The PIT was sufficiently staffed as per the agreement with
the Bank and necessary preparations for implementation were timely undertaken.

Both the FCA and the MCA actively participated in the work of the Regional Steering Committee
and hosted it on two occasions: June, 2002 and June, 2005.

Effectiveness was postponed due to the following reasons: the delays in the finalization of the
Customs Law and the delays in the engagement of the financial auditors.

The government maintained its reform strategy during project implementation both in the
legislation modernization and in the introduction of the new organizational structure of the
Customs Administration. However, the departure of the FCA management team, which had
defined the project for Serbia, combined with the turnover of PIT staff, significantly impeded the
implementation and disbursement of the project during the first two years of implementation.
During this period, both legislative and technical modernization in the FCA showed some
stagnation with limited engagement by FCA management to address the lack of progress. This
resulted in the project becoming a potential problem project at that point. The situation reversed
in 2004, when the new management of FCA took a strong lead in the modernization process,
accelerated its pace, ensured stronger ownership at all levels and achieved most of the intended
objectives.




                                               23

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Implementing Agency
Montenegro Customs Administration
Serbia Customs Administration

Changes in the Serbia and Montenegro Constitution and the redefinition of responsibility in the
Serbian Customs Administration made the coordination effort more difficult over several months.
During this period, the PIT lacked proper project planning, partly reflecting the institutional
changes in the initial implementation period. Coordination among all units participating in the
project was inadequate and efficient flow of information had to be re-established following the
reorganization in the SCA.

Serbia Customs Administration
The Serbia Customs Administration was strongly committed to achieving the development
objectives, although it experienced a management setback at an early stage, which was later
resolved, as explained above. The PIT was adequately staffed. Despite the frequent changes in
staff members at the beginning of the project, the National Coordinator and the PIT Manager
managed to create a PIT with sufficient knowledge and dedication to the project. The PIT was
provided sufficient resources to perform well. Financial management of the project was
satisfactory with positive audit findings. Reporting was timely and sufficiently detailed.
Procurement faced difficulties in load of work, which in combination with the limited experience
with Bank operation and language barrier for certain technical issues, at several occasions led to
delays. However, the commitment of the PIT members and the committed support from the Bank
team enabled the function to be carried out in a satisfactory manner and in accordance with World
Bank procurement procedures.

The PIT communicated well with the Bank, and other donors, and followed up on agreed next
steps and recommendations. In several instances, and particularly for performance indicators, the
SCA went beyond initial expectations and developed even more valuable tools to review progress
in real time.

As the project progressed, the PIT, together with the SCA grew to become the leaders of the trade
and transport facilitation efforts in the country, gaining the respect and cooperation from all
relevant border agencies and continuously maintaining dialogue with the private sector.

Montenegro Customs Administration
The MCA Project Implementation Team consisted only of the Project Manager from the MCA,
supported by the MCA IT department as all financial, procurement and reporting tasks were
performed by the PIT in the SCA, based on the documentation provided by the MCA. Still, the
staff at the MCA showed support and actively participated in the implementation of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Based on the Bank performance during lending phase and supervision as discussed in Section 5.2
(a) and (b), Overall Borrower Performance is rated as Satisfactory.




                                                24

6. Lessons Learned

        High Level Government Support is Key to Success. Building a tradition of inter-
agency communication and information sharing as well as building the mechanisms on which
such communication can be based, needs a high-level government commitment and ideally a
champion. Such a person/agency needs to be able to direct concerns to the highest levels of
management in the ministries responsible for the agencies engaged in border control. This implies
knowledge of the national political system and the power to navigate through that system.

        Reliance on Champions can Backfire. While modernization champions play a major
role in bringing projects to successful closure, as shown by the massive progress since 2004 in
Serbia, champions are frequently targeted by outside interests, who would rather avoid the type of
change and disruption brought by those champions. It is particularly applicable during politically
volatile period as was experienced under this project. The departure of champions impacted the
project in two ways: (i) momentum built during project preparation was interrupted early on and
took until 2004 to resume; and (ii) initial investments in communication devices were made
redundant after the 2004 change in the IT strategy of the SCA, which decided to rely on a
different approach to rebuild the communication network.

        Interagency Cooperation at Border Cross Points. Trade facilitation is always a multi-
sectoral and multi-agency activity. For a project of this type where seven to eight agencies are
involved, their active participation and cooperation are essential for successful implementation
and achievement of project, objectives and also to ensure sustainability. A cooperative culture
should be encouraged and promoted from the top down by the management of regulatory
agencies.

        Work Culture. A central task in the reform process is the formation of a new work
culture. Centrally this means adding the facilitation dimension to the current culture of control
and regulations. Senior management in border crossing agencies need to encourage new attitudes
and to be trained with the change management skills necessary in order to promote such a new
culture.

        Commitment of Local Teams at Border Points and Inland Terminals. Government
and implementing agency commitment to the modernization process must pass on to the
commitment and ownership of the local teams at the border points and inland terminals, as it
ensures active support to the modernization efforts and initiates grass root ideas and activities
toward the goal. In addition, delegation of authority to agents at the border crossing is also
essential for enabling sustainable change and promoting pragmatic approaches to problem
resolution.

        Pilot Sites should be Established on Both Sides of the Border. Border crossing points
function as complete systems, requiring actions to increase capacity on both sides of the border to
operate effectively. The functioning of the Gradina (Serbia)  Kalotina (Bulgaria) border crossing
is evidence that lack of progress at the border point for one country where there is no pilot project
(Kalotina) or limited capacity negatively affects efficiency at the other side where there is a pilot
project (Gradina). While delays still occur at this border crossing and some others, the solution to
this problem can only marginally be influenced by Serbia alone at this stage. Two TTFSE II
projects in Bulgaria and Macedonia respectively have been recently approved and are expected to
increase border processing capacity on the other side of the Serbian border to bring capacity on
par and further reduce delays.



                                                 25

        Importance of Ongoing Cooperation between Operational Staff and IT Staff.
Modernization of border processes begins with the revision of procedures but necessitates that
these procedures are followed by the introduction of new IT solutions for improved
communication between traders and agencies, and timely exchange of information between
agencies. The cooperation between operational staff and IT staff ensures that operational needs
and procedural modernizations will be translated into new IT options.

        Parallel Modernization of all Border Agencies. Customs, although the lead agency in
the trade facilitation process, is insufficient, by itself, to ensure the smooth operation at the border
site. The multi-sectoral and multi-agency nature of border processes requires that all actors
improve their performance so as to ensure proper operation. Parallel modernization efforts by all
agencies would ensure that they would be able to keep with the strong pace set by Customs.

        The Replication and Scaling up of Lessons Learned in Trade Facilitation to Other
Sites. This must always be set within the specific context of the site where the application is to
take place, as well as take into account relevant national systems impacting on trade. The
application action plan needs to be prepared on a comprehensive basis with the ownership of the
various stakeholders that are involved. The economic rate of return for such replication is
considerable.

        Private Sector Involvement is an Essential Part of Trade Facilitation. Such
involvement enables an adequate analysis of the trade patterns to find the main bottlenecks and
identify optimal measures for improvements. Also, it must be ensured that the capacity building
and modernization of the private sector is analog to the reforms in Customs, so as to ensure that
introduced reforms are applied in private operations.

Bank-related Lessons

        Result-oriented Approach. The main characteristic of the project was that it was result
oriented with measurable indicators. This unique quality was a major factor which contributed to
the success of the project.

        Regional Approach. With a regional approach, it is possible for a project to achieve
better results than a stand-alone project. This approach creates peer pressure among the
participating countries, which in turn generates competitive spirit and motivation amongst them
to perform better.

Other

        The Contribution of the US as a Parallel Financier Contributed Significantly to the
Success of the Project. The US State Department Grant was instrumental in improving public-
private partnership, especially in light of the Government's reluctance to borrow for technical
assistance to the private sector. Likewise, US Customs financed the permanent presence of
Customs advisor in Serbia and Montenegro, to help with data collection, monitoring indicators,
and improving the risk-management system, assistance which of key importance to improvement.

        The Close Cooperation with CAFAO as Another Key Provider of Technical
Assistance to Support the Implementation of the Project also Contributed Greatly to the
Success of the Project. The difference of approach between the TTFSE project and the CAFAO
program proved to be highly complementary providing the SCA and MCA with an appropriate
mix of systemic improvement and results on the ground. The positive cooperation spirit


                                                    26

established early on in project implementation led to a constructive program for both the SCA
and MCA.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/Implementing Agencies (See Annex 6).

The strongly supportive comments raised by both the SCA and MCA illustrate the very close
interactions and cooperation that took place under this project. Early challenges in terms of
implementation capacity are duly noted.

(b) Cofinanciers. (See Annex 7).

The supportive comments raised by CAFAO illustrate the close cooperation that took place under
this project to enable both the SCA and MCA to achieve their modernization goal.

(c) Other Partners and Stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

N/A




                                             27

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
          Components                                                    Percentage of
                                  (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                       millions)          Appraisal

FCA MODERNIZATION                        2.86               1.81            63%
MCA MODERNIZATION                        0.37               0.46            105%
SUPPORT TO SCA
INFORMATION SYSTEM                       4.82               5.96            124%

SUPPORT TO MCA
INFORMATION SYSTEM                       0.76               1.05            139%

TRADE FACILITATION
DEVELOPMENT                              0.50               0.50            100%

PROGRAM AND PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION                           0.49               0.27            55%


            Total Baseline Cost          9.79              10.05            103%

Physical Contingencies                   0.66

Price Contingencies                      0.53
             Total Project Costs       10.98               10.05            92%

Note: Donor funds are only estimated since it was not handled through the project
financial management system


(b) Financing
                                                Appraisal    Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds            Type of     Estimate       Estimate     Percentage
                                  Cofinancing     (USD
                                                millions)   (USD millions) of Appraisal

Borrower                                      1.08         0.55            51%
Donors (estimated): US, CAFAO                 3.14          2.10           67%
International Development
Association (IDA)                             6.76         7.40            110%




                                           28

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Project Component 1

A-1. Modernization of the SCA

The project had a particularly important role in the mind-set change of customs officers, who
have shown a continuously improved performance, and grass-root leadership. Anecdotal evidence
show that at the advanced stage of the project, monitoring of performance produced peer pressure
between BCPs, creating a productive atmosphere that encouraged initiatives on improving
interagency cooperation and adapting border procedures to trade and traffic needs.

a) Technical Services to Coordinate, and Integrate Modernization Elements, and Donor
Contributions Aimed at Supporting Processes Changes. Cancelled

b) Technical Services to Review Law, Regulations, and Guidelines to Fulfill Customs
Functions, while Facilitating Legitimate Trade, in Cooperation with Other Agencies. This
component primarily supported the creation of new Customs legislation in line with EU
requirements and strengthened inter-agency cooperation.

In cooperation with the CAFAO team, Customs produced the new Customs Code incorporating
standards from the EU Blueprints in order to reach EU compatibility.

Considering that critical bottlenecks in border processing and clearance pertains as much to other
border agencies as they do to Customs, the project supported the enhancement of interagency
cooperation. Since the end of 2004, all border issues are discussed by the Government Committee
for border crossings, incorporating representatives from the SCA, Border Police, phyto-sanitary
agency, veterinary agency, ecology inspection. As such, this Committee has allowed the
opportunity for ongoing coordination between all relevant border agencies and national
institutions. By 2007, enhancement has been achieved and is evidenced by the following changes
in border operation:

    (i)    January 2006 - SCA assumed radiology examinations from the ecology inspection;
    (ii)   since July 2006, the phyto-sanitary and veterinary inspections have been operating non-
           stop at BCP Batrovci; and
    (iii) agricultural inspection has been operating non-stop at the BCP Horgos.

As necessary, prior to these events, Customs officers increased their material knowledge for
inspection through training. Also, they developed skills to handle new equipment as the newly
acquired responsibilities required.

The SCA produced handbooks explaining in detail the new border procedures, rules of customs
work, treatment of clients, standards for control, thereby ensuring the uniform application of
procedures, and strengthening the reliability of customs procedure.

c) Technical Services to Support the Introduction of a Preventive and Enforcement Service
in the Federal Customs Administration (SCA). The Internal Affairs Unit was established in
2004, following the 2003 preparations undertaken with the assistance of CAFAO in the auspices
of SCA.



                                                 29

"Train the Trainer" seminars were held in order to equip the new Educational Training Center of
the SCA with Customs staff which will further train the remaining staff. The Internal Affairs Unit
compiled an integrity test to be taken yearly by all customs officers already employed. In addition,
disciplinary procedures have been elaborated to officers so as to ensure clear understanding of the
rules.

The Internal Affairs Unit introduced the "Fact Finders" team with the Support of US Customs,
consisted of mid level management officers and representatives from the Internal Affairs Unit to
follow corruption cases. Staff for the "Fact Finders" was trained through the project and they will
be put in operation during 2007.

d) Technical Services to Introduce New Customs Procedures, Supported by Training. The
project initially supported (through expertise assistance and study trips) the work of the Working
Group established to develop the concept of risk analysis and risk assessment. Selectivity in
customs control was introduced in the Customs Code of July 2003, following which the first pilot
customs houses were established and training for customs officers initiated.

The introduction of selectivity was also followed by the establishment of the new Risk Analysis
Unit. In 2004, the new Risk Analysis Operation Center started to function. This center processes
field information and communicates it to the Risk Analysis Unit in order for them to prepare
selectivity criteria.

e) Technical Services to Strengthen Human Resource Management. This component
supported the introduction of an anti-corruption strategy in the SCA and establishment of a staff
management system to support the realization of the strategy. The SCA strengthened its internal
control mechanisms and introduced training for staff.

The image of Customs has significantly evolved from negative five years ago to more positive
today, as confirmed by the Customs survey. The majority of Customs service users consider they
are being treated by Customs on an equal footing with other companies, that the behavior of
Customs is more standardized, and that Customs are fast (efficient) in performing customs
procedures. As brokers and traders further improve their awareness of new opportunities, through
the improved dissemination efforts and regular meetings with Customs, this image should further
enhance. It is these facts in conjunction with the decisive move to penalize unethical behavior,
while better rewarding staff that ensures the maintenance of efforts to reduce corruption in the
service.

The MEDIA GALLUP survey of over 400 companies interacting with Customs in Serbia, as part
of the performance monitoring framework developed for the project, with particular focus on the
incidence of corruption in Customs confirmed this improvement. [See Annex 5] The full report
was made available to Customs. Based on the findings of the survey SCA prepared: (i) internal
campaign within the SCA (called `Integrity first'), to be followed by a (ii) public campaign. The
principal goal of the campaigns was to clearly reiterate both internally and externally that petty
payments to accelerate the process are illegal and would no longer be permitted. The internal
campaign produced a series of activities (Director's address to all customs staff, ID cards and new
Customs gazette) telling the story of customs modernization, results achieved and reconfirming
the SCA's aim to professional attitude, integrity at work and results-drive. The public campaign
presented the achievements of customs during the project, particularly in fighting corruption. A
substantial part of the campaign targeted freight forwards and brokers, informing them about their
professional responsibilities' but also clearly and explicitly informing them that petty corruption
is not permitted and will not speed up processing.


                                                 30

f) Equipment to Improve Quality and Efficiency of Checks. Pilot sites were equipped with
surveillance and inspection equipment (forklifts, portable and fixed scales, and mobile lights).

Project Component 2

A-2. Modernization of the MCA

1. Procedure Modernization

a) Organizational and Procedural Review and Related Reforms at Border Stations and
Clearance Terminals, Supported by Necessary Legislative and Administrative Changes. A
new Customs Law and Law of Customs Service were adopted in accordance with the relevant
European Union legislation and with cooperation of experts of CAFAO. For the purpose of
establishing the adequate organizational structure in September 2002, the MCA adopted a Rule
book of the organization and systematization of jobs within customs service, and it established a
Department for control together with Departments for suppression of smuggling, customs
investigation, and work on investigation. Also, internal control was introduced with the
establishment of the Department for Interior Control directly responsible to the Director General
of Customs. In February 2006, MCA adopted the National Strategy for IBM.

Aiming to improve the public relations of Customs, MCA appointed a public relations officer and
trained the officer through the project. In June 2006, MCA published a Guide for access to MCA
information, published on the MCA website and its notice board.

The modernization of the MCA has included the reduction of corruption, which is a result from
the following activities: (i) setting up an Internal Affairs Unit; (ii) penalizing unethical behavior;
(iii) educating the Customs officers and the public about the responsibilities of Customs; (iv)
introducing faster procedures; and (v) increasing transparency of work and access to Customs
information by the private sector (through the MCA published Guide for the access to the MCA
information, posted on the website and its notice board), (vi) introducing the "open line" to report
unethical behavior by customs. Working jointly with the SECI/TTFSE advisor, in January 2005,
the MCA introduced an open line in the enforcement department, allowing citizens to directly
phone and report irregularities in the application of Customs procedures and regulations. The
Ethics Code of Public Servants and Officials further defined integrity topics of Customs officers.
In June 2006, MCA carried out a survey on the level of corruption in the Montenegro Customs
Service. [See Annex 5] The full report was made available to Customs.

Customs officers were trained in control, customs security and anti-smuggling.

MCA designed a Rulebook on frame, contents, the way of presentation and filling the customs
declaration and summary application. In cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism, MCA
designed an Action plan for the preparation of the 2005 Tourist season and in its frame it
organized English language courses for customs officials.

The project supported the enhancement of interagency cooperation which has shown an
improvement tendency. The MCA succeeded in ensuring that the commercial banks operating at
the BCPs prolong their working hours until 7pm and start operating on Saturdays as well. This
change has impacted the flow of traffic at the border as it introduced greater flexibility for traders
and alleviated the pressure on the BCP during short periods of the day.



                                                  31

b) Introduction of Selectivity and Targeting in Montenegro. The MCA established a Sector
for Control and Customs Services, in whose auspices, the Sector for Risk Analysis System was
established. Employees of the sector were trained on risk analysis and selectivity. The Risk
Strategic Committee, Selectivity and Targeting Teams have been set up and the Risk Manager
has been appointed. The system rollout took place in late March 2007, as part of the rollout of the
upgraded Customs software application.

The risk analysis system, supported by the project procured servers for risk analysis, and enables
the analyzing of risk profiles, their re-evaluation based on field reports, and risk profile adequate
re-adjustment. Podgorica has been successful in using the risk analysis criteria and constantly
detects irregularities, which have sometimes exceeded the set targets.

Project Component 3

B-1. Support to the SCA Information System Improvement

1. Consulting Services. The SCA established a Working Committee to prepare and propose new
technology within the new Customs procedures, which would serve as a base for further upgrade
of the present IT System. By the end of 2004, an IT Development Strategy was confirmed and
adopted by the Ministry of finance. The strategy incorporated prior consultation with UNCTAD
and CAFAO.

The SCA management and the Risk Analysis Unit have encouraged customs offices to start to
develop regional criteria for risk analysis, which would be better adjusted to the needs of specific
regions, and fight against irregularities more efficiently. Such cooperation with the local customs
officers gives ground for better risk criteria and detection results.

SEW. The project supported the realization of SCA's initiative to create a single electronic
window environment in the clearance procedure. An intergovernmental project team was formed
to identify the pilot sites (one border crossing and one inland terminal) and goods subject to the
SEW and to monitor the implementation of the pilot project. The PIT consisted of representatives
of Serbian Customs, the MOF, the Ministry of Agriculture - the phyto-sanitary and veterinarian
inspection agencies and the outside consultants, contracted by the MOF. Prior to this, the project
also supported the production of a feasibility study on possible implementation of SEW concept
in Serbia. Customs has now received the support of the remaining agencies participating in the
border process as they have expressed interest to undertake all necessary measures from their side
for the realization of this project.

The risk analyses model was put in use. In 2005, electronic submission of customs declaration
was implemented at all customs points. Direct trader input (DTI) which enables the submission of
Customs documents straight into the SCA system was introduced. The project supported the
definition of functions for the DTI module. Following, the data base, system and application were
created.

2. Hardware

The project purchased and delivered to SCA new IBM servers AS/400 and PC servers,
workstations, printers, standard software, DBMS, and provided technical training for their use.
Also the necessary equipment (hardware) for SEW implementation was purchased. Equipment
for verification and clearance of legitimate traffic (busters, pagers, illuminating devices, mirrors);
forklifts; mobile weighting devices were delivered.


                                                  32

Communications and Processing Infrastructure including LAN technologies, WAN technologies,
and security technologies were provided and staff was trained to use these technologies.

Project Component 4

B-2. Support to the MCA Information System Improvement

1. Hardware

The upgraded information system enabled the introduction of electronic submission of
declarations (DTI) and better connection with Banks. The developed web-based interface for the
MCA transit system opens it up for electronic submission of transit declarations.

Also this ICT platform ensured system reliability, network connectivity, and enabled enhanced
broker notification, TARIC implementation, inward/outward procedure enhancements, and
advanced passenger information.

The fully equipped BCPs allow enhanced intra-agency cooperation in the integration of
information regarding taxation, security and money laundering. The installed communication
network leads to significant savings for communication.

All major BCPs were equipped with work stations connected with the MCA headquarters through
telecom networks. Mid 2005, electronic submission of declarations was introduced. MCA
introduced a new information system and enhanced its communication network, as twenty BCPs
installed 2Mb connections. This network capacity supports remote video surveillance and Voice
over Internet Protocol (Vo/IP). MCA was provided with a new server, storage and
communication technologies were installed in its central system room.

2. Software

Seventy risk profiles have been developed and input into the risk management system. As
experience is gained, the risk profiles will be fine tuned, or dropped if not productive. Further risk
profiles will be developed on the basis of detection or exemptions (e.g., under an export
promotion scheme). The risk management system provides the ability to test run a risk profile
against historical data before going live to ensure the "hits" occur at a reasonable rate. It also
provides analytic and statistical reporting functions. Guidance materials and a manual for the
Intelligence Department (Headquarters and field staff) to manage the risk profiles were also
produced.

Project Component 5

C. Trade Facilitation Development

1. Strengthening of Private-Public Partnership. This component supported the activities of the
SCGPRO Committee which met the main stakeholders from the private sector, Chambers of
Commerce, and the public sector, MOF and SCA. SCGPRO established strong membership,
offering a forum for private and public representatives to discuss border issues, liberalization, and
harmonization of procedures, in partnership with other PRO Committees in the region. A
permanent joint body with representatives of transporters and Customs was established.




                                                  33

Evidence shows that cooperation and discussion between the SCA and the business community
has been strengthened and this cooperation has an active role in the modernization efforts of the
Customs service. The established discussions ensure a direct feedback mechanism from business
to Customs. Namely, the Belgrade inland terminal initiated and is maintaining the practice of
holding bimonthly meetings with brokers where practices by both sides in the clearance process
and results are discussed with the aim to initiate improvements.

SCGPRO organized 10 seminars in cities across Serbia and Montenegro, with over 650
participants, including representatives of the public sector to discuss possibilities for PPP on the
development of facilities on Corridor X. Also, it issued a guidebook "Public Private Partnership -
Travel Plazas on the Corridor 10", in the national language consisting of the materials which had
been developed during the seminars. The seminars were free of charge and every participant got a
PPP Manuel, the brochures of PPP Project and of the SCGPRO Activates, the CD with the all
presentations on the seminars, and on the end, each of them got the Certificate of taking a part in
the seminar. This project was financed by the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs of the
U.S. State Department, trough the Embassy of USA, in Belgrade.

Public Outreach. SCGPRO printed several brochures, posters, informing about the activities of
SCGPRO and informing about the TTFSE website. Also, it published articles in newspapers
discussing trade and transport issues and providing updates on the activities of the Committee.
SCGPRO issued a book International Trade-Rules of Origin, on national language.

Regional Cooperation. SCGPRO actively participated in the meetings of the PRO Committees
of SEE to discuss trade facilitation issues. In addition, the Committees organized a bilateral
meeting with the MAKPRO regarding the BCP Presevo - Tabanovce, bringing together
representatives of both customs agencies, presidents of two Chambers and private sector and
signed a protocol for cooperation.

TTFSE Website. The Chamber of Commerce signed a Memorandum of Understanding for
continuous providing of information needed for the realization of the website www.ttfse.org with
all relevant agencies and ministries. The website offered information on procedural/document
requirements on the border agencies in Southeast Europe. It showed variations in the provision of
relevant information to the business community. The deficiencies faced in the information
uploading process restrained the website from achieving its full impact.

2. Improvement of the Performance of Trade Facilitation Agents. The Serbian Chamber of
Commerce marked commendable success in its training of freight forwarders program supported
through the project as its web-based material for the training of freight forwarders in Serbia in
accordance with the Study Guidelines prepared by FIATA was successfully validated at the
FIATA World Congress in Shanghai, hold in September 2006. This validation means that it is
now able to train professionals in freight forwarding with content that matches international
expectations, and is entitled to issue a FIATA Diploma recognized in most countries by
professionals in freight forwarding. Similarly the SCC received accreditation from the
International Road Transport Union, to deliver Certificate of Professional Competence for road
transport operators, in line with EU regulations. The Course spans over 355 hours. The 16
individuals that completed the course during the pilot phase included 4 women. The majority was
aged between 30 and 39 year old and had professional experience in freight forwarding. They
particularly valued the opportunity to be independent in their learning, to ensure that it would fit
their busy schedule.



                                                 34

Seminars. The Pro-Committee successfully organized seminars on topics such as:
    (i)   trade and transport documents;
    (ii)  insurance;
    (iii) Incoterms, commercial documentation, and methods of payment;
    (iv) International electronically paying;
    (v)   Customs procedures (EU) and electronically related documents; and
    (vi) business ethics,

thus organizing 36 seminars in 23 different cities and reached out to a total of 1208 participants
(Foreign trade companies, Producers (importers, exporters), Forwarders (Customs agents), Road
transporters, Banks, Transport agents) in Serbia and Montenegro since project start. Participants
were given the opportunity to experience theoretical as well as practical or hands-on training,
which was helpful in reducing the number of errors in filling out forms, which was an important
source of clearance delays at the border. It also provided a check on unscrupulous officials by
making the legal requirements for clearance more transparent, thus helping to reduce the
opportunities for corruption. Evaluations of the training by the participants confirmed the positive
impact of the training by showing that 90 percent of them rated the training as highly relevant and
meeting their needs.

The SCGPRO and NO ICC jointly organized the workshop "Electronic transport documents and
pre-arrangement of documents for export and import", in the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. The
workshop informed the attendees about the new system of doing business in the sphere of
electronic international trade and transport, which would lead to faster, and more efficient trade
transactions, customs formalities and international transport.




                                                35

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

The project had an estimated net present value of US$35 million, based on the methodology used
during the project appraisal. Reduction in border processing time was considerable (over 73
percent on average at pilot sites). It started rapidly with the introduction of selective control at the
project outset, and traffic turned out to be much higher than anticipated for both Serbia when
international traffic through the Pan-European Corridor X resumed and for Montenegro as
Montenegrin trade expanded. The economic rate of return was above 50 percent and the net
present value much higher than the originally forecasted US$10 million.

The total annual savings for users, resulting from reduction in border crossing time at pilot
crossings is estimated at US$18 million annually as of 2007. It is worth noting that in line with
the overall project objective of facilitating trade, both Serbia and Montenegro experienced solid
trade expansion during the project life, which is not considered directly as part of the analysis
since it results from many different factors. It is likely that the estimated trade benefit equivalent
to 20 percent of transport benefits (US$3.6 million per annum as of 2007) used in the evaluation
is an understatement of the actual impact of improved border crossings and clearance facilities.
The economic impact of laboratory equipment purchased under the project was not included in
this evaluation. The impact of the information system rolled out throughout the territory is not
calculated, although it is expected to be significant.

Costs

The project costs were slightly higher than what had been originally anticipated in the Project
Appraisal Document (+US$0.4 million), primarily due to exchange rate fluctuations. The total
project cost was increased to US$9.9 million versus a US$9.5 million original cost estimate.
Costs were spread over five years instead of three as originally foreseen, reflecting delays in
upgrading the Customs information systems. For donor funded project costs, the original
estimates were kept, spread over the life of the project. Other costs are based on the disbursement
information in the Bank project portal since the project funded all costs except the amount
equivalent to taxes.

Project Benefits

The project expected two types of benefits: (i) lower transport costs due to the diminution of
waiting times at border crossings and inland terminals; and (ii) economic benefits of trade
expansion resulting from the project.

Trade and Transport Cost Reductions. The savings on transport costs at the pilot border
crossings and the inland terminal where performance was measured under the project are
estimated at US$18 million by 2007 versus US$8 million at appraisal. Delays at border crossings
and inland terminals (see Table 1 and 3) have been substantially reduced with an estimated 73
percent processing time reduction on average for the seven pilot sites. These benefits were
significantly higher than projections made in the project appraisal document, primarily because
traffic for and through Serbia and at the Podgorica terminal in Montenegro grew much faster than
the estimated 6 percent forecast at appraisal. Initial benefits appeared early on with the adoption
of selective processing (a condition of effectiveness), although the largest increase in benefits
really materialized in 2006, as the impact of the new information systems in Serbia and
Montenegro started to be felt throughout each country. The daily cost of trucks (US$350 for 24
hours) did not evolve significantly in the region due to intense competitive pressures (see



                                                   36

Progress report 2004 and ICRs for other six TTFSE projects) and remained in line with the
appraisal estimate.

Economic Impact of Increased Trade. The link between trade facilitation, trade expansion, and
Customs revenue collection clearly exist but is difficult to quantify, due to the multiplicity of
other factors influencing the macro-economic development and trade of the TTFSE countries.
Company competitiveness, in particular their ability to deliver reliably their inputs in
international supply chain, depends nonetheless on their capacity to assess border transaction cost
(direct and time cost) with a fair degree of certainty. Since 2001, Serbia and Montenegro, and
other countries involved in the TTFSE program enjoyed strong growth of their trade volumes. For
Serbia, trade increased from US$6.5 billion (2001) to US$16.7 billion (2006). In the meantime,
Serbian Customs collected revenues increased from US$316 million to US$3.56 billion. For
Montenegro, trade increased from US$623 million (2000) to US$1.8 billion (2006). In the
meantime, Montenegro Customs collected revenues increased from US$84 million (2001) to
US$262 million (2006. These macro performances are not directly attributable to the TTFSE
project, but rather reflect deep industrial and economic changes witnessed in both countries, as
well as a broad range of technical assistance programs, such as the TTFSE project and European
Commission supported-CAFAO program.

For the purpose of the economic rate of return calculation a very conservative 20 percent of
additional transport benefits linked to increased trade was added, or about US$3.6 million per
annum, as per the approach used during appraisal. The 20 percent coefficient is based on broader
research (Venables) available at time of appraisal and considered appropriate by peer reviewers.
Recent research in this field (Trading on Time  January 26, 2006  WB) indicates that, on
average, one day of delay reduces trade by at least 1 percent. Considering Serbia and Montenegro
trade of US$18.5 billion, a reduction of 1 day could translate into U$185 million of additional
trade. Considering the significant reduction in border crossing and clearance time, the consequent
trade increase and the trade gain economic benefit linked to shorter time and improved market
access are likely to have been significant, albeit difficult to quantify. Accordingly, the ICR
economic evaluation retained the appraisal assumption instead.




                                                37

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team Members

            Names                        Title               Unit   Responsibility/
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Gerald Ollivier          Task Team Leader                   ECSSD Task Team Leader

Michel Audig            Program Team Leader                ECSSD Program Team
                                                                  Leader
Michel Zarnoviecki       Senior Customs Specialist          ECSSD Customs Specialist
Graham Smith             Lead Transport Specialist          SASE1 Transport Specialist

Irina Luca               Lead Procurement Specialist        AFTPC Procurement
                                                                  Specialist
                                                                  Financial
Bogdan Constantinescu    Financial Management Specialist    ECSPS Management
                                                                  Specialist

Joseph Paul Formoso      Senior Disbursement Specialist     LOAG1 Disbursement
                                                                  Specialist
Gennady Pilch            Senior Counsel                     LEGEC Legal Counsel
Kenneth Gwilliam                                                  Peer Reviewer
James Walsh                                                       Peer Reviewer (IMF)
Marie Laygo              Program Assistant                  ECSSD Program Assistant
Supervision/ICR


Gerald Ollivier          Sr. Transport Specialist           ECSSD Task Team Leader


                                                                  Operations
Miroslav Frick           Operations Analyst                 ECSSD Analyst/Project
                                                                  Officer
                                                                  Resource
Michael Gascoyne         Senior Resource Management Officer CSRRM
                                                                  Management Officer
                                                                  Procurement
Plamen Stoyanov Kirov    Procurement Specialist             ECSPS
                                                                  Specialist
                                                                  Procurement
Devesh Chandra Mishra    Senior Procurement Specialist      ECSPS
                                                                  Specialist
Craig R. Neal            Senior Public Sector Specialist    ECSPE Information Systems
                                                                  IT Procurement
Ireneusz Smolewski       Senior Procurement Specialist      ECSPS
                                                                  Specialist
                                                                  Implementation
Vladimir Skendrovic      Consultant                         ECSSD
                                                                  Specialist
Liljana Sekerinska       Consultant                         ECSSD ICR Author
Marie Laygo              Program Assistant                  ECSSD Program Assistant




                                           38

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of Staff Weeks    USD Thousands (including
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY01                                       4                        17.32
  FY02                                      34                       164.12
  FY03                                                                 0.00
  FY04                                       2                         0.98
  FY05                                                                 0.09
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 0.00
                            Total:          40                       182.51
Supervision/ICR
  FY01                                                                 0.00
  FY02                                                                 0.00
  FY03                                      16                        80.68
  FY04                                      13                        78.11
  FY05                                      17                        68.20
  FY06                                      19                        75.20
  FY07                                      10                        43.49
                            Total:          75                       345.68




                                        39

Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

During 2006, the SCA contracted the agency MEDIA GALLUP to perform a structured survey of
over 400 companies interacting with Customs in Serbia, as part of the performance monitoring
framework developed for the project, with particular focus on the incidence of corruption in
Customs. The survey explored perceptions and experience with Custom control, treatment,
services, and border officers, and compared the situation in 2006 with year 2002 (start of project
implementation), while focusing on: equality and stability of treatment; perceptions of process
and procedure of customs services; perceptions of process and procedure of other border services;
awareness and problems related to laws and regulations; procedure problems; logistical problems;
and existence and nature of informal payments. The full report was made available to Customs.
The survey involved transport companies, freight forwarders and traders mostly of small to mid
size (below 200 staff), with about 30 trucks on average crossing the borders per month.

Results are very encouraging as they show that Serbian Customs made very visible progress since
2002, based on these results. All categories (transparency, equality, standardization of procedures,
ability to lodge a complaint, frequency of petty payment) improved markedly. The survey shows
that companies consider there is equality in treatment between different companies, and that
procedures with shipments are more standardized than in 2002. Also, they consider themselves
better informed about the procedures - 90 percent stated they are familiar with their rights and
obligations. A high 70 percent see improvements in this aspect compared to 2002.

                                           Percentage of                 Percentage Who Saw
                                     Respondents Who Agree              Improvement Compared
             Topic                   or Mostly Agree in 2006                    to 2002
 Serbia
 Fair Treatment                                  81                                30
 Standard Processing                             80                                75
 Transparency of                                 92                                73
 Requirements
 Efficiency                                      67                                47

Aside from those who saw improvements, others considered the situation was mostly similar.
Very few surveyed individuals indicated that there had been a worsening in these four parameters.

Customs is pointed out as the most improved border agency among border agencies (5 in total) in
the 2002-2006 period (32 percent).

The survey was also closely focused on the incidence of corruption (of administrative nature).
Corruption in Customs is assessed as Medium (2.89) in Serbia by respondents.

In Serbia, 78 percent stated that they paid no bribe (53 percent) or had to pay rarely (25 percent)
in 2006 in order for their shipment to cross the border or to be cleared. In terms of frequency,
payments are far less frequent than in 2002 as shown on the graph below (for the part of the
sample who indicated they paid bribes in 2006). Bribing is perceived a little harder for 31
percent of respondents compared with 2002. Forty-two percent of respondents indicated that their
last informal payment took place in 2006. In the majority of cases (54 percent), the monthly
frequency does not go above 5 times (most frequently 1-2 times).




                                                 40

At the same time they recognize that informal payments are happening less frequently than in
2002. The average payment is 32 euros, similar to the value in 2002. This information is also
confirmed by other data and statistical analysis, which also informs that values given have
remained similar in the 2002-2006 period (about 30 euros, never exceeding 50 euros). By
considering the usual average value for informal payment and the goods, the survey concludes
that informal payments are usually "small gifts", either in money, either in cigarettes or drink.
The main stated reason for bribing or providing a gift to officers is to accelerate processing (62
percent of respondents who gave a bribe). This data indicates that for some company
representatives processing is not fast enough, and that they are ready to do what ever is possible
to speed it up.


                         Compared with 2002, in 2006, do you have to
                        give gifts or bribesmore frequently to Customs
                       officers when your shipments cross the border or
                           are cleared? BASE: 128-THOSE WHO HAD
                               EXPERIENCEWITH BIBERYIN 2006

                                      Far more DK/NA          No
                              More        2%        1%        6%    Far less
                               2%                                      17%



                         The same                                        Less

                            38%                                           34%




In June 2006, MCA carried out a survey on the level of corruption in the Montenegro Customs
Service. All categories (transparency, equality, standardization of procedures, ability to lodge a
complaint, frequency of petty payment) improved markedly. Respondents confirmed in a high
majority (92 percent) that they were or were mostly treated on an equal footing with other
companies by Customs in 2006. Compared with 2002, three-fifths of company representatives
said that Customs treated them on the same equal footing. They believe to be aware of their rights
and obligations toward Customs (88 percent of cases), and compared to 2002, 81 percent of them
said they are more familiar now.

More than half of the respondents (54 percent) said that in 2006, Customs were faster in
performing customs procedures than in 2002. In 71 percent of cases, respondents said that the
Customs was efficient in performing customs procedure in 2006. Every third interviewed
company representative answered that the Customs had improved their work since 2002.

                                  Percentage of Respondents             Percentage Who Saw
                                      Who Agree or Mostly            Improvement Compared
            Topic                        Agree in 2006                         to 2002
Montenegro
Fair Treatment                                  92                                36
Standard Processing                             93                                90
Transparency of Requirements                    88                                81
Efficiency                                      71                                54




                                               41

Aside from those who saw improvements, others considered the situation was mostly similar.
Very few surveyed individuals indicated that there had been a worsening in these four parameters.

Among border agencies (5 in total), Customs came out as the agency that improved the most.

The survey was also closely focused on the incidence of corruption (of administrative nature). In
Montenegro, 91 percent of respondents stated that they paid no bribe (77 percent) or had to pay
rarely (14 percent) in 2006 in order for their shipment to cross the border or to be cleared. Asked
whether compared with 2002, in 2006, respondants have to give gifts or bribes more frequently to
Customs officers only 14.3 percent considered the situation unchanged, and 4, 5 percent claimed
it had worsened.

                               No                                     77.3%


                          Far less 1.3%


                              Less  2.6%


                         The same        14.3%


                             More   3.2%


                         Far more 1.3%




In terms of value in Montenegro payments tend to show an increase. The main stated reason for
bribing or providing a gift to officers is to accelerate processing (69 percent of respondents who
gave a bribe). Bribing difficulty is perceived as similar to 2002. Twenty-two percent of
respondents indicated that their last informal payment took place in 2006. In the vast majority of
cases (54 percent), the monthly frequency does not go above 5 times (most frequently 1-2 times).




                                                 42

Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

A. The Republic of Serbia (Prepared by the SCA Project Implementation Unit)

1. Project Objectives

The Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project, for the Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia which forms a part of a regional program, had two development objectives:
       a) to reduce non-tariff costs to trade and transport, and
       b) to reduce smuggling and corruption at border crossings.

This report will comprise only indicators achieved and comments for Serbian Customs
Administration.

Measures through which it was planned to achieve these objectives were:
     Supporting Customs modernization,
     Improving the Customs information system,
     Creating a Single Electronic Window for trade at the federal level under the leadership of
        the Federal Customs Administration (SCA),
     Strengthening mechanisms of interaction and cooperation among border control agencies
        and with the trading community,
     Disseminating information and providing training to the trading community (private
        sector),
     Providing equipment to improve enforcement, and
     Implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of new Customs procedures, information
        technology, human resource management techniques, and cooperation mechanisms for
        border agencies, including shared access to information and intelligence systems, and
        training for interagency awareness.

Measures and development objectives of the Project were extremely relevant and important not
only for Serbian customs but for the state an economy as a whole. Earlier, the Republic Serbia
was under sanctions for 4 years and after that trade relations were not established with foreign
market and international financial organizations did not want to cooperate whit our state. After
the fall of Milosevic`s regime in October 2000 the recovery of our country started. The World
Bank was the first one who approached the SCA and offered help and assistance in customs
modernization and economic recovery through participation in original TTFSE program.

2. Suitability of Project Design

The project was designed on customs modernization  modernization of customs administration,
customs procedures, implementation of new concepts and capacities, to improve private-public
partnership and to and its procedures, on strengthen regional cooperation.

The project consisted of the following four components:

a) Modernization of the SCA, including technical assistance in preparation of laws, bylaws and
administrative regulations, introducing some new customs procedures, assisting in the SCA
reform, monitoring operations at five pilot sites and provide training in different areas.




                                                  43

b) Support to SCA Information System Improvement, through introduction of new architecture,
open platforms, modern program languages and necessary training.

Note: Project and Credit Agreement anticipated customs IT system that was sketched at the
beginning in one way, using PC platform as a base. After changing the Director General of the
FCA at that time, the management of the IT Division was changed completely and also the whole
concept of the IT system. This caused, among other things, big delay in project implementation.

c) Trade Facilitation Development (US Grant Funding Sought for this Component), including
providing information for original TTFSE web site.

d) Program and Project Implementation with operating costs for travel, translations and PIT
support.

The project design was suitable to meet the objectives and pushed forward the SCA in customs
modernization. However, a few performance targets could not be met, because of the lack of
experience of the SCA during negotiating Project and Credit agreement, which made the
identification of proper targets quite complex. This specially refers to the category of discovered
discrepancies and the target 4-12%.

Monthly measurements showed improvement at these pilot sites, especially related to the
reducing of times of delay, except on the BCP Gradina where exit times of delays often exceeded
12 hours even reaching 24 hours sometimes for reasons outside Serbian control that the World
Bank was informed about. Having in mind situation at the beginning of the project the SCA made
great improvement with the assistance of the STAT team and the World Bank's experts  best
results achieved at the BCP Presevo in reducing average entry time to 22 minutes.

The initial project closing date of September 30th 2006 was extended until March 31st 2007 due
to the need of finishing some procurement procedures and launching some new ones.

This project extension did not caused any changes in project design.

3. Suitability of Implementation Arrangements

Implementation arrangements were suitable for Project implementation.

All components were implemented by the SCA, except trade facilitation development component,
which was implemented together with the PRO Committee of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce.

Component on Institutional Reform on Customs Procedures was implemented with the assistance
and technical support to the SCA by the STAT team and CAFAO ream.

The World Bank prepared the Project Implementation Plan for the TTFSE PIT in respect of
procurement procedures and financial management as well as organization and functionalities of
units within the PIT. The PIT applied all the procedures from the PIP in the prescribed way and
the KPMG Company had not had any remark in respect of the procedures from this two areas.

Financial Management Unit was established in the SCA, and it was responsible for financial
disbursement under the TTFSE project.




                                                44

Procurement Unit was established in the SCA and was responsible for preparation of all tender
documentation and whole procurement process.

The SCA IT system improvements was built on the basis of the IT Development Strategy, which
was produced with the outside assistance and adopted by the SCA Management, the Ministry of
finance and the World Bank. After adopting IT Development Strategy the foundation, upgrade of
the customs IT system started to be built. The Ministry of Finance provided its support for its
improvement.

Improvement of border crossings component has been done together with the State Directorate
for construction and the State Directorate for State Property.

4. Project Implementation

Project implementation experienced different situations during its rolling out. It ranged from total
support under the first and present management to total ignorance under the second management.
It reflected mostly on IT improvement because the managers of the IT Division acted in the same
way as their respective Directors General.

Project implementation was mostly carried out by the PIT, foreign advisory teams (again mostly
STAT) and local pilot teams in the field. Serbian Chamber's PRO Committee was also of the
highest assistance.

Project implementation commenced as originally planned and a number of activities have
proceeded within the original timeframe. Again, different periods showed different stages of
development. In Serbian customs case, the World Bank, the Task team was pushing us in the
right direction all the time.

On the other hand, some activities started with some delay, mainly due to the fact that some
documentation, meaning technical specifications for equipment couldn't be produced in time and
correctly due to the lack of knowledge and experience of the PIT and local procurement unit.

The Bank was responsive and flexible in making any additional adjustments, in assisting and
supporting the PIT in reaching accepted obligations.

5. Project Cost and Financing

The total final cost of the project is higher in US$ than the original estimate. The difference is
mainly in currency amounts due to currency fluctuations in the years of project implementation.

6. Project Benefits

The main beneficiaries of the project are Ministry of Finance, SCA, border agencies, Serbian
Chamber of Commerce and economic operators.

Performance indicators showed that project resulted with positive achievements in reduction of
waiting time at pilot sites, as a result of introducing selectivity and risk analysis criteria and better
interagency cooperation. The project contributed to the better cooperation between customs
administrations in this region and reduced smuggling. Also, the main result was the change of
mindset of the customs officers at the field at pilot sites and in some units in the Headquarters.



                                                   45

Through the project, web site, which provides information about requirements of border agencies,
was introduced.

Improved IT system of Customs Directorate enabled networking of all customs locations and
modernized its equipment.

7. Borrower's Performance

The Borrower's and implementing agency's performance was satisfactory until June 2003 and
after March 2004, and specially after phone conference in October 2005 (when the World Bank
demanded improvement of performances of pilot sites Terminal Belgrade and BCP Presevo 
now pilot sites with best performances).

8. Bank's Performance

Bank's performance has been highly satisfactory both in the preparatory phase and in project
implementation. The Bank's team has established a very effective relationship with the Borrower
and its implementing agency. Supervision and procurement review were performed in a timely
manner, providing advice and assistance to the Borrower and PIU whenever needed.

9. Lessons Learned and Recommendations

     Tough situations require the definition of joint solution through common efforts from the
        PIT, customs management and the World Bank.
     The WB Country office should maintain closer contacts with the borrower during project
        implementation.
     The WB training courses in procurement, disbursement and financial management are
        always useful.
     The WB flexibility, as it was in our case, removes jeopardy during project
        implementation.
     Financial unit within the PIT should be decreased to the person responsible for financial
        affairs (disbursement, accountant, financial management).
     Procurement unit should consist of at least two persons because of the number of actions
        that must be taken in respect of the WB procurement rules.

B. The Republic of Montenegro (Prepared by the MCA Project Implementation
Unit)
            1. Introduction:

TTFSE is a regional project joined by the former Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in November
2001 on the Fifth meeting of the Regional Steering Committee RSC.

Having in mind the strategic decision of the Republic of Montenegro to develop tourism and
tourist economy, the Customs joined this Project, among other things, in order to facilitate and
accelerate the transportation over the border crossings.

Since the Montenegrin Customs Administration took over the administration work in the customs
system area by the Decree on the Amendments to the Decree on Organization and Functioning of
Public Administration (Official Gazette RM 31/99), both Montenegrin and Serbian Customs have
been included in the program.



                                                46

The divergence between the formal state status (Federal/Republic) and the actual situation  two
independent customs services, as well as the uniform approach of the World Bank to both
services in line with their formal status, initially created difficulties and led to initial delays in the
project realization, particularly during 2002 and 2003. For example, the date of effectiveness for
the development credit was extended to allow conditions of effectiveness to be met by the Federal
level, even though the Montenegrin Customs Administration had already satisfied all the
requirements for credit effectiveness.

Establishing a single Project Implementation Team with four members out of five being from
Serbian Customs Administration has also greatly slowed down the project realization, due to
difficulties of communication and tensions at times.

Since the establishment of the State Union of Serbia and Montenegro and later on, the two
independent states, this situation has changed in a way that the Montenegrin Customs took over
almost all the work of the Project Implementation Team from its competence in direct
communication with the World Bank Office in Belgrade.

         2. Project Objectives:

The Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project had two main development
objectives:

             a) the reduction of the non-tariff costs of trade and transport
             b) the reduction of smuggling and corruption at the border crossings

The realization of these objectives was planned through the provision of the following measures:

        a) Support to the Customs modernization through technical assistance in the
             development of internal control service, customs officials' integrity and reduction of
             customs officials' corruption;

        b) Improvement of the Customs information system through the procurement of server,
             communication and desktop computer equipment, as well as through upgrading the
             existing application solution with the risk management system;

        c) Strengthening the border interagency cooperation mechanisms by signing the
             Memorandum of Understanding and development of Integrated Border Management
             Strategy;

        d) Strengthening of cooperation mechanisms between the Customs and the business
             environment through the technical assistance in the development of public relations
             activities and improving the public reputation of the Customs;

        e) Directing and accelerating the transportation at border crossings and inland terminals
             through organizational and procedural measures and improvement of working
             conditions with the necessary equipment;

        f) Facilitating the passenger circulation at the border crossings in order to improve the
             quality of tourist service.



                                                   47

In order to monitor the project realization the two pilot sites were determined: the border crossing
toward the Republic of Croatia  Debeli Breg and an inland terminal in Podgorica.

The parameters for performance measurement at the pilot sites were determined in order to show:

             Time and the amount of costs needed per shipment;

             Efficiency and effectiveness of Customs according to the trade volume, collected
             revenue and total costs according to the number of employees;

             Performance of all border authorities at one border crossing, i.e. pilot site.

Indicators at the pilot sites included:

         a)    Number of physical or document inspections and their efficiency;
         b)    Total time needed to process a shipment;
         c)    Total number of processed vehicles in standard time;
         d)    Observed corruption.


         3. Project Implementation:

All the Project components were implemented by the Montenegrin Customs Administration
except for the component of developing the trade facilitation, the realization of which was under
the competence of the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce.

The realization of the Customs modernization through the development of a special internal
control unit, development of customs officials' integrity, anti-corruption fight and development of
public relations activities was performed with the support of the SECI team which provided
technical assistance to the Montenegrin Customs Administration.

The customs information system improvement, i.e. the procurement of computer equipment and
software solutions, as well as the procurement of other necessary equipment, was performed by
the Customs Administration through the application of transparent public procurement methods
laid down by the World Bank Procurement Guide in accordance with the prescribed procedure.

The implementation of certain project activities went relatively according to the plan. Certain
falling behind schedule was, as mentioned, the result of the uniform approach to its realization
even though there were two completely, formally and essentially, separate Customs. That resulted
in the postponed beginning of the customs and tax reform implementation. The absence of a
separate Project Implementation Team in the Montenegrin Customs Administration, as well as
the absence of the necessary training for the customs officials included in the Project also affected
the slowing down of its realization. Besides, the implementation dynamics depended in some
cases on the appropriate decisions made on the state level.

In all the cases the Bank was very responsive and flexible when needed and greatly supported the
Montenegrin Customs Administration in preparing the necessary documentation and applying the
prescribed procedures.




                                                 48

The World Bank team established a very successful cooperation with the Montenegrin Customs
Administration and customs officials engaged in the Project realization by performing the timely
supervision and document revision, giving advice and providing the necessary help.

         4. Funds Spent:

Total available funding exceeded the initially projected one as a result of the exchange rate
variation in the years of the Project realization.

         5. Project Results and Benefits:

At the end of this Project the Customs information system covers 100 percent of the customs
terminals for freight traffic and around 70 percent of passenger border crossings.

Almost 75 percent of the total number of the submitted customs documents was submitted
electronically.

The risk analysis system was implemented and it is functioning successfully.

Introduction of the risk management system, better cooperation of the border authorities and
organizational and procedural measures resulted in a significant reduction in time needed to
process a shipment, simultaneously causing the reduction of the non-tariff costs of the economy.

The Project also contributed to a better cooperation of the customs services in the region in
eradicating smuggling and cross-border criminal activities.

The installed equipment and improved working conditions at the border crossings, apart from
speeding the traffic, also influenced better performance of the physical freight inspection and
significantly facilitated the passenger circulation.

In the Customs Corruption Survey performed in 2006, the Customs got the mark- intermediately
lower corruption level, and its work was evaluated as significantly improved compared to 2002.

There is increased work efficiency of the Montenegrin Customs Administration and in that way, a
greatly increased revenue collection.

Therefore, apart from the Customs Administration of Montenegro, the benefits of the project exist
also for the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Montenegro, other border authorities and first
of all, the business community.




                                                  49

Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

From CAFAO

The Customs and Fiscal Assistance Office (CAFAO) is a programme funded by the European
Commission (EC) with a view to assist in the capacity building process of the Customs and Tax
Administration of countries in the Balkan Region, and it currently has offices in Bosnia, Kosovo,
Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia. CAFAO has been active in the Region since 1996 and it
started its work in Serbia in 2002, assisting the Serbian Customs and Tax Administration in areas
including Legislation and Procedures, Trade Facilitation, Audit, Human Resource Management,
Training, Enforcement, VAT, Excise and others.

From the very beginning CAFAO Serbia has strived to establish a close cooperation with a
number of International Agencies coordinating assistance projects in Serbia, including the World
Bank, whose representatives are still kept apprised of all relevant CAFAO activities through
regular GTZ/World Bank Donor Coordination Meetings.

One of the main areas in which CAFAO had an opportunity to cooperate closely with the World
Bank is the Trade and Transport Facilitation in Eastern Europe (TTFSE) programme, launched in
2001, whose goals coincided with those of a number of CAFAO sub-projects, primarily trade
facilitation, integrated border management, and risk analysis. The introduction of targetted
physical examinations of goods at Border Crossing Points and Risk Analysis systems based on
principles of selectivity, supported by both the TTFSE and CAFAO programs, significantly
reduced clearance times at all BCPs, which was demonstrated by the results measured at the
TTFSE Pilot Sites. CAFAO also welcomed the World Bank request to accept responsibility for a
number of areas previously covered by the US Advisory Team for the TTFSE Project, including
the modernisation of procedures at TTFSE Pilot Sites, IBM assistance, and IT assistance.

CAFAO also gave its full support to the SCA in bringing EU experience in Customs information
systems and utilising in an optimal way the loan approved by the World Bank for the
modernisation of the SCA IT System, which allowed the SCA to bring major improvements to its
IT and Communications infrastructure, including the replacement of all of the old AS/400 servers
that were supporting its IT Network with brand new ones, cutting their number down from 120 to
60 (approx). The procurement of modern IT equipment funded from the World Bank loan
enabled the CAS IT Sector to finally achieve 100 percent network coverage of its Customs
Territory, by including all CAS Customs Posts and BCPs into the IT System.




                                                 50

Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office-Reports, and Project Status Reports
2. Quarterly Reports prepared by Borrower
3. STAT Monthly Reports
4. Corruption Survey in the Republic of Serbia
5. Corruption Survey in the Republic of Montenegro
6. Feasibility Study SEW
7. Business Strategy and Plans for the MCA for the period 2006-2007
8. Joint Portfolio Review Serbia and Montenegro, March 2006, ECSPS/ECCU4
9. Project Appraisal Document for the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia for the TTFSE, dated
   May 07, 2002 (Report No. 23888-YU)




                                             51

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              IBRD 31815R1

                      Salzburg
                                                              15                           Bratislava                          20                                                                  25 Chernivtsi                                                                    30
                                                                                                                                    Miskolc
                                    A U S T R I A                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Yuzhnoukrayinsk
                                                                                                                                            Nyregyhza                                                               W  Siret
                                                                                                                                                                         Satu Mare                                                           M    Balti
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
                                                                                                Gyor
                                                                                                   "                                                                                                                                                                         U K R A I N E
                                                                                                                      Budapest                Debrecen                             Baia                                   Suceava                O
                                                                                                                                                                                   Mare
        Lienz                                                     Graz                                                                                                                                                                               L
                                                                                               Szkesfehrvr                                                                                                                                          D
                                                                                                            H U N G A R Y                                    Oradea                                                                                          Chisinau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Iasi             O
                                      Villach                                                      V                                                                                                                                                                 Chisinau
                                                                                                                             Kecskemt
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Piatra-                              Leuseni
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           V      Tighina
                                                            Maribor                                              V   X      IV                                                                                      Neamt
                                  SLOVENIA                                                                                                                            Cluj-Napoca                                                                           A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Bacau                                          Palanca
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Bacau
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Odessa
                           Ljubljana                                   Macelj                                                                                                                      Targu Mures

                                                                                                      Pcs               Szeged                                                                                                                IX
                                                                        Zagreb                                                                        Arad                                                                                               Cahul
                  Trieste                            Jankomir                                                                 Horgos                                                 R O M A N I A
    Venice                                                                 X

                                       Rijeka                     Karlovac  CROATIA                    Osijek                                                                        Sibiu                                      Focsani
45                                                      Maljevac W           Gradiska         Slavonski                                                                                                        Brasov
                                                                                               Brod
                                                                               WNovi                  Samac
                                                                                                 W                           Novi Sad                                                      IV

                   Pula                                                         Grad                  W
                                                                                         Bosanska              Zupanja                                        IV                                                                             Braila
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               

                                                                   C  Izacic             Gradiska                                                                                   Ramnicu
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Buzau                                                                                             45
                                                                      Bihac                                C  W      Batrovci
                                                                                Banja    Banja                                                                                       Valcea
                                                                                 Luka    Luka      Orasje GunjaC
                                                                                                    Doboj            Raca                                         Drobeta-
                                                                                                                                                                    Turnu                             Pitesti Ploiesti
                                                                                                            Tuzla          Belgrade                                Severin
                   A                                                            BOSNIA AND
   SAN                                                                                      Travni                                                                                                                        Bucharest
   MARINO                 d                                                       Jajce
                              r                                              HERZEGOVINA                                            SERBIA                                   Craiova
                                 i                                                                                                                                                                                                              Constanta    C  Constanta
                                     a                                          D Kamensko                                                                      Vidin                                        Giurgiu
                                                                                                  V                                                                   W
                                          t                                                             Sarajevo                                                                                                        Rousse
                                              i                            Split                                                                                                                                                                                                         B l a c k
                                                                                                 Konjic                                                                                         VII                 C Rousse
                                                 c                                          Grude                                                        X                                                         IX                      Dobrich                                           S e a
  I T A L Y                                                                     Gorica D      Mostar                                                                                        Pleven
                                                                                                                                                           Nis             IV

                                                                                          D Doljani
   Tern                                                                                                  MONTE-                                                   X                                                                                    Varna


                            Pescara                              S                                                                                                                        B U L G A R I A
                                                                                                                                                            Gradina
                                                                     e                                    NEGRO
                                                                         a             Dubrovnik                                                                                                     Plovdiv               Sliven
                                                                                                          Podgorica                             Pristina
                                                                                                                                                                     Sofia                                                          VIII      W  Bourgas
                                                                                        Debeli Breg                                                              Pernik
Rome                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Bourgas
      SOUTHEAST EUROPE REGION                                                                                                               Presevo        Deve                                    Stara Zagora

    TRADE AND TRANSPORT                                                                                                                                    Bair  C  Gyueshevo
                                                                                                                     Shkodr      C                    C      C
FACILITATION IN SOUTHEAST                                                                                                  Morina       Tetovo           Tabanovce
                                                                                                                                    Kumanovo        Skopje
         EUROPE PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                        Kapitan
                                                         Foggia                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                    Gostivar          FYR                       Cotse                                            Edirne
                                                                                                                                                                               Delchev                       Andreevo

                                                                                                           Durres                   VIII
              PROJECT*:                                                                                               Tirana               MACEDONIA                           Kulata
                                                                            Bari                             Durrs        Tirana                                            W                                                                 IV
          W                                                                                                                           Kafasan
             Naples
               INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT                                                                                               C  Struga        Prilep
          D                                                                                                                                     X
               DESIGN PROJECT                                                                                                    W                                                                                                                                Istanbul
                                                                                                                   Elbasan  Qafe        Ohrid                                                                                                                                     Kadiky
               PILOT BORDER STATIONS                                                                                       Thane                Bitola
                                                                                                                                                                          IV                                                                                                                                  Sakarya

               PILOT INLAND TERMINALS                                                                              ALBANIA                                        X

          C    COMBINED PILOT AND INFRASTRUCTURE
                                                                                  Taranto                                      Kor                                                                                                                                                           Golck
                                                                                                                                                                       Thessaloniki
40       II  PAN EUROPEAN TRANSPORT CORRIDORS                                                 Lecce         Vlor                                                                                                                                                                         T U R K E Y
              MAJOR ROADS                                                                                                   Ersek                                                                                                                                                 Bursa

    Mediterranean
              MAJOR RAILROADS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                40

              MAIN CITIES                                                                                                                G R E E C E
              NATIONAL CAPITALS                                                                                   Sarand
             Sea                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                          0      50      100     150     200                                                                                                                               Balikesir     shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                 15                                                                                    20                                     Larisa                                 25                                                     Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30
              *Subject to change as other projects are finalized.                           KILOMETERS                                       Trikala                                                                                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MAY 2007

