Report No. PID10672
Project Name                     Yugoslavia, Fed. Rep. of (SERB./MONT.)- (@)
Trade & Transport Facilitation in Southeast
Europe
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Vocational/Technical Education & Training;
Other Transportation
Project ID                       YFPE74090
Borrower(s)                      FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Implementing Agency
Address FEDERAL CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION
Address: 155, Bd Avnoj-a Str., Belgrade
Contact Person: Dragan Dragovic,
Milos Kostic
Tel: 381 11 311 6610
Fax: 38111 143 831
Email: dragovicd@fcs.yu
CUSTOMS ADMINISTRATION OF THE REPUBLIC
OF MONTENEGRO
Address: Bul. Oktobarske Revolucije 128,
Podgorica
Contact Person: Olivera Zivkovic
Tel: 381 81 623 322
Email: olivera@mn.yu
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                February 4, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                             January 31, 2002
Projected Board Date             March 28, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Foreign trade declined drastically during recent years due to the war and
sanctions. In 2000, exports (US$ 1.7 billion) were just over one-third of
their 1991 level and corresponding to a mere 19 percent of GDP, while
imports (US$3.7 billion) were around 60 percent of their 1991 level or 41
percent of GDP. Over the past ten years, FRY has been running a
considerable deficit on the merchandise trade balance, a slight surplus on
the service balance and a very large current account deficit. The
European Union is by far the largest trading partner with about 41 percent
of imports and 37 percent of exports. Trade data are relatively
unreliable due to significant under-reporting. The previous regime was
characterized by an import-substitution strategy implemented through
quantitative controls resulting in massive state patronage and pervasive
corruption. There was a dual exchange rate and substantial levies on
foreign trade transactions. Very significant progress has been made with
the reform of the trade policy system in the period since January 2001. A
new tariff structure with 6 rates and a weighted average of about 8
percent has been introduced in Serbia. Protectionist barriers like



licenses or quantitative restrictions on exports and imports have been
abolished. Traders in FRY, as in most of Southeast Europe, face excessive
logistical costs for their export, import and transit operations. Long
delays and costly procedures at borders increase the logistical costs and
force companies to carry excess inventories to ensure timely deliveries.
These non-tariff barriers have the same impact as protectionist measures.
With the currently depressed trade, road transport operators face delays
at border crossings comparable to delays in neighboring countries. In
addition to excessive waiting times, the Customs Administration is
perceived as one of the most corrupted institutions in FRY with frequent
requests for petty payments, as shown in recent corruption surveys. The
corruption survey results should however take into account that some users
provide bribes or gifts spontaneously at border crossing points and that
there is a tendency, when denouncing corruption, to mistake all border
staff for Customs officers. The new Federal Customs Administration (FCA)
management is committed to confront the legacy of the previous regime and
to act swiftly to reduce opportunities for corruption and punish
perpetrators -both users and Customs officials. The strategic implications
of these impediments are significant. While ten years ago road transport
through Yugoslavia was the normal route from Turkey to Europe an estimated
30 percent of Turkish trucks now completely by-pass the region using Ro-Ro
ferries between Turkey and Italy. The Turkish ferry fleet's rapid
expansion may lead to up to 60 percent of Turkish traffic opting for
maritime transport within the next two to three years. It remains to be
seen if the traditional transit route will regain its attractiveness. The
Customs function, as per Article 77 of the 1992 FRY Constitution, falls
under the jurisdiction of the Federal State. Montenegro has however
assumed control over the regulation of Customs and the collection of
duties and taxes on its territory. In July 2000, the Republic of
Montenegro adopted a Temporary Act on Customs Tariffs, introducing lower
tariffs than at the Federal level. The Montenegrin Customs Administration
operates de facto independently and the FCA primarily represents at
present the Republic of Serbia. Informal and active cooperation has been
maintained, however, between the two administrations, notably regarding
the maintenance of the information system in place. The two juxtaposed
systems create opportunities and incentives for corruption and smuggling.
Checkpoints have been established at the administrative border between the
two Republics to address this issue. These checkpoints create an
additional bottleneck for internal transit, isolating Montenegro and
reducing the competitiveness of transport through the Port of Bar.     {for
a full analysis of trade and transport facilitation please go to the trade
and transport sections of the Economic Recovery and Transition Program at
http://www.seerecon.org/FRYugoslavia/ERTP/pdf/ERTP_Vol_2.pdf}Government
StrategyThe Government was elected on a mandate of "breaking with the
past." The Yugoslav people have expressed a strong desire for a
fundamental shift away from this economic, social and institutional
legacy. The government is committed to a market-oriented economy strongly
linked to Europe, based on the lessons of transition in neighboring
countries. The FRY authorities have elaborated a vision of a society where
sustained, broad-based increases in living standards are generated by a
dynamic private sector that leads growth; one that is re-integrated into
the international economy, Southeast Europe and the rest of Europe, with
good governance and accountable public institutions.
The Government is pursuing ambitious reforms to liberalize trade, spur
private sector-led growth and restructure its financial sector. The
- 2 -



authorities are committed to developing a transparent and stable trade
regime, and promoting healthy private sector development, competition and
reduced barriers to new enterprises and banks. Federal trade legislation
has been revised to remove most quantitative and licensing import
restrictions. In parallel, work is under way to modernize customs rules,
prepare for a Stabilization and Association Agreement with the EU - the
first step towards eventual EU accession - and obtain membership in WTO,
all of which are essential to stimulate healthy export growth and private
sector development. The FCA has prepared a large scale modernization
strategy, aimed at achieving EU best-practice standards, based on the
implementation of the Geneva Convention on border controls. This strategy
includes a redefinition of the role of Customs and the introduction of
integrated border management, defined by objective. In that perspective,
the FCA would graduate like other Customs administrations in EU or OECD
countries   from an essentially revenue collecting activity to a more
global responsibility ensuring that all goods crossing the border are
subjected to the relevant legislation. This would lead Customs to : (i)
exercise a major support and eventually coordination role over all
controls performed by other border agencies and related to the import,
export, and transit of goods, with correlated streamlining of procedures;
and (ii) improve compliance through better detection and prosecution of
offences, and an expanded enforcement capacity. The Montenegrin Customs
Administration has also shown interest in preparing a modernization
strategy.The Federal Ministry of Transport and Communications has on its
side been very active to progressively re-access all major international
conventions like the TIR convention, to obtain better transit terms from
neighboring countries and to harmonize its rules and regulations with the
EU and other countries of Southeast Europe. FRY notably attended as an
observer the Regional Road Transport Committee hosted by Turkey in June
2001. This Committee, supported by the UNECE, plays a major role in the
harmonization of road transport related regulations in Southeast Europe.
See http://www.unece.org/trans/new_tir/seci/intro.htm for more details.
2. Objectives
The Project would seek two development objectives:     (i)  to reduce
non-tariff costs to trade and transport; and (ii) to reduce smuggling and
corruption at border crossings.The project is proposing to achieve these
objectives by: (i) supporting Customs modernization; (ii) improving the
Customs information system; (iii) creating a single electronic window for
trade at the federal level under the leadership of the Federal Customs
Administration (FCA); (iv) strengthening mechanisms of interaction and
cooperation among border control agencies and with the trading community;
(v) disseminating information and providing training to the trading
community (private sector); (vi) providing equipment to improve
enforcement; and (vii) implementing, at pilot sites, an integrated set of
new Customs procedures, information technology, human resource management
techniques, and cooperation mechanisms for border agencies, including
shared access to information and intelligence systems, and training for
interagency awareness. In Montenegro, the project will also focus on
facilitating passenger processing at border crossing points, to improve
the quality of services provided to tourists. Unlike other participants
in the TTFSE program, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (FRY) and the
Republic of Montenegro have received to date only very limited support to
implement a modernization program or improve border facilities. The
Federal Government adopted the FCA Modernization Strategy in November
-3 -



2001. The modernization process necessary to change institutional cultures
and ingrained behavior is expected to take a substantial time, about 8 to
10 years. The modernization involves simultaneous and sustained actions on
: (i) change in the legal framework; (ii) refining of staff profiles, and
hiring, training and deployment according to them; (iii) change in
administrative and operational procedures; and (iv) upgrading of
information technology and regional interconnection. This project will
provide support to implement the Customs modernization during the first
phase (three years) of the process. The project would support some
specific aspects of the modernization efforts of the Montenegrin Customs
Administration (MCA), notably related to processing at border facilities
and clearance terminals, as well as selectivity and targeting.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The regional dimension of the TTFSE program is achieved in full with the
inclusion of Yugoslavia. This inclusion allows a complete coverage of
Southeast Europe, all the more significant because of Yugoslavia's central
location for transit. Yugoslavia is expected to become a vigorous champion
in the regional efforts to modernize Customs and border agencies. This
will translate into fruitful regional exchanges about Customs
modernization, regional cooperation and simplification, or information
system compatibility. Performance measurements using the TTFSE
methodology will allow comparisons across countries. The partnership
between the TTFSE program and Chambers of Commerce/ PRO-committees will
also ensure a permanent link to the business community with rapid feedback
on their needs. Furthermore, the Bank, through its broader lending and
country assistance strategies, is well placed to help promote cooperation
and coordination of policies.
4. Description
The proposed project consists of the following components: Al.
Modernization of the FCA Includes: (i) Technical services to coordinate
and integrate the various modernization elements and support the change
process; (ii) technical services to review and revise laws, regulations
and guidelines to fulfill Customs functions while facilitating legitimate
trade, in cooperation with other agencies; (iii) technical services to
support the introduction of a Prevention and Enforcement Service in the
FCA; (iv) technical services to prepare and introduce new Customs
procedures and documentation, supported by training; (v) technical
services to strengthen human resource management; and (vi) equipment to
improve the quality and efficiency of checks. This technical support would
complement ongoing FRY efforts to implement the FCA modernization
strategy. A2. Modernization of the MCA Includes: (i) Organizational and
procedural review and related reforms at border stations and clearance
terminals, supported by the necessary legislative and administrative
changes; and (ii) the introduction of targeting and selectivity.      B1.
Support to FCA Information System ImprovementIncludes: Consulting
services, training and equipment for the information system to establish a
fully functional Customs system and the first phase of the Single
Electronic Window Initiative. This initiative will enable importers,
exporters, brokers, banks, insurance, transport and freight forwarding
companies to carry out all trade-related interactions with Federal or
Republic administrations through an integrated electronic interface. The
main components will be: (i) technical services for business process
re-engineering; (ii) technical services for solution specification,
- 4 -



software development and system integration; (iii) technical training;
(iv) telecommunication network equipment; and (v) hardware and software to
migrate to an open platform and support e-documents implementation. The
FCA will give priority to the introduction of selectivity and management
of transit. B2. Support to MCA Information System ImprovementIncludes
computer and telecommunication hardware to equip and connect the various
border crossing points and clearance centers and software development to
expand the current system and cover selectivity and transit functions.
The equipment will be used to implement the software solution developed
over the past two years for the MCA at a few pilot sites at first,
followed by a rollout to all Customs points at borders or inland in a
second stage, once the software is fully operational. C. Trade
Facilitation Development Includes: (i) provision of conventional and
distance learning training to road transport operators, forwarders,
customs brokers, and traders through the YCCI/YUPRO and international
professional associations; (ii) support to the PRO-Committees in the
formulation of proposals to facilitate trade, building on a public-private
dialogue; (iii) participation in the regional TTFSE website to ensure full
transparency of procedures and requirements of border agencies as well as
travel information; (iv) exchange programs to stimulate experience-sharing
on facilitation and border agency reforms; and (v) development of a public
outreach program and establishment of an Internet-based, multi-national
publication to host an analysis of transport policy, procedures and
practices in Southeast Europe to raise awareness on border crossing issues
and solutions. D. Project ImplementationIncludes the services required to
support the implementation of the project. These will include training for
procurement and financial management, procurement advisors, external
auditors, support in the establishment of a financial management system,
and training for the Project Manager and the Project Implementation Team.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Borrower                                 0.7
IDA                                      6.7
Donor(s)                                 3.2
Total Project Cost                       10.6
6. Implementation
The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia will be the borrower and will negotiate
the Credit Agreement. The Customs Services of the Federation and of the
Republic of Montenegro will be the beneficiaries. A Subsidiary Credit
Agreement will be signed between the Federal Ministry of Finance and the
Montenegrin Ministry of Finance for the Montenegrin Component. The
implementation arrangements will include the following elements: (i) a
Federal coordinator and a Montenegrin coordinator; (ii) two project
managers (one for FCA, one for MCA) and a joint project implementation
team; (iii) a Single Electronic Window coordinator; (iv) a facilitation
coordinator; (v) a website coordinator; and (vi) a regional steering
committee (RSC). These implementation arrangements are extensions of
existing institutions and use people already involved in similar
functions. The Director General of the FCA has been designated by the
Federal Government as the Federal Coordinator. The Director General of
the MCA has been designated by the Montenegrin Government as the
Montenegrin Coordinator. The Federal Coordinator and the Montenegrin
Coordinator are high Government representatives representing FRY and
- 5 -



Montenegro respectively at the Regional Steering Committee, during which
they will be empowered to speak on behalf of all the border agencies.
These Coordinators will call and chair coordination meetings of the
various border control agencies and manage their input when required.
These Coordinators will also ensure that a suitable mechanism is
established across border agencies to provide all information related to
border crossing requirements to the Website Coordinator.The project has
one Project Manager in the FCA and one Project Manager in the MCA,
responsible for the efficient implementation of the project and for the
preparation of suitable terms of reference or technical specifications.
These Project Managers use a shared Project Implementation Team (PIT),
based in the FCA, to cover procurement, credit management and reporting
functions in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. In addition the team will
include one member in the FCA and one in the MCA to monitor the
implementation of progress at pilot sites. The Single Electronic Window
Coordinator will be the Head of the Customs Information System
Department. He will coordinate the inputs of the members of existing
working groups established for that purpose. He will also monitor progress
in improving the Customs Information System.The YCCI/YUPRO Committee has
created several working groups to facilitate trade and transport including
a specific TTFSE working group. The YUPRO Committee is a public-private
committee covering Serbia and Montenegro with the objective of
facilitating trade and transport. The YCCI/YUPRO will implement the trade
facilitation component of the TTFSE project, including the delivery of
training sessions and the establishment and maintenance of the data
related to FRY in the TTFSE website, and the active delivery of inputs by
the established working groups. The YCCI/YUPRO committee has nominated a
Facilitation Coordinator and a Website Coordinator to that end. Given the
scope (eight countries) and complexity of the Regional Program and the
related policy and institutional reforms anticipated, the Regional
Steering Committee (RSC), meeting periodically at the regional level, will
oversee the overall implementation of the program and the project. The
participating countries have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
setting up the RSC and held five meetings to date. Yugoslavia and Moldova
became RSC members in November 2001. The RSC is constituted of the
National/Federal/Republican Coordinators of each participating country and
includes donor representatives and Facilitation Coordinators as observers.
The RSC provides a forum for exchange of best practice in sector policy
and reform decisions. Meetings rotate among the participating countries,
with the Project Manager of the host country providing support services to
the Committee. See the minutes of the RSC meetings at
http://www.seerecon.org/RegionalInitiatives/ttfse.htm.In order to provide
better understanding of border crossing problems, monitoring will take
place at five pilot border crossings and two pilot inland terminals.
Neighboring countries will similarly be treating as pilot stations the
facilities on the other side of the border, as part of the program. A set
of indicators for project monitoring has been defined and agreed upon.
These indicators will be used by each country to examine and allow the
evaluation of comparative performance. This framework provides an
assessment tool for identifying problems and tracking the success of the
solutions applied in each case, providing an evolving case study. The
results will be progressively updated each quarter by the PIT and offered
to the RSC for review and comparison. The lessons learned from these case
studies will be extended to other specific border crossings in the
participating countries and to change management in general. Sharing the
- 6 -



case studies, along with other project reports, with the customs services
and transport associations in countries not associated with the TTFSE will
set quality targets in customs reforms beyond the region. After six
months of implementation, waiting time at the best performing clearance
site in the TTFSE program dropped by 35 percent.
7. Sustainability
The project will support concepts and techniques that are critical to
fulfilling FRY's long-term objective of achieving sustainable growth and
integrating itself in the EU. Once the Customs administration are
modernized, the transparency in customs operations, regular cooperation
among border agencies including those of other countries, and the gains
captured by all parties involved in legitimate trade will become the main
driver of sustainability. Continuous upgrading of the customs services,
procedures, management, and equipment based on a suitable budget will
enable the FCA to cope with trade and traffic growth, technological
advance, and continued compatibility with the EU. Systematic peer
comparison using similar indicators will also create some stimulus for
sustainable improvements.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The FCA and the MCA want to modernize their services through a
comprehensive approach. Experience under other projects emphasizes that
the border crossing problem, by its nature, requires coordinated and
mutually reinforcing actions in many areas. The Transit Facilitation
Project in fYR of Macedonia completed in 1998 (ICR# 19408) highlighted the
need to: (i) tailor the complexity of the project's design to what can be
achieved under a single loan; (ii) ensure the capability of implementing
agencies; (iii) address issues perceived as real priorities by the
borrower; and (iv) maintain flexibility to ease implementation. EU PHARE's
experience shows that to lessen transaction costs at border crossings,
border crossing investments need to be supplemented by: (i) reliable
traffic data; (ii) accurate information on waiting times; (iii) adequate
remedial actions on both sides of a border crossing; (iv) attention to
multiagency needs; (v) linkage to national transport policies; (vi)
reliable telecommunication infrastructure and equipment; (vii)
communication with users; and (viii) coordination and simplification of
customs procedures and removal of state controls on international trade.
The first year of implementation of the TTFSE program underlined a number
of factors of success and risks, as well as a number of reasons for delays
that could be prevented. The successful implementation of Customs
modernization requires full ownership by the country, its Government, and
its Customs management. In particular, stable upper management (Director
General and his team) for the Customs Administration, a clear governmental
mandate, the nomination of an active national coordinator willing to
frequently interact with all border agencies, and empowerment of local
project teams in proposing improved procedures have proven critical to
succeed. The modernization of Customs calls for very different
relationships with other border agencies and deep behavioral changes at
all levels within the administration. As such, this change effort needs to
be constantly managed. For example, all current TTFSE countries have
experienced difficulties in introducing selectivity and targeting due to
legal obstacles and the introduction of deep changes in practices. The
recent availability of performance indicators at pilot sites has been
useful in justifying this need, but the introduction of such an approach
- 7 -



will require constant efforts of education and awareness raising. The
TTFSE program was also slowed down by the relatively slow mobilization of
consultants and the multiplicity of donor contributions calling for active
coordination. Last, given the multiplicity of parties involved in trade
and transport facilitation, coordination and cooperation with Chambers of
Commerce and PRO-committees has proven to provide a good momentum,
although it did require the formalization of a partnership with these
parties. This TTFSE project has benefitted from the experience acquired
under the on-going TTFSE projects. A strategy has been approved by the
Federal Government for the Modernization of the FCA, and both the
Government and the FCA management are strongly committed to change. A
National Coordinator and Republican Coordinator have been nominated. The
FCA and the MCA have already set up performance measurement mechanisms and
the FCA has collected information for six months. Local Project Teams
have been established at the pilot sites. New Customs codes for the FCA
and the MCA are in an advanced stage of preparation and include
selectivity and targeting. An amendum to the current Federal Customs law
-made in December 2001- already authorizes the FCA to do selective
processing. The project will provide a special advisor to the FCA
Director to coordinate all donor inputs and a change management team to
support the modernization efforts within the administration and with
outside parties in particular in case of delays in inputs by other donors,
whenever necessary, The funding for most donor funding has been secured
for the first year and selection of suitable consultants is already
on-going. Agreement has been reached for cooperation with the Chamber of
Commerce and Industry/YUPRO Committee. The project was tailored to
respond to stakeholders' concerns following active consultations. Customs
users will receive training to enhance their professional skills and will
get access to distance learning training with certification created under
the program. They will be encouraged to voice their concerns and
priorities through the regional TTFSE website and the YUPRO committee and
will receive accurate and timely information on existing procedures.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        There are no significant environmental issue, but
the project will support the enforcement of international conventions
related the environment aspects (transport of dangerous goods, endangered
species) by border agencies.
11. Contact Point:
Program Team Leader/Task Team Leader
Graham Smith/Gerald Ollivier
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473 2472 / 202 458 4023
Fax: 202 614 0900
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
-8-



1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 8, 2002.
9



