Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3651 YF
Development Credit Agreement
(Trade and Transport Facilitation in Southeast Europe Project)
between
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  June 14, 2002
CREDIT NUMBER  3651 YF
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 14, 2002, between FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF 
YUGOSLAVIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Page  2
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (the 
MOU) on November 8, 2001 with other Regional Countries (as hereinafter defined) confirming 
the Borrower’s and Regional Countries’ commitment to a regional trade and transport facilitation 
in Southeast Europe program (the Regional Program);
(B) 
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project;
(C) 
with respect to Parts A.2, B.2 and D.2 of the Project, the Federal Government of 
the Borrower will make available to the Government of the Republic of Montenegro, through the 
Component Implementation Agreement (as defined hereinafter), the proceeds of the Credit 
equivalent to SDR 850,000, as provided in this Agreement; 
(D) 
to assist in financing the Project, the Borrower intends to obtain financial 
assistance from other external sources in an amount of approximately three million one hundred 
thousand Dollars ($3,100,000)  equivalent; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements” 
of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or services 
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings:
Page  3
(a)
“Component Implementation Agreement” means the agreement between the 
Federal Government of the Borrower and the Government of the Republic of Montenegro 
referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, 
and such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Component 
Implementation Agreement;
(b)
“Customs Modernization Strategy” means the strategy adopted by the Borrower 
on November 30, 2001, and satisfactory to the Association, describing the measures to be taken 
during the period of project implementation to strengthen the FCA, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, subject to the Association’s approval;
(c)
“FCA” means the Federal Customs Administration, a customs agency of the 
Federal Government of the Borrower;
(d) 
“Federal Coordinator” means the coordinator designated by the Borrower to be 
responsible for the coordination of the Project-related activities of agencies of the Borrower;
(e)
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(f)
“MCA” means the Administrative Unit of the Customs Administration on the 
territory of the Republic of Montenegro;
(g)
“MCA Project Manager” means the person designated by the Government of the 
Republic of Montenegro to manage the implementation of Parts A.2, B.2 and D.2 of the Project, 
and to monitor the implementation of Part C of the Project;
(h)
“MOF” means the Federal Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
(i)
“Montenegrin Coordinator” means the coordinator designated by the 
Government of the Republic of Montenegro to be responsible for the coordination of the 
Project-related activities of agencies of the Republic of Montenegro;
(j)
“PIP” means the Project Implementation Plan, including the Customs 
Modernization Strategy, setting out the measures required for implementation of the Project; as 
the same may be amended from time to time, subject to the Association’s approval;
(k)
“PIT” means a project implementation team established by and within the FCA, 
and referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement, or any successor thereto;
(l)
“Project Manager” means the person designated by the Federal Government of 
the Borrower to manage the implementation of Parts A.1, B.1 and D.1 of the Project, and to 
monitor the implementation of Part C of the Project;
(m)
“RSC” means the Regional Steering Committee established by the Regional 
Countries under the MOU for the purpose of overseeing implementation of the Regional 
Program; 
(n)
“Regional Country” means each country participating in the Regional Program;
Page  4
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(p)
“Website Coordinator” means the Website Coordinator as designated for 
purposes of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent 
to five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 5,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for  expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, services and 
incremental operating costs required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of each of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Association, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2006, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the 
June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time 
to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be 
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the Association shall 
reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Page  5
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to 
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable semiannually on 
April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, commencing October 15, 2012, and 
ending April 15, 2022. Each installment shall be five percent (5%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The Dollar is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the 
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, and technical practices, and in accordance with the PIP, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01, and except as 
the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, in order to ensure the 
implementation of Parts A.2, B.2 and D.2 of the Project, shall make the proceeds of the Credit 
equivalent to SDR 850,000 available to the Government of the Republic of Montenegro, under a 
component implementation agreement (Component Implementation Agreement), to be entered 
between the Federal Government of the Borrower and the Government of the Republic of 
Montenegro, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association, 
which shall include the terms and conditions set forth in paragraph 2 of the Annex to Schedule 5 
to this Agreement;
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Component Implementation 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, repeal or waive the Component Implementation 
Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Page  6
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01, and except as the 
Association and Borrower shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and the PIP; and
(b)
maintain, during the term of the Project, a project implementation team (PIT), 
with staff and resources necessary and appropriate for the Project.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies 
of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has received the 
Page  7
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the reporting obligations set forth in Part C of 
Schedule 5 of this Agreement,  the Borrower shall prepare and furnish  to the Association 
financial monitoring reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which:
(i) 
set forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds provided 
under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and planned 
uses of  such funds;
(ii)
describe physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances 
between the actual
and planned Project implementation; and
(iii) 
set forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than forty five (45) days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, 
and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through 
the end of such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar 
quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
the MOU shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, terminated, waived or 
otherwise modified so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the Borrower to perform 
its obligations under this Agreement; and 
(b)
the Government of the Republic of Montenegro shall have failed to perform any 
Page  8
of its obligations under the Component Implementation Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified, namely that the events specified in Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Coordinators of the Borrower and the Republic of Montenegro and all border 
agencies have entered into a memorandum of understanding providing the Website Coordinator 
with up-to-date and publicly available information on waiting time and opening hours at border 
crossings, bylaws, and procedures of border agencies;
(b)
the FCA has introduced selective processing of vehicles and goods at its pilot 
locations, and has introduced a WTO-consistent standard declaration processing fee sufficient to 
fund the maintenance of the FCA computer systems; and
(c)
the Federal Government of the Borrower has submitted to the Federal Parliament 
a new Federal Customs Code proposal, satisfactory to the Association.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Deputy Prime Minister is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  9
Federal Government
Bul. Mihajila Pupina 2
11070 Belgrade
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Facsimile:
(381 11) 311-2979
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of 
Belgrade, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
By /s/ Miroljub Labus
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Johannes Linn
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
Page  10
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods:
(a)
under Parts A.1 and 
   2,980,000
100% of local
B.1 of the Project
expenditures,
95% of foreign
expenditures
(b)
under Parts A.2 and 
      480,000
83% of local
B.2 of the Project
expenditures,
80% of foreign
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’ services,
including training:
(a)
under Parts A.1, B.1
    1,240,000
70% for services
and D.1 of the Project,
by individuals,
including auditing
80% for services
services
by firms
(b)
under Parts A.2, B.2
      260,000
75% for services
        and D.2 of the Project
by foreign individuals,
68% for services
by local individuals,
81% for services 
by firms
(3)
Incremental operating costs:
83% of expenditures
Incurred until
(a)  under Part D.1
80,000
December 31, 2003
       of the Project
60% of expenditures
incurred thereafter
Page  11
(b)
under Part D.2
20,000
 of the Project
(4)
 Unallocated:
(a)
under Parts A.1, B.1 and      350,000
D.1 of the Project
(b)
under Parts A.2, B.2 and 
D.2 of the Project                 90,000
TOTAL                                 5,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) 
the term "training" means the fees of educational or other institutions and 
organization, that provide training services, cost of study tours, cost of workshops, related travel 
expenditures, boarding, lodging and per diem allowances of the trainees; 
(b)
the term “Incremental operating costs” means reasonable and necessary 
incremental expenditures, as approved by the Association, incurred by the PIT with respect to 
Project implementation, management and monitoring, including office supplies, communication 
costs, publication of procurement notices, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs, but 
excluding salaries of officials and employees of the Borrower and Republic of Montenegro; and
(c)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; the term “foreign expenditures” 
means expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods 
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and 
(b)
Categories (1) (b) and (2) (b), unless: (i) the Component Implementation 
Agreement has been executed by the Federal Government of the Borrower and the Government 
of the Republic of Montenegro, and all conditions to the effectiveness of such agreement have 
been fulfilled; and (ii) the Republic of Montenegro border agencies have entered into a 
memorandum of understanding providing for and ensuring continuous processing of passengers 
during working hours by all such agencies at the pilot border crossing point of Debeli Breg.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (b) services for individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
each, and firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first 
contract; and (c) incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association 
Page  12
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) the reduction of the non-tariff costs of trade and 
transport at the Borrower’s borders; and (b) the reduction of smuggling and corruption at the 
border crossings of the Borrower.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Institutional Strengthening
1.
Implementation of measures to reform and modernize the FCA, through the provision of 
technical services.
2.
Implementation of measures to reform and modernize the MCA, through the provision of 
technical services.
Part B
:
Information System Improvement
1.
Development and strengthening of the customs information system of the FCA, through 
the provision of goods, services and training.
2.
Development and strengthening of the customs information system of the MCA, through 
the provision of goods, services and training.
Part C
: Trade Facilitation
Facilitation of trade development through the establishment, operation and  maintenance 
of a regional website, in support of the Regional Program, and provision of training and other 
technical assistance for the private sector in the area of trade transport and logistics, through the 
provision of goods, services, and training.
Part D
: Project and Regional Program Support
1.
Provision of support to the FCA (PIT) in Project management, implementation, and 
monitoring, through the provision of services, including the audit of accounts and financial 
statements referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement and training, and financing of 
incremental operating costs.
2.
Provision of support to the Government of the Republic of Montenegro in technical and 
operational aspects of the implementation of Parts A.2 and B.2 of the Project, and monitoring of 
Part C of the Project, through the provision of services and training, and financing of incremental 
operating costs.
Page  13
*     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2006.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.  Procurement of Goods
Part A
: General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this Section I.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not 
to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature (customs-related computer software 
required by the European Commission) and costing $150,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Page  14
Part D
: Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of 
all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section I, 
Parts B and C.3 of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.  Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services, including the services of an independent private sector service 
provider under any Management Contract, shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions 
of the following Parts of this Section II.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultant services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality-and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Page  15
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for specialized technology training may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Least-cost Selection
Services for the Project audits may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines. Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and the first contract procured under the Consultants’ 
Qualification method, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.
3.
Post Review
Page  16
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  17
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, services and incremental operating costs required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” mean an amount equivalent to $300,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that, unless the Association shall otherwise 
agree, said Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $150,000, until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts allocated to the Special 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the respective Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts 
which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such 
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the 
Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 
of this Schedule for the payment or payments in 
respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower 
shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents 
and other evidence to have been paid out of the 
Special Account for 
Page  18
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Association 
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, 
at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association shall not 
be required to make further deposits into Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to eligible Categories, 
minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the 
Credit allocated to the said eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
Page  19
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, 
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such 
outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the Association all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
Part A
: Implementation Responsibilities
1.
The PIT, acting under the direction of the Project Manager and MCA Project Manager, 
shall perform all technical responsibilities for Project implementation, including: (a) preparation, 
with the assistance of consultants, of bidding and contract documents under the Project; (b) the 
maintenance of the Project financial records and accounts and arranging for the audit thereof; (c) 
preparation of the quarterly reports on Project progress, referred to in Part B of this Schedule; 
and (d) supervision of progress of Project implementation.
2.
The Borrower, acting through the FCA, shall ensure that the PIT shall be maintained 
until the completion of the Project under terms of references and with staff and other measures 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3.
The Borrower shall ensure: (a) that each annual plan for Project implementation referred 
to paragraph 1 above shall be prepared after a review between the Borrower and the Association 
of progress in meeting the targets indicated in the PIP, including the targets set forth in the 
Annex to this Schedule and the targets indicated in the Customs Modernization Strategy; and (b) 
that the inclusion of investments and other Project activities in said plan, as well as the 
procurement arrangements thereof, shall be made in agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association.
4.
The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the Customs Modernization Strategy shall not be 
amended without prior agreement by the Association; and (b) the Borrower’s actions in the area 
of customs modernization, including activities supported by technical assistance, are consistent 
with the PIP and Project objectives. 
5.
The Borrower shall maintain its participation in the RSC, participate in the preparation 
of its agenda and organize a meeting of the RSC in turn with the other Regional Countries.
6.
The Borrower shall ensure the establishment and functioning, by the time of this 
Agreement’s effectiveness, of mechanisms at all border agencies to provide the Website 
Coordinator with current information to be made available to customs users, on waiting times 
and opening hours at border crossing and customs regulations and procedures of border agencies. 
Page  20
The day-to-day responsibility for the implementation of Part C of the Project shall be assigned to 
the Website Coordinator and the Yugoslav Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
7.
The Borrower shall engage the auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this 
Agreement by or before September 30, 2002.
Part B
: Reporting
The Borrower shall ensure the timely preparation by the PIT and submission to the 
Association of quarterly reports on the progress of Project implementation.
Part C
: Monitoring
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators included in the PIP and satisfactory to the 
Borrower and Association, including those set forth in the Annex to this Schedule 5, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, by October 15 of each year, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) of this Part C, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by November 15 of each year, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph 1 (b) of this Part C, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Association’s views on the matter.
2.
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without limitation 
thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Annex to
SCHEDULE 5
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall take all necessary 
measures to achieve the following targets:
Page  21
(a)
the total number of customs declarations which result in a physical inspection by 
the FCA at its pilot inland terminal does not exceed, on a monthly basis:  (i) 75% by September 
30, 2002; (ii) 30% by September 30, 2003; and (iii) 10% by September 30, 2004;
(b)
the number of trucks completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes at the 
FCA pilot inland terminal exceeds, on a monthly basis: (i) 2% by September 30, 2002; (ii) 10% 
by September 30, 2002, and (iii) 20% by September 30, 2004; and
(c)
the number of incoming trucks opened at its pilot border-crossings does not 
exceed, on a monthly basis: (i) 60% by September 30, 2002; (ii) 30% by September 30, 2003; 
and (iii) 20% by September 30, 2004.
2.
Except as the Association may otherwise agree, the Borrower shall ensure that the 
Government of the Republic of Montenegro undertakes all necessary measures to achieve the 
following targets:
(a)
the total number of customs declarations which result in a physical inspection by 
the MCA at its pilot inland terminal does not exceed, on a monthly basis:  (i) 80% by September 
30, 2002; (ii) 50% by September 30, 2003; and (iii) 30% by September 30, 2004;
(b)
the number of trucks completing import clearance in less than 15 minutes at the 
MCA pilot inland terminal exceeds, on a monthly basis: (i) 10% by September 30, 2002; (ii) 12% 
by September 30, 2002, and (iii) 15% by September 30, 2004; and
(c)
the number of incoming trucks opened at its pilot border-crossings does not 
exceed, on a monthly basis: (i) 70% by September 30, 2002; (ii) 50% by September 30, 2003; 
and (iii) 35% by September 30, 2004.
