                                  Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                  Report No.: ICR 00001056




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                  (IBRD-72610)


                                     FOR A

            HOUSING AND URBAN TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE LOAN


                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 7.77 MILLION

                                    TO THE

                          UNITED MEXICAN STATES



                                  June 18, 2009




Sustainable Development Department
Mexico and Colombia Country Management Unit
Latin American and Caribbean Region

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective June 18, 2009)

                        Currency Unit = Peso
                       1.00 = US$ US$0.07489
                       US$ 1.00 = Pesos 13.35

                           FISCAL YEAR
                      January 1 ­ December 31

               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BANSEFI         Bank of National Savings and Financial Services
CEV             Housing Construction Code
CONAFOVI        National Commission for Housing Development
CONAVI          National Housing Commission (previous to June 06 CONAFOVI)
DPL             Development Policy Loan
ESW             Economic Sector Work
FONAEVI         National Fund for Low-Cost Housing
FONHAPO         Low-Income Housing Fund
FOVI            Financial Housing Aid Fund
GOM             Government of Mexico
HUSAL           Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Sector Adjustment Loan
HUDPL           Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Development Policy Loan
HUTAL           Housing and Urban Technical Assistance Loan
IADB            Inter-American Development Bank
ICR             Implementation Completion and Results Report
INFONAVIT       National Housing Fund for Private Sector Workers
ISR             Implementation Status and Results Report
MIC             Middle Income Country
M&E             Monitoring and Evaluation
MW              Minimum wage (1 MW = MX$1,598 = US$140/month)
OREVIS          State Housing Finance Agencies
PAD             Project Appraisal Document
PROSAVI         Special Housing Subsidy Program
SEA             Strategic Environmental Assessment
SEDESOL         Social Development Secretariat
SHCP            Ministry of Finance
SHF             Federal Mortgage Corporation
SOFOLs          Special Purpose Financial Companies
TAL             Technical Assistance Lending



                  Vice President: Pamela Cox
                Country Director: Axel van Trotsenburg
                 Sector Manager: Guang Zhe Chen
             Project Team Leader: Angelica Nunez
               ICR Team Leader: Tova Maria Solo

                                                    Mexico
                    Housing and Urban Technical Assistance Loan


                                                CONTENTS



Data Sheet
       A. Basic Information
       B. Key Dates
       C. Ratings Summary
       D. Sector and Theme Codes
       E. Bank Staff
       F. Results Framework Analysis
       G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
       H. Restructuring
       I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design................................................... 1
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .................................................. 4
3. Assessment of Outcomes................................................................................................ 6
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome............................................................. 18
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ......................................................... 18
6. Lessons Learned............................................................................................................ 19
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners............... 21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.............................................................................. 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 40
Annex 4. Borrower's ICR.................................................................................................. 41
Annex 5. List of Supporting Documents and References................................................. 47

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Housing and Urban
Country:                Mexico                 Project Name:          Technical Assistance
                                                                      Project
Project ID:             P088080                L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-72610
ICR Date:               06/19/2009             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:     TAL                    Borrower:
                                                                      MEXICO
Original Total
                        USD 7.8M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 2.5M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
SHF - Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal S.N.C.
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date              Process        Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        08/21/2000     Effectiveness:       09/08/2005        09/08/2005
Appraisal:             02/17/2004     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              11/09/2004     Mid-term Review:     01/15/2007        01/15/2007
                                      Closing:             06/30/2008        12/31/2008


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Moderately Unsatisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower               Ratings

Quality at Entry:       Moderately
                        Unsatisfactory         Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately SatisfactoryImplementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Moderately Satisfactory




                                               i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                             QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators           (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project Yes                 Quality at Entry
                                                                   None
at any time (Yes/No):                         (QEA):
Problem Project at any                        Quality of
                          No                                       Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before          Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:  Satisfactory


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              35                80
Housing finance and real estate markets                        15                10
Sub-national government administration                         50                10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Access to urban services and housing                            33               81
Natural disaster management                                     17               2
Other urban development                                         17               15
Personal and property rights                                    33               2


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                     At ICR                        At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                       David de Ferranti
Country Director:        Axel van Trotsenburg              Isabel M. Guerrero
Sector Manager:           Guang Zhe Chen                   John Henry Stein
Project Team Leader:      Angelica Nunez del Campo         Anna Wellenstein
ICR Team Leader:          Tova M. Solo
ICR Primary Author:       Tova M. Solo



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
This three-year Technical Assistance Loan (TAL) supports the policy reforms of the
Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Programmatic Sectoral Adjustment Loan
(HUSAL) as its general objective.         HUSAL program consists of three sequential
adjustment operations over a three-year period to reform this sector. In this regard, the
Housing and Urban Technical Assistance Loan (HUTAL) supports HUSAL reforms in


                                             ii

seven key areas of affordable housing and urban poverty alleviation, which are the
specific objectives:

  ·     Developing a sound national housing and urban policies and institutional
frameworks.
  ·     Designing and putting in place a unified housing subsidy policy that facilitates
access of low/moderate income families to housing and leverages household savings and
private credit finance.
  ·     Strengthening the housing credit and household savings systems, and moving
these systems down market.
  ·     Strengthening urban real property registries and rights.
  ·     Increasing the supply of urban land and access by the poor and improving this
market's function.
  ·     Coordinate and support physical and social investments to systematically upgrade
poor neighborhoods;
  ·     Better prevent and manage the impacts of natural disasters

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                            Original Target     Formally          Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value         Values (from       Revised           Achieved at
                                               approval          Target          Completion or
                                              documents)         Values           Target Years

Indicator 1 :   Ratio of number of housing solutions for households earning 5 MW or less to
                total housing solutions
Value
quantitative or 49%                                                          53%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                                                     06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :   Ratio of upfront grants and interest-buy-downs to total implicit interest rate
                subsidies
Value
quantitative or 0.029                                                        0.18
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                                                     06/29/2007
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)




                                                iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value           Values (from                       Achieved at
                                              approval           Revised       Completion or
                                              documents)     Target Values      Target Years
               Ratio: Total amount of subsidies of all the programs to the population of less
Indicator 1 :  than 3MW/and non-formally employed / Total amount of subsidies of all the
               programs to the population of more than 3MW
Value
(quantitative  0.50                                                          0.50
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                                                     12/29/2006
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)

Indicator 2 :  Amount of mortgage financing of the private sector [Banks and SOFOLES] to
               the segment of the income population between 3 and 8 MW
Value
(quantitative  2380 USD millions                                             72 USD millions
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                                                     06/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %       This amount reflects only the SOFOLES mortgage amount. Information from

achievement)   private banks is not available.

Indicator 3 :  Number of serviced plots that have been allocated to low- and moderate-income
               beneficiaries.
Value
(quantitative  2900                                                          456
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                                                     06/30/2008
Comments       This value represents only six months output of serviced lots (January - June
(incl. %       2008). 1,500 units could be a reasonable estimate for 2008 since reported annual
achievement)   production dropped after 2005.

Indicator 4 :  Number of slums that have prepared participatory planning based on their self-
               diagnosis.
Value
(quantitative  0                                                             79
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                                                     09/30/2008
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Number of cities that have risk atlases
Value
(quantitative  11                                                            63
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/30/2005                                                     09/30/2008



                                               iv

Comments
(incl. %
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                      Actual
 No.    Date ISR
        Archived           DO                       IP             Disbursements
                                                                   (USD millions)
  1     12/02/2004      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  2     05/04/2005      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.00
  3     02/22/2006      Satisfactory           Satisfactory                  0.13
  4     12/12/2006 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           0.92
  5     06/11/2007 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           1.26
  6     12/06/2007 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           1.26
  7     06/06/2008 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           1.58
  8     11/30/2008 Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           1.96



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                          v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design.

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Macroeconomic Framework: The HUTAL was identified alongside the first of the series
of three sector adjustment and development policy loans for housing (hereafter "The
Program") and appraised during the second half of President's Fox six-year term, in
February 2004. Mexico had recently undergone a recession caused in large part by the
negative impact of the US economic slowdown during 2001-2002. During this downturn,
Mexico managed to maintain fiscal and price stability, and, due in large part to successful
management of national debt, saw no erosion in its access to capital markets. Unlike past
episodes of economic weakness, the 2001-2002 recessions was the first in Mexico's
recent history not associated with a balance of payments or a financial crisis.

Housing Sector: Despite the Government's ability to sustain macroeconomic stability at
the beginning of the decade, poverty in Mexico remained widespread due to low and
inequitable growth. The challenges in social development were magnified by the young
age structure of the population which put pressure on the existing housing deficit,
estimated at 4 million units. The growing demand (700,000 new households formed each
year) was exacerbated by a lack of federal funding and dysfunctional real-estate markets.
Additionally, fewer than 15% of Mexicans had access to private financial services which
limited their ability to save, to invest and to manage risks. Banks provided financing only
to the higher income brackets and SOFOLES offered only lending services mostly to the
middle and upper-middle income groups.

Faced with these realities, the Fox administration made the housing sector a priority and
proposed major structural reforms to support housing and land markets, to funnel
assistance to the poor, and to generate economic growth through investment in housing.

Sector background: Starting in the 1980's, the Bank has worked closely with the Mexican
Government on housing issues with a series of five back to back operations which
emphasized the importance of sustainable finance for low-income housing programs,
encouraged private sector involvement in the housing market and sought to unify sector
policies. Notwithstanding the objectives of unification the Bank followed a declared
practice of channeling loans simultaneously through different housing agencies, thereby
encouraging "creative tension1" between institutions. (FONHAPO I, 1985; FONHAPO
II, 1987; Earthquake Reconstruction, First FOVI Loan, 1989; First Housing Market
Finance Loan, 1991; FOVI Restructuring, 1999). Following the 2001- 2002 recession
Bank lending to Mexico declined, and its support to the housing sector did as well.

Indications of borrower commitment are cited in the PAD: "The Government has taken
bold steps to reform housing and urban development." These include the goal of
increasing housing production from 500,000 to 750,000 per annum, creation of
CONAFOVI and SHF, to coordinate housing and to assure liquidity to private sector


1A metaphor for competition, coined by the Bank President MacNamara.


                                                  1

mortgage suppliers respectively, the creation and launching of HABITAT, a nationwide
slum upgrading program, with an operating budget expanded to US$180 million in 2004.

HUTAL ­ the Rationale for Bank assistance: On April 27, 2004, the Bank Board of
Directors approved the Programmatic Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Sector
Adjustment Loan (HUSAL) prepared under the guidelines provided by then active
Operational Directive (OD) 8.60 on adjustment lending operations. The loan became
effective on December 17, 2004. Thus began the "Program" - a series of three quick-
disbursing loans to support Mexico's low income housing and urban development
program. The Second and Third Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Reduction
Development Policy Loans (HUDPL II and HUDPL III, respectively) were subsequently
approved on November 29, 2005 (effective on December 16, 2005) and November 27,
2007 (effective on December 14, 2007), under Operational Policy (OP) 8.60 on
Development Policy Lending.

The LCRVP first tried out adjustment or budget support loans for sectors other than
finance after 2000 coupled with technical assistance loans (TAL) to provide institutional
support and strengthening to the respective implementing agencies and to study and to
identify projects which could lead to further investment or adjustment lending.      The
HUTAL followed what had become standard procedure with the additional objective of
assuring the timely approval of the successive DPL triggers. The PAD explains the
rationale for Bank assistance in these terms: "The HUTAL forms an essential
complement to the HUSAL and the Government's reform program by supporting the line
agencies directly involved in reform of affordable housing and urban poverty programs
and policy ­ CONAFOVI, SEDESOL, SHF, and the states. In effect, this HUTAL
supplies the key pieces and analysis necessary to follow on the prior actions of the first
HUSAL and to meet many of the milestones for reform of the second and third HUSAL
loans.   As such, this technical-cooperation loan holds substantial added value in
maintaining the momentum and direction of positive change in these areas. (sic)"

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as
approved)

The Loan Agreement states that "The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
strengthening its low-and moderate-income housing and urban poverty policies and
programs." The Project's overall objectives and associated outcome indicators were:

    i)   To support the implementation, monitoring, evaluation and continuous planning
         of the Affordable Housing and Urban Poverty Sector Adjustment Loan
         (HUSAL) as demonstrated by "HUSAL's triggers being met (to the extent that
         they are supported by the TAL), reform implementation, monitoring, evaluation,
         and continuous planning based on the results of the analytical work of the
         TAL"; and

    ii)  To strengthen the effectiveness of low/moderate-income housing, land, and
         urban poverty programs, as demonstrated by "progress in meeting the



                                            2

          Government's overall goal in the sector ­ production of 750,000 housing
          solutions per annum by 2006."

The HUTAL also proposed seven component-specific objectives which are discussed in
Section 3 (Assessment of Outcomes) in relation to each component. Annex 1, Table 1
shows commitments from the combined HUSAL, HUDPLI and HUDPLII Matrices
which provide a source of results indicators.

1.3 Revised PDO

Despite cancellation of about 63% of HUTAL funding, the project PDOs and indicators
were not changed. Thus this ICR measures the HUTAL in terms of the objectives and
outcomes originally proposed.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The PAD identifies as principle beneficiaries "Low/moderate income families - which
comprise two-thirds of Mexico's population" It also points to "Governments at all levels"
and federal government agencies (CONAFOVI2, FONAPO/FONAEVI, SEDESOL, SHF,
INFONAVIT) as secondary beneficiaries.

1.5 Original Components (as approved)

The HUTAL had seven components corresponding to the Program matrices and managed
by three different agencies as follows:

                               Table 1. Project original components

                                                                             Bank   Indicative
Implementing                         Component Description                 Financing  Cost
   Agency                                                                    US$      US$
                                                                            million  million
CONAVI3
Component 1       Developing sound national housing and urban policies       0.15     0.43
                  and institutional frameworks.
Component 2       Designing and putting in place a unified housing subsidy   0.13     0.22
                  policy that facilitates access of low/moderate income
                  families to housing and leverages household savings and
                  private credit finance.
Component 4       Strengthening urban real property registries and rights.   3.56     7.80
SHF4
Component 3       Strengthening the housing credit and household savings     1.14     2.31
                  systems, and moving these systems down market



2Now CONAVI
3Comisión Nacional de Vivienda, National Housing Commission
4Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal, Federal Mortgage Corporation



                                                      3

                                                                                    Bank   Indicative
Implementing                           Component Description                      Financing  Cost
   Agency                                                                           US$      US$
                                                                                   million  million
SEDESOL5
Component 5        Increasing the supply of urban land and access by the            1.36     2.27
                   poor and improving this market's function.
Component 6        Coordinating and supporting physical and social                  1.15     1.91
                   investments to systematically upgrade poor
                   neighborhoods.
Component 7        Better preventing and managing the impacts of natural            0.24     0.40
                   disasters.
                                                                Total project cost  7.73     15.34
                                                           Front End Fee (0.5%)     0.04     0.04
                                                      Total Financing Required      7.77     15.38


2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Discussions on the Program began with the administration of Vicente Fox, which took
power in 2000 (Mexico's first non-PRI government since the 1920's.), under
SEDESOL's Vice-Ministry of Housing and Urban Development. The                                new
administration's National Housing Policy and the Urban Development Plan for 2001-
2006, "states the importance of increasing access of the poor to shelter and of achieving
sustainable and spatially-balanced urban development."

Both the Bank and the Mexican teams appear to have been eager to take advantage of the
opportunity to bring about a fast change in the context of the Program. The resulting
design is ambitious in terms of scale, outcomes and implementation, with seven
components, 34 outputs identified and such goals as unified subsidy policy, a new role
for INFONAVIT identified and in place, and property registers modernized in 8 cities,
and development and implementation of a local "competitivity" project (See Annex 2.) In
terms of implementation, the Team designed the HUTAL with an innovative multi-
agency approach reflecting its goals to harmonize the sector, and rejecting the previous
formula for executing housing projects in Mexico. In hindsight, the eminently desirable
but very ambitious goals in the context of multiple implementing agencies complicated
project execution and do not seem to have achieved the purpose indicated ­ a sector wide
dialogue.

Also in hindsight, it is clear that the HUTAL design and the TAL instrument did not take
into account with certain implementation issues, such as the financial management
analyses required for sub-national agencies (e.g. the state governments which modernized
property registries through HUTAL) or for annual budgeting under the "no additionality"
policy (See below, under 2.2.) By the same token, the Team did not foresee the need for


5Secretaria de Desarrollo Social, Social Development Secretariat



                                                       4

up-front training in procurement, for measurable output and outcome indicators or for
project restructuring when implementation lags became evident.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation Sequence: Ten months after Board Approval in November, 2004, the
HUTAL became effective in September, 2005, two months before approval of HUDPLII.
The delay meant that HUTAL had little influence on the Program's first two sector loans,
HUTAL objectives notwithstanding. At the end of HUTAL's first year in December
2006, project implementation was rated MS (Marginally Satisfactory), and project
management MU (Marginally Unsatisfactory). Although project management improved
to a Satisfactory rating by the midterm review in 2007, the project implementation rating
remained MS throughout, attributable to the disbursement lag of 80% which persisted
until August, 2007, ten months before the original closing date when the client requested
a major cancellation of US$4.90 million (63% of the loan). At the same time, the
original loan closing date of June 30, 2008 was extended by six months to December
2008 pm April 21, 2008 in response to a request from SHCP and SHF. The extension was
to allow CONAVI and SHF time to finalize key studies and thus to increase project
outputs.

Project Supervision for the HUTAL appears taken a backseat to supervision and
preparation of the DPL series. The Quality Supervision Assessment in 2006, technically
mid-way in HUTAL implementation, remarks that only one supervision mission had
taken place. The QSA raised questions concerning the quality of supervision which are
detailed in Annex 4. The QSA also commented that "It was a great advantage to have
qualified senior staff in the field office, who knew the country, the individuals, and the
issues" and indeed, Mexican counterparts have remarked that local staff was particularly
helpful. At the same time both members of the Task Team during implementation were
new to Bank operations and had not supervised projects previously. Nonetheless, the
team did make a point of bringing international housing and housing finance experts to
Mexico and encouraging policy dialogues as part of supervision.

Implementation Issues ­ Much of the new staff at HUTAL's executing agencies were not
familiar with Bank procurement procedures and underestimated the time involved. In
more than one case the additional time required for NOLs meant that contracting
procedures could not be completed in the course of the Mexican fiscal year and had to be
cancelled when assigned funds had not been committed. The experience led to
frustrations and tension between implementing agencies and with the Bank. The Bank
was often seen as needlessly prolonging the contracting time with requests for changes in
contracting documents, and SHF was also seen, on occasion, as prolonging the processes
in compliance with the Bank. SHF cites one occasion in which SEDESOL cancelled an
activity in frustration even as the contract was ready to be signed because of the Bank's
insistence on certain follow on activities.

The "no additionality" policy proved to be an issue for implementation in other ways
besides procurement. Under the TAL, the executing agencies ­ with the exception of



                                             5

SHF - perceived no extra budget to advance the HUTAL agenda. On the other hand, they
did face extra requirements to assure the eventual flow of disbursements to GOM.
Although highlighted as such in the PAD, budgeting is not mentioned in the HUTAL
Operations Manual and indeed, both CONAVI and SEDESOL failed to request adequate
budgets on more than one occasion, or had their budget requests denied by Congress. The
resulting setbacks in time were compounded ­ making for measurable under-achievement
and contributing to requests for loan cancelation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The HUTAL PAD did not include quantifiable indicators to measure all its proposed
results and provided no baseline data, outcome or impact indicators. Also, as noted in the
Program ICR, project activities, results, outputs and outcomes appear somewhat
"interchangeable". HUTAL indicators were neither revised nor amended during
implementation although, as discussed in the section on supervision in Annex 4, those
included in the ISRs varied over time.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

As mentioned above, not all of the Bank's requirements for previous review of
procurement and financial management practice in implementing agencies were met
before implementation.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Bank has continued its support of the Mexican housing sector, with the approval of
the "Private Housing Finance Markets Strengthening Project," approved in November,
2008, a Specific Investment Loans (SIL) to finance debt restructuring (90%) and some
technical assistance. The new loan is managed through a single implementing agency,
SHF, which generates its own operating and investment budget.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

At Appraisal the HUTAL was seen as key to the passage of the series of loans included in
the Program. As it fell behind schedule however, HUTAL lost relevance for the triggers
for HUDPL II and III (see Annex 2, Table 1 Project Outputs Contributing to HUSAL and
HUDPL Program Matrices.) In terms of country priorities, the HUTAL did not signify
any additional funding for the line implementing agencies (CONAVI or SEDESOL) and,
presumably, any essential technical work would have been done without the HUTAL.
Regarding policy dialogue, CONAVI counterparts have stated that the HUTAL brought
visibility and encouraged a discussion which helped to frame certain issues ­ in this case
property registries -and to bring them to the forefront in policy decision making.




                                              6

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

HUTAL results are presented and analyzed by component in the following seven
sections, and then summarized for the Project in an eighth section. Complete results,
proposed and achieved for the whole project are presented in Annex 2. Table 1 shows
results relating to the HUSAL and HUDPL triggers with product completion dates. Table
2 shows outputs relating to component objectives and intermediate results. Table 3 shows
the list of proposed outcomes from the Loan Agreement, PAD, matrices and PAQs.

Component 1 - National Housing Policy and Institutional Framework US$430,000 -
CONAVI

Intermediate Result
Strengthen housing strategy and the ability of key organizations to carry it out

Proposed Outcomes: Component 1 focused on supporting Government's strategy to
define a national housing policy and to clarify and strengthen the roles of sector
institutions. Within this broad objective, the PAD warns, "many of these issues of
decentralization and local capacity building extend beyond the scope of this initiative."
Thus this component aimed for two key results: "i) CONAFOVI and SEDESOL will
enhance systems for data-collection and analysis of housing/housing finance and urban
planning, to inform local decision-makers; and ii) FONHAPO will develop models for
the administration and programs of state and local housing institutes".         Additional
activities are described below and shown in Table 3 in Annex 2.

Analysis of Results: During HUTAL's implementation, the fractionalization among
Mexican housing institutions appears to have increased in the sense that two new
agencies, CONAVI and SHF, now design and implement low-income housing programs,
while FONHAPO, INFONAVIT and FOVISSTE continue to attend the same client group
but with different objectives. A simplified and overarching framework for housing policy
and institutions remains elusive in Mexico.

Specific Sub-Components results varied. Under Institutional strengthening technical
assistance contracts were completed but current officials in FONHAPO, appointed in
2008, do not recognize, or recall that the HUTAL provided any technical assistance or
support in any regard. CONAVI, on the other hand, which has proved more stable in
terms of staff, recognizes the importance of the HUTAL technical assistance. Regarding
the proposed Housing Information System and Beneficiary Data Base, FONHAPO had
its own beneficiary data base functioning for several years before the Program began and
did not apply any HUTAL funds to the development of a housing information system.
CONAVI also cancelled the HUTAL funding destined for database development and
developed a broader housing information system, drawing data from State and municipal
institutions (OREVIS) and SHF. The information system now uploads data directly from
the different contributors and is available to all stakeholders. When the new subsidy
program was launched in 2007, CONAVI also established its own beneficiary data base.
On the subject of State and local housing institutions CONAVI completed what is



                                             7

considered a state of the art work under HUTAL. "Operating Model for the State
Housing Institutions"6 was completed too late for policy application, in the first trimester
of 2008. While the manual has yet to be applied in Mexico, CONAVI plans to
disseminate the study among stakeholders at the local and national level during 2009.

CONAVI carried out additional studies in two areas: i.) The Codigo de Edificación de
Vivienda (CEV),7 which set building standards for disaster-resistant house construction
was one of five special studies developed to support both the system of property registries
and the OREVIS by providing uniform guidelines for house construction; and ii) a
Strategic Environmental Assessment (SEA) leading to a study on sustainable housing as a
condition for the HUDPL III loan8, under contract by CONAVI and delivered in
September 2008. CONAVI is counting on the resultant study to derive policy guidelines
for construction and zoning in the future. A study proposed under this component on
costs and benefits of changing INFONAVIT's role in the housing sector was actually
carried out under Component 3 by SHF. CONAVI officials participated in the workshop
to discuss preliminary results in 2006/7.

Conclusions: The HUTAL ICR finds this component satisfactory insofar as all the
studies proposed were indeed carried out. At the same time, the HUTAL ICR agrees with
the Program ICR's overview which considers debatable the component's contribution to
national housing policy and to strengthening housing strategy and the ability of key
institutions. The Program's ICR also refers to the failure to coordinate of urban
development policy and the housing policy because of the institutional fragmentation of
the two sectors and of resultant tensions between SEDESOL and CONAVI.

Component 2 ­ Housing Subsidies

Intermediate Result
Evaluate existing programs and develop a federal housing subsidy system

Proposed Outcomes: This component represents the HUTAL' s least important in terms
of investment and one of its most important in terms of project impact. The theme of
subsidy harmonization is key to the Program's success, and extremely ambitious.

Analysis of Results: The primary objective of developing a unified subsidy proposal
suffered from a series of setbacks which reduced its tangible outcomes and led to limited
or no impact. The component proposed first to develop first a study methodology for
calculating net present value of subsidies, second to apply the methodology to all
housing subsidy programs in Mexico. third to carry out a second study using the
findings of the earlier study and its applications to recommend unifying Mexican


6Colegio Mexiquense, A.C. "Proyecto Modelo de Operación para los Organismos Estatales de Vivienda"
2008.
7 International Code Council, Elaboración y Desarrollo del CEV (Código de Edificación de Vivienda),
January 2009.
8Lean House Consulting "Estudio para Desarrollar el Programa de Vivienda Sustentable de la Comisión
Nacional de Vivienda" September, 2008.


                                                 8

housing subsidy policy, and fourth to design a unified housing subsidy system.
Regarding the first study, difficulties with obtaining Bank permission to sole-source led
SHF to contract a study on its own to determine a method for calculating the present
value of selected INFONAVIT interest-rate subsidy packages in May of 2005. The same
study also produced a methodology to develop a referential interest rate. Both served as
inputs to the Subsidy Working Group which defined a methodology to value implicit
subsidies for application in the Mexican context. Based on the Group's work, implicit
and explicit subsidies can now be calculated and are being gathered from all agencies.

The HUTAL did finance a subsequent study, "Evaluation of Housing Subsidy Programs
in Mexico" foreseen as a step toward definition of the unified subsidy policy. The study
was delivered to the CONAVI in May 2008, too late for its application to the Program.
Subsequent review found the study to be unsatisfactory and not in fulfillment of its terms
of reference. CONAVI has confirmed its support of the study but has no plans to follow
through on its recommendations to develop a unified subsidy system. While the primary
objective of the component ­ the evaluation of existing programs and development of a
federal housing subsidy system has not advanced, HUTAL did support other background
studies leading to some practical applications: the study "Leveraging Contractual Savings
for Low-Income Housing" evaluated both VIVAH and PROSAVI.

In addition, interviews with involved housing agencies confirmed several advances
resulting from the HUTAL, among them: the creation of a Subsidy Study Group; the
2008 memo of understanding between FONHAPO and CONAVI linking their respective
beneficiary data bases, the consistent linking of access to federal subsidies to approval of
credit; the identification of indicators for measuring the results of subsidies' targeting;
clarification of the "double-dipping practice by which beneficiaries of INFONAVIT
subsidies also receive up-front subsidies from CONAVI through the PROSAVI program;
and a micro-credit program and study of the impact of subsidies on SHF clients to be
carried out by SHF.

In terms of targeting and aligning subsidies and in reducing implicit subsidies in
favor of up-front subsidies, progress has yet to be measured. "We do not yet count on a
unified system of indicators of up-front and implicit subsidies," says CONAVI's
representative to the Subsidy Study Group. Similarly, there is no record that the technical
assistance funding for FONAEVI under HUTAL was ever used insofar as FONAEVI has
been dissolved and FONHAPO has expressed its intentions to re-evolve into a lending
agency, channeling subsidized financing in response to demand by groups left out of
other institutional programs.

Conclusions: Noting that: i) this component's key activities were not carried out to
satisfaction; and that ii) the uniform subsidy system remains elusive, the HUTAL ICR
rates this component as unsatisfactory.

Component 3 - Housing Credit and Household Savings US$2.31 million ­ CONAVI
and SHF




                                             9

Intermediate Result: low/moderate-income housing credit and savings strengthened

Proposed Outcomes: This component was foreseen to provide an array of support to
reforms in home credit and household savings targeted in particular to help drive primary
lending down-market to reach the low/moderate-income majority and to                        develop
secondary mortgage markets. The importance of this component can be seen not only by
the investment amount, but also by the large number of activities proposed (See Table 3
in Annex 2).

Analysis of Results: The HUTAL PAD lists five areas to be supported in this
component. Under (i) Foreclosure and Transparency the HUTAL was to finance
preparation of materials to help State officials and housing agencies to carry out
awareness campaigns on mortgage foreclosures. CONAVI officials have no recollection
of any discussion of training or awareness-raising on foreclosures or on foreclosure
issues.    Regarding (ii) Development of secondary mortgage markets, SHF and
SOFOLES9, SHF prepared provisioning norms for the SOFOLES as specified in the
Loan Agreement and in fulfillment of HUDPLII conditions based on internal calculations
with no input from HUTAL. In consequence, the results were not shared with the Bank
missions and once HUDPLII had been approved, SHF proposed to eliminate the study on
the SOFOLES. Referring to development of secondary markets the HUTAL financed no
specific study and had little impact.

(iii) Subsidies and the Fideicomiso Fondo Nacional de Habitaciones Populares
(FONHAPO) represent another area in which the HUTAL promised impact; "Rather
than channel home credit ­ a function of SHF, FONHAPO will unify the federal
government's housing subsidy programs for low-income households." In a series of
studies, SHF reviewed FONHAPO's programs: VIVAH under the McKenzie Associates
"Leveraging Contractual Savings for Low-Income Housing" in early 2006, and
Mejoramos Tu Casa and Iniciamos Tu Casa under a study carried out independently with
World Bank support.

(iv) Redefining the role of the Instituto del Fondo Nacional de la Vivienda para los
Trabajadores (INFONAVIT)10. According the HUTAL PAD, INFONAVIT, which
provided two-thirds of Mexico's mortgages, should apply financial terms similar to
private market-rates. However, this step required "a clear plan in order to build broad
support among stakeholders." In this context, the widely-cited study, "Leveraging
Contractual Savings for Low-Income Housing" proposed that all the major housing funds
(INFONAVIT, FOVISSTE, FONHAPO, SHF) be consolidated under a single
administration leading to: i) unified planning; ii)greater transparency; iii) efficiency gains
passed on to borrower/beneficiary iii) elimination of subsidized interest rates and


9 SOFOLES hipotecarias are non-deposit taking private finance companies that have been largely funded
by FOVI. Following the withdrawal of the banks in 1995, SOFOLES had been the sole mortgage providers
to middle- and low-income groups, though banks are starting to lend on a small scale to upper, middle-
income groups.
10INFONAVIT is a government institution which serves as a pension fund and housing lender for private
formal sector employees.


                                                 10

charging market interest rates to fully cover costs; iv) allow pension funds to invest in
alternatives to INFONAVIT, i.e. to make mortgage lenders compete for funds; v) full
financial regulation. The study does not deal with the issue of the transition to private
market rate financing, although it does recommend application of market interest rate -
but as a matter of government policy, not of actual market dependence. The study
conclusions have yet to be adopted by the Mexican Government.

(v) Savings products and BANSEFI-11 SHF has undertaken a review of savings and
credit programs available to low-income groups in its study, "Estudio de Vivienda Rural
y Popular" SHF has since piloted several new savings and micro-credit products working
since 2005 with the cooperative Financiera Independencia (FI); a savings plan
AhorraSHF, in 2007; and, since 2008 a new line ­Te Creemos with five other micro
finance institutions­ to its pilot with FI. Although these programs have been designed and
launched without input from the HUTAL, feedback from the study Estudio de Vivienda
Rural y Popular may prove useful for later revisions and scaling up of savings and credit
programs.

Although the Bank gave SHF a NOL for Terms of Reference for a study on remittances
in early 2006 SHF received a grant from the IADB for the same subject and opted not to
include it in the HUTAL. Regarding mortgage-backed securities, SHF had contracted a
study in 2003 on the same subject and shared the results with the World Bank.
Discussions took place regarding a possible update of the same study, but SHF requested
its cancellation in the August 2007 project streamlining. The study for a housing price
index was also cancelled, having been confirmed in December of 2007. The IADB loan
evidently covered the same terms of reference. On two occasions Bank missions
proposed replacing these activities with a study on micro-insurance for housing as a
condition for HUDPLIII. In the event, SHF supported the full cancellation of funds,
rather than their reallocation to new studies.

Conclusions: The HUTAL has not led to the results set forth for this component in terms
of consolidation of products and definition of consistent and clear roles for the
implementing agencies INFONAVIT, FONHAPO and FOVISSTE. Although the study
Leveraging Contractual Savings for Low-Income Housing appears to have contributed to
the dialogue on subsidies and the study on rural and popular housing may help with the
issues of savings and micro-credit, overall only these two of eight activities identified
under the HUTAL Loan Agreement were carried out. The results indicators in the final
ISR show an increase in the ratio of housing solutions for households earning 5MW or
less to total housing solutions from 49% to 53%, the same ratio of subsidies to population
groups below 3MWs to total housing subsidies (50%) and a significant decrease in the
amount of mortgage financing from the private sector to households between 2 and 8
MW.      The ICR recognizes that SHF has made certain progress in the area of
low/moderate income credit, carrying out key studies with funding from other sources. At
the same time, the ICR notes that no advances are cited in savings and credit programs



11BANSEFI is a second tier bank which supports consolidation of existing cooperatives and credit unions,
and provides an electronic platform for their financial operations.


                                                     11

for low-income groups ­ a factor which could offset the lack of results indicators. For
these reasons the component is rated marginally satisfactory.

Component 4 - Urban Property Registries and Rights US$7.80 million ­ CONAVI

Expected Outcome:
Real property registries of eight states reformed as a preface to nationwide change

Proposed Outcomes: This component represents some 60% of HUTAL's total lending,
reflecting the importance that modernizing property registries represented in the public
agenda and set as a goal to "complete property modernization in three existing states and
expand it to five (new) states." through four Sub-Components described below.

Analysis of Results (indicative amounts shown are from the PAD annex 1 and
nclude both physical and price contingencies.)

Systemic Reform (US$0.55 million) ­ Under this Sub-Component CONAVI was to
change the character of the property registry from a record of filed documents to a record
of legal rights as embodied in the guidelines it had developed for the Property Registries
under the title "Principios de Modernidad." CONAVI circulated these among National
Association of Property Registers, notaries, banks, INFONAVIT, and several state
governments gathering inputs and suggestions for its final report, "Modelo de
Modernización de los Registros de Propiedad" which was published in December 2005,
and is available for use by state and local governments on CONAVI`s web page .
CONAVI carried out further studies under HUTAL which were completed in 2008 with
the exception of a of "saneamiento registral" ­ currently being completed. CONAVI
estimates that applying the "saneamiento process" after the property modernization effort
will take between five and ten years.

Strengthening Property Rights Management (US$0.53 million) Under this Sub-
Component,- CONAVI was to i) develop a system of indicators for property rights in the
context of its strategy and model for the operation of state and municipal agencies in
charge of housing programs (Sub-Component 1.2). However the indicators (developed
by SHF with IADB support) are not included in the final study, and were delivered
shortly before June, 2008, too late in any case for application in the Program; ii) evaluate
the economic benefits of property register modernization. As CONAVI calculated time
and costs saved on its own it did not require separate activities under the HUTAL; iii)
assess and produce a legal interpretation of property rights in the civil codes of various
Mexican states." CONAVI drew up a legal framework for property registries and for the
respective laws in their support on its own without recurring to a HUTAL.

Modernization of State Public Registries (US$6.15 million) ­ At the time of HUTAL
appraisal CONAFOVI had developed a methodology for modernizing property registries
based on pilot efforts in Baja California, Colima and Sonora and financed by a grant from
IADB. The HUTAL was charged with overseeing the modernization of property
registries in an additional eight states as part of the first Program Matrix (by March



                                              12

2005). Insofar as the modernization would be carried out by the selected states, the Bank
required financial and administrative assessments as a prior condition to sole source
contracting, a process which was not covered under HUTAL costs, and which would
necessarily postpone the modernization process. When this became apparent, the
condition in the respective Program matrix was changed to stipulate that CONAVI should
sign agreements of intent with eighteen additional states as a condition for the third sector
loan. At the same time, the Government announced its decision to invest some US$40
million in modernization of property registries starting in 2007. For this reason, in August
of 2007, CONAVI proposed cancellation of the remainder of this component. At the
writing of this HUTAL all 32 Mexican states have signed Modernization Agreements,
and 23 have actually begun the modernization process.

Technical support to strengthen CONAFOVI (US$0.57million) - Technical assistance
was important in helping CONAFOVI to purchase needed software and hardware, to
train local officials and to coordinate, the supervision of each state-project in accounting,
auditing, and evaluation.

Conclusions: While advances were made in the area of property registries, HUTAL did
not contribute significantly to modernization of state property registers given the
restrictions on the use of its financing. Although it accompanied the time of greatest
modernization of property registries and cadastres in Mexico, the HUTAL's real
achievement was drawing attention to the issue of property rights. CONAVI staff
attributes this in large part to the visibility and credibility of the World Bank. Ironically
the Bank support drew the attention of the government, which designated its own funds
to the modernization of the property registers, ultimately reducing the need for, and the
use of the Bank's loan. For this reason, this component is rated as marginally
satisfactory.

Component 5 - National Urban Policy, Slum Upgrading and Institutional
Strengthening- US$2.27 million - SEDESOL

Intermediate Outcome:
National urban policy, slum upgrading and related institutional development supported

Proposed Outcomes:          As HUTAL's second largest in terms of investment, this
component focused on the marginal areas "with overwhelming infrastructure deficits and
without urban planning". Prior to HUTAL, in 2003, SEDESOL initiated "Habitat", to
support marginal areas, with IADB financing, and by 2004 had invested over U$90
million in both preparatory studies and direct investments in infrastructure and
community facilities." Under Component 5, HUTAL proposed to provide technical
assistance to Habitat staff and implementing agencies and to finance studies oriented
towards the evaluation of its programs and improvement of its methods.

Analysis of Results: Both Bank and SEDESOL officials describe their relationship as
difficult reflecting the history of this component. SEDESOL developed its procurement
plan in August 2005, calling for investments on the order of $1,600,000 for



                                               13

implementation by 2006. Two years later, however, only three contracts were fully
implemented for a total of US$582,000. In 2007 SEDESOL requested reallocation of the
unspent US$1,480,000. When reallocation proved impossible, SEDESOL requested
cancellation of the remainder which represented over 70% of the original component.
Specific results and outcomes of the four Sub-Components are described below.

The first phase of the planned Training Local Officials and the Public on Habitat
Implementation Issues - the design and updating of training materials for internet and
satellite use and application in three cities (Puebla, Tabasco and Veracruz) ­ was
implemented successfully. SEDESOL included training on urban upgrading in its
distance learning program through Instituto Latinoamericano de la Comunicación
Educativa (ILCE) under this Sub Component. Notwithstanding, SEDESOL plans to build
on this first phase and to establish an interactive internet platform with GIS capability,
linking federal and local governments, had to be postponed when funding for equipment
purchase (foreseen under Component 6) was not included in SEDESOL's 2006 budget.
In 2007 SEDESOL cancelled the program to develop and to implement the internet
platform, thereby ending this Sub-Component activity. Similarly, planned activities for
Developing Poverty Maps and Related Training successfully supported a first phase
contract to prepare poverty maps and training "packages" in 2006-'07. However, the
larger, follow-on contract was never carried out as SEDESOL could not secure the
sufficient budget and the component fell short of the 150 maps and associated training
originally programmed. Regarding Evaluation of Habitat Experience, no relevant
contracts appear to have been adjudicated or carried out under HUTAL. The Technical
Assistance in Project Management Sub-Component was executed as planned.

Conclusions: The HUTAL ICR notes that fewer than half of the intended results of this
component were actually accomplished and that in terms of impact, no data is presented
in the Project documents, while the Bank dialogue with SEDESOL does not appear
strengthened. Therefore this Component is considered unsatisfactory.

Component 6 - Low and Moderate Income Land Development US$1.91 million

Intermediate Result: National urban policy, slum upgrading and related institutional
development supported

Proposed Outcomes: Results indicators for this component include implementation of
two pilot activities: (1) a study to quantify and analyze the costs, benefits and related
information on informal and formal land development; and (2) low/moderate-income
land development and local competitivity. In addition the Loan Agreement specifies: i)
carrying out an evaluation of SEDESOL's land market information system; ii) training
State and Municipal agencies in local economic development; and iii) designing a
geographic information system.

Analysis of Results: In August 2007, SEDESOL moved to cancel a total of US$713,000
from this Component leading to reductions in most activities. Of the products which
survived, the Cost-benefit Study of Alternative Land Development Methodologies (a



                                            14

trigger under HUDPL III) generated a long dialogue on methodology and goals which is
considered to have contributed to the quality and utility of the final study although it also
delayed contracting. As the study had not been contracted in time to meet HUDPL II
conditions in 2005, the Bank requested a waiver on that project's matrix. The study was
completed in 2007 and served in fulfillment of the requirements for HUDPL III and is
due for publication in the second half of 2009. The Pilot low- and moderate-income land
development project, referring to a methodology derived from the cost-benefit analysis to
evaluate future demand for land and to the concomitant design of appropriate measures to
encourage desirable urban spatial growth was also carried out. In 2007, HUTAL
supported SEDESOL's first experience with such a methodology in the city of Mexicali,
Baja California Norte. The final report was delivered to SEDESOL by mid 2008, the full
report "Design of Integral Land Markets ­ a case study of Mexicali, B.C." is due for
publication for dissemination in May 2009.

Other activities were reduced. Carrying out an evaluation of SEDESOL's land market
information system and Training State and Municipal agencies in local economic
development and competitiveness were both cancelled in 2007 and subsequently
eliminated from the project. Under Designing a Geographic Information System the
purchase of computer equipment and software to support the development of the National
Urban Information System (GIS) and system accessories was cancelled in 2007. The
HUTAL did finance development of a simple single-city platform and a training manual
for territorial-based municipal management systems which were delivered to 50 cities.

Conclusions: The HUTAL ICR rates this component moderately unsatisfactory insofar
as approximately 50% of its investments were cancelled, and accordingly only half of its
proposed activities completed.

Component 7 - Disaster Prevention and Management ­ US$400,000

Intermediate Results:     Disaster risk prevention efforts of SEDESOL analyzed and
reformed

Proposed Outcomes: Natural disasters have been linked to the World Bank's housing
programs in Mexico since the earthquake of 1985. At less than half a million dollars,
Component 7 appeared modest compared to the other projects, but it kept the dialogue on
disaster management alive after cancellation of the latest disaster risk reduction project.
HUTAL proposed two activities, both of which were to be completed by the end of 2006:
an evaluation of local risk prevention efforts based on the Risk Atlases produced by
SEDESOL, and a series of regional training workshops.

Analysis of Results: Under the Sub-Component Risk Atlases HUTAL financed the
preparation of an improved guide for elaborating the Atlases in 2005. The guide was duly
applied through the HABITAT program and has brought consistency to the effort and
established minimum standards, permitting SEDESOL to carry out and to introduce risk
atlases for 63 municipalities with some 200 training courses for local officials and
communities under HABITAT. At the same time, however, SEDESOL reported that



                                            15

demand from cities for risk maps was dropping, and in February 2006, it proposed to
cancel the follow-on phase to provide additional risk atlases eliminating US$270,000 or
71% of the Sub-Component. In 2004-'05, under Sub-Component Training in Risk
Prevention HUTAL financed a series of teleconferences, covering themes related to the
risk atlases. Although it did not foster additional training programs as originally planned
HUTAL did generate a new housing construction code, Código de Edificación de
Vivienda (CEV), under Component 1 a builders' manual to reduce risk of disaster
damage.

Conclusions:      The HUTAL ICR rates this component moderately unsatisfactory
considering its limited results compared to those programmed, and its failure to address
the major outcome: SEDESOL's disaster risk prevention efforts analyzed and reformed.

The Housing and Urban Technical Assistance Loan (HUTAL)

Objectives
i) support the implementation, monitoring, evaluation and continuous planning of the
HUSAL
ii) strengthen the effectiveness of low/moderate-income housing, land, and urban poverty
programs

Intermediate Results
i) HUSAL's and HUDPL's triggers met,
ii) Reform implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and continuous planning based on the
results of the analytical work of the TAL
iii) Progress in meeting the Government's overall goal in the sector ­ production of
750,000 housing solutions per annum by 2006

HUTAL Proposed Outcomes: The HUTAL project Loan Agreement specifies that
"The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in strengthening its low-and
moderate-income housing and urban poverty policies and programs." As noted earlier, no
indicators or baseline data were proposed to measure progress (or loss) in achieving these
goals. This section thus looks at HUTAL's contributions to the Program and at the results
and outcomes of HUTAL's seven components (as evaluated in the previous sections.)

Analysis of Results: Regarding Meeting the HUSAL and HUDPL triggers (to the
extent that they are supported by TAL), Table 1 in Annex 2 shows the HUTAL
outputs which contributed to the HUSAL and HUDPL matrices, according to the
Program PADs. Thirty four results are listed although only eighteen link to specific
actions. Of these, only eight were actually carried out and none was fully completed
within the matrix time frame. Some activities, such as modernizing the state property
registries, or carrying out a study present value of INFONAVIT's subsidies, were
fulfilled during the HUTAL's implementation, but without support from HUTAL.
Notwithstanding, HUTAL's record of achievements in terms of meeting the specified
triggers is unsatisfactory, as explained below.




                                             16

With respect to the goal of Reform implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
continuous planning based on the results of the analytical work of the HUTAL, the
summarized outcomes of all the HUTAL components can be seen in Table 2 in Annex 2.
Table 8-1 below presents the ratings for each component under the Program and HUTAL
ICRs.
                                   Table 2. HUTAL ICR

                      Component 1           Satisfactory
                      Component 2           Unsatisfactory
                      Component 3           Marginally Satisfactory
                      Component 4           Marginally Satisfactory
                      Component 5           Unsatisfactory
                      Component 6           Moderately Unsatisfactory
                      Component 7           Moderately Unsatisfactory

Based on an average of its Component ratings, the HUTAL ICR is rated as moderately
unsatisfactory.

As to the last of the HUTAL's intermediate results, Achieving progress in
Government's overall goal of increasing housing production, it is extremely difficult
to rate compliance with this outcome since the HUTAL documents offer no indicators to
measure "progress" and no baseline data to start on housing production. For this reason,
this outcome is not rated.

3.3 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Justification of Overall Outcome ­ The rating is justified as an average of the overall
component's ratings as seen in 8.2.2, applying the same methodology used in the
Program ICR., giving greater weight to: (i) Component 2 Housing Subsidies; (ii)
Component 3 Access to Credit and Ability to Save; and (iii) Component 4 Reform of the
Property Registry System, and the rating given for the PDO in 8.2.1.

3.4 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

The overarching theme linking the project and performance outcomes concerns not the
failure of this particular project, but the Bank's need to explore alternative instruments
and policy development tools for MIC countries. In LDCs, Technical Assistance Lending
(TAL) is applied primarily to strengthen particular institutions and/or to identify, evaluate
and design specific projects in preparation for an investment loan. On the other hand, in a
MIC country like Mexico, where government agencies are supported internally, and
where investments can be managed domestically, Bank lending is absorbed by budget
support operations and the LDC justifications for TALs flounder. The HUTAL,
amounted to less than 2% of the Program, and brought no additional funds to the
SEDESOL and CONAVI. Thus, when problems emerged cancellation won out.




                                             17

       (a) Institutional Change/Strengthening
           Significant institutional changes or strengthening during the implementation
           period is not evident.

       (b) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
           The HUTAL enabled the Bank to bring notable experts in the housing,
           housing finance, urban development and property registries and cadastres to
           interact with the Mexican housing agencies.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Marginal

The Development Outcome from HUTAL has been rated as moderately unsatisfactory
due in large part to the cancellation of most of its components. Regarding the 32% of the
original funds which were disbursed, as described in earlier sections, these supported
studies which aim to contribute to policy dialogue. While it has been noted that the
resultant policy changes have yet to be applied, there is little risk that the Mexican
government will discontinue its support of the housing sector and its pursuit of adequate
policies.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory ­ In hindsight it is clear that the HUTAL design was
overly ambitious and, as it was prepared primarily as a companion to the Program,
missing the needed flexibility seen in other TALs. While the Task Team foresaw the
complications resulting from the "no additionality" policy, it did not include any
mitigation measures or proposals for implementation. The team's failure to deal with the
legal issues concerning SHF's double role as implementing agency and financial
intermediary in a timely way, led to a ten month delay in effectiveness, a lag which was,
ultimately, never caught up and which meant that HUTAL had little influence on the
Program's first two sector loans, HUTAL objectives notwithstanding. The project did not
include adequate result and outcome indicators. Finally, the deliverables projected in the
HUTAL included several specific items for which GOM had already taken action,
preferred alternative financing, or did not have strong commitment.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory ­ The ICR notes the delays in filing the ISRs and Aide
Memoirs, as well as problems with results and outcome indicators. The ICR also notes
that while Supervision Missions consistently noted the disbursement lag hovering around
80%, no action was taken to cancel or to reallocate the unused funds. When the bulk of
the funding was cancelled in late 2007 the HUTAL was not restructured meaning that its



                                             18

performance is measured against the outcomes originally proposed in the PAD.
Management notes in the next to last ISR "With only 7 months to go we need to shift the
focus of our supervision effort from routine project issues to impact assessment and
expediting policy decisions." Notwithstanding, the final ISR does not explain either
project impacts or policy advances, as the focus had shifted to preparation of a new SIL
for SHF.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory ­ an average of (a) and (b)

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
HUTAL management responsibilities were delegated to the implementing agencies
which received no additional budget for these. Thus, as mentioned earlier, when
problems developed and priorities shifted from those set out in the HUTAL, the
implementing agencies preferred cancellation of funds to attempting to restructure the
project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Coordination problems between and within Borrower agencies led to problems of
insufficient budgets for both SEDESOL and CONAVI and resulted in time lags which
could not be made up given HUTAL's link to the Program. At the same time the
Borrower carried out many of the activities proposed under the HUTAL using its own
funding

(a)    Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory­ an average of (a) and (b)

6. Lessons Learned

Together with the Program HUTAL failed to have measureable impact on the
Mexican Housing Sector. This result reflects more on the limited effectiveness of the
Bank's traditional lending instruments for MIC clients than on issues of design and
implementation. Linking the very modest HUTAL to development policy lending on a
grand scale proved unproductive for both. The alignment of the TAL to the DPL Policy
matrices spread supervision over seven components, thirty four deliverables and four
implementing agencies, raising HUTAL's transaction costs so that the loan amount could
not compensate. Notably the Bank has continued its support of the Mexican housing
sector, but has changed from the dual lending approach initiated under the Program in
which the Bank supported two separate but simultaneous operations ­ one structural
adjustment and the other technical assistance. The Bank's most recent operation for
"Private Housing Finance Markets Strengthening Project," approved in November, 2008,
is a Specific Investment Loan, which includes some technical options in the context of



                                           19

the overall project. Results are still be evaluated of this "modified SIL" but the Country
Department has recently opted for a strategy built around a few very large budget support
loans combined with various other forms of support.

In general terms, Technical Assistance Lending has limited benefits in a MIC
environment. Traditionally TALs offer a means of supporting nascent and weak
institutions and of preparing for investment operations. In a MIC, however, the costs of
setting up and operating public institutions are covered by existing government revenue.
Costs of preparing operations can be covered by PPFs, or by the national government
before seeking financing. Fostering policy dialogue through technical assistance
operations may certainly be desirable, but may not be compatible with the procedures and
requirements (of both Bank and Borrower) related to lending. Future TAL operations are
advised to rethink their approach to MIC. Studies should be financed only when Terms of
Reference have already been agreed on and implementing agencies have been evaluated
positively.

Technical assistance lending has limited benefits for maintaining a policy dialogue.
The HUTAL experience suggests that technical assistance lending may actually set
policy dialogue back by focusing Bank and client time on bureaucratic procedural issues
and, in the case of HUTAL, by a de facto relinquishing of policy dialogue to other
institutions like IADB which are supporting specific investment programs (HABITAT).
Recently the Mexico Country Department has been engaging in sector policy dialogue
through non-reimbursable technical assistance, grant funded ESW, stepped-up fee-for-
service work, and memos-of-understanding, in addition to preparation and supervision of
DPLs. Time will tell how these instruments work to sustain productive policy dialogues.
One tool the Bank could consider would be increased South-South or South-North
exchanges to bring the Bank's global knowledge to bear in client countries.

Lending instruments for MICs must adjust to new circumstances, in which
Governments are able to leverage funds from many sources and are opting to minimize
transaction costs for borrowing (i.e. a few large budget support operations) and to control
in their overall budget exercise. The resulting rule of "no additionality" from Bank loans
is likely to spread among MIC borrowers. Continued lending under these circumstances
will depend on finding creative ways to engage with borrowers particularly with small
loans. Among others, the ICR suggests consideration of:

     Agreeing with Finance Ministries on multi-year budget allocations to include loan
        disbursements, as part of Loan Negotiations. This could guarantee funding to
        implementing agencies;

     Negotiating output based lending (or grants). In the case of HUTAL the proposed
        studies based on pre-agreed Terms of Reference (products) could have triggered
        disbursements, as could, for example: measured increases in annual housing
        production goals combined with reduced government subsidies; reduced time
        required for registering real property; and reduced number of persons/room in




                                             20

        overall housing data. This would take the pressure off the procedural issues and
        shift the supervision focus to information gathering and analysis;

     Lending to agencies like SHF which are not affected by the "no additionality"
        regulations. This would limit lending to institutions with independent budgets and
        to projects with positive financial returns;

     Taking issues such as fiscal budgeting in Mexico, FMA requirements, and the "no
        additionality" measures into account in and implementation action plan for
        inclusion in the Operations Manual

Both sector wide assistance and institutional development remain elusive for MICs.
HUTAL's attempt to implement sector-wide reform by assigning simultaneous (and
complementary) tasks and technical assistance funding to various implementing agencies
proved frustrating for its failure to foster agreement even on a strategy for unification, let
alone sector unification itself, and costly for increasing supervision costs. Government
institutions frequently commit more energy to their own survival and expansion than to
achieving their social objectives. The Bank could contribute more to sector-wide
unification by focusing on the strongest institutions (in this case the private banks or
INFONAVIT) or with institutions which focus on particular sub-sectors (SHF for
securitization, FONHAPO for subsidies to informal sector households) than by
supporting a series of different institutions each with its own vision. The HUTAL
experience confirms the Mexican housing institutions' tendency to expand their area of
work by adding on pilot programs (which then become permanent programs) which
duplicate those of other institutions. The Bank should push for clarity in these instances.

Progress cannot be evaluated without quantifiable indicators for both outputs and
outcomes and baselines data. The point has been made throughout this ICR that the
project results need to be monitored and measured adequately. Many of the HUTAL
measurements are weakened by the fact that they are expressed in "MS" or minimum
wages, which defy comparison to other countries or to Mexico's own history. Also data
sources are not clear meaning but appear to mix information on house prices, on
subsidized payment rates, individual and household income. Income data should be
expressed consistently as either household (preferably) or individual mortgagee and
should be measured in terms of income deciles. Furthermore, it should be made clear that
the information is based on mortgagees' confirmed income, not deduced from the terms
of sale. Finally, the ICR notes that 50% of the government's subsidies are still reported
going to persons or families earning over 5 MWs which, according to INEGI data, fall
within the 75th and 85th income percentiles. The leading question for both the Bank and
the GOM remains how to justify subsidizing this income level.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies




                                              21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

           Components               Appraisal      Actual/Latest  Percentage
                                  Estimate (USD   Estimate (USD   of Appraisal
                                    millions)        millions)
1. National housing policy and        0.41              1.80         418%
institutional framework
2. Housing subsidies                  0.21              0.15         68%
3. Housing credit and household       2.20              1.74         75%
savings
4. Urban real property registries     7.41              0.2           3%
and rights
5. Nat'l urban policy, slum           2.16              1.22         54%
upgrading and institutional
strengthening
6. Low moderate income land           1.81              0.51         27%
development
7. Disaster prevention and            0.38              0.11         29%
management
               Total Baseline Cost    14.58             5.72
Physical Contingencies                0.38            NA0.00          NA
Price Contingencies                   0.38            NA0.00          NA
               Total Project Costs    15.34             5.72         37%


(b) Financing

  Source of Funds        Appraisal     Actual           Real,     Percentage
                         Estimate     /Latest           Paid          of
                           (USD       Estimate           Out      Appraisal
                         millions) (USD millions)  (USD millions)
Borrower                   5.57         1.71             1.65        30%
International Bank         7.77         2.57             2.48        32%
for Reconstruction
and Development




                                       22

                                                  Annex 2. Outputs by Component

                                   MEXICO: Housing and Urban Technical Assistance Project

                        Table 1. Project Outputs Contributing to HUSAL and HUDPL Program Matrices

Policy Area --- Indicative Output for HUSAL and HUDPL Matrix,          Indicative Completion Actual Completion Date
according to HUSAL, HUDPLI and HUDPLII PADs                            Date
Component One: National Housing Development Policy and Institutional Framework
1. Evaluation of housing programs                                                            Not carried out
2. National program of institutional strengthening of states and                             Partially carried out-
municipalities on low income housing                                                         OREVIS study: completed
                                                                                             2008
3. Support for housing information system                                                    Not carried out
4. Analysis of costs and benefits of changed strategy/role for                               Not carried out
INFONAVIT
5. Housing Sector SEA                                                  March 2004, later     September, 2008
                                                                       March 2007
Component Two Housing Subsidies
6. Coordinated evaluation of federal housing subsidy programs          March 2005            Partially completed- February
                                                                                             2009
7. Support to the housing subsidy working group and for the design and March 2005            Not carried out
implementation of unified subsidy system
8. Study to develop a method for calculation of the present value of                         Not carried out under HUTAL
selected INFONAVIT interest-rate subsidy packages
9. Support for capacity building of FONHAPO/ FONAEVI                                         Not carried out
10. Capacity building to strengthen FONHAPO as an implementing         March 2005            Not carried out
agency for all housing assistance and subsidy programs, and manager
of subsidy funds




                                                                  23

Policy Area --- Indicative Output for HUSAL and HUDPL Matrix,          Indicative Completion     Actual Completion Date
according to HUSAL, HUDPLI and HUDPLII PADs                            Date
Component Three:-Strengthen low/moderate-income housing credit and savings
11. Mortgage foreclosure awareness program                                                       Not carried out
12. Home counseling study/program on mortgage lending for potential                              Not carried out
borrowers
13. Software engineering and hardware support for SHF to hasten the                              No information
development and distribution of the credit database
14. Studies of: (a) the role of Cajas de Ahorro y Préstamo and other                             Not carried out
lenders in low/moderate-income housing finance, and the potential of
Bansefi as a source of long-term funding; (b) the feasibility of SHF
issuing retail bonds to low and moderate income savers, with proceeds
funding home credit to this income group: (c) of demand for financial
products by immigrants and the use of remittance flows
15. Development of norms for SOFOLES                                                             Completed 2007 by SHF
16. Design of program to adequately mitigate risk associated with                                Not carried out
expanded low-income credit for housing
17. Assistance on the adoption of appropriate rules for risk-based      March 2005               Not carried out
capital and investment in mortgage-backed securities by SOFOLES
Component Four:-Reform real property registries of eight states as a preface to nationwide change
18. Modernization of property registries in five additional states      March 2005               Not carried out under HUTAL
19. Studies for consensus on legal framework for property rights        March 2006               Completed June 2009
Component Five: -Support national urban policy, slum upgrading and related institutional development
20. Poverty mapping dissemination and training for states,              March 2007               Partially completed March
municipalities and communities                                                                   2007
21. Pilot project to help fast-growing urban areas establish municipal  March 2006               Not carried out
planning agencies




                                                                   24

Policy Area --- Indicative Output for HUSAL and HUDPL Matrix,           Indicative Completion Actual Completion Date
according to HUSAL, HUDPLI and HUDPLII PADs                             Date
Component Six: Develop program land policy and the poor.
22. Evaluation of and proposals for the urban land inventory.           March 2004            Not carried out
23. Study quantifying the costs and benefits of irregular and regular   March 2005            Completed March 2008
land use.
24. Study on new instruments and action plan for low/moderate-income March 2006               Not carried out
land development.
25. Support for urban land information system                                                 Not carried out
Component Seven: Reduction of Vulnerability to Natural Disasters
26. Development of risk atlases in 69 cities                            March 2006            Completed March 2007
27. Institutionalization of atlas recommendations through training of   March 2005            Completed March 2006
local authorities in preventive planning and use of Atlas instruments
28. Training and equipment for local civil protection groups from major March 2005            Completed March 2006
cities
29. Training for members of communications media                        March 2006            No information- component
                                                                                              cancelled
30. Design of a module on disaster response and prevention for primary March 2006             No information
and secondary school curriculum
31. Risk transfer studies at local level                                March 2005            No information
32. Local monitoring evaluation of the disaster risk management                               No information
33. Review of the methodology to elaborate Risk Atlases                                       No information
34. Training for local authorities in risk prevention                                         No information




                                                                   25

                                                   Annex 2: Outputs by Component

                                     MEXICO: Housing and Urban Technical Assistance Project
                                  Table 2. Objectives, Outcome Indicators and Outputs by Component

                   PDO                                    Outcome Indicators                                 Outputs produced
To support the implementation,                HUSAL's triggers met (to the extent that
monitoring, evaluation and continuous            they are supported by the TAL)
planning of the Affordable Housing and        Reform implementation, monitoring,
Urban Poverty Sector Adjustment Loan             evaluation, and continuous planning based
(HUSAL)                                          on the results of the analytical work of the
                                                 TAL
To strengthen the effectiveness of            Progress in meeting the Government's
low/moderate-income housing, land, and           overall goal in the sector ­ production of
urban poverty programs                           750,000 housing solutions per annum by
                                                 2006
Component One National Housing Policy and Institutional Framework
Strengthen housing strategy and the ability   FONHAPO and CONAFOVI strengthened                Study to Develop a Model for State Housing
of key organizations to carry it out          Database for housing decision-making             Agencies (OREVIS)CONAVI- SHF Feb, 2008
                                                 improved
                                              Model for administration and programs of         Housing SEA - ESTUDIO PARA
                                                 state and local government housing institutes DESARROLLAR
                                                 developed                                     EL PROGRAMA DE VIVIENDA
                                                                                               SUSTENTABLE DE
                                                                                               LA COMISION NACIONAL DE VIVIENDA"
                                                                                               CONAVI
                                                                                               September, 2008
Component Two: Housing Subsidies
Evaluate existing programs and develop a        PROSAVI and Vivah evaluated                    Evaluation of Programs For Direct Subsidies
federal housing subsidy system                  Federal housing subsidy program                to Housing in Mexico CONAVI, Feb, 2008
                                                   developed and implemented                   (delivered 21 May)
                                                Present value study of INFONAVIT
                                                   subsidy conducted




                                                                       26

                    PDO                             Outcome Indicators                             Outputs produced
Component Three: Housing Credit and Household Savings
Strengthen low/moderate-income housing      Low-cost lending methods studied          Study on Strategies for enhancing contractual
credit and savings                          Pilot program launched and mainstreamed   savings systems for low income housing ­
                                              for low-income housing credit           SHF, FOVI, INFONAVIT, July 2006
                                            Provisioning norms for SOFOLES
                                              developed
                                            Use of remittances for housing finance    Estudio de vivienda rural y popular ­ SHF ­
                                              improved                                draft in December 2008, final in Feb 2009
                                            Strategic plan for INFONAVIT
                                              developed
Component Four: Urban Property Registries and Rights
Reform real property registries of eight    Studies on path to reform, institutional  Evaluation graphic information of Cadasters
states as a preface to nationwide change      structure, and operation of effective   vs Property Registries ­ May 6, 2008-
                                              property rights systems conducted and   CONAVI, IDB,WB
                                              program undertaken in eight states
Component Five: National Urban Policy, Slum Upgrading and Institutional Strengthening
Support national urban policy, slum         Community-participation experience of
upgrading and related institutional           Habitat analyzed
development                                 Poverty mapping modules developed and
                                              disseminated
                                            Use of poverty maps evaluated
                                            SEDESOL strengthened
Component Six: Low and Moderate Income Land Development
Analyze and develop a program for           Cost, benefits, and incidence of informal GIS toolkit to help municipalities plan and
low/moderate-income land development          and formal modes of land development    administer services in urban areas.
and local competitivity                       quantified                              Capacity building activities that
                                            Low/moderate-income land                  SEDESOL did as TA for local
                                              development pilot project developed     governments and the implementing
                                              and implemented                         agencies of the Habitat program
                                            Local competitivity project developed     (Agencias de desarrollo Habitat).
                                              and implemented




                                                                27

                 PDO                               Outcome Indicators                           Outputs produced
                                                                                   Guía metodológica para análisis y gestión
                                                                                   del suelo. This was a pilot project in the
                                                                                   city of Baja California norte.

                                                                                   Diseño de Esquemas Integrales que
                                                                                   Incidan en la Oferta de Suelo: Caso
                                                                                   Mexicali, B.C. Feb 2009:

                                                                                   Study - Costos y Beneficios de los
                                                                                   Mercados Formal e Informal de Suelo
                                                                                   para Familias con Bajos Ingresos, 2008
Component Seven: Disaster Prevention and Management
Analyze disaster risk prevention efforts Component Seven:                          Codigo de edificacion de vivienda
of SEDESOL and support reform               Method for risk atlases assessed and   (Housing Consruction Code­ Feb 2009)
                                              improved                             An overall advisory contract with the ICC,
                                            Risk efforts at local level evaluated  and two consultancies to develop the
                                            Risk workshops and training of local   technical parameters), Feb 2009.
                                              authorities conducted




                                                              28

                                                           Annex 2: Outputs by Component

                                         MEXICO: Housing and Urban Technical Assistance Project
                                                     Table 3. Proposed Outputs by Component

Component 1 - National Housing Policy and Institutional Framework US$310,000 - Component 1 Objectives
  Log Frame                          Loan Agreement                                PAD             Program Matrices                  PAQ
Institutional    Strengthening the capacity of Borrower agencies such     FONHAPO and                                    Conduct study on
Strengthening    as FONHAPO to manage housing subsidy programs,           CONAFOVI                                       FONHAPO/FONAEVI
                 especially focusing on their systems for registering     strengthened                                   capacity to management of
                 beneficiary information and their capacity to design,                                                   housing subsidy program
                 evaluate and monitor programs                                                                           nationwide. Aug `06

                 Technical assistance and operational costs of
                 CONAFOVI to implement Parts A, B, C.1, C.2, D.I                                                         T.A. Project management
                 and D.2 of the Project and to supervise the execution of                                                specialist 2004-2005
                 Part D.3 of the Project.                                                                                T.A. Technical support
                                                                                                                         specialist 2004 ­ 2005

Information      Developing a national housing data system to             Database for housing   Support for housing     Development and
system           systematize housing-related information such as prices,  decision-making        information system      management of information
And housing      titles, construction, liens, permits, environmental      improved                                       system to manage housing
data base        licenses and zoning.                                                                                    data. 4 Modules - Dec 04
State and Local  Developing a strategy and guidelines (such as a model    Model for              National program of     Conduct study to develop
Housing          of a suitable administrative structure and program       administration and     institutional           models for state and local
Institutions     design, operation and monitoring) for the operation of   programs of state and  strengthening of states housing institutes aligned to
                 state and municipal agencies in charge of housing        local government       and municipalities on   national housing goals. July
                 programs.                                                housing institutes     low income housing      05
                                                                          developed
Other            Carrying out an environmental study and workshops                               Analysis of costs and   Conduct study/workshop to
                 following the recommendations of the Borrower's                                 benefits of changed     develop a strategic
                 housing environmental assessment.                                               strategy/role for       environmental assessment of
                                                                                                 INFONAVIT               the housing sectors. ­ Aug 05
                                                                                                 Housing Sector SEA      Study of Sustainable Home
                                                                                                                         Studies for Model Building
                                                                                                                         codes




                                                                          29

Component 2- Housing Subsidies ­ USS 140,000-
  Log Frame                    Loan Agreement                              PAD          Program Matrices                 PAQ
Background     Carrying out an evaluation of federal housing       PROSAVI and Vivah   Coordinated           Conduct evaluation of
Studies        subsidy programs (including analyzing and           evaluated           evaluation of federal actual federal housing
               calculating the net present value of interest-rate                      housing subsidy       subsidy programs taking
               subsidies of INFONAVIT loans .....                  Present value study programs              into land and infrastructure
                                                                   of INFONAVIT                              subsidies delivered at the
                                                                   subsidy conducted   Study to develop a    local level to federally
                                                                                       method for            assisted housing projects.
                                                                                       calculation of the    Dec 05
                                                                                       present value of
                                                                                       selected              Conduct a study to
                                                                                       INFONAVIT             develop a method for
                                                                                       interest-rate subsidy calculation of the present
                                                                                       packages              value of selected
                                                                                                             INFONAVIT interest-rate
                                                                                                             subsidy packages Aug 05

Design and     ....and designing a unified federal housing                             Support to the
implementation subsidy system                                                          housing subsidy
of a uniform                                                                           working group and
subsidy system                                                                         for the design and
                                                                                       implementation of
                                                                                       unified subsidy
                                                                                       system.....
Institutional                                                                          Support for capacity
Strengthening                                                                          building of
                                                                                       FONHAPO/
                                                                                       FONAEVI




                                                                   30

Component 3- Housing Credit and Household Savings US$1.46 million
   Log Frame
Activities/Results                    Loan Agreement                               PAD              Program Matrices                   PAQ
Foreclosure and    Designing and carrying out an awareness campaign for                           Mortgage foreclosure    Printed material for
Transparency       State and local authorities on mortgage foreclosure                            awareness program:      awareness campaign for state
                   enforcement                                                                                            and local authorities on
                                                                                                                          mortgage foreclosure
                                                                                                  Home counseling         enforcement
                                                                                                  study/program on
                                                                                                  mortgage lending for    T.A. to design the strategic,
                                                                                                  potential borrowers     materials, schedules and
                                                                                                                          negotiations for awareness
                                                                                                                          campaign for state and local
                                                                                                                          authorities on mortgage
                                                                                                                          foreclosure enforcement
Development of     Developing capital provisioning norms for the           Provisioning norms for Development of norms    Study and analysis on the
secondary          operation of SOFOLs                                     SOFOLES developed      for SOFOLES             potential of Cajas, home-
mortgage                                                                                                                  credit SOFOLES, other types
markets, SHF       Supporting the development of a new legal and           Low-cost lending       Software engineering    of SOFOLES, micro-finance
and SOFOLES        regulatory framework for the issuance and investment    methods studied        and hardware support    institutions, home building
                   of mortgage related securities.                                                for SHF to hasten the   material retailers/lenders,
                                                                                                  development and         land developers, and others
                   Designing and implementing a database for the                                  distribution of the     to extend credit for low-cost
                   development of national, regional and local house                              credit database         housing solutions.
                   price indexes.
                                                                                                  Studies of the          Study and analysis on the
                   Analyzing the origination, servicing, funding and other                        feasibility of SHF      housing credit experience,
                   practices of low-cost housing lenders                                          issuing retail bonds to financial condition, and
                                                                                                  low and moderate        regulatory regime of the Caja
                   Carrying out studies on the economic benefit and                               income savers, with     industry and other low
                   credit scoring of housing micro-finance.                                       proceeds funding        income housing finance
                                                                                                  home credit to this     institutions
                                                                                                  income group
                                                                                                                          Study and analysis on
                                                                                                                          evaluation of the risks
                                                                                                                          involved in such lending.




                                                                           31

    Log Frame
Activities/Results                   Loan Agreement                               PAD             Program Matrices                   PAQ
Subsidies and the                                                        Pilot program launched
Fideicomiso Fondo                                                        and mainstreamed for
Nacional de                                                              low-income housing
Habitaciones                                                             credit
Populares
(FONHAPO)
Redefining          Developing a strategy to reconcile INFONAVIT's       Strategic plan for
INFONAVIT           housing lender and pension fund roles and            INFONAVIT
                    INFONAVIT's lending practices
Savings products                                                                                Studies of: (a) the role
and BANSEFI                                                                                     of Cajas de Ahorro y
                                                                                                Préstamo and other
                                                                                                lenders in
                                                                                                low/moderate-income
                                                                                                housing finance, and
                                                                                                the potential of
                                                                                                Bansefi as a source of
                                                                                                long-term funding;
Other, Study of     Studying options to use remittances of emigrants to  Use of remittances for Study of demand for      Study for assessment of the
Remittances, New    support housing finance in the Borrower's territory  housing finance        financial products by    extent and methods by which
Legal Framework                                                          improved               immigrants and the       migrant remittances finance
for Mortgage-                                                                                   use of remittance        housing, Strategy to use
Backed Securities ,                                                                             flows.                   remittances to support
Housing Price                                                                                                            housing (2 phases)
Index,Micro-
insurance for                                                                                                            Conduct a study to better

housing                                                                                                                  understand the legal and
                                                                                                                         regulatory framework, up
                                                                                                                         dating previous studies done
                                                                                                                         during the late nineties.

                                                                                                                         Design and implementation
                                                                                                                         of a data base to support the
                                                                                                                         development of national,
                                                                                                                         regional, and local house
                                                                                                                         price indexes...




                                                                        32

Component 4- Urban Property Registries and Rights ­ Proposed Outcomes
   Log Frame
Activities/Results                     Loan Agreement                                   PAD             Program Matrices                  PAQ
Systemic Reform    Strengthening of the RPP's management, through             Studies on path to
                   activities such as: (a) the evaluation of the economic     reform, institutional
                   impact of a property registry reform initiative currently  structure, and operation
                   being implemented by the Borrower; (13) the carrying       of effective property
                   out of a comparative assessment of the property rights     rights systems
                   contained in the respective civil codes of the Selected    conducted and program
                   States and the States of Baja California, Colima. and      undertaken in eight
                   Sonora; and (c) the design of a system of performance      states.
                   indicators for public registries.
Strengthen         Promoting and disseminating information about                                       Studies for consensus  Organization and Delivery
property rights    property rights reform, through                                                     on legal framework for Services of Ibero-American
management         activities such as: (a) the design of a long-term strategy                          property rights        congress of property rights at
                   for institutional and financial sustainability of the                                                      Cancun, Mexico. (2004),
                   RPPS and their relationship with customers; (b) the                                                        Conferences for promotion of
                   carrying out of an assessment of the fiscal function of                                                    Modernity Principles of
                   the RPP; and (c) the preparation, publication,                                                             Public Registry Offices.
                   dissemination and discussion of a codified statement of
                   principles of modern property rights                                                                       T.A. Analysis and
                                                                                                                              dissemination of Property
                                                                                                                              Registry Modernization
                                                                                                                              Principles

                                                                                                                              Computing Equipment and
                                                                                                                              Software to support project
                                                                                                                              management

                                                                                                                              Additional software licenses

                                                                                                                              Study to define methodology
                                                                                                                              to compare State courts vis-à-
                                                                                                                              vis regulations of the Public
                                                                                                                              Property Registries




                                                                              33

   Log Frame
Activities/Results                     Loan Agreement                            PAD     Program Matrices                      PAQ
Modernization of   Carrying out a modernization process of the Selected                 Modernization of        Study to develop prototype legal
state public       States' RPPs· through activities such as: (a) the                    property registries in  framework for RPPs, focusing
registries         identification of the legal, administrative and                      additional states.      on process standardization and
                   regulatory changes needed to streamline the                                                  reduction of operational costs,

                   organization of Selected States' property registries; and                                    facilitating the interactions of
                                                                                                                RPPs in Mexico.
                   (l) the implementation of the changes referred on (a)
                   above.                                                                                       T.A. Support teams to
                                                                                                                Strengthen Property Rights
                                                                                                                Registries (2004-2

                                                                                                                GLOBAL PROCUREMENT
                                                                                                                PLANS NOT REQUIRED
                                                                                                                UNTIL STATES SIGN THEIR
                                                                                                                MODERNIZATION
                                                                                                                AGREEMENTS WITH
                                                                                                                CONAFOVI June 07006

                                                                                                                Study to develop legal
                                                                                                                framework to be used as a
                                                                                                                prototype to be implement in the
                                                                                                                various States, focusing on
                                                                                                                process standardization and
                                                                                                                reduction of operational costs,
                                                                                                                facilitating the interactions of
                                                                                                                RPPs in Mexico Study to define
                                                                                                                methodology to compare State
                                                                                                                courts vis-à-vis regulations of
                                                                                                                the Public Property Registries.
Technical                                                                                                       T.A. Advisor in procurement
support to                                                                                                      regulation and proceedings
strengthen
CONAFOVI                                                                                                        State supervisors in States
                                                                                                                2004-2006




                                                                             34

Component 5 - National Urban Policy, Slum Upgrading and Institutional Strengthening- US$2.16 million ­
   Log Frame                         Loan Agreement                                PAD              Program Matrices                  PAQ
Training local    Training State and Municipal officials and the general                                                 Development and update of
officials and the public in the norms and procedures of Habitat                                                          training materials to be used
Public on Habitat                                                                                                        in training workshops and for
implementation                                                                                                           internet and satellite
issues                                                                                                                   dissemination.

                                                                                                                         Design (and update) of
                                                                                                                         training materials for use in
                                                                                                                         Internet and satellite in TV
                                                                                                                         schoolrooms (ILCE)
Developing        Developing training modules in poverty mapping and     Poverty mapping          Poverty mapping        1st purchase: Computing
Poverty Maps      related data management, training and providing the    modules developed and    dissemination and      equipment, accessories and
and Related       necessary equipment to State and Municipal officials   disseminated.            training for states,   software for the design and
Training          and other public or private organizations on those                              municipalities and     development of
                  modules, and evaluating the use of poverty maps made   Use of poverty maps      communities.           dissemination package of
                  by State and Municipal governments.                    evaluated.                                      poverty maps, in Hábitat
                                                                                                                         localities, as well as
                                                                                                                         continuous monitoring of
                                                                                                                         impact of execution and
                                                                                                                         operation of actions and
                                                                                                                         operations. ­ Dec 2006
                                                                                                                         Development 150 packets of
                                                                                                                         poverty maps and related
                                                                                                                         training 2005- 2007
Evaluation of     Analyzing the experience of Habitat and elaborating    Community-                                      2nd purchase: Computing
Habitat           recommendations on effective community                 participation experience                        equipment, accessories and
Experience        participation suited to slum upgrading programs.       of Habitat analyzed                             software for the design and
                                                                                                                         development of
                                                                                                                         dissemination package of
                                                                                                                         poverty maps, in Hábitat
                                                                                                                         localities, as well as
                                                                                                                         continuous monitoring of
                                                                                                                         impact of execution and
                                                                                                                         operation of actions and




                                                                         35

                                                                                                                         operations - Dec 2007

                                                                                                                         Study and analysis of
                                                                                                                         community participation in
                                                                                                                         the Hábitat Program ­
                                                                                                                         December 2006

                                                                                                                         Study to evaluate Poverty
                                                                                                                         Maps

Technical          Financing of technical assistance and operational costs SEDESOL                                       Procurement, finance and
Assistance in      of SEDESOL to implement Parts E, F, and G of the        strengthened                                  technical specialists
Project            Project.
Management


Component 6 -- Low and Moderate Income Land Development US$1.81 million ­ Proposed Outcome
   Log Frame
Activities/Results                    Loan Agreement                                PAD             Program Matrices                  PAQ
Cost-benefit       Carrying out a study to quantify and analyze the costs, Cost, benefits, and    Study quantifying the  Preparing TORs for a study
Study of           benefits and related information on informal and        incidence of informal  costs and benefits of  to analyze costs and benefits
Alternative Land   formal land development.                                and formal modes of    irregular and regular  of the different
Development                                                                land development       land use.              methodologies of
Methodologies      Analyzing options to promote low- and moderate-         quantified.                                   low/moderate income land
                   income land development and use of the Borrower's                              Study on new           development (individual
                   land data base in the Borrower's programs and policies                         instruments and action consultants)
                   on land development                                                            plan for low/moderate-
                                                                                                  income land            Study to analyze costs and

                                                                                                  development.           benefits of the different
                                                                                                                         methodologies of
                                                                                                                         low/moderate income land
                                                                                                                         development

                                                                                                                         T.A. to supervise the study
                                                                                                                         on analysis of costs and
                                                                                                                         benefits of the different
                                                                                                                         methodologies of
                                                                                                                         low/moderate income land
                                                                                                                         development




                                                                           36

   Log Frame
Activities/Results                   Loan Agreement                           PAD            Program Matrices               PAQ
Pilot low- and                                                       Low/moderate-income                      T.A. to draft TORs and carry
moderate-income                                                      land development pilot                   out supervision of the study
land development                                                     project developed and                    and make recommendations
projects                                                             implemented                              on low/moderate income land
                                                                                                              development policies and
                                                                                                              programs.

                                                                                                              Carry out the two-stages of
                                                                                                              the Action Plan developed
                                                                                                              during the study on
                                                                                                              low/moderate income land
                                                                                                              development policies and
                                                                                                              programs.

                                                                                                              Supervision services of the
                                                                                                              second stage of the Action
                                                                                                              Plan developed during the
                                                                                                              study on low/moderate
                                                                                                              income land development
                                                                                                              policies and programs.
Training State     Training State and Municipal agencies in local    Local competitivty                       Development of training
and Municipal      economic development and Competitiveness,         project developed and                    materials for regional,
agencies in local  providing the necessary equipment therefor, and   implemented (Sic)                        strategic, local and
economic           evaluating the performance of said training.                                               participative planning and
development and                                                                                               provision of training
competitiveness                                                                                               seminars to relevant actors in
                                                                                                              the cities in urban and
                                                                                                              economic development.

                                                                                                              Development of strategic
                                                                                                              projects to support
                                                                                                              Development Agencies in
                                                                                                              fast-growing urban areas




                                                                     37

                                                                                                  Update of training materials
                                                                                                  for regional, strategic, local
                                                                                                  and participative planning
                                                                                                  and provision of training
                                                                                                  seminars to relevant actors in
                                                                                                  the cities in urban and
                                                                                                  economic development.

                                                                                                  Study to evaluate the
                                                                                                  competitiveness program for
                                                                                                  development agencies.
Designing a     Designing of a geographic information system that                                 Computing equipment to
Geographic      includes both land and urban development data.                                    support the development of
Information                                                                                       the National urban
System                                                                                            Information System
                                                                                                  Accessories and software to
                                                                                                  support the development of
                                                                                                  the National Urban
                                                                                                  Information System (GIS)

                                                                                                  Standardization of urban
                                                                                                  information to develop the
                                                                                                  National Urban Information
                                                                                                  System (GIS)
Carrying out an Carrying out an evaluation of SEDESOL's land market       Evaluation of and       Study to review management
evaluation of   information system                                        proposals for the urban and use of land inventories at
SEDESOL's land                                                            land inventory. (Sic)   city level
market
information
system




                                                                    38

Component 7- Disaster Prevention and Management ­ US$380,000 ­ Proposed Outcomes
  Log Frame                           Loan Agreement                             PAD              Program Matrices                  PAQ
Risk Atlases     Evaluating risk prevention efforts at the State and    Method for risk atlases Review of the
                 Municipality level in response to the recommendations  assessed and improved   methodology to         Study to assess SEDESOL

                 set forth in risk atlases                                                      elaborate Risk Atlases methodological guide for the
                                                                                                                       elaboration of risk Atlases at
                                                                                                                       city level
Training in Risk Conducting regional workshops to train local           Risk efforts at local   Training for local     Dissemination of training
Prevention       authorities in risk prevention and disaster management level evaluated.        authorities in risk    materials for local authorities
                                                                                                prevention             on risk prevention and
                                                                        Risk workshops and                             disaster mitigation.
                                                                        training of local
                                                                        authorities conducted.                         Development of materials
                                                                                                                       and training courses for local
                                                                                                                       authorities on risk prevention
                                                                                                                       and disaster mitigation.

                                                                                                                       Update of materials and
                                                                                                                       training courses for local
                                                                                                                       authorities on risk prevention
                                                                                                                       and disaster mitigation




                                                                        39

    Annex 3. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members

          Names                          Title                    Unit      Responsibility/
                                                                              Specialty
Lending
Supervision/ICR
Juan C. Belausteguigoitia Lead Environmental Economist          LCSEN      Environment
Tim E. Campbell           Consultant                            FEU        Urban
                                                                           development
Carine Clert              Sr Social Protection Specialist       LCSHS-
                                                                DPT
Dmitri Gourfinkel         E T Consultant                        LCSFM
William Britt Gwinner     Principal Financial Sector Specialist CGFHF      Securitization
Ellen Hamilton            Sr Urban Planner                      LCSUW      Team Leader/
                                                                           housing
Abhas Kumar Jha           Lead Urban Specialist                 EASUR      Team Leader/
                                                                           finance
Angelica Nunez del        Urban Specialist                      LCSUW      Team Leader/
Campo                                                                      housing finance
Victor Manuel Ordonez     Sr Financial Management Specialist    LCSFM
Conde
Gabriel Penaloza          Procurement Analyst                   LCSPT
Felix Prieto Arbelaez     Senior Procurement Specialist         LCSPT
M. Vitor Serra            Consultant                            LCSUW      Urban
                                                                           development
Anna Wellenstein          Adviser                               MDD

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                          Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
 Stage of Project Cycle          No. of staff weeks            USD Thousands (including
                                                               travel and consultant costs)
         Lending
           FY04                          16                               68.56
           FY05                           8                               34.14
           FY06                                                           0.00
           FY07                                                           0.00
           FY08                                                           0.00
                    Total:               24                              102.70
    Supervision/ICR
           FY04                                                           0.00
           FY05                           8                               31.05
           FY06                          33                              144.69
           FY07                          18                               85.73
           FY08                          21                               70.14
           FY09                           7                               0.00
                    Total:               87                              331.61




                                            40

            Annex 4. Borrower's ICR




     EVALUACIÓN DE PROYECTO




PROGAMA DE ASISTENCIA TÉCNICA PARA EL
SECTOR VIVIENDA Y DESARROLLO URBANO




       PRÉSTAMO 7261-ME




                      41

(a) Antecedentes del Programa.


El Programa de Asistencia Técnica para el Sector Vivienda y Desarrollo Urbano
(HUTAL), tiene como principal objetivo apoyar las reformas de políticas del Préstamo
Programático de Desarrollo de Políticas para la Vivienda Asequible y Pobreza Urbana
(HUDPL).


El Programa es co-ejecutado por la Comisión Nacional de Vivienda (CONAVI), la
Secretaría de Desarrollo Social (SEDESOL) y la Sociedad Hipotecaria Federal (SHF).


El HUTAL apoya las reformas del HUDPL en siete áreas clave de vivienda asequible y
mitigación de la pobreza urbana, a saber:


      Desarrollo de sólidas políticas y marcos institucionales nacionales relativos a
      vivienda y urbanismo.
      Diseño e instrumentación de una política unificada de subsidios para la vivienda
      que facilite el acceso de las familias de ingresos bajos/moderados a la vivienda e
      impulse el ahorro familiar y el crédito privado para la vivienda.
      Fortalecimiento de los sistemas de ahorro y crédito para la vivienda y movilización
      de estos sistemas al mercado popular.
      Fortalecimiento de los registros de inmuebles urbanos y derechos conexos.
      Aumento de la oferta de tierras en zonas urbanas y del acceso [a las mismas] por
      parte de los pobres, y mejoramiento de esta función del mercado.
      Coordinación y apoyo para inversiones físicas y sociales para el mejoramiento
      sistemático de los barrios más pobres;
      Una mejor prevención y gestión de los impactos de los desastres naturales.


El monto total inicial del préstamo fue de US$7,770,000.00, asignado de la siguiente
manera:

                                                         Presupuesto
                                      Ejecutor              Original
                                        SHF            $          858,368
                                      CONAVI           $        4,125,600
                                    SEDESOL            $        2,747,182
                               Comisón de apertura $               38,850
                                      TOTAL            $        7,770,000



El 30 de junio de 2008 era la fecha inicial de cierre programada. Sin embargo, en abril de
2008 el Banco Mundial aprobó extender la fecha al 31 de diciembre de 2008. En
diciembre de 2008 se autorizó ampliar el período para realizar desembolsos hasta el 30 de
abril de 2009.


                                             42

En agosto de 2007 se solicitó la cancelación de recursos por US$4,894,893.00, correspondientes a
las actividades asignadas a los coejecutores del programa CONAVI y SEDESOL. En octubre de
2008, se solicitó otra cancelación por US$300,000.00 del monto asignado a la CONAVI.


(b) Objetivos de Desarrollo.


El HUTAL tuvo como objetivo brindar la asistencia técnica necesaria para lograr
alcanzar las tres metas de la Estrategia de Asistencia para México: reducción de la
pobreza, competitividad y sustentabilidad ambiental. Más fundamentalmente, el
mejoramiento de la vivienda, los servicios básicos y el acceso a bienes inmuebles por
parte de las familias de bajos ingresos.

(c) Organización y operación.

El Proyecto contó con el apoyo de un grupo institucional de organismos ejecutores del
Gobierno conformado por SEDESOL, CONAVI y SHF. Dichos organismos fueron
responsables de la contratación de consultores y de la preparación del Informe de Avance
Físico del Programa, así como de la ejecución física de las actividades que integran sus
respectivos componentes a través de su Unidad Ejecutora.

A su vez, este grupo de organismos contó con una Unidad Coordinadora de los
Ejecutores, siendo SHF el líder del Proyecto. Dicha Unidad tuvo como principales
funciones y responsabilidades: (a) coordinar las tareas de los demás ejecutores y
concentrar la información emitida por los mismos; (b) darle seguimiento a los acuerdos
tomados por los organismos ejecutores; (c) actuar como administrador técnico del
Proyecto, trabajando paralelamente con el Agente Financiero; (d) servir de enlace con el
BIRF para darle seguimiento y monitoreo al avance físico del Proyecto; (e) recibir los
requerimientos e informes de avance del Proyecto de cada Unidad Ejecutora; (f) asegurar
la preparación de los Términos de Referencia (TOR's, por sus siglas en inglés de Terms
of Reference) de las Unidades Ejecutoras y su envío al BIRF de acuerdo con la
programación del Proyecto; (g) convocar reuniones y facilitar las labores de los
Ejecutores por lo menos una vez al mes, preparar agendas, mantener las minutas y dar
seguimientos a los acuerdos; (h) solicitar a las Unidades Ejecutoras los informes de
avance y preparar un informe consolidado del Proyecto para ser enviado al BIRF; (i)
asegurar el flujo de información entre las entidades ejecutoras, entre estas y el BIRF; (j)
dar seguimiento a cada uno de los componentes del Proyecto.

Así mismo, SHF en su carácter de Agente Financiero fue responsable de: (a) monitorear
la ejecución del Proyecto y el cumplimiento de sus objetivos; (b) gestionar ante el BIRF
cualquier aviso, notificación, cancelación y/o cualquier otro trámite diverso que sea
solicitado por la SHCP; (c) coordinar las misiones del BIRF y sus programas de trabajo;
(d) mantener un sistema de información, control y seguimiento de compromisos
contractuales del Contrato de Préstamo, ayudas de memoria, entendiéndose por ello el
documento elaborado al final de una misión con objeto de presentar los resultados de
ésta, así como identificar los compromisos y acciones que son necesarios para avanzar en


                                               43

la ejecución del Proyecto y, minutas de trabajo; (e) tramitar ante el BIRF los desembolsos
del Préstamo, así como presentar cualquier documentación relacionada con el Proyecto
que requiera autorización del BIRF; (f) dar seguimiento de los estados de cuenta de la
cuenta especial y de los informes de auditoría; (g) informar a SHCP mediante reportes
mensuales sobre las cuentas del Préstamo y situación del Proyecto del mes anterior,
incluyendo entre otros: desembolsos; presupuesto asignado; en su caso, estimación de
desembolsos; en su caso, problemática en la ejecución del Proyecto; y asuntos pendientes
y/o en proceso de trámite; (h) presentar informes trimestrales sobre el avance en el
cumplimiento de los compromisos contractuales del Contrato de Préstamo y el avance en
el cumplimiento de compromisos de Ayudas de Memoria de misiones; (i) recuperar a
favor de SHCP los recursos pagados al BIRF por concepto de intereses y comisiones que
sean reintegrables a dicha Secretaría como resultado de cancelaciones y/o condonaciones
de comisiones autorizadas por el BIRF.

(d) Ejecución

Con los recursos del programa fue posible financiar importantes estudios para el sector de
financiamiento a la vivienda y desarrollo de suelo apto, entre los que se encuentran:

 Evaluación de los Programas de Subsidio a la Vivienda en México, de cuyos
     resultados fue posible obtener información importante sobre la oferta y demanda de
     vivienda, servicios urbanos e infraestructura, problemáticas de los programas de
     subsidios a la vivienda y de las instituciones encargadas de su operación.

 Costos y Beneficios de los Mercados Formal e Informal de Suelo para Familias de
     bajos ingresos, el cual permitió generar información referente las características
     socioeconómicas y espaciales que condicionan el funcionamiento de estos mercados,
     así como para proponer las reformas necesarias para optimizar la aplicación de los
     recursos públicos dirigidos a las familias de bajos ingresos en materia de desarrollo
     urbano y vivienda.

 Estudio sobre el Financiamiento a la Vivienda Rural y Popular, un diagnóstico
     amplio y preciso de las diferentes necesidades y preferencias de vivienda de la
     población en comunidades rurales y semiurbanas, brindando mayor conocimiento
     sobre el perfil de estos grupos poblacionales; su capacidad de pago; sus necesidades
     y preferencias de vivienda; los distintos productos existentes y las instituciones que
     los ofrecen en apoyo a la vivienda; identificar esquemas innovadores de construcción
     que utilicen nuevas técnicas, tecnologías y materiales que permitan el desarrollo de
     vivienda de bajo costo y susceptible de ampliación acorde a las condiciones de la
     localidad; así como un diagnóstico sobre la oferta actual de vivienda y las causas de
     la no atención.

 Desarrollo de 50 paquetes tecnológicos de mapeo de pobreza, en igual número de
     ciudades, así como el entrenamiento relacionado a autoridades locales para el
     manejo de la plataforma, el cual permitió fortalecer las capacidades de gestión,
     administración y evaluación de las políticas públicas con la instalación de la



                                              44

    Plataforma Tecnológica de Mapeo de Pobreza en 50 municipios del País, como
    herramienta de planeación a programas de inversión para eficientar los servicios
    públicos, la infraestructura y el equipamiento urbano básico.

 Estudio para desarrollar el programa de vivienda sustentable, consistente en una
    evaluación ambiental estratégica (plan maestro) para incorporar consideraciones
    ambientales en las políticas y programas del sector vivienda.

 Desarrollo e implementación de una base de datos de avalúos nacional, la cual
    permitió la obtención, integración y explotación de la información de avalúos, las
    unidades de valuación y los servicios de supervisión de obra, con el fin de difundirla
    a los participantes del mercado.

 Modelo de operación para los organismos estatales de vivienda (OREVI), basado en
    el diseño de líneas estratégicas de actuación, en materia de atribuciones, funciones,
    mecanismos de operación y de coordinación, fuentes de financiamiento y del
    impacto social y urbano de sus programas, así como la integración de variables e
    indicadores para dar seguimiento, evaluar y supervisar la operación de los OREVI
    en el ámbito del sector vivienda y desarrollo urbano.

 Evaluación y consistencia de la información gráfica de predios: Catastro vs.
    Registro de la Propiedad, el cual permitió desarrollar una metodología para evaluar e
    identificar los tipos de discrepancias entre la información del Registro Público de la
    Propiedad y el Catastro para el ámbito urbano, así como diseñar una muestra de
    ciudades a la cual se aplicará la metodología.

 Estrategias de apalancamiento del ahorro contractual para canalizar recursos
    privados hacia el financiamiento de vivienda para familias de bajos recursos en
    México. Una revisión de las posiciones estratégicas de los institutos que reciben
    aportaciones obligatorias en el contexto de fondo de pensiones y sistema de
    financiamiento a la vivienda en México. Identificando áreas de reformas útiles para
    dichos institutos y proponiendo alternativas para mejorar su desempeño dentro del
    sector de financiamiento a la vivienda y dentro del sistema de pensiones en México

Asimismo, para el componente de Política Nacional de Vivienda y Marco Institucional se
acordó con el Banco Mundial la importancia de contar con un Código de Edificación de
Vivienda (CEV) para México, por lo cual, fue incorporado un proyecto dividido en 5
actividades, incluida la asesoría por parte del International Code Council con el objetivo
de crear un modelo normativo actualizado para homologar la reglamentación en el país y
desarrollar construcciones seguras, confiables, accesibles y habitables en un contexto
urbano que mejore el bienestar de las familias; así como desarrollar los procedimientos y
programas para la adaptación y adopción del Código Modelo por las autoridades locales;
y un sistema para la revisión y actualización permanente del código modelo. Sin
embargo, debido a la duración de los servicios y a la fecha de cierre del préstamo, sólo
fue posible utilizar recursos del HUTAL para tres actividades:




                                            45

        Asesoría para la elaboración del CEV.
        Desarrollo de Criterios Administrativos y Parámetros Técnicos del CEV.
        Creación de un Organismo Mexicano que coordine y desarrolle                    las
            actividades relacionadas con el CEEV.

Las otras dos actividades "Programa de difusión y capacitación sobre el proceso de
adopción-adaptación del CEV" y "Programa de profesionalización y certificación de
agentes participantes en la producción en vivienda" serán financiadas con recursos
propios de la CONAVI.

(e) Estado de Desembolsos

A la fecha de cierre del préstamo, el estado de desembolsos fue el siguiente:

                                                Fondos ejercidos al
                           Ejecutor           31 de diciembre de 2008
                            SHF                                 858,368.00
                           CONAVI                               531,158.57
                          SEDESOL                             1,053,444.84
                           TOTAL                              2,442,971.41

                               *Cifras en dólares americanos

(f) Lecciones relevantes para el futuro.

Derivado de las diferentes misiones de supervisión realizadas por el equipo de trabajo del
Banco Mundial, fue posible establecer una comunicación continúa con la Gerente de
Proyecto y el grupo de especialistas, lo que permitió una constante retroalimentación en
la definición y redimensionamiento de las acciones y metas del programa, siempre
buscando enriquecer y fortalecer la asistencia técnica requerida para el alcance de los
objetivos.

Más allá de los cambios institucionales y de los funcionarios encargados de la ejecución
del programa, lo cual retrasó el desarrollo de las actividades inicialmente programadas a
ser financiadas por el HUTAL y derivó en la cancelación de recursos del mismo; la
lección aprendida sería que para una operación que se implementa en medio de un
contexto dinámico--que suele ser una característica sobresaliente de los programas
financieros de vivienda-- y por 3 diferentes agencias ejecutoras, debería procurase una
dinámica de trabajo muy estrecha entre los profesionales del Banco y de la contrapartida
local para analizar y tomar medidas correctivas sobre la marcha, y así lograr la ejecución
efectiva de la operación.

Asimismo, ha sido posible generar una curva de aprendizaje sobre la normatividad del
Banco en materia de contrataciones, lo cual agilizará futuras operaciones que se
implementen con las agencias involucradas en el sector de financiamiento a la vivienda y
desarrollo urbano en México.



                                              46

         Annex 5. List of Supporting Documents and References

 HUTAL PAD

 HUSAL PAD

 HUDPL I PAD

 HUDPL II PAD

 ICR000830 ­ HUDPL II & III,

 PAD - "Private Housing Finance Markets Strengthening Project," approved in
 November, 2008

 ISRs

 Aide-Memoirs

 OREVI Study - Colegio Mexiquense A.C, "Proyecto Modelo de Operación Para
 Los Organismos Estatales de Vivienda" 2008

 "Principios de la Modernidad"

 International Code Council, Elaboración y Desarrollo del CEV (Código de
 Edificación de Vivienda), January 2009

 Lean House Consulting "Estudio para Desarrollar el Programa de Vivienda
 Sustentable de la Comisión Nacional de Vivienda" September 2008

 SHF, INFONAVIT, Fondo de la Vivienda, Estrategia de apalancamiento del
 ahorro contractual para canalizar recursos privados hacia el financiamiento de
 vivienda para familias de bajos recursos en México", July 2006




                                     47

