Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21864-UA
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$28.19 MILLION
TO UKRAINE
FOR A
SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 26, 2001
Energy Department
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 2001)
Currency Unit = hrivnya, abbr. UAH (from September 2, 1996)
UAH 1 = US$0.18
US$1 = 5.6 hrivnyas
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
B/C           Benefit to Cost
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CHP           Combined-Heat-and-Power
C02           Carbon Dioxide
DH            District Heating
ERR           Economic Rate of Return
FRR           Financial rate of Return
FSU           Former Soviet Union
Gcal          Giga calorie
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GPN           General Procurement Notice
HMSAP         Housing and Municipal Service Allowance Program
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICR           hnplementation Completion Report
IMF           International Monetary Fund
LPG           Liquified Petroleum Gas
MWh           Megawatt-hour
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
NOx           Nitric oxide
NPV           Net Present Value
PIU           Project Inplementation Unit
SOE           Statement of Expenditure
SOx           Sulfur oxide
VAT           Value-Added Tax
Vice President:    Mr. Johannes Linn
Country Director:    Mr. Luca Barbone
Sector Director:    Mr. Hossein Razavi
Task Team Leader:    Ms. Carolyn Gochenour



UKRAINE
SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                               6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                    7
3. Benefits and target population                                                   8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     8
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                        12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      13
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        14
2. Financial                                                                        16
3. Technical                                                                       20
4. Institutional                                                                   21
5. Environmental                                                                   21
6. Social                                                                          22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              25
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  25
2. Critical risks                                                                  26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                  26



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          26
2. OtherAgreements Reached During Negotiations                                      27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  31
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       32
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                 33
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Sevteploservis                                          42
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                     44
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   56
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 57
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                58
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          59
Annex 11: Social Assessment                                                            61
MAP(S)
IBRD 30088



UKRAINE
SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSEG
Date: February 26, 2001                           Team Leader: Carolyn Gochenour
Country Manager/Director: Luca Barbone            Sector Manager/Director: Hossein Razavi
Project ID: P055738                               Sector(s): PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Project Financing Data
rX] Loan    [ 1 Credit    ( 3 Grant    [  Guarantee      [ Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 28.19
Proposed Terms: Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                               Years to maturity: 20
Commitment fee: 0.75% of which
0.5% is waived
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan:    Source                                   Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       0.00           0.00           0.00
IBRD                                                           4.10          24.10          28.20
BORROWING AGENCY                                               7.30           0.20           7.50
Total:                                                        11.40          24.30          35.70
Borrower: UKRAINE
Responsible agency: SEVTEPLOSERVIS
Sevastopol City State Administration and its heating enterprise, Sevteploservis
Address: 3 L. Pavlitchenko St., Sevastopol 33500, Ukraine
Contact Person: Mr. Sergey Doral, Director
Tel: (380-0690) 52-5896               Fax: (380-0690) 52-0720               Email:
teploroot@souz.sebastopol.ua
Estimated disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$M):
FY         2002       2003       2004      2005       2006
Annual    3.50        5.00       6.90       8.40      4.40
Cumulative    3.50       8.50      15.40      23.80      28.20
Project implementation period: 2001-2005
Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/2001  Expected closing date:  06/01/2001
XOS PAD l- R. Md, 2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The key development objective of the proposed Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement Project is to
increase the efficiency, enhance energy conservation and improve the reliability and service levels in the
heating system in Sevastopol through introduction of decentralized mini-boilers in the areas of worst
heating conditions and in key public buildings. The project would further promote sound cost recovery
policies and practices and the development of a new heating enterprise, Sevteploservis, which would
operate on a commercial basis.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators, as shown in Annex 1, include (a) number of mini-boiler plants in
operation; (b) connected capacity (MW); (c) square meters of buildings where mini-boilers have been
installed; (d) gas consumption of connected mini-boilers; (e) heat and hot water service level index; (f)
retail heat tariffs; (g) collection performance of heat bills by Sevteploservis and other financial indicators
(i.e., debt service coverage, current ratio, equity contributions from Sevastopol City State Administration,
payment performance to suppliers, reinvestment of profits); and (h) level of social assistance provided by
Sevastopol City State Administration.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex l)
Document number: R2000-167        Date of latest CAS discussion: September 12, 2000
The sector-related goal stated in the CAS is to introduce a more efficient decentralized heating system
based on gas-fired mini-boilers in order to reduce the huge wastage of energy and improve the affordability
of an essential service. The project aims at building an institutional capability in the form of a new heating
enterprise to implement an improved heating service in Sevastopol on a commercial basis which would
gradually be extended to other areas of the city. It is envisaged that the commercially-oriented heating
company in Sevastopol would be able to raise private capital for future investments and ultimately be
attractive to private sector participation.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Energy demand in Ukraine is characterized by high energy intensity of industrial output and the high share
of industry in final energy consumption. Energy intensity of official GDP increased 50% in the 1991-98
period reaching 3.1 kilogram oil equivalent/US$, a ratio that is several times higher than in developed
countries. Energy consumption per capita was about 2,600 kilogram oil equivalent (koe) in 1998, which is
high compared to Western European standards.
Ukraine is heavily dependent on high-cost imported fuels. While Ukraine has vast coal resources,
important oil and gas resources and significant hydro, wood, peat and uranium resources, domestic energy
production, consisting of fossil fuels and primary electricity, represented only 45-50% of consumption in
the 1990-98 period, with 50-55% of energy consumption based on imported fuels. The main energy import
items include crude oil and oil products mostly from Russia, natural gas from Russia and Turkmenistan,
and coal from Russia and Poland. The cost of fossil fuel imports reached about US$6.2 billion in 1993 and
increased to US$ 7.5 billion in 1995 and to US$8.7 billion in 1996, creating a demand for foreign exchange
that the economy was unable to meet. The difference was financed by payment arrears to Russia and
- 2 -



Turkmenistan (the arrears were subsequently converted to debt) and balance-of-payment support from the
IMF and the World Bank. The cost of fossil fuel imports decreased to about US$ 7.6 billion in 1997 and
to about US$ 4.5 billion in 1999, mainly as a result of the decrease in imports of gas and petroleum
products.
Fuel prices have increased dramatically since 1991 and now approximate world market levels. The prices
of natural gas and crude oil reached levels of $80/1,000 m3 and $106/ton, respectively, during 1996 (but
have reduced somewhat during 1998-99), resulting in higher prices for essential services, especially
electricity and heat. Electricity, gas and coal prices are set by the central government, while district heating
(DH), LPG, heating oil, peat and wood prices are set by local governments. Household energy prices cover
50-80% of costs, with household DH prices, outside of Kiev, currently covering 80% of costs but which
are expected to cover 100% of costs in the near future. The difference between costs and prices is covered
by subsidies from the central and local governments and/or by cross-subsidies from industrial to household
consumers (particularly for DH).
Non-payment by customers became a major problem for electricity, gas and heat suppliers in 1994-95. A
number of government resolutions was issued since 1996, calling for businesses which fail to pay their
electricity bills to have their power supply cut off. Earlier in February 1995, the Government introduced
the Housing and Municipal Service Allowance Program (HMSAP), which allows families whose monthly
payments for housing, water and sewerage, hot water, heating and other municipal services that exceed
15% of monthly income to apply for an allowance equal to the difference. Despite HMSAP, payment
discipline in the household sector remains poor as also is the case for the agriculture and budgetary sectors.
However, a Government initiative was undertaken during 1997 that now requires budgetary organizations
to restructure past debts for utility services over a five-year period 1998-2002 and to implement line-item
budgeting for utility services to better ensure payment of future bills. Sevastopol City is currently paying
its bills in a timely manner.
Sector Institutions
The main governnent agencies in the sector are the Ministry of Fuel and Energy that governs the
electricity, coal, and oil and gas subsectors, and the State Conimittee for Energy Conservation,
subordinated to the Ministry of Fuel and Energy. The State Committee for Architecture, Housing and
Construction also plays a role in overseeing municipal-owned heating enterprises, which are regulated by
their municipal owners. In 1994-95, the Government implemented a corporatization program in the oil, gas
and power subsectors, with the long-term objective of privatizing most of the assets and activities except
those that are considered of strategic importance. The Cabinet of Ministers also has approved a
privatization plan of state-owned, joint-stock energy distribution and generating companies, with
investment competitions currently being conducted. The corporatization program of the coal industry was
started in 1996, parallel with a program to close uneconomic mines.
Energy Sector Strategy
The "Concept for the Development of the Energy Sector of Ukraine for the Period up to 2010," prepared in
1993, spelled out the following main directions for Ukraine's long-term  energy strategy:  (a) the
development and implementation of a policy that promotes energy savings; (b) economically and
environmentally justified utilization of domestic energy sources; (c) restructuring of the economy to reduce
the energy intensity of production; and (d) increasing reliance on alternative (renewable) energy sources.
- 3 -



In early 1994, the Parliament passed a Law on Energy Conservation, providing economic incentives for
investments in energy conservation. In order to prepare the necessary regulations and to coordinate the
implementation of the Law, a State Committee for Energy Conservation was established in July 1995. A
long-term Comprehensive State Energy Conservation Program was announced in August 1996. As
highlighted in the Conservation Program, the main impediment to implementation of the Energy
Conservation Program is the lack of investment funds.
In mid-1995, the Government prepared and submitted to the Parliament the "National Energy Program of
Ukraine up to 2010." The "Program" was approved by the Parliament in early 1996 and follows the main
directions established in the "Concept."
Bank Involvement in Ukraine's Energy Sector
The Bank has been involved in the Ukrainian energy sector since early 1992. An Energy Sector Review
(Report No. 11 646-UA) was issued in 1993, leading to an Energy Strategy Conference held in Kiev in June
1993. During the Conference, an understanding was reached that the Bank's lending operations should
support initiatives that increase the financial and operational autonomy of enterprises and foster
competition. After the Conference, the Government, assisted by the Bank and other multi- and bilateral
agencies, started the preparation of a number of projects. Energy efficiency and heating were added to the
agenda in 1995. The Bank is currently supporting a number of operations, including a Hydropower
Rehabilitation and System Control Project (Ln. 3865-UA), a Kiev District Heating Improvement Project
(Ln. 4324-UA), and a Kiev Public Buildings Energy Efficiency Project (Ln. 4534-UA).
Sevastopol Heating Conditions
In Sevastopol, most of the heat and hot water for urban dwellers as well as steam for industry is provided
by a district heating (DH) system, with heat and hot water produced in heat-only-boiler (HOB) plant and
combined-heat-and-power (CHP) plant and transported through pipeline networks to substations to
buildings. The heating season in Sevastopol is short, running from the beginning of November until the
middle of March (about 4.5 months) with an average temperature of 4.4 C. Due to a large drop in heat
demand since independence, the present DH system is currently oversized for today's heat demand,
resulting in a very low heat load density of 0.86 Gcal/hour/kilometer of DH pipeline.
Heating and hot water services in Sevastopol are currently constrained and very low. For example, during
the 1996/97 heating season, the average room temperature was approximately 13 C, and domestic hot
water was available only one day per week during the heating season which was restricted to only about 2.5
months. The key reasons for the poor service levels are the limited availability of fuel and the poor
condition of the DH distribution system. Using the present DH system to deliver the restricted amount of
heat is extremely inefficient, since the system losses are basically constant and independent of the amount
of heat delivered. In these constrained conditions, system losses are two Gcal per each Gcal delivered to
buildings. Lack of adequate heat and hot water is currently constraining the development of Sevastopol's
economy and tourism activities.
DH in Sevastopol is provided by Sevteploenergo, a municipal enterprise. Sevteploenergo operates six
separate DH networks serving different areas of the city. Sevteploenergo's heating networks are in bad
condition due to corrosion. It has been estimated that 90% of the networks should be replaced within the
next five years, representing an investment cost of about US$ 80 million, which is out of reach of the City's
-4 -



economic capacity. Therefore, it is likely that Sevteploenergo's centralized heating system will gradually
cease to function during the next 5-10 years. Given the conditions prevailing in Sevastopol, it is not likely
that DH would ever be the least-cost option for provision of heating and hot water services, even if the
networks would perform as in Western systems.
DH tariffs in Sevastopol are at the upper end of DH tariffs in the country, despite the poor service. Due
mainly to the poor service levels, consumers are generally not willing to pay the present DH tariffs, and, as
a result, Sevteploenergo is experiencing a high level of receivables (about 1 year). It has been difficult to
enforce payment discipline by cutting off heat, since consumers would hardly notice any difference. At the
current constrained levels of operation, the DH tariffs do not allow for full recovery of the costs of the
service, leading to losses on Sevteploenergo's operations. The break-even tariff for Sevteploenergo in the
present situation has been estimated to be about two times the current level.  It is expected that
Sevteploenergo will be under constrained operating conditions over the foreseeable future and therefore
would continue to incur losses.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement Project aims at addressing the sector issues by (a)
supporting the implementation of a policy that promotes energy savings and reduces the demand for
high-cost energy imports, (b) facilitating the implementation of measures within the public services to
improve energy efficiency in heating systems and thereby the reliability and service levels of heating and
hot water services, (c) improving cost recovery of heating and hot water services; and (d) providing
investment funds, the lack of which has been highlighted as the main impediment to implementation of
energy efficiency measures.
In shaping the strategy which underpins the investment program, the project considered a number of
strategic choices related to heat supply options, location of project investments and number of boilers per
building:
(a)    Heat Supply Options. Sevastopol has reviewed the alternatives of (a) rehabilitating the DH
service, (b) abandoning the DH service and introducing a new heating service based on decentralized
mini-boilers in individual buildings, and (c) a combination of the two. Sevastopol's engineering consultants
first proposed an investment program that would minimize the financial and technical losses of the present
DH company through a combination of rehabilitation of the centralized DH system along with a modest
decentralization of the DH system. However, the results showed that, even with the proposed investments
and efficiency gains, the DH company would remain loss-making over the foreseeable future and would not
be able to repay a loan from the World Bank. Therefore, an alternative approach was adopted to establish
a new enterprise, Sevteploservis, that would gradually take over the heating and hot water services from the
present DH company by introducing a decentralized service based on individual gas-fired boilers. The new
decentralized service is expected to be profitable, given the experience to-date of other building boilers
which have been installed in Sevastopol.
(b)    Location of Project Investments. Sevastopol decided to implement the initial investment program
in the areas where the DH networks are in the worst condition, including areas 3 (Streletskaya Bukta) and 4
(Kamyshovaya Bukta) in the Gagarinsky district, in key public buildings (kindergartens, schools and
hospitals) and in areas where heat production costs are higher than the average level at Sevteploenergo
(coal and oil-fired boilers). The decommissioning of old heat production plant and networks in these areas
would improve the financial situation of Sevteploenergo by reducing gas, electricity and water consumption
and costs for repair and maintenance of equipment and networks, thereby helping to minimize its losses.
- 5 -



(c)    One or Two Boilers per Building.  Ukrainian building code (SNiP) inherited from the Soviet
system requires two boiler units under a decentralized heating service as the minimum for most of the
buildings that would be covered by the project. Since the reliability of Westem standard mini-boilers
(99%) vastly exceeds the reliability of the Soviet-type of boilers, the requirement is considered excessive
and unnecessary. In fact, in Western Europe the building codes are silent on the number of boilers
required, leaving the decision on reliability to the building owners. Further, the two-boiler option (with a
reliability of 99.9%) would not be justified from an economic or financial point of view since the added
reliability would not justify the additional cost and it would reduce the financial viability of Sevteploservis.
Therefore, Ukraine has decided to allow Sevastopol, as the owner of the project buildings, to take
responsibility for deterrnining the number of boilers that they wish to have in the buildings, which has been
decided to be one boiler per building. The one boiler option would represent a vast irnprovement over the
present situation of the extremely poor availability of heat and hot water in the project areas (37% during
winter 1997/98).
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project would replace about 40% of Sevastopol's present district heating load with decentralized,
gas-fired mini-boilers over approximately a 4 1/2-year period. The boilers would be installed at the
buildings on roof-top or at ground, at the buildings' immediate proximity. The average size of the boiler
plant would be approximately 261 kW, varying between about 100 kW to 1 MW, and the number of new
decentralized boiler plants would be 1,018, comprising 1,111 boiler units, serving 1,127 buildings. The
new boiler plants would include the boiler units, supporting structures, burners, heat exchangers, control
valves, valves, necessary automation, gas pipeline connections, gas and water meters, and other auxiliary
equipment for a complete operating system.
The boiler plants are to be connected to the existing gas network, which is relatively new (built in the
1980's) and with sufficient capacity.  The project would contribute to an absolute reduction of gas
consumption in Sevastopol, which would improve gas network pressure conditions in Crimea.
The DH boiler houses, heating stations and heating networks in project areas 3 and 4 in the Gagarinsky
district would be decommissioned. The premises of the DH boiler plants would be used for other City
needs, and the premises of the heating stations would be occupied by control offices of the new heat supply
system. Above-ground heating networks may be sold for scrap.
-6 -



1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
.ndicative                 -      %of
Co'ponent                   Sector        Costs      %,of    finanding    an*-
_C_ __ _ _p. _ _n...__                   (US$M)   Total    (US"M)  financing
Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement   Other Power &     34.71      97.1     27.46       97.4
Program                            Energy
Conversion
Sevteploservis Institutional Support
Program:
Implementation Support             Institutional        0.20       0.6       0.00       0.0
Development
Financial Management               Institutional        0.20       0.6       0.20       0.7
Development
Social Assistance Support          Social Assistance    0.10       0.3       0.00       0.0
Heat Tariff Study                  Other Finance        0.15       0.4       0.15       0.5
Financial Audits                   Other Finance        0.10       0.3       0.10       0.4
Total Project Costs                  35.46       99.2     27.91       99.0
Front-end fee                    0.28        0.8      0.28        1.0
Total Financing Required                    35.74      100.0     28.19      100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The key policy and institutional reforms concern the following:
(a)    Introduction of least-cost technologies, based on local conditions, in the provision of heating and
hot water supply;
(b)    Establishment of a new heating enterprise, Sevteploservis, with effective management systems
based on commercial principles of operation;
(c)   Introduction of cost recovery tariffs for heating and hot water services to ensure proper signals to
energy consumers thereby encouraging energy conservation; and
(d)    Improvement in the effectiveness and functioning of the social assistance program to better ensure
an adequate collection performance for the new heating enterprise, Sevteploservis.
- 7 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The proposed project would improve the quality and reliability of the heating and hot water service in
certain areas of Sevastopol, with significant economic and environmental benefits. These benefits include:
(a) better health conditions for public consumers and households, including children and pensioners; (b)
avoided productivity losses from low temperatures due to poor heat supply; (c) savings on more expensive,
altemative sources of heat supply; and (d) reduction in operation and maintenance costs and losses of
Sevteploenergo. Decommissioning of coal and oil-fired boilers would also have beneficial air quality
impacts from reduced emissions.
The project would benefit the overall population of Sevastopol and specific social groups.  The
improvement in health would primarily benefit residential and public consumers, including a large number
of children and pensioners. The productivity gains brought about by the project would benefit the general
welfare of the population through an improvement of the economy. The savings on alternative heat sources
would benefit households. The reduction in losses and of maintenance and operating expenditures would
benefit Sevteploenergo. The environmental improvements would benefit all the population in Sevastopol,
while the improvements in the quality of heat supply would benefit the customers. In addition, unemployed
labor would benefit from the generation of unskilled, professional and technical employment required for
the design, fabrication and installation of equipment.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Lending and On-Lending Arrangements. The Borrower would be Ukraine (represented by the Ministry
of Finance) which would on-lend the proceeds the Bank loan to Sevastopol City State Administration, the
owner of Sevteploservis, the new heat supply company established on April 21, 1999. The subsidiary loan
to Sevastopol City State Administration would be provided with a 20-year maturity including a 5-year
grace period on repayment of principal (reflecting the expected implementation period of the project). In
accordance with usual practice, the Ministry of Finance would mark-up the on-lending interest rate by up
to 1% for its costs of administration. Sevastopol City State Administration would guarantee the repayment
of the Loan to the Ministry of Finance. Sevastopol is judged to have sufficient capacity to guarantee the
repayment of the Loan, since the City's budget was about US$ 35 million in 2000, it has no extemal debts,
and debt servicing obligations would fall well below the required limit of 15% of annual revenues.
The City State Administration would, in turn, on-lend, on the same terms, the proceeds of the Bank loan to
Sevteploservis, which would be responsible for implementation of the project. The foreign exchange risk of
the sub-loan would be borne directly by Sevteploservis.
The project would be implemented over the five-year period 2001-2005.
Procurement. The boiler units with auxiliary equipment are planned to be procured as annual goods
supply contracts using intemational competitive bidding (ICB), and the mobile maintenance units and tools
would be procured as goods supply contracts using IS procedures (see Annex 6). The local installation
works, as well as the design and work site management, would not be financed by the Bank but would be
procured locally. The implementation rate of 50 mini-boilers in the first year which would gradually
increase to about 300 mini-boilers (25 per month) in the last year of the project is based on an assessment
of local installation capacity and is considered realistic. The implementation support consultancy is
expected to be funded by a grant from a donor and would follow the procurement procedures of the
concerned donor. The financial management consultancy and the heat tariff study would be financed by the
Loan and would be procured by using the quality and cost-based selection of consultants procedure
- 8 -



(QCBS). The financial audits would be procured by using the least-cost selection procedure (LCS). The
typical technical specifications for the gas-fired mini-boilers and the bidding documents for the first year's
investment program have been submitted to the Bank as a condition for negotiations of the Loan.
Disbursement. The proceeds of the Bank loan would be disbursed against: (a) 100% of foreign
expenditures for imported goods, 100% of expenditures for local goods (ex-factory) and 80% of
exenditures for other goods obtained locally; (b) 100% of expenditures for the financial management
consultancy and heat tariff study, and (c) 100% of expenditures for incremental financial audits.
Sevteploservis has expressed a preference for disbursement against standard Bank documentation rather
than disbursement based on project management reporting on a quarterly basis. The statement of
expenditure method of disbursement would not be applicable in this project, since all procurement would be
subject to prior review.
In order to ensure the timely provision of funds available to finance small costs of the project, a Special
Account in US dollars would be established in a foreign commercial bank by the Ministry of Finance for
Sevteploservis in the amount of up to US$ 500,000. Funds in the Special Account would be available to
finance only eligible expenditures under the project. During the early stage of the project, the initial
allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US$ 250,000. However, when the aggregate
disbursements under the Loan have reached the level of US$ 5 million, the initial allocation may be
increased up to the authorized allocation of US$ 500,000. Replenishment applications should be submitted
at least every three months and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
supporting docunents. The minimum size of a disbursement application for direct payment would be 20%
of the current deposit to the Special Account (US$ 50,000 or US$ 100,000). During negotiations,
agreement was obtained regarding the arrangements for establishing and operating the Special Account.
Financial Management and Accounting. As a newly-established enterprise, Sevteploservis was required
to establish financial management systems based on intemational commercial practices. In addition to
accounting and budgeting, new management systems for billing, treasury, cash-flow, tariff-setting and
management information were required to be put in place. With technical assistance provided during the
preparation period of the project, a new financial management system costing US$ 240,000 has been
designed and successfully put into operation since February 2000, with the assistance of KPMG (Moscow).
The financial management system of Sevteploservis satisfies the Bank's financial management
requirements and is able to provide accurate and timely information on the status of the entity. In the
demonstration of the system, KPMG has shown that the system is able to produce the financial reports of
the Project Management Report. Since the project had not begun at that time and no figures were available
in the system, it was not possible to demonstrate that the system was fully satisfactory. Therefore, it was
agreed during negotiations that, by September 30, 2001, Sevteploservis would submit to the Bank the
actual financial reports of the Project Management Report as a demonstration of the system's ability to
produce all necessary reports automatically.
The accounting software (Sun system) installed during the preparation of the project meets the current
needs both for entity and for project accounting and has the capacity to expand with the company. The
system can generate financial statements in accordance with Ukrainian accounting standards (UAS) and
intemational accounting standards (IAS), and can also produce Project Management Reports as required
by the Bank. The anticipated fast growth of the company's operations, however, is expected to place heavy
requirements on the company's organizational structure, personnel, accounting software, hardware and
monitoring. A second phase of consultancy support for Sevteploservis' financial management and
accounting systems will therefore be required during the implementation period of the project. During
negotiations, agreement was obtained that Sevteploservis would implement the second phase of the
-9-



financial management systems requirements under terms of reference and by consultants acceptable to the
Bank.
A comprehensive financial management manual has been prepared and the present financial staff have been
trained in the procedures in the manual in the areas of IAS and internal control (including the safeguarding
of assets, etc.). In addition, the national chart of accounts has been harnonized with IAS so that financial
statements, in accordance with both UAS and IAS, can be produced automatically without having to enter
the data more than once. The financial personnel are not used to formalized procedures, and the accounting
procedures developed by the financial management consultant are not yet therefore firmly established. The
auditor would be required to provide a special opinion on Sevteploervis' compliance with accounting
procedures as a part of the review of the company's internal control arrangements. The auditor would also
be required to submit a management letter with respect to intemal control within six months after
effectiveness of the Bank loan (expected to coincide with the 2001 annual audit).
Sevteploservis' accounting and economic staff, while sufficiently large for the start-up phase of the project,
will need to be increased as the company develops. There is also a need for computers, office equipment
and premises for the present and future personnel. An understanding has been reached that the company
will have to increase both the quality and quantity of the financial staff and supporting equipment over time
in order for the company to continue to fulfill the Bank's requirements for financial management.
Audit Arrangements. Sevteploservis is a newly established entity and was not audited in 1999, the year
activities began. The eight-month period in 1999 when the company was active will therefore be audited
together with 2000.
In order to provide accurate and timely information regarding project sources and uses of funds,
Sevteploservis would prepare Project Financial Statements. It has been agreed that these Statements would
be integrated into Sevteploservis' overall accounting system but initially would be maintained separately.
The Project Financial Statements would be prepared in a format compatible with the Bank's loan change
initiative (LACI) and in accordance with IAS. The Project Financial Statements would be audited by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and the audit report would be submitted to the Bank within six
months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit report of the Project Financial Statements would also
contain separate opinions on the operation of the Special Account and Sevteploservis' internal control
arrangements.
In order to properly monitor the financial performance of Sevteploservis, its financial statements (income
statements, source and application of funds statements and balance sheets), in addition to the Project
Financial Statements, would be prepared in accordance with international accounting and auditing
standards and audited by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, and the audit report would be
submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The auditor would be appointed no
later than 9 months after the start of the fiscal year, beginning with FY01, for each year during the
implementation period of the project. The audit report would contain a separate opinion on compliance by
Sevteploservis with all financial covenants under the Bank Loan. It is expected that a local branch of a
private, international commercial auditor, in association with a local auditing firm if available, would carry
out the audits, and this arrangement is considered acceptable. The audits will be financed from the
proceeds of the Bank Loan.
Supervision, Monitoring and Reporting. As this is the first Bank-supported decentralized heating
improvement project in Ukraine, a significant supervision effort would be required particularly during the
- 10 -



first two years when procurement practices and management systems would be established and confirmed.
Therefore, it is planned that about 15 staff-weeks of effort each year for the first two years and about 12
staff-weeks each year thereafter would be required for supervision.
Sevteploservis would prepare semi-annual Project Management Reports, which would be submitted to the
Bank within 45 days after the end of each semester and would be based on the accrual model. The Project
Management Reports would include, among other things, information regarding: (a) overall progress of the
project, (b) project sources and uses of funds by project activity; (c) procurement process and contract
expenditures, (d) financial performance of Sevteploservis and the project, (e) compliance with covenants
under the legal agreements; (f) the use of the Special Account, (g) issues affecting project implementation,
and (h) performance monitoring indicators. The first Project Management Report covering the period
ending December 31, 2001 would be sent to the Bank by end-January 2002. An outline of the proposed
format, including the performance indicators, were discussed during negotiations.  The proposed
performance monitoring indicators are discussed in general in Annex 1.
The Bank would carry out a mid-term review of the project not later than December 31, 2003 and review
the results with the Bank by March 31, 2004. In addition to the topics covered under the semi-annual
Project Management Reports, the mid-term review would include an in-depth review of the economic
viability of the project components, based on actual costs and benefits achieved to-date, and of the overall
institutional and financial viability of Sevteploservis. Based on the outcome of the mid-term review,
measures would be taken to ensure the efficient completion of the project. The timing of the mid-term
review was agreed during negotiations.
An Implementation Completion Report (ICR) would be prepared by the Bank with inputs from
Sevteploservis and Sevastopol City State Administration not later than six months after completion of the
project. The ICR would evaluate how well the objectives of the project have been met, the overall
performance of the project, the performance of Sevteploservis and lessons leamed. During negotiations,
agreement was obtained regarding the reporting and monitoring requirements of the project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project design considered the altematives of (a) rehabilitating the DH service, (b) abandoning the DH
service and introducing a new heating service based on decentralized mini-boilers in individual buildings,
and (c) a combination of the two. For the reasons stated previously, the altemative was adopted to
establish a new enterprise, Sevteploservis, that would gradually take over (during the next 12-15 years) the
heating and hot water services from the present DH company by introducing a decentralized service based
on individual gas-fired boilers.
The project design also considered two altematives for the institutional arrangements for the project related
to the establishment of the new heating company, Sevteploservis. The two altematives were involved with
establishing Sevteploservis as: (a) a state-municipal enterprise wholly owned by Sevastopol City State
Administration; or (b) a joint-stock company with at least 51% of the shares belonging to Sevastopol City
State Administration.



Sevastopol City State Administration has initially established Sevteploservis as a state-municipal enterprise
wholly owned by Sevastopol City State Administration. This legal structure was selected to facilitate the
establishment of the new company in the most expeditious manner, given the lack of experience in
Sevastopol in establishment of municipal joint-stock companies.
In the medium-term, however, the municipal enterprise legal structure has some drawbacks.  First, it
allows for a greater degree of intervention by the municipal authorities than is desirable. Second, the
municipal enterprise structure does not allow for the issue of shares and the unambiguous ownership
designation of the company's assets. It has been agreed that it is desirable that Sevteploservis establish
itself as a sound and viable entity before seeking restructuring as a joint-stock company, and this should be
possible after the company is able to cover its expenditures without municipal support for equity
contributions about three and a half years after commencement of the project. Therefore, the new company
would be established as a joint-stock company shortly after it demonstrates its financial viability, expected
by December 31, 2004. Agreement was obtained during negotiations to this effect.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
f                              X                                     - : : ! t 7 7 7, 77:D q :; VLatest Supervision
Sector Issue                        Projct                    (PSR) Ratings
X_____________________________   _______ _____    (Bank-financed projects only)
Implementabon   Development
Bank-financed                                                       Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Heat production capacity and efficiency Ukraine Kiev District           S              S
of heat supply in Kiev              Heating Improvement Project
(FY98)
Efficiency of heat supply in Estonia    Estonia District Heating        S              S
Rehabilitation Project
Efficiency of heat supply in Jelgava,   Latvia Jelgava District Heating  S             S
Latvia                              Rehabilitation Project
Other development agencies
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The proposed Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement Project is the first project of its nature
(decentralized heating systems) to be financed by the Bank. Past experience in implementing other energy
projects in Ukraine has shown that strong commitment of both the implementing agencies and the sector
ministries is crucial to ensuring approval by the Government. Past experience in implementing other DH
projects in the former Soviet Union is available from projects in Estonia and Latvia. Some lessons learned
to-date include: (a) strong project ownership and advanced preparation of project components is necessary
for timely implementation; (b) the relationship between prices and incomes changes rapidly in countries in
transition and the heating service which appears largely unaffordable will become easier to afford in a
relatively short period of time; and (c) strong support from municipalities is needed to resolve collections
and payment issues. These lessons have been considered during the preparation period of the proposed
project.
- 12 -



4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Borrower conmmitment and ownership is demonstrated by the following actions which have been
undertaken:
(a) official request from Sevteploenergo and Sevastopol City State Administration for a heat supply
improvement project;
(b) appointment of counterpart personnel by Sevteploenergo and Sevastopol City State Administration
to work with the Bank and engineering consultants in the preparation requirements;
(c) appointment by the Ministry of Economy of a Project Coordinator in the State Committee for
Housing and Communal Services to oversee the preparation of the project;
(d) establishment by Decree #61-p of the Cabinet of Ministers dated February 4, 1998, of a Steering
Committee for coordination and guidance of project preparation and implementation;
(e) issuance of three Protocols dated June 12, 1997, November 20, 1997 and June 18, 1998 signed by
all the concemed parties including the World Bank, Sevastopol City State Administration,
Sevteploenergo and its engineering consultants, the State Committee of Communal Services of
Ukraine and its design institute declaring their commitrnent to the project design and
implementation arrangements;
(f) issuance of Decree No. 1412 by Sevastopol City State Administration establishing the new heating
enterprise, Sevteploservis, a state-municipal enterprise, which will be responsible for implementing
a decentralized heating service in Sevastopol and for carrying out the project;
(g) appointment during mid-1997 by Sevastopol City State Administration of the Director of
Sevteploservis and appointment of the Financial Director during early 1998, identification of other
technical managers and key staff, and preparation of a draft organization structure and staffing
plan for Sevteploservis;
(h) commitment by Sevastopol City State Administration and Sevteploservis to establishing heat and
hot water tariffs at cost recovery levels and to identifying lower-cost sources of gas in order to
reduce costs;
(i) demonstration by Sevteploservis of its commitment to collect from consumers by reducing the level
of accounts receivables of the 7 existing mini-boilers serving 78 households from about 180 days
(six months) at the time of appraisal to 54 days as of October 1, 2000; and
(j) agreement by Sevteploservis and Sevastopol City State Administration on the terms of reference for
financial management assistance, implementation support, social assistance support and the heat
tariff study.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank's involvement is regarded as important in supporting the development of Ukraine's priority
energy sector investment programs under the present conditions of severe resource constraints and in
supporting the development of an institution involved in the delivery of essential heating and hot water
- 13 -



services. The Bank is well positioned to respond to the opportunity and challenges posed in Ukraine today
by: (a) applying its global experience in energy conservation and the heating sector to help Ukraine
develop appropriate pricing policies and a clear regulatory framework to reduce the barriers to private
sector investment; and (b) providing capital to support the much-needed heating sector investments until the
energy sector is able to attract a sufficient volume of private capital.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$4.7 million; ERR = 15 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
with an 82% certainty; NPV=US$ 6.3 million and ERR=16.6% with a 75% certainty.
Cost Effectiveness Analysis: Alternative with two mini-boilers per building results in an NPV=US$ -7.4
million and ERR=4.7%
Other: Distributive and risk analyses: Equity Coefficient=l 1.5% of the net benefits would help the poor
with a 41% certainty; Fiscal Coefficient=45% of the net benefits would flow to the Government as added
fiscal revenue with a 61% certainty.
Economic Analysis. The project would improve the quality and reliability of the heating and hot water
services in affected areas, through the introduction of 1,111 mini-boilers serving about 1,127 buildings,
including 1,005 residential, 96 municipal, 25 dormitories and 1 multi-purpose buildings. The project
would also reduce the operational costs and losses of the current DH system. A cost-benefit analysis has
been undertaken with benefits based on: (a) reduction in costs of operation and maintenance of the DH
system; (b) prevention of higher heat and water losses as the DH system continues to deteriorate; (c)
avoided productivity losses from sickness or due to low temperatures in apartments and in public buildings
(workplace); and (d) reduction in expenditures for heat by consumers resulting from a decreasing need for
more expensive and less efficient sources of supplementary heat, such as electric heaters and gas-fired
cooking equipment. Further non-quantifiable benefits would result from lower air pollution levels in areas
where coal and oil-fired boilers would be decommissioned. The overall ERR of the project is 15%, with a
NPV of US$ 4.7 million at 2000 prices with a 10% discount rate. The economic analysis has been carried
out on a conservative basis, assuming a 10-year economic life of the mini-boilers.
An economic analysis of the alternative of installing two mini-boilers per building was also undertaken.
The analysis shows, however, that the added reliability benefit did not justify the additional cost, as the
ERR decreased to less than 5% and the NPV to US$ -7.4 million, given the opportunity cost of capital for
Ukraine of 10%. As stated previously, Sevastopol has therefore adopted the approach to install one
mini-boiler per building.
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis. Projects in Ukraine face a considerable degree of risk. Several of the risks
are associated with the macroeconomic and political uncertainties facing all transition economies. Others
are specific to the nature of the project. The risk analysis estimates the likelihood that the project risks
would have an adverse effect on the economic indicators of the project. The risk analysis shows that the
project has a high probability of 82% of achieving successful economic indicators of NPV=US$4.7 million
and ERR=15%. The probability of an unsuccessful economic outcome (i.e., negative NPV or ERR below
the 10% opportunity cost of capital) is less than 20%.
A sensitivity analysis has also been undertaken to test the robustness of the ERR to changes in key
variables in the cost and benefit streams which are subject to uncertainty and risk. The results indicate that
- 14 -



the proposed investments have attractive and robust economic indicators, as only with significant increases
in costs or large decreases in benefits would the ERR fall to levels below the opportunity cost of capital of
about 10%. For example, more than a 20% increase in investment costs or more than a 38% increase in
natural gas prices would be required before the ERR would fall below 10%. Also, productivity gains
would need to decrease by more than 40%, the costs of alternative heating would need to decline by more
than 20%, or the savings from the prevention of higher heat and water losses would need to fall by 40%
before the ERR would drop below 10%. The project's economic indicators are not very sensitive to
changes in operation and maintenance costs. The results of the sensitivity analysis are shown in the figure
below. The point where the cost and benefit curves intersect corresponds to the ERR of 15%. The
assumptions for the economic, risk and sensitivity analyses are elaborated in Annex 4.
100%  --------    --L
75%/  ..-G ------       .. .. . .. . -...
50%M                     .....  \.....e. .../ ....
c                                                                   -- -investment
'U
m             5    .. ........                 ..... ..  s.......  Z.........---Csoferg
250/Y......-U- Cost of energy
O                                                                    - - O&M & electricity use
. a            K 5%    10/    15               25%    30%      3 %  -'  Increased productivity
= -25%/- -........ . .       ...-.                                     - Alternative heating
-4- Loss savings
0,   ,50%...        / ....... ....  .....X   ...............  ........ . .- + Ls    aig
-75%    ;   ,    ............... ..... \ ...     .  . . . . .
i -50%  . .t                             n
-100%
Bonomic Rates of Return
Distributive Analysis. A distributive analysis was also undertaken to determine how the costs and benefits
would be allocated among the different project stakeholders, specifically the poor and the Government.
Poor households, defined as those in the lowest income quartile in Sevastopol, would be expected to benefit
from the employment opportunities for unskilled labor during the installation and operating phases of the
project as they would receive a net increase in their incomes of about 50%, given the prevailing
unemployment conditions. Poor households, which represent about 12.5% of heating consumption, would
also benefit from the reduction in supply shortages and improvement in supply reliability, as well as from
the reduction in health problems and consequent loss of income due to the lower productivity associated
with inadequate heating and hot water service levels. The Government would be expected to benefit from
the additional tax revenue generated by the project from import duties and VAT on project expenditures.
The distributive analysis shows that at least 11.5% of the net benefits would help the poor, with a 41%
certainty, and about 45% of the benefits would accrue to the Government, with a 61% certainty. Domestic
suppliers and manufacturers of heating equipment and related materials would also benefit from an increase
in the demand for their goods and services, and this would also generate additional employment
opportunities.
-15-



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ 1.4 million; FRR = 10.9 % (see Annex 4)
Project Financial Analysis
The financial rate of return (FRR) for the project is 10.9% and the NPV is US$ 1.4 million when using a
discount rate of 10% in real terms. Sevteploservis is a newly established company, and its total revenues,
operating expenditures and investments are essentially equal to the project revenues and expenditures. The
figures used in the project financial analysis are based on the company's projected financial statements for
2001-2006 and the assumptions on which they are based (see Annex 5). For the period 2007-2015, it is
assumed that heat production levels, number of staff, and other parameters remain at 2006 levels and that
revenues and expenditures follow domestic inflation while the gas price is constant in US$ and therefore
tied to the exchange rate.
Sevteploservis Financial Assessment
Past Performance. Sevteploservis started its operations on April 21, 1999, and its opening balance sheet
was certified and registered in accordance with Ukrainian requirements. The assets transferred from
Sevteploenergo to Sevteploservis included 7 mini-boilers with a total gross value of UAH 427,055 (about
US$ 80,000) and accumulated depreciation of UAH 31,235 (about US$ 6,000). Accounts receivable and
accounts payable were not transferred from Sevteploenergo so that the new company would start its
activities without debts. During 2000, its first full year of operation, Sevteploservis experienced a loss on
operations as it had to retain a significant staff while it was not yet operating at a break-even level of
service.
Financial Projections. Projections of financial performance of Sevteploservis over the period beginning
January 1, 2001 through 2006 are summarized in Annex 5. Considering the gas supply situation in Crimea
and payment performance of consumers, the financial projections have been based on a scenario whereby
full heat and limited hot water (2 days a week) service is provided. The financial projections have been
prepared to determnine: (i) the company's equity capital requirements, (ii) the heat tariffs that would be
required to generate sufficient cash for the counterpart funding requirements of the investment project, and
(iii) the conditions under which the company would remain financially viable. The projections have been
prepared on a conservative basis assuming that:
(a) operating costs for all mini-boilers are based on the operating costs of the 7 mini-boilers already in
use in Sevastopol;
(b) heat and hot water demand per mini-boiler would remain constant throughout the project period;
(c) the mini-boilers would be depreciated over 25 years (4% depreciation rate per annum) using the
straight-line depreciation method;
(d) the price of gas is $39.4/1,000 m3 (net of VAT) in 2001 and is assurned to follow domestic
inflation thereafter;
(e) accounts receivables would remain at 90 days during the first three years of the project period and
would reduce to 75 days in 2004 and 60 days each year thereafter; and
(f) the World Bank loan would finance approximately 80% of net project costs and be made to
Sevteploservis at an interest rate of 7.5%, with a maturity of 20 years, including a 5-year grace
period on repayment of principal; the remaining 20% of project costs would be the responsibility of
Sevastopol City State Administration and Sevteploservis.
- 16 -



Heat Tariffs.  Sevastopol City State Administration is responsible for regulating heat tariffs for
Sevteploservis. It has been agreed with Sevastopol City State Administration that the heat tariff for the
customers (which will be primarily residential customers) of Sevteploservis would be established at a level
that would cover all its costs of operation including interest on debt and a reasonable rate of return on
equity. At present, this would require an average heat tariff of about US$ I 6/MWh. To reach this goal,
Sevteploservis would require an average tariff increase in real terms of approximately 40% in July 2001
and 20% in July 2002 and then tariff increases which follow domestic inflation. While hot water tariffs
and heat tariffs for non-residential consumers have been increasing over the past years, heat tariffs for
residential consumers have not increased for the past four years. Therefore, Sevastopol City State
Administration is now planning a significant heat tariff increase for residential consumers in 2001. During
negotiations, agreement was obtained that Sevastopol City State Administration would adjust heat tariffs
on a regular basis to allow Sevteploservis to cover the costs of heat and hot water production, operations
and maintenance, depreciation, interest and a profit margin. During negotiations, agreement was also
obtained that Sevteploservis would continue to request Sevastopol City State Administration to adjust its
heat and hot water tariffs to levels sufficient to cover the costs of heat and hot water production, operations
and maintenance, depreciation, interest and a profit margin, while remaining competitive with other heating
alternatives. To properly monitor financial performance and the requirement for tariff adjustments, during
negotiations agreement was obtained that Sevteploservis prepares a report annually on or about
end-August, beginning in 2001, for each year during project implementation containing financial
projections for the upcoming year to be reviewed by the Bank.
The structure of heat tariffs is also facing a number of problems. First, Sevteploservis is currently required
to establish its tariffs at the same levels and structure as Sevteploenergo, although these two companies
have different cost structures and consumer mixes.  Second, the tariff structures include significant
cross-subsidies from non-residential consumers to residential consumers, which is more problematic for
Sevteploenergo than Sevteploservis which serves, and is expected to serve, mainly residential consumers.
Third, the tariff structure contains only an energy charge rather than a two-tier structure with fixed and
variable components that would allow for more transparent information about the marginal cost of heat
supply. Fourth, the tariffs are based on estimated consumption rather than meter readings. To address
these problems, agreement was obtained during negotiations that Sevastopol City State Administration
would undertake a heat tariff study under terms of reference utilizing consultants acceptable to the Bank.
The heat tariff study would be expected to commence after the project is well under implementation, by
July 1, 2003.
Equity Capital Requirements. The financial projections show that, with an initial average heat and hot
water tariff of about US$16/MWh and the tariff increases described above, Sevteploservis would need an
equity capital injection from Sevastopol City State Administration of about $ 3.1 million during the project
period. The $ 3.1 million is the equity capital that would be required for the counterpart contribution of the
project. Sevastopol City State is judged to have sufficient capacity to provide this level of funding over a
four-year period.
Financial Viability and Counterpart Funding. The projections shows that, with heat tariff increases
described above and the planned equity capital contribution from Sevastopol City State Administration,
Sevteploservis would be able to contribute about $ 4.4 million of the capital cost of the project out of its
own funds and remain financially viable. Sevteploservis would maintain (a) an adequate operating ratio
(expenses as a % of revenues) of 87% beginning in 2001 which would decrease to 60% by the end of the
project period, (b) adequate working capital (current ratio above 1.3) and (c) adequate debt service
coverage (above the minimum advisable of 1.5). In order to ensure timely availability of funds and
- 17 -



satisfactory financial performance, during negotiations, agreement was obtained that Sevteploservis: (a)
maintain a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 during the project period; and (b) maintain a current
ratio of at least 1.3 during the project period.
Reinvestment of Profits. In order to ensure that Sevteploservis will be able to have sufficient cash
generation to support the counterpart funding requirements of the project, to service its debt and to expand
its activities as quickly as possible to other sectors of the City, it will be important that the majority of
profits be reinvested into the business of the enterprise rather than be distributed as dividends or used for
purposes other than for mini-boiler heating services. Agreement was therefore obtained during negotiations
that Sevteploservis would not declare any dividend or make any other distribution that exceeds 10% of its
annual net income after taxes over the project period.
Billing and Collection Systems and Social Assistance At present, in Sevastopol the system of billing and
collections regarding the provision of communal services, including heating services, is in the process of
structural transformation. Sevteploenergo and other municipal utility enterprises are switching from billing
and collecting service charges from residential customers through bulk service agreements with district
house maintenance companies (Reps) to a system under which utilities directly bill and collect charges
through own staff. Utilities will also become directly responsible for ownership and maintenance of their
installations that were previously owned and maintained by the Reps.
The new institutional arrangements regarding billing and collections, service contracts with residential
customers, and ownership and maintenance of installations, resulting in unaccustomed direct relationships
between households and Sevastopol's utility providers will also apply to Sevteploservis. Since
Sevteploservis has little experience in collecting charges from households and does not have the means and
scope for enforcing payments which were available to Reps, substantial support will be included under the
project to ensure that the company will establish proper billing and collection systems.
Reps were previously responsible for adjusting the bills of residential consumers for any discounts that may
be applicable under the social assistance program. The Reps, however, currently do not transfer all the
funds for subsidies granted to low-income households for payment of their heat bills, with the result that
utilities typically offset these outstanding funds against tax payments to the city.
A social assessment recently carried out in Sevastopol has provided feedback on a number of issues related
to the heating and hot water services including customer satisfaction, quality of service, billing and
collections, indebtedness of tenants and effectiveness of the housing allowance program (see Annex 11).
Based on the results of this survey, agreement has been reached on measures to better ensure adequate
billing and collection systems and protection of poor beneficiaries, which would be supported under the
project.  Technical assistance would be provided to Sevteploservis in two phases, prior to Loan
negotiations and during the early stages of project implementation, to establish and ensure proper billing
and collection systems.
During October 1998, the level of accounts receivables for the 7 existing mini-boilers serving 78
households was about 6 months. By October 2000, Sevteploservis reduced the accounts receivables to 54
days through implementation of its enforcement plan which requires strict follow-up measures. With the
substantial increase of mini-boilers installed under the project, it is anticipated that this level of accounts
receivables may increase. Therefore, during negotiations, agreement was obtained that Sevteploservis
maintain its accounts receivables at not more than 90 days during 2001-03 and reduce its accounts
receivables to not more than 75 days during 2004 and 60 days thereafter.
A sensitivity analysis of various scenarios of failure by consumers to pay their heating bills was
- 18 -



undertaken. The analysis shows that, for the same tariff levels, Sevteploservis's cash requirements would
increase by about US$ 350,000 for each extra month of sales tied up in accounts receivables during
2001-2005 (e.g., instead of accounts receivables of 90 days in 2001 through 2003, 75 days in 2004 and 60
days in 2005, accounts receivables would be 120 days in 2001 through 2003, 105 days in 2004 and 90
days in 2005). The analysis also shows that, because the company's sales increase by an average of about
160% per annum during the project period, the consequences of having large accounts receivables are far
more severe at the end of the period than at the beginning. To ensure that a failure by consumers to pay
their heating bills in a timely manner does not hamper the ability of Sevteploservis to generate sufficient
cash to undertake the project investments, Sevastopol City State Administration would undertake the
residual obligation for local counterpart financing should Sevteploservis not be able to generate its share of
the funds needed for the project investments.
Financial Management Assessment
The financial management assessment for the project was carried out by Enar Wennerstr6m on site during
November 9-13, 2000. The field work included discussions with municipality and company staff
(managing director, chief accountant, head of economic department, billing specialist); review of various
documents including employment contracts, inventory forms, financial control and related administrative
processing documentation; and an analysis of the accounting, internal controls and compliance systems.
The financial management risk assessment for the project has been carried out against this background and
the findings are as follows:
Risk Area                      ________Risk Assessment
___________ High        Medium           Low
Inherent Risk                         X
Control Environment                                   X
Entity Level Risk                     X
Control Activities                                    X
Information and Communications                                       X
Monitoring                                            X
Overall Financial Management                          X
R isk__                                            _ _ _  _ _  __  _ _ _ _  _
Inherent Risk. The perceived country risk for Ukraine is high. The principal issues for the project are the
low availability of accounting professionals, the low salary levels and an environment in which barter
transactions are perceived as being part of the economy.
Entry Level Risk. As management of the company's future growth will be a challenge, entry level risk
must be considered high. To reduce this risk, the management must have clear objectives and ensure that
new personnel are fully conversant with the company's policies and procedures.
Control Activities. The Financial Management Manual, and the strict rules for approval, authorization,
verification, reconciliation and segregation of duties (documented in the manual), in combination with the
presence of an international financial management consultant, should ensure that the risk associated with
control activities is medium.
- 19 -



Information and Communication. While Sevteploservis remains at its present size, information and
communications are not judged to be a problem. The management is fully transparent and there is an open
attitude towards free exchange of views.
Monitoring. Up to now, segregation of duties has not been clear due to the low number of personnel and
also to the unclear distinction between preparation and review. A high priority issue for the company's
management will be to ensure that from the beginning of the project, monitoring will be a part of the
company's business culture. The risk is judged to be medium to high.
Overall Financial Management Assessment. The risk is medium to high. The main reasons are the high
country risk in combination with the company's rapid growth. Even though the project risk is perceived to
be medium to high, this should be seen in relation to the large potential benefits to be gained from a
commercially viable substitute for the oversized and failing DH system dating from the Soviet era. Further,
the risks described above are easily identifiable and therefore easier to counteract than more abstract risks
in many utilities that are traditionally the Bank's clients.
Fiscal Impact:
The project would result in significant fiscal benefits for both the central government and Sevastopol City
State Administration. The central government is expected to benefit from the additional tax revenues
generated by the project from import duties, VAT on project expenditures and corporate income taxes on
the new heating enterprise, Sevteploservis. Sevastopol City State Administration would also benefit, since
the operation of a new heating enterprise, Sevteploservis, on commercial principles which would gradually
take over the operations of the existing loss-making DH enterprise, Sevteploenergo, would allow the City to
reduce its subsidies to the existing DH company. In addition, the City would benefit from the payment of
corporate income taxes by Sevteploservis. The corporate income taxes to be paid by Sevteploservis have
been quantified in the financial projections.
3. Technical:
The technical solutions selected for decentralized boilers represent such technology that has been
customarily and successfully used for the purpose, also in East European and Former Soviet Union (FSU)
countries. The designs would conform with Ukraine's health and technical standards. High efficiency
mini-boilers which are automated for remote operation are not currently produced by Ukrainian industry.
Therefore, an import duty (30.2%) has been added for the first two years of the project. After that period,
it is assumed that locally produced mini-boilers would be available.
The average cost of the installations would be about US$ 106,000 per installed MW, including boiler and
auxiliary equipment (70%), local materials (12%), local installation cost (14%) and local design and work
site management (4%/6).
The cost data is based on information from other similar projects in FSU countries, and the physical
contingency used (10%) is considered adequate. Price contingencies for local costs are based on expected
price increases of 18% in 2001, 15% in 2002 and 10% each year thereafter. Price contingencies for
foreign costs are based on an expected price increase of 2.1% per year during the project period. To
convert local prices to US dollar equivalents, it is assumed that the divergence between local and foreign
price escalation will be corrected by exchange rate adjustments over the life of the project, resulting in the
following exchange rates: UAH 6.00/USS in 2001, UAH 6.60/USS in 2002, UAH 7.12/US$ in 2003,
UAH 7.68/USS in 2004, UAH 8.28/US$ in 2005 and UAH 8.93/USS in 2006.
- 20 -



4. Institutional:
Executing Agency and Project Management
4.1 Executing agencies:
Sevteploservis and Sevastopol City State Administration would be the executing agencies and
sub-borrowers of the World Bank loan.  Sevteploservis would be responsible for coordinating the
implementation of the overall project and would directly implement the Sevastopol heat supply
improvement program and be responsible for the implementation support and financial management
assistance under the institutional support program.  Sevastopol City State Administration would be
responsible for undertaking the heat tariff study and for implementing the social assistance improvements
under the institutional support program.
4.2 Project management:
The project would be managed by Sevteploservis which has retained a well-qualified Director, who would
act as the Project Manager, as well as all the key personnel required with satisfactory qualifications for
carrying out the project and in accordance with the staffing requirements prepared in the organization plan
for the enterprise over the near term. Sevteploservis would be assisted by international and local
consultants for the installation of proper management systems, including financial management systems,
and for supporting project implementation functions such as procurement and financial management of the
Bank loan.
4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no immediate procurement issues. The first year's bidding documents have been prepared and
are satisfactory to the Bank.
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management arrangements and issues have been discussed above in Section 2 (Financial).
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
Preparation of the project feasibility studies has included environmental studies consistent with the
requirements of the Ukrainian environmental regulations and the provisions of the World Bank's
Operational Directive 4.01 on Environmental Assessment. In accordance with these procedures, an
environmental review, consistent with the requirements for a Category "B" project for the Sevastopol heat
supply improvement program has been performed.
The environmental review has shown that the project would have significant positive environmental impacts
in affected areas of Sevastopol. The decommissioning of the DH system in areas of worst condition and
replacement with gas-fired mini-boilers would result in fuel savings and reduction of wastage of fresh
water. The conversion of oil and coal-fired boilers to gas-fired mini-boilers and the reduction of gas usage
in the present system due to the better efficiency would have beneficial air quality impacts through reduced
emissions of S02 by 13 tons, NOx by 121 tons and C02 by 70,194 tons annually.
- 21 -



Environmental Emissions:                tons
NOx        CO2         S02
Before project         290       177,333       14
After project          169       107,139       1
Improvement            121       70,194       13
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Due to the fact that the project will have only positive environmental impacts, an EMP has not been
prepared. The present DH system, which will be replaced by gas-fired mini-boilers, will not be dismantled
under the project. Therefore, the project will not be dealing with any adverse environmental impacts related
to the dismantling of the old DH system, such as, for example, asbestos. However, under the project the
emission from the gas boilers will be monitored and results reported to the Ukrainian environmental
authorities. The first year's bidding documents for boilers includes a mobile environmental monitoring
equipment set. Further, according to Ukrainian requirements, the contractors installing the mini-boilers
must have valid licenses to perform the works required in order to meet also environmental standards. The
contracts financed by the Bank will be carried out in accordance with environmental and safety standards
acceptable to the Bank.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: May 1997
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Sevastopol City State Administration and the regional environmental authorities reviewed the draft
Environmental Assessment as required by Ukrainian law for approval of new investment projects. At that
stage, these authorities approved the environmental rating.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The emissions of NOx from the gas boilers will be monitored in accordance with the requirements of the
regional environmental authorities.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
A social assessment, to appraise the impacts of inadequate heat and hot water services, has been carried out
in Sevastopol.  The assessment is based initially on qualitative research using structured in-depth
interviews and focus group discussions with residential heat customers as well as consultations with staff
from Sevteploenergo and Sevteploservis, city representatives and civil society stakeholders. The assessment
is also based on quantitative research by means of a questionnaire-based household survey administered to
460 residential district heating customers. In particular, the survey provides information on behavior and
- 22 -



attitude differences between households receiving heat from mini-boilers and households obtaining heat
from Sevteploenergo's district heating plants. The issues addressed in the assessment are: (a) quality and
reliability of the provision of heat and hot water; (b) level of satisfaction and hardships due to insufficient
provision of heat and hot water; (c) pattems of supplementary heating and other coping strategies; (d)
physical conditions of heat and hot water installations; (e) metering and conservation of heat and hot water;
(f) expenditures for heat and hot water by different income groups; (g) collections, cost recovery and
indebtedness; (h) poverty of residential consumers; (i) affordability, willingness to pay and price-elasticities
of demand; and (j) effectiveness of the social assistance program in place. A detailed description of the
findings from the qualitative research and the quantitative results from the survey research are presented in
Annex I 1.
The social assessment has highlighted the need to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the social
assistance program in a number of areas:
Improve the coverage of the social assistance program. Based on data regarding household expenditure
obtained from the survey, 37% of the households eligible for receiving social assistance (19% of all
households) do not receive it. The key reasons for this lack of program coverage are that many households
do not know about the social assistance program, do not have appropriate information about it, or make
erroneous assumptions that prevent them from applying (including the beliefs of not being eligible, having
to pay back in the future financial support received, or the supposition that the assistance to be obtained is
insignificant). Thus, to improve the coverage of the social assistance program, a public awareness
campaign is recommended to provide suitable information to the public about the program. Advisory
support would be provided under the project to support the public awareness campaign. This campaign
would be based on informative and educational messages in TV, radio, and newspapers as well as suitable
leaflets and brochures to be distributed to the target population.
Improve targeting of the social assistance program. Based on data regarding household expenditure
obtained from the survey, 60% of those households receiving social assistance (12% of all households) do
not deserve it. This leakage has to be tackled by improving means testing currently applied by the
municipal social assistance offices. Means tests applied, at present, are predominantly based on official
income that imperfectly reflects real income. Thus, poverty correlates should be identified and used for
better targeting in addition to estimates based on official income. To identify these correlates, advisory
support would be provided under the project for organizing systematic in-depth interviews and focus group
discussions that would be carried out with household representatives, staff of the municipal social
assistance program, social workers and other key stakeholders and informants.
Review rules and regulations of the social assistance program. In particular, operational shortcomings of
the program should be identified which prevent eligible households from applying. In addition, the
increasing complexity of rules and regulations should be reviewed. This complexity makes program
operations more and more cumbersome, time-consuming, and costly; surpasses the capacity of beneficiaries
and also of social assistance staff to fully understand the program; constrains transparency; and jeopardizes
identical program application in different social assistance offices and by different social assistance staff.
Thus, the proposed review should, above all, promote streamlining and simplification of existing rules and
regulations, and make the program more customer-friendly. Advisory support would be provided under the
project for reviewing the rules and regulations of the social assistance program.
Computerize communications and data exchange between social assistance offices, municipal housing
maintenance organizations. providers of utility services as well as other government agencies such as tax
authorities. This action comprises the provision of additional computers, software (such as "Nash Dim"),
-23 -



the establishment of computer networks in local subsidy offices, the provision of training and technical
support as well as the development of a manual for carrying out tasks of data exchange. Computerized
communications and operations of data exchange simplify and accelerate processing of applications for
social assistance as well as facilitate better follow-up and monitoring. The provision of computers,
software, network development and training would be supported under the project. Agreement was
obtained during negotiations that Sevastopol City State Administration would undertake by June 30, 2002
a number of measures (including public awareness campaign, improvement in means testing, review rules
and regulations of the social assistance program, and strengthening of computerization requirements) to
improve the functioning and effectiveness of the social assistance program.
Social assistance which covers all households which deserve it and does not benefit households which do
not deserve the assistance is fiscally sustainable and will make necessary increases of the residential heat
tariff socially and politically feasible.
The social assessment has also highlighted the need to improve collection of heat bills from all consumer
groups. Results show that indebtedness for heat and hot water charges is only weakly related to poverty.
Households with lower per capita expenditures and households with higher per capita expenditures owe for
heat and hot water services to similar extents. Across all strata of the city population, there is a general
attitude of not paying bills for housing and communal services. Indebted households care little about any
measures of enforcing payment of charges for heat and hot water. Households are not afraid of any kind of
actions to enforce payment because enforcement is largely absent. Households try to play down and
disguise that fact.
Collections can be significantly improved by designing and implementing a suitable strategy of
enforcement. Therefore, as a condition for negotiations, Sevteploservis prepared an action plan for
enforcement of collection of heat bills from consumers. The implementation of a suitable enforcement
strategy has to be made contingent on the effective protection of low-income households by means of
significant improvements of the social assistance program in place.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The residential customers of municipal heat and hot water services, the key stakeholders, are participating
in the project through consultations based on: (i) in-depth interviews and focus group discussions and (ii) a
household survey.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The other key stakeholders, i.e., the city government and the city council, the municipal district heating
company, local NGOs and private firms supplying goods and services related to the provision of heat and
hot water, have participated in the project through consultations based on in-depth interviews and focus
group discussions.
Sevastopol State Technical University, Crimea Scientific Research Institution Project and the Ukrainian
design institute, UkrNiingproekt, were also consulted during the feasibility study stage.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The effectiveness and efficiency of the administrative and organizational arrangements for the provision of
social assistance in the Sevastopol City State Administration will be improved under the project through a
number of measures, including public awareness campaigns, improvement in means testing, upgrading
- 24 -



rules and regulations, and strengthening of computerization requirements.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Follow-up on public awareness activities and improvements regarding means testing, upgrading of rules
and regulations, and strengthening of computerization will be undertaken at mid-term and project
completion.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project9
Policy                                    Applicabilt
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)           0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                   0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                    0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                  0 Yes @ No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                   0 Yes @ No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                             0 Yes 0 No
Safetv of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                              0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)   0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)         0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
An Environmental Assessment has been carried out in accordance with the requirements for a Category "B"
project. Monitoring of emission from the gas boilers will be carried out and the results reported to the
Ukrainian environmental authorities, and construction works will meet Ukrainian environmental standards.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project would contribute to ensuring the sustainability of Sevastopol's heating and hot water service
through: (a) the introduction of least-cost technologies for heat supply and the gradual decommissioning of
the uneconomic DH service; (b) facilitating recovery of the costs of heating services through cost-recovery
tariffs and targeted social programs for vulnerable groups; and (c) establishment of a new heating
enterprise based on commercial principles of operation and sound financial management systems. The
competition introduced by this new company would act as a benchmark against which the alternative
heating company, Sevteploenergo, would be judged and would thus foster Sevteploenergo to raise
efficiency. The installation of mini-boilers would also provide an example for building developers of a
more efficient heat supply option and would thus promote private sector participation.
-25 -



2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
:  Risk   _Risk Raig                            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Heat consumers may not pay their heat      H         An action plan for enforcement of payment of
bills in a timely manner.                            heat bills has been prepared and Sevteploser;is
has demonstrated satisfactory collection
performance as a condition for negotiations.
Financial performance targets would be a
condition of the loan.
Political and budgetary commitment to      H         Measures to improve the functioning of the
funding the social assistance program and            social assistance program will be supported
to ensuring full cost recovery may not be            under the project and agreement on the
sustained, thereby affecting payment                 methodology for cost recovery would be a
performance.                                         condition of the loan.
From Components to Outputs
Counterpart funds for the project          S         Adequate plan for provision of counterpart
investments may not be available in a                funds was a condition for negotiations.
timely manner.
Untested implementation capacity of        M         Detailed implementation arrangements have
Sevteploservis in carrying out an                    been fully identified and agreed in advance with
investment program of this order of                  staffing arrangements in place as a condition for
magnitude may result in a longer                     negotiations; Sevteploservis to be supported by
implementation period.                               foreign and local consultants with relevant
experience in energy projects and institutional
development.
Overall Risk Rating
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
No major controversial aspects have been identified.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
Conditions of effectiveness would include:
(a) a subsidiary loan agreement has been executed between Ukraine and Sevastopol City State
Administration; and
(b) a sub-loan agreement has been entered into between Sevastopol City State Administration and
Sevteploservis specifying the responsibilities for counterpart funds, implementation and repayment
of the Loan.
- 26 -



2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Agreements Reached during Negotiations:
During negotiations, agreements were obtained regarding:
(a) on-lending and other arrangements for the Loan;
(b) Sevteploservis to implement the second phase of the financial management systems requirements
under terms of reference and by consultants acceptable to the Bank;
(c) arrangements for establishing and operating the Special Account;
(d) Sevteploservis to submit to the Bank, by September 30, 2001, the actual financial reports of the
Project Management Report as a demonstration of the financial management system's ability to
produce all necessary reports automatically;
(e) accounting and auditing requirements of the project;
(f) the timing of the mid-term review and reporting and monitoring requirements of the project;
(g) Sevastopol City State Administration to establish Sevteploservis as a joint-stock company shortly
after it demonstrates financial viability without support in the form of municipal equity
contributions, expected by December 31, 2004;
(h) Sevastopol City State Administration to adjust heat and hot water tariffs on a regular basis to
allow Sevteploservis to cover the costs of heat and hot water production, operations and
maintenance, depreciation, interest and a profit margin;
(i) Sevteploservis to continue to request Sevastopol City State Administration to adjust its heat and hot
water tariffs to levels sufficient to cover the costs of heat and hot water production, operations and
maintenance, depreciation, interest and a profit margin, while remaining competitive with other
heating altematives;
(j) Sevteploservis to prepare a report annually on or about end-August, beginning in 2001, for each
year during project implementation containing financial projections for the upcoming year to be
reviewed by the Bank;
(k) Sevastopol City State Administration to undertake a heat tariff study under terms of reference
utilizing consultants acceptable to the Bank, with commencement of the study by July 1, 2003;
(I) Sevteploservis to maintain (i) a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 during the project period,
and (ii) a current ratio of at least 1.3 during the project period;
(m) Sevteploservis not to declare any dividend or make any other distribution that exceeds 10% of its
annual net income after taxes over the project period;
(n) Sevteploservis to maintain its overall accounts receivables at not more than 90 days during
2001-03 and reduce its accounts receivables to not more than 75 days during 2004 and to not more
- 27 -



than 60 days each year thereafter; and
(o) Sevastopol City State Administration to undertake by June 30, 2002 a number of measures
(including public awareness campaign, improvement in means testing, review rules and regulations
of the social assistance program, and strengthening of computerization requirements) to improve
the functioning and effectiveness of the social assistance program.
H. Readiness for Implementation
Z 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
C 1. b) Not applicable.
Z 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
:. Compliance with Bank Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
El 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Carolyn kchenour              ir Hossein Razavi                    Luca Barbone
Team Leader                   U  Sector Manager                    Country Manager
- 28 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
UKRAINE: SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
.            ~           ~~K.
Hlrwar       Of Obciv-s  Inditorws                          Moftring A Evaluation           CritalA umpt s
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:              Sector/ country reports:       (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To introduce a more efficient  Reduction of energy wastage in   Energy import statistics   Reduction of energy wastage and
decentralized heating system  heating systems                                              energy imports will contribute to
based on gas-fired mini-boilers in                          Fuel consumption statistics of    restoration of growth and thereby
order to reduce the huge wastage                            heating enterprises           facilitate poverty alleviation.
of energy and improve
affordability of an essential
service
Project Development           Outcome I Impact              Project reports:               (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                    Indicators:
To increase the efficiency of,    Improved heating and hot water  Semi-annual progress reports and The current alternative DH
enhance conservation of and   service levels in affected areas   evaluation reports at mid-term    service continues to operate in
improve the reliability and                                 and project completion         other areas of Sevastopol
service levels in the heating  A commercially-oriented heating
system in Sevastopol through  enterprise
introduction of decentralized
mini-boilers in the areas of worst
heating conditions and in key
public buildings to be carried out
by a new heating enterprise,
Sevteploservis, which would
operate on a commercial basis
Output from each              Output Indicators:            Project reports:               (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Improved heating and hot water  Number of boiler plants in  Semi-annual progress reports and Beneficiaries are willing to pay
service levels in affected areas   operation; connected capacity;    evaluation reports at mid-term    their bills in a timely manner for
square meters of buildings where and project completion     the substantially improved
mini-boilers have been installed                            heating and hot water service
Establishment of a new heating   Service levels of mini-boilers    Semi-annual progress reports and Sevastopol City State
enterprise, Sevteploservis, which                           evaluation reports at mid-term    Administration ensures effective
would operate on a commercial   Retail heat tariffs         and project completion         social assistance program for
basis                                                                                      vulnerable groups and ensures
Financial performance indicators                            cost-recovery tariffs
of Sevteploservis
Level of social assistance
provided
-29 -



Project Components /         Inputs: (budget for each      Project reports:              (from Components to
Sub-components:              component)                                                  Outputs)
Sevastopol heat supply       $ 34.7 million                Progress reports and          Counterpart funds would be
improvement program                                        disbursement reports          available in a timely manner
Sevteploservis institutional  $ 0.7 million                Progress reports and          Sevteploservis staffing
support programn:                                          disbursement reports          arrangements in place in a timely
Implementation Support                                                                   manner, supported by foreign and
Financial Management                                                                     local consultants experienced in
Heat Tariff Study                                                                        management systems and
Social Assistance Support                                                                implementation of investment
projects in accordance with
schedule
Sevteploservis financial audits   $ 0.1 million            Annual audit reports
- 30 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
UKRAINE: SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$34.70 million
Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement Program
The component includes the supply and installation of 1,018 decentralized, gas-fired boiler plants with
auxiliaries, and the required design and work site management, as well as mobile maintenance units and
tools to maintain the boiler plants. The boiler plants would house approximately 1,111 boiler units and
serve 1,127 heat delivery points (buildings). The boiler plants are to be connected to the existing gas
network. Sevastopol has a relatively new (built in the 1980's) gas network with sufficient capacity. The
project would contribute to an absolute reduction of gas consumption in Sevastopol, which would improve
the gas network pressure conditions in Crimea.
Project Component 2 - US$0.70 million
Sevteploservis Institutional Support Program
The component includes technical assistance for Sevteploservis for financial management, implementation
support, social assistance support and a heat tariff study and would include training, equipment and
software.
I US$ thousands                              2001    2002 2003 __004 _2005
Financial Management Consultancy              100     l00 o200
Implementation Support                        100     100                 200
Social Assistance Support                              50     50           l 00
Heat Tariff Study                                             75     75   150
Above items include training, equipment and
software 
Total                                         200     250    125     75   650
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.10 million
Sevteploservis Financial Audits
The component includes the incremental financial audits of Sevteploservis for the 5 year implementation
period.
- 31 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
UKRAINE: SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Proiect Component                            Local    Foreign         Total
----------------------US $ million--------
Boiler packages, mobile maintenance units, tools          19.9        19.9
Local equipment and materials                  3.9                     3.9
Local installation                             3.4                     3.4
Design, installation, supervision              1.1                     1.1
Financial Audits                               0.1                     0.1
Total Base Cost                                8.5       19.9         28.4
Physical Contingencies                      0.8        2.0          2.8
Price Contingencies                         0.8        1.6          2.4
Import Duties                               1.2                     1.2
Institutional Support                       0.1        0.6          0.7
Total Proiect Cost                            11.4       24.1         35.5
- 32 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
UKRAINE: SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
(US$ million of 2000)
Discounted       Distributional
Project Flows         Impact
Economic        Poor      Fiscal
._______  ___    _ (i,  10%    to 2001)
Benefits                            46.1
Cost                                41.4
Project Indicators
*  NPV                              4.7
.  IRR                             15.0%
*  Distribution Coefficient                      11.5%     45.0%
Probability of Achievement         82.0%         40.9%     60.8%
Results with a 75% Probability of
Achievement
*  IRR                             16.6%
.  Distribution Coefficient                       8.4%     38.6%
Overview. An economic analysis was conducted to verify that the Project meets its objectives better than
its alternatives, that the benefits justify the costs, and that its economic profile is robust against the
uncertainties that may affect its development. The Project comprises a total of 1,127 buildings, of which
1,005 are residential, 96 municipal, 25 dormitories and I multi-purpose. Residential buildings have on
average 40.4 flats per building. The economic analysis was conducted using 2000 prices and a 10%
discount rate.
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
In the economic analysis, four key issues were identified in the "without project" scenario:
*  Productivity losses. Without the project, the overall economy would continue to suffer from
productivity losses, especially during the heating season, as a result of poor heat supply. It is
assumed that a number of working days, as well as portions of working days, are lost to the
economy under the current heat supply system as people become sick or work less efficiently.
*  Alternative costs. As the current system continues to supply less heat than demanded, consumers
are forced to invest or reinvest in altemative sources of heat supply, such as electrical radiators or
small gas boilers.
*  Increasing operating and maintenance expenses. As the current DH system deteriorates, the
expenses to maintain and operate the heat supply system are assumed to increase over time.
*  Increasing energy losses. Already today, the current system has large energy losses, both for heat
and hot water. It is assumed that the losses would become even larger in the future, as the present
system gradually becomes less and less efficient.
These four issues would be overcome by the proposed project and can thus be considered as its benefits.
- 33 -



An improved heat supply would have a positive impact on the overall productivity of the local economy,
reduce costs for alternative heat supply measures and improve the operating efficiency of the heat supply
system.
The inclusion of both productivity gains and savings in alternative heat costs do not constitute double
counting, since: (i) not all households can afford electric heaters (only 32% have them), and (ii) households
do not use electric heaters all day, only for brief periods during the coldest days. Thus, the analysis
considers that the amount and quality of the backup heat supply does not cover all of the unserved energy,
nor is it of the same quality as central heating. Under these assumptions, the sickness rate due to poor heat
supply is higher in the without project situation (4 days per heating season) than with the project (2 days).
Cost-benefit analysis was applied sequentially, starting with a simple analysis using unitary values for
border prices and conversion factors (CF). The project was evaluated with one mini-boiler per building,
and then with two mini-boilers. The added reliability for the second boiler has been assumed at 1%. The
purpose of the analysis was to produce the economic indicators - ERR and net present value (NPV) - for
each project configuration. For the NPV calculation, the social opportunity cost of capital in Ukraine was
assumed at 10%. The table below presents the distribution of the economic costs and benefits of the
project. Among the costs, investment costs are the most significant ones, while among the benefits,
resource savings are by far the most relevant - US$11.5 million for loss savings and US$13.0 million for
reduction in O&M costs.
Present Values of Economic Costs and Benefits
l=___________________________________   US$ '000
Economic Costs                           41,373
*  Investment                    22,294
*  Fuel cost                      12,760
*  Operation & Maintenance (O&M)   5,051
*  Electricity, internal use      1,268
Economic Benefits                        46,107
*  Net productivity losses (sick days)  11,284
*  Net productivity losses (working  1,287
time)
*  Alternative heating            8,981
*  Loss savings                   11,531
*  Operations & Maintenance cost    13,023
savings
Net Economic Benefit                     4,734
ERR                                      15.0%
Note: Discounted @ 10%.
- 34 -



Main Assumptions:
Economic Costs
In identifying the costs to the economy with the project, the opportunity costs of natural gas for Ukraine
and the LRMC of electricity were used as presented in the table below:
Gas Prices and Conversion Factors
Unit             2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006
Gas price constant    USD/'000 m3      56.2  55.1  54.2  53.2  52.2  51.2  50.2
Memorandum items:
Electricity price    USD/MWh          46.00
Conversion           MWh to 000 m3      9.3
Boiler efficiency factor  %            75%
Conversion           Gcal to MWh       1.16
Operations and maintenance costs have been calculated based on the expected costs of personnel, technical
assistance and maintenance materials, all net of inflation. The table below illustrates the estimated total
investment costs.
Investment Costs
(US$ '000)
Annual gross investments     2001      2002      2003       2004      2005      Total
I mini-boiler per building
Foreign equipment and services    1,176  3,309     4,589     6,185      6,782    22,042
Local materials         183       548        768       1,060     1,163     3,722
Local installation       213       640        896       1,237     1,356     4,342
Local design and site management    61    183        256       353       388       1,241
Total (I boiler)        1,633     4,680     6,508      8,836     9,689     31,347
2 mini-boilers per building
Foreign equipment and services    2,066  5,812     8,059     10,863    11,912    38,712
Local materials         183        548       768       1,060     1,163     3,722
Local installation       213       640        896       1,237     1,356     4,342
Local design and site management    61    183        256       353       388       1,241
Total (2 boilers)       2,523     7,183      9,979     13,514    14,818    48,017
Economic Benefits
Three types of benefits have been identified resulting from the project, including: (i) productivity gains, (ii)
resource savings, and (iii) reduction in losses, which are explained in the following:
1. Productivity Gains
The sources of these benefits are two-fold: (i) the number of days during which workers are sick due to the
low temperatures in their apartments in the without project situation, and (ii) the longer start-up work times
due to the low temperatures in the workplace.
Productivity losses - sick days: The table below includes the assumptions regarding the reduction in
productivity losses resulting from the project:
- 35 -



Basis for the Estimate of Productivity Losses
Average family size                         2.9    Members per household
Working members                              1.2    Per household
Yearly income (2000 GDP per household)      1,245   US$
Working year                                200    Days
Workdays heating season                      75    Days
Heating season starts                      15-Nov
Heating season ends                       3 1-March
Heating season                              136    Days
Sickness rate with                         2.68%    According to Social Survey in 56% of the
households somebody got sick due to low
room temperatures
Sickness rate without                      5.37%    1st year
Sickness rate without                      8.05%   20th year
Number of residential buildings             1,005
Number of flats                            40,625
Average number of households per building   40.4
The "sickness rate without," as indicated above, is the estimate of the percentage of working days during
the heating season lost due to sickness caused by poor heating in Sevastopol. Currently, an average worker
looses 4 days per heating season due to being sick -- productivity that is lost to the economy. This number
of sick days will probably increase in the without project situation over time to 6 days at the end of the
20-year project period. On the other hand, "with the project" the number of sick days per worker will
probably decline to less than 2 days per heating season on average. The reduction in sick days - and the
value of the associated productivity gain - represents a benefit of the project to the Ukrainian economy.
The number of workers in the project areas and the GDP per capita are used in valuing this economic
benefit. Thus, the productivity gain is equal to the reduction in sick days multiplied by the income
generated by the households in the project areas.
Productivity losses - work time: In addition to the number of sick days, a certain fraction of each working
day during the heating season is lost due to the reduced efficiency of labor due to the low temperatures at
the work-place.
It is estimated that 30 minutes of each working day is spent warming up, which is work time that is lost to
the economy. It is assuned that this time will increase to 45 minutes per working day by the end of the
project horizon of 20 years. The installation of mini-boilers should eliminate this problem in the project
areas, and the resulting productivity gain is a benefit of the project to the economy.
The productivity increases are calculated as the percentage of each working day lost (for example 30
minutes per day = 6,25% of a working day) times the number of workdays during the heating season and
the earnings of the workers employed in the non-residential buildings in the project areas.
The table below summarizes the assumptions for the estimation of the value of the productivity gains
related to work time lost in the "without project situation." Other necessary assumptions are the same as
for the estimation of sick days in the previous table above:
- 36 -



Estimate of Productivity Values (work time)
Loss of 30 minutes a day -1St year           6.25%     % Loss per workday
Loss of 45 minutes a day -20  year           9.38%     % Loss per workday
Annual rate of increase in loss of work time  2.2%
Number of nonresidential buildings             159
Number of workers per building                 60
2. Resource Savings
There are two sources of these savings: (i) on the demand side, the savings on alternative heat energy
sources, and (ii) on the supply side, the savings on operation and maintenance expenditures.
Alternative heat energy sources: Without the project, consumers would have to find alternative sources of
heat, since the present heat supply system doesn't provide for all of their needs. The heat supply shortage -
unserved energy - represents a cost to the economy, since consumers are forced to invest or reinvest in
alternative sources of heat supply. An example would be additional electrical radiators or small gas
boilers, which are less efficient than district heating or mini-boilers. It has been observed that many
families in Sevastopol already have invested in small radiators and boilers. The following table
summarizes the key assumptions and parameters used in the estimation of the resource savings due to the
project.
Estimation of Value of Unserved Energy
Electric heater cost (I - 1.5 kW)         25            $ per unit
Expected life                              5             Years
Thermal output                          0.00135         Gcal/hour
Expected number of interruptions          13.5
Expected duration of interruption         4.6             Days
Expected number of days without heat      62.4            Days
Expected usage time per day                8           Hours/day
Average usage                             499          Hours/year
Discount rate                             10%
Capital recovery factor                  26.4%
Cost of electricity                      53.46           $/Gcal
Annual output                           0.67342           Gcal
Annual capital cost                       6.59           $/Year
Capital cost per Gcal                     9.79           $/Gcal
Value per flat of interruptions          42.60           $/Flat
Value unserved energy                     63.3           $/Gcal
Savings in operating & maintenance expenses: This benefit is defined as "the O&M costs for the level of
service that would be provided without the project minus the O&M costs with the project for the same level
of service without the project," or in other words:
Savings in O & M expienses =r(Output level    Unit O & M       Unit O & M
(without          cost without    cost with   )
- 37 -



Since the O&M costs with the project have already been included in the cost stream, then the estimated
total O&M costs without the project have been included in the benefit stream.
3. Reduction in Energy Losses
To estimate the energy losses that can be avoided "with the project," the marginal cost of heat energy was
multiplied by the annual total losses (estimated on average during the life of the project at 31,750 MWh per
year).
Assumptions for the Distributive Analysis: A distributive analysis of how cost and benefits are allocated
among different project stakeholders, specifically the poor and the Government, was also undertaken.
Unskilled labor, those in the lowest income quintile, would be expected to benefit from the additional
employment generated by the project, which would generate new jobs for the installation, operation and
maintenance of the mini-boilers. These workers will earn a surplus above what they received without the
project. Currently, there is a high level of unemployment and the opportunity cost of labor is probably
below the official wage rate. Poor users are also expected to benefit from the reduction in supply shortages
and improvement in quality of supply, thereby increasing their consumers' surplus.
The social survey indicated that poor households (those in the lowest income quintile) spend about 11.5%
of their income on heat, and 1.6% on hot water, while those in the highest income quintile spend only 3.2%
on heat and 0.2% on water. The survey also indicated that on average, 32% of households supplement DH
with electrical space heaters.  Poor users have less electric heaters than better-off households.
Nevertheless, the reduction in supply shortages and improvement in supply reliability will also benefit poor
households, even though the largest share of these benefits will go to the non-poor. Low-income
households will also gain from the reduction of health problems and consequent loss of income due to lower
productivity associated with inadequate heating and hot water service levels.
The Government is also expected to benefit from the additional tax revenues generated by the project from
import duties, VAT on project expenditures and other taxes. Sevteploservis is also expected to gain from
the net increase in sales revenue, while the existing utility benefits from the reduction in losses.
The following table presents the results of the distributive analysis. The analysis shows that at least 11.5%
of the net benefits would help the poor, with a 41% certainty, and about 45% of the benefits would go to
the Government, with an 61% certainty. The risk analysis indicates that with a 75% certainty, 8.4% of the
net benefits would go to the poor, while another 38.6% would go to the Government.
- 38 -



Distributive Analysis of the Project Document Cost and Benefit Flows
(US$ '000)
Private Sector              Public Sector        Net
Benefit a
Unskilled          Users
Labor    Non-poor    Poor        Taxes    Utilities
Costs
Materials & Equipment      772.1                            5,263.7  (27,557.9)  (21,522.1)
Energy                                                      211.3   (14,239.1) (14,027.7)
Operation & Maintenance    174.9                            1,192.6   (6,243.9)  (4,876.3)
Benefits
Productivity                                               8,171.4    4,400.0    12,571.4
Alternative heating                  7,858.5    1,122.6  (1,796.2)    1,796.2    8,981.2
Resource savings                                          (4,911.0)   29,465.9   24,554.9
Net Benefit                947.0      7,858.5    1,122.6   8,131.8  (12,378.7)   5,681.3
Distribution Analysis   Coefficients Probability Coefficient
of      s with a
occurrence    75%
_  certainty
Equity                     11.5%       40.9%      8.4%
Fiscal                     45.0%       60.8%      38.6%   1         1
Note: These values are discounted over the life of the project.
a The total net benefit is equivalent to the project's economic NPV plus the net benefit to unskilled labor
with all the financial transfers canceled out.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
Assumptions for the Risk Analysis: The project is subject to several risks which are largely beyond the
scope of the project's design, such as macroeconomic, policy and institutional risks, as well as those related
to implementation and operation of the project. The purpose of risk analysis is to assign probability
distributions to the different input variables, key parameters and assumptions so that a weighted expected
outcome can be obtained. Risk analysis allows the examination of the risks that are more relevant for the
successful profitability of success of the project, enabling the design of a more targeted risk mitigation
strategy. The software "Crystal Ball" was used to carry out the analysis. The software allowed the
extension of the forecasting capability of the spreadsheet cost benefit model developed in Excel. Each input
variable, parameter and assumption was expressed as a range of possible values within a probability
distribution curve. Then, by using a Monte Carlo simulation, the software enabled the outcomes of the cost
benefit model in a forecast chart showing the entire range of possible results and the likelihood of achieving
each of them.
According to the sensitivity analysis, the key variables are investment and energy on the cost side, and the
costs of unserved energy and productivity gains on the benefit side. The risk analysis also indicates that
capital costs, the price of gas, heat tariff, price of electric heaters, and working members per household are
among the most important parameters for the success of the project. Since the "price of electric heaters"
and "the number of working members per household" are beyond the scope of influence, the risk mitigation
strategy only makes recommendations to manage capital cost increases and to ensure tariff adjustments in
line with input costs changes. The main assumptions and parameters of the analysis, along with their risk
distribution curves, are presented in the table below.
- 39 -



Summary of Risk Analysis for the Project's NPV & ERR
Crystal Ball Report
NPV Display Range is from -30,000 to 60,000 USS thousand
Entire Range is from -1 18,287 to 117,611 US$ thousand
After 2,500 Trials, the Standard Error of the Mean is 289
Statistics:                                                Value
Trials                                               2500
Mean                                                 15,395
Median                                               11,325
Standard Deviation                                   14,445
Skewness                                              1.82
Kurtosis                                             12.92
Coefficient of Variability                            0.94
Range Minimum                                       -118,287
Range Maximum                                       117,611
Range Width                                         235,899
Mean Standard Error                                 288.90
ERR  Display Range is from 0.0% to 70.0%
Entire Range is from 2.7% to 252.4%
After 2,498 Trials, the Standard Error of the Mean
is 0.3%
Statistics:                                                Value
Trials                                               2498
Mean                                                 25.7%
Median                                               21.5%
Standard Deviation                                   16.0%
Variance                                             2.6%
Range Minimum                                        2.7%
Range Maximum                                       252.4%
Range Width                                         249.7%
Mean Standard Error                                  0.32%
- 40 -



Forecast: ENPV for I boiler
2,500 Trials                       Frequency Chart                          45 Outliers
.052                                                                  - 129
.039                                                                    96.75
,.D  .026                                                                    64.5 
.013                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32.25
.000                                                                    0
.30,000        -7,500         t5,000         37,500         60,000
USS thousand
Economic Rate of Return and (ERR) Net Present Value (NPV) Calculation
(Current US$ thousand)
ENVP  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014
Economic Costs
Investment              31,347  1,633 4,680  6,508  8,836  9,689
Gas                               37   375   852  1,498  2,265  2,614  2.614 2.614 2.614  2.614  2.614  2,614  2,614 2,614
Operation & Maintenance           41   181   373   638   940   997   997   997  997   997   997   997   997   997
Electricity                        3    31    75   138   220   266   266   266  266   266   266   266   266   266
Total cost              412373  1,715  5,268  7,808 11,111 13,114 3,877  3.877 3,877 3,877  3,877  3.877 3,877 3,877 3,877
Economic Benefits
Netproductivity losses    11,284    86   348   737  1,297  1,953  2,031  2,110 2,191 2,274 2,359  2,446  2,534 2,625 2,717
(sick days)
Net productivity losses  1,287    11    44    92   158   234   239   244   249  254   260   266   271   277   283
(working time)
Alternative heating      8,981    90   349   708  1,196  1,731  1,731  1,731  1,731 1,731  1,731  1,731  1,731  1,731  1,731
Loss savings            11,531     0    67   330  1,008  2,240  2,634  2,612 2,590 2,568  2,545  2,522  2,499  2,475  2,451
Operations&             13,023    57   412   904  1,571  2,347  2,635  2,635 2,635 2,635  2,635  2,635  2,635  2,635  2,635
Maintenance
cost savings
Total benefit           46,107   246  1,220 2,771  5,228  8,503  9,268  9,331 9,396 9,462  9,530  9,599  9,670  9,742  9,816
Net Economic Benefit           -1.469 -4,048 -5,037 -5,882 -4,611  5391  5,455 5.519 5.585  5.653  5.722  5.793  5.866 5,940
ENPV.                    4,734 ERR                        15.0%
-41-



Annex 5: Financial Summary
UKRAINE: SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Years Ending December 31: 1999 through 2006
(In Current UAH)
Opening    1999    2000       2001       2002         2003        2004        2005       2006      Average
Balance   Actual  Actual    Proj.        Proj.       Proj.       Proj.       Proj.       Proj.     Annual
April 21                                                                                           Growth
1999                                                                                            Base: 2000
Income Statement Items
Unit Volume (000's)
Revenues                              90,825 199,740     450,768   5,572,982   15,857,952  31,669,994  54,026,401  68,203,424   164%
Operating Income                       7,925 (32,730)     58,318   1,401,688    5,639,055  12,045,031  21,756,416  28,388,830
Net Income                             7,925 (32,730)     25,664     500,653    3,449,043   7,910,825  15,075,464  20,485,501
Funds Statement Items
Intemal Sources                       34,625  29,210     100,768   2,634,173    8,632,952  17,525,468  30,487,737  39,077,327   232%
Borrowings                                 -        -  10,449,473  27,156,258   41,589,189  62,101,148  73,681,547                 _
Equity Investments                   172,195       -  2,310,781  12,226,073    5,661,465   2,176,656           -
Total Sources                      206,820  29,210  12,861,023  42,016,504   55,883,606  81,803,272 104,169,284  39,077,327   232%
Capital Expenditures                 191,920       -  12,747,656  40,142,696   51,833,550  76,085,217  90,349,265          -
Working Capital Increase              14,900  29,210      80,712     972,773    1,860,044   1,583,849   7,139,887  22,599,507   203%
Debt Service                               -       -      32,655     901,035    2,190,012   4,134,206   6,680,132  16,477,820   _
Distribution of Profits                        -         -           -           -                 -           -           -
Total Applications                 206,820  29,210  12,861,023  42,016,504   55,883,606  81,803,272 104,169,284  39,077,327   232%
Balance Sheet Items
Current Assets                    -   66,900  68,510     177,552   1,714,270    4,623,123   7,835,727  17,258,465  41,294,251   191?'o
Less Current Liabilities          (51,400) (23,800)    (52,130)  (616,075)  (1,664,884) (3,293,638) (5,576,489) (7,012,768)   158?/o
Net Fixed Assets            395,820  560,440 498,500  13,203,706  52,113,917  100,953,570 171,558,350 253,175,472 242,484,489   180%F.
Total Assets             395,820  575,940 543,210  13,329,128  53,212,112  103,911,809 176,100,438 264,857,448 276,765,971   183'%o
Debt                              -        -       -  10,449,473  37,605,732   79,194,920 141,296,069 214,977,615 206,400,638    _
Equity                      395,820  575,940 543,210   2,879,655  15,606,381   24,716,889  34,804,370  49,879,833  70,365,334   125%y.
Total Liabilities        395,820  575,940 543,210  13,329,128  53,212,112  103,911,809 176,100,438 264,857,448 276,765,971   183%yo
and Equity
Financial Ratios:
Operating Income as a
% ofRevenue                             8.7%  -16.4%       12.9%      25.2%        35.6%       38.0%      40.3%       41.6%
Net Income as a
%ofRevenue                              8.7%  -16.4%       5.7%        9.0%        21.7%      25.0%       27.9%       30.0%
Return on Average Invested                       -7.0%        0.8%        4.2%         7.2%       8.6%        9.9%       10.5%
Capital
Debt Service Coverage                         -                 3.1        2.9          3.9         4.2         4.6        2.4
Percent of Total Capital
Expendituresfinanced by
Internal
Sources                                   0.0%    0.4%        0.0%        2.8%         8.8%      19.4%       28.5%       48.0%
Current Ratio                               1.3     2.9         3.4        2.8          2.8         2.4        3.1         5.9
Debt as % of Total                        0.0%    0.0%       78.4%       70.7%        76.2%      80.2%       81.2%       74.6%
Capitalization                                                                  _                                        __
-42 -



Main Assumptions for the Financial Projections:
A. 25 years depreciation (financial statements)
C. 10 years depreciation (for tax purposes)
D. 40 % increase of residential tariffs from July 1, 2001
E. 20 % increase of residential tariffs from Julyl 1, 2002
Note: The full statements and assumptions are provided in the Project Implementation Plan.
Assumptions for the Project Financial Analysis: The project financial analysis was conducted to verify
that the expected sales revenue from heat and hot water justified the investment and expenditures in the
project. The analysis considered the investment, the cost of gas and operating expenses. The analysis
shows that the project is financially viable, showing a FRR of 10.9 %, and a financial NPV of US$ 1.4
million.
Present Values of Financial Costs and Benefits
US$ '000
Costs (US$ Current)                             $42,257
*     Capital expenditures                      $25,356
*     Energy (gas)                              $12,046
*     Operating expenses                         $3,855
Electricity                               $1,000
Revenue (US$ Current)                           $43,657
Revenue from heat                         $32,757
Revenue from hot water                    $10,900
Net Benefit                                      $1,400
Financial Rate of Return                         10.9%
Note: Discounted 010%
-43 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
UKRAINE: SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Procurement
1.      Responsibility. Project implementation would require procurement of goods, works and
consultant services. Sevteploservis, the project's implementing agency, would be responsible for the
overall project procurement activity, including compliance with procedures and timetables agreed with the
Bank.  A procurement team would be formed within Sevteploservis and entrusted with primary
responsibility for the project bidding process. The team would report to Sevteploservis' technical manager
who is coordinating the various activities involved in project implementation. Sevteploservis' technical
manager, who is a highly qualified operational officer, has worked effectively on procurement matters with
Bank staff during project preparation.
2.       Given Sevteploservis' limited international procurement experience, it would recruit an
international consultant to assist the procurement team. A procurement workshop, including
Sevteploservis' procurement team and their consultant, would be organized with the Bank's support during
project launch. The workshop would focus on the World Bank's procurement policy and procedures and
their application to the procurement arrangements planned for the project.
3.       Procurement Plan. A detailed procurement plan was prepared during project appraisal and
includes the contract packaging, applicable procedures and timing schedule for the project, including the
co-financed components. The plan would be updated periodically, every 6 months, with the necessary
details, as they become available (list of tenders issued; contracts under execution, completed, under
procurement, to be procured in the upcoming calendar semester and, tentatively in the subsequent semester;
costs of contracts completed and under execution; estimated costs for upcoming contracts; schedule of
bidding; and particular methods of procurement).
4.    Project Goods, Works and Consultancy Services. The proposed project would finance: (i) the
supply of complete mini-boiler plants with boiler houses and auxiliaries at a total cost of about US$ 28.2
million; (ii) mobile maintenance units and tools at a total cost of about US$ 0.3 million; (iii) works for
installing the boiler plants at a total cost of about US$ 4.8 million; (iv) design and work site management
services at a total cost of about US$ 1.4 million; and (v) consultancy service at a total amount of US$ 0.75
million. The proposed World Bank loan of US$27.9 million (net front-end fee) would finance: (a) US$ 27.2
million of the supply of the complete mini-boiler plants with boiler houses and auxiliaries; (b) US$ 0.3
million of the mobile maintenance units and tools; and (c) US$ 0.45 million of the consultancy contracts
including financial audits (US$ 0.1 million).  The remaining project costs would be financed by
Sevteploservis and Sevastopol City State Administration.
5.       Methodsfor Bank-Financed Procurement. Bank-financed procurement would be carried out
in accordance with the provisions stipulated in the Loan and Project Agreements and the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in
January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999. The Bank's Standard Bidding Docurnents
would be used for Bank-financed procurement. The project procurement arrangements are summarized in
Table Al.
-44 -



6.       Methods for Non-Bank-Financed Procurement. Project procurement not financed by the
Bank would be carried out in accordance with Ukrainian and the co-financiers' procurement rules and
regulations.
7.       Bank-Financed Procurement Procedures. Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB) would be
used for goods supply contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of US$ 100,000 or more. ICB procedures
would cover 99% of Bank-financed goods supply contracts. Intemational Shopping (IS) procedures, based
on comparison of quotations obtained from at least three suppliers from two different countries, would be
used for mobile maintenance units and tools, estimated to cost below the equivalent of US$ 100,000 per
contract. The aggregate amount of contracts under IS procedures is equivalent to US$ 0.3 million. The
procurement has been divided into annual contracts reflecting the typical arrangements in heating projects
where the construction generally takes place only during summer time.
8.    Procurement Review. Procurement documents for the Bank-financed components would be
subject to the Bank's review. All ICB contracts (draft bidding documents, invitation to bid, evaluation
reports, both for supply and installation and goods) would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Procurement documents for the project tenders under IS for goods (draft invitation to quote and evaluation
report before contract is signed) would also be subject to Bank's prior review. The prior review would c
over 100% of Bank-financed procurement value.
9.    Advertising.  A General Procurement Notice has been published in the United Nations
Development Business newsletter in July 1999, June 2000, and an update is expected to be published in
March 2001. The Notice would be updated annually for the remaining procurement. In addition, specific
tenders would be advertised by Sevteploservis, as they become available, in at least one national newspaper
of large circulation. Sevteploservis may also seek "expressions of interest" by contacting embassies and
trade representatives. Notification should be given in sufficient time to enable prospective bidders to obtain
bidding documents and prepare and submit their responses.
10.   Procurement Risk Assessment. A Country Procurement Review (CPAR) for Ukraine has not yet
been carried out. The Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement Project was appraised in October 1998, at a
time when Borrower Procurement Capacity Assessments were not performed and therefore no such
assessment was carried out for Sevteploservis.
11.   The Technical Manager and staff of Sevteploservis have been involved in the project throughout
the preparation and appraisal phases. Sevteploservis' technical team has already procured and implemented
successfully 8 mini-boiler plants prior to the team transferring from Sevteploenergo.
12.   Sevteploservis has prepared the first year's draft bidding documents (for 50 plants) as a condition
for negotiations. The draft bidding documents are satisfactory requiring only a few small revisions. Further
bidding documents will be repetitive, as only the amount of plants will increase. Therefore, it is assessed
that Sevteploservis satisfies the Bank's minimum procurement management requirements.
13.   Problems associated with procurement are, however, likely to occur, because of: (i) the company's
lack of experience in intemational procure,ment in general and Bank procurement in particular; (ii) the
less-than-complete legal framework and enforcement mechanism now available in the country; and (iii)
difficulties that are often imbedded in transitional economies. The overall procurement risk rating is
therefore high.
-45 -



14.   Frequency of Procurement Supervision Missions Proposed. It is recommended that the project's
procurement be supervised at least once every 6 months. Additional procurement supervision missions
would be required for post reviews and audits.
15.   Procurement Audit. In addition to prior reviews, the Bank may carry out an audit of the
procurement it finances. Whereas the prior reviews are regular tasks under the project, a procurement
audit would be a spot check of the quality and consistency of Bank-financed procurement work.
Financial Management Assessment
16.   Oversight and Accountability. Sevastopol City State Administration established Sevteploservis as
a municipal enterprise on April 21, 1999 on the basis of property transferred from the municipal enterprise
Sevteploenergo. The company is registered at the State Property Department of the Sevastopol City State
Administration in compliance with the Laws of Ukraine. As the City State Administration is the sole
owner, Sevteploservis' Director reports directly to his superior in the Administration.  During the
implementation period of the Project, Sevteploservis would be reconstituted as a joint stock company when
it is able to establish itself as a sound and viable entity without municipal support, expected by December
31, 2004.
17.   OveraU Status. The financial management system of Sevteploservis satisfies the Bank's financial
management requirements for traditional disbursement. The system would be able to provide, with
reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the status of the project (PMRs) as required by
the Bank for PMR-based disbursement. A 4B certificate has been issued. If in the future Sevteploservis
decides to request PMR-based disbursement (4-A certification), it would only need to make minor changes
to the accounting system.
18.   Funds Flow. The project would be financed from four sources of funds, including internal cash
generation. The total project cost is US$35.7 million, of which (a) US$ 28.2 million would be financed by
a loan from the World Bank, (b) US$ 4.2 million by Sevteploserviss using intemally generated funds, (c)
US$ 0.2 million by donors from grants, and (d) US$ 3.1 million (approximately) by Sevastopol City State
Administration.
19.   The Bank funds will be provided either as direct payments to suppliers or to a Special Account.
The Ministry of Finance will authorize withdrawals from the Bank's Loan Account. Funding from the City
State Administration will be transferred to Sevteploservis' local bank account. The money will be allocated
in the municipal budget and paid to this account as requested by Sevteploservis. With regard to the latter,
it is therefore of utmost importance that Sevteploservis' annual calculations are based on realistic
assumptions because the allocated amount cannot be easily changed. To do otherwise could mean a
temporary under- or over-funding for the company.
20. Financial Management Accounting Software. The selected and implemented four-user version of
Sun Accounting Software is highly satisfactory and it exceeds the Bank's minimum financial management
requirements. It is anticipated to be sufficient for the entire project period as, in practice, five to six people
are able to work at the same time without major problems arising. The software was designed and
implemented by Ekono Energy, KPMG and Robertson & Blum, and the total cost for the contract was
US$240,000. The following modules and associated systems of the software are:
- 46 -



*     General Ledger
*     Fixed Assets
*     Payroll
*     Billing (including Accounts Receivable)
*     Reporting (integrated in the basic software and therefore not a separate module)
21.   Financial Management Staff. The availability of qualified accountants in Sevastopol is limited.
When available, Sevteploservis' salary level is too low to attract qualified applicants. It is also difficult to
find qualified Ukrainian accounting and IT consultants. It has therefore been agreed that an international
accounting and financial management consultant would be engaged on a part-time basis to assist
Sevteploservis during the first two years of project implementation. One of the consultant's aims would be
to continuously assess the skill level required for the personnel and, in good time, to propose what training
and recruitment are needed.
22.   Financial Management lAccounting Procedures.   The financial management manual
(approximately 100 pages) prepared by the sub-consultant KPMG is satisfactory. The manual documents
all financial and administrative procedures with the aid of flow charts and narrative description. However,
some of the accounting procedures are still not in use as they cover activities that Sevteploservis does not
yet have, and the small accounting staff makes it difficult to maintain appropriate segregation of duties,
especially during the vacation season. In addition, the financial personnel are unaccustomed to working
with formalized accounting procedures. There will be a continuous need for supervision of the staff and
staff training. As mentioned above, Sevteploservis would engage an experienced international financial
management and accounting consultant on a part-time basis to support financial management for the first
two years of project implementation. In these two years, the aim would be for the consultant to assess the
skills of the personnel and then to propose new staff assignments appropriate for the evolving organization.
23.    Sevteploservis' first chart of accounts was based upon the old Ukrainian National Chart of
Accounts, which was replaced by a new National Chart of Accounts on January 1, 2001. All entries into
the system are made in accordance with the new Ukrainian Accounting Standards (UAS), and these are
then mapped directly to the International Accounting Standards (IAS)/GAAP accounts. The company now
needs to adjust its chart of accounts to the new National Ukrainian Chart of Accounts, and it was therefore
agreed during negotiations that the Sevastopol City State Administration would finance a consultant to
assist with this work. The work has already begun and is scheduled to be completed by February 1, 2001.
24.   Project accounting procedures (mainly for the Bank loan) are documented together with the Flow
of Funds (see Financial Management Assessment, Project File). These procedures were completed after
KPMG's involvement in the manual was over and have not yet been included in the manual itself. Both the
Flow of Funds and the project accounting procedures, that are tied to this flow, were agreed during
negotiations.
25.   Annual Financial Reporting. The accounting system is able to generate all financial reports
requested by the World Bank in a satisfactory way. Sevteploservis' financial statements are to be prepared
in accordance with IAS and UAS. The IAS financial statements will consist of: (1) Balance Sheet; (2)
Income Statement; (3) a Statement showing all Changes in Equity; (4) Cash Flow Statement; and (5) Notes
and Supplementary Schedules containing other disclosures required under IAS.
-47 -



26.   Project Financial Statements are to be prepared in accordance with the format provided by the
Bank. An independent auditor acceptable to the Bank must audit the IAS statements and the Project
Financial Statements, and the audit reports must be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of
the fiscal year. The audit reports will contain the auditor's opinion on compliance with financial and other
covenants under the Loan. The audit report on the Project Financial Statements must also contain a
separate opinion on the operation of the Special Account.
27.    Quarterly Project Reporting. In a demonstration of the system in February 2000, KPMG showed
that the system can produce the financial reports of the PMR. As the project had not yet begun at that
time, there were no figures in the system, and it was therefore not possible to make a full assessment of the
system. It was therefore agreed that Sevteploservis should submit to the Bank before September 30, 2001
the actual financial management reports of the PMR as a demonstration of the system's ability to produce
all necessary reports automatically.
28.   The quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs) are to be submitted to the Bank within 45 days
of the end of each quarter. All reports are to be accordance with the format provided-by the World Bank.
The following reports will be covered by the PMR:
Financial Reports:
I .    Project Sources and Uses of Funds
2.    Uses of Funds by Project Activity
3.    Project Balance Sheet
4.    Project Cash Withdrawals
5.    Special Account Statement
Project Progress Report:
6.    Output Monitoring Report (Output by project activity)
Procurement Management Reports:
7.    Procurement Process Monitoring (Goods and Works)
8.    Contract Expenditure Report (Goods and Works)
29.    Reporting to the Bank is not anticipated to be a problem, but the financial management consultant
engaged for the first two years of the project period will be expected to visit Sevteploservis four times a
year to assist in the preparation of all reports to the Bank. The consultant should plan his/her missions to
coincide with the timing of quarterly report preparation.
30.   Planning and Budgeting. The planning and budgeting sections of the financial management
manual are satisfactory. However, it is not yet possible to assess the performance of the planning and
budgeting department. The Bank will closely monitor both this department and the accounting department,
and the financial management consultant will provide support to both departments. Planning and budgeting
are the responsibility of the Economic Department, which now consists of one person. The department's
workload will expand as the company grows, and it likely that more staff will need to be employed shortly
after the project is initiated.
31.   At present, the Director of the company is the only person authorized to approve expenditures, but
this procedure will become too cumbersome as the company grows. It will therefore be necessary to
introduce authorization limits in order to delegate disbursement to department leaders and make them
responsible for their own budgets.
- 48 -



32.   The project budget has already been constructed and details the company's activities during 2001-
2005. The information is quantified in different categories such as expenses, procurement, etc., and will be
followed up in the PMRs. The budget will be prepared each September, and the head of the Economic
Department (and later in the new organization, the head of the Financial Department) will be in charge.
The budget will be signed off with each department after it has been agreed at the relevant level, i.e. either
the Supervisory Board or the Budget Committee of the City State Administration, depending on the
organization form.
33.   Internal Control. The financial management manual addresses the safeguarding of assets in a
satisfactory way. However, in practice, segregation of duties is difficult to maintain due to Sevteploservis'
present staff size (see Accounting Procedures, above). In addition, the limited availability of funds has
precluded acceptable secure storage facilities. The assessment of Sevteploservis' internal control structure
is based on the following three elements:
a.    Control Environment: The simple, uncomplicated and transparent organizational structure put in
place by the sub-consultant KPMG is a good basis for a sound control environment appropriate for a
developing company.
b.    Accounting Systems: The Sun software is a solid package. There are rules for safeguarding
computer system access, how to back-up data, computer audit trails, and system documents both in the
software package itself and in the financial management manual.
c.    Control Procedures: Because Sevteploservis is so new, the management has not established any
control procedures other than the ones described above, but they will be included in the financial
management manual as soon as they are determined.
The auditor will be asked to give an opinion on compliance with all routines and procedures in a
management letter dated six months after loan effectiveness.
34.   Project Financial Management Risks.  The financial management risk assessment for the
Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement Project has been carried out against the background of the high
perceived country risk and the findings are as follows:
Risk Area                                        Risk Assessment
High          Medium           Low
Inherent Risk                           X
Control Environment                                     X
Entity Level Risk Assessment            X
Control Activities                                      X
Information and Commnunications                                        X
Monitoring                                              X
Overall FM Risk Assessment                              X
1.  Inherent Risk: The perceived country risk for Ukraine is high. The principal issues for the project
are the low availability of accounting professionals, the low salary levels, and an environment in which
barter transactions are perceived as being part of the economy.
2.  Control Environment: See section on Intemal Control.
3.  Entity Level Risk Assessment: As managing of the company's future growth will be a challenge,
this must be considered high. To reduce this risk, the management must have clear objectives and
ensure that new personnel are fully conversant with the company's policies and procedures.
-49 -



4.  Control Activities: The Financial Management Manual, and the strict rules for approval,
authorization, verification, reconciliation, segregation of duties (documented in the manual), in
combination with the presence of an international financial management consultant, should ensure that
risk is medium.
5.  Information and Communication: This is not a problem while the organization remains at its
present size. The management is fully transparent and there is an open attitude towards free exchange
of views (see section on Internal Control above).
6.  Monitoring: Up to now segregation of duties has not been clear due to the small size of personnel
and there has not been a clear distinction between preparation and reviewing. This will be a high
priority issue for the company's management to make sure that monitoring from the very beginning of
the project is a natural feature of the company's business culture. The risk is judged to be medium to
high.
7.  Overall FM assessment: The risk is medium to high. The main reasons are the high country risk
in combination with the company's rapid growth.
35.    The overall financial management assessment is that risk is medium to high. The main reasons are
the high country risk in combination with the company's rapid growth. Even though the project risk is
perceived to be medium to high, this should be seen in relation to the large potential benefits to be gained
from a commercially viable substitute for the oversized and bankrupt district heating system which dates
from the Soviet era. Further, the risks described above are concrete and easily identifiable and therefore
easier to counteract than more abstract risks identified in the utility companies that are traditionally the
Bank's clients.
36.   Audit Arrangements. Sevteploservis is a newly established entity and was not audited in 1999,
which was the year activities began. The eight-month period in 1999 when the company was active will be
audited together with 2000. The company will most likely require external funds for financing the auditor,
and a provision for financing these costs has been made under the Bank Loan.
37.   During the project period, beginning with the audit of 2001, independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank will audit both the entity and Project Financial Statements annually in accordance with IAS and
International Standard of Auditing (ISA). The audit reports, together with accompanying audited financial
statements, shall be submitted to the Bank within six months of the end of the fiscal year. The audit report
for the project financial statements shall include separate opinions on the Project Financial Statements, the
Special Account and on the company's internal control arrangements. In addition, the auditor will be
required to submit a management letter concerning compliance with financial procedures and routines six
months after the date of loan effectiveness.
Disbursement
38.   Disbursement. Proceeds of the Loan will be disbursed according to allocated amounts and
percentages per category of expenditure as indicated in the Table C below.
39.   A Special Account would be opened and managed by the Ministry of Finance on behalf of
Sevteploservis in accordance with World Bank operational policies to ensure the timely provision of funds
available to finance small expenditures. During the early stage of the Project, the initial allocation to the
Special Account would be limited to US$ 250,000. Later on, when the aggregate disbursements under the
Loan have reached the level of US$ 5 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized
allocation of US$ 500,000.
- 50 -



40.   Disbursement from the Loan Account would be made against standard Bank documentation rather
than disbursement based on Project Management Reports on a quarterly basis. The statement of
expenditure method of disbursement would not be applicable in this Project, since all procurement would be
subject to prior review. The minimum size of a disbursement application for direct payment would be 20%
of the current deposit to the Special Account (US$ 50,000 or US$ 100,000). As circumstances warrant,
the Bank would issue Special Commitments for payments by Letter of Credit.
41.   The Loan proceeds will be disbursed over the five-year period 2001 - 2006. The Project
Completion Date is expected to be December 31, 2005, and the Loan Closing Date is expected to be June
30, 2006, when full disbursement of the Loan is anticipated. Sevteploservis would maintain all required
supporting documentation for at least one year beyond the year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan
Account has taken place and make it available for review by the Bank staff and independent auditors upon
request.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
PrOCUemet Method
Expndftur. Category           GB             CB 3                     N.WFM.     T. $ Cost
1. Works                         0.00          0.00          0.00          4.80         4.80
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                         28.24         0.30          0.00          0.00         28.54
(27.16)       (0.30)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (27.46)
3. Services                      0.00          0.00          0.45          1.67         2.12
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.45)        (0.00)       (0.45)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                 0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
__________(0.00)________X_ (0.00)  (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         28.24          0.30         0.45          6.47         35.46
___   (27.16)     (0.30)        (0.45)        (0.00)       (27.91)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies
2 Note: 1) QCBS $350,000
LCS $100,000
ICB =lnternational Competitive Bidding
QCBS =Quality and Cost Based Selection
LCS =Least Cost Selection
IS =International Shopping
N.B.F. =Not Bank Financed
- 51 -



Table A (i): Procurement Arrangements and Time Schedule
(Us$  ihn
SEVTEPLOSERVIS                  Type   Contract           Descripton         Estim. Cost  Proc.    Doc   Invit. to    Bid    Award  Contract  Contmet
Procurement Packages              1)    Number                               (U$ '000) Method    NO         Bid   opening recomim  Signing Completion
Boiler packages                  G   SEVS  I        50 boiler packages            1,455 ICB      Apr-01  Apr-01  May-01  Jun-01   Ju014        Oct-0I
Local installation               W   SEVS  2           Works for the above         248 NBF        Apr-01   Apr-01  May-01  Jun-01   Jul-01    Oct-01
Mobile maintcnancc units, tools   G   SEVS  3          Mobile mtn. Units, tools     10o IS        Jun-01   Jun-01   Jul-01   Aug-01   Sep-01    Dec-0 I
Boiler packages                  G   SEVS  4    15  boiler packages               4,572 ICB      Mar-02  Mar-02  Apr-02  May-02  Jun-02    Sep-02
Local installation               W   SEVS  5           Works for the above         781 NBF       Mar-02  Mar-02  Apr-02  May-02  Jun-02    Sep-02
Mobile maintenance units, tools  G   SEVS  6           Mobile mtn. Units, tools    100 IS        Mar-02  Mar-02  Apr-02  May-02  Jun-02    Sep0,!
Boiler packages                  G   SEVS  7    210 boiler packages               5,709 ICB      Mar-03  Mar-03  Apr-03  May-03  Jun-03    Sep-0 3
Local installation               W   SEVS  8           Works for the above         953 NBF       Mar-03  Mar-03  Apr-03  May-03  Jun-03    Sep-03
Mobile maintenance units, tools  G   SEVS  9           Mobile mtn. Units, tools     l  IS        Mar-03  Mar-03  Apr-03  May-03  Jun-03    Sep-(0
Boiler packages                  G   SEVS  10   290 boiler packages               7,815 ICB      Mar-04  Mar-04  Apr-04  May-04  Jun-04    Sep-0-
Local installation               W   SEVS  II          Works for the above        1,334 NBF      Mar-04  Mar-04  Apr-04  May-04  Jun-04    Sep-04
Boiler packages                  G   SEVS  12   318 boiler packages               8,688 ICB      Mar-04  Mar-04  Apr-04  May-04  Jun-04    Sep904
Local installation               W   SEVS  13          Works for the above        1,483 NBF      Mar-04  Mar-04  Apr-04  May-04  Jun-04    Sep-04
Financial Audits                  S   SEVS  14-        5 financial audits           100 LCS               Mar-OI                               Dec-05
15
Heat Tariff Study                 S                    Services frm Loan            150 QCBS
Social Assistance Support         S                    CSA                          100 NBF
Financial Management              S                    Services frm Loan           200 QCBS
Implementation Suppot            S                    Do"r                         200 NBF
Local Design and Site NMangemet    S                   Local contracts            1,374 NBF
Total number of   101 Total                    35,4t
plants        8
of which ICB            28,23
I) G for Goods, W for installation and civil works, S for services.
2) ICB for International Competitive Bidding, IS for International Shopping, LCS for Least-Cost Selection, QCBS
for Quality and Cost-Based Selection, N.B.F. for Not Bank-Financed.
- 52 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Section 1: Procurement Review
Goods and        ICB        NCB          is            NS         Minor     Other   Percentage of
Works                                                           Works    Methods  loan amount
subject to prior
_  review
Procurement    Goods:                     Goods:
thresholds;    us$ I 00,00                 up to                                            100%
individual and                         uso,o
aggregate                              US$ 100,000
Aggregate:
US$300,000
Goods:
Prior Review        All                    All                                              100%
Consultants        QCBS        QBS   Fixed Budget        LCS       Qualifi-   Single    Individuals
cations    Source
Procurement     >US$50,000                            <US$50,000
Method
Threshold
Ex-post        No ex-post review. All subject to prior review.
Review:       I
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
The company has been recently formed. Limited capacity at this moment. Technical Assistance of foreign
specialists planned at an amount of about US$ 0.2 million, to be financed from grants.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country    Are the bidding documents for the procurement
Procurement Strategy Paper Status:                   actions for the first year ready by negotiations:
CPSP 1997, CPAR due June 2001                        Yes, they are substantially complete.
- 53 -



Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated Day of    Estimated date    Indicate if there is     Domestic          Domestic
Project Launch       of General     procurement subject     Preference of     Preference for
Workshop:         Procurement   to mandatory SPN in        Goods: Yes         Works, if
Jun-0I             Notice:         Development                           applicable: No
Jul-99          Business: No
Jun-00
Retroactive financing: No                     I AdvanceProcurement: No
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System: Semi-annual Project Management Reports will be
prepared by the implementing agency.
Co-financing: Explain briefly the procurement arrangements under co-financing: The donor grant
agreement defines the procurement arrangements that are to be used.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement
in the project: Name: Pentti Aro, Procurement Accredited Staff, Ext: 87136
Explain briefly the role of the Field Office in procurement: The Field Office will assist in procurement
training, project launch work shop and preliminary review of procurement documents on a selective basis.
- 54 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount In US$million         Financing Percentage
Goods                                     27.46                100% of CIP expenditure
100% of ex-factory expenditure
80% of other local expenditure
Services                                   0.45                        100%
0.00
Total Project Costs                       27.91
Front-end fee         0.28
Total                                     28.19
- 55 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
UKRAINE: SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Project :$cb;0:St0:Ldutl.PlannDXti0;0000a:7:ttL;00000000000 i000;ii:i000000ied00 :Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       21                            36
First Bank mission (identification)              10/19/95                      10/19/95
Appraisal mission departure                      07/05/97                      10/19/98
Negotiations                                     09/30/97                      01/22/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    10/01/2001                    10/01/2001
Prepared by:
Sevastopol City State Administration and its heating enterprises, Sevteploenergo and Sevteploservis, with
support from the State Committee for Housing and Communal Services.
Preparation assistance:
Bilateral Aid from the Swedish Government with consultancy assistance from AF-Energikonsult and
KPMG (Sweden) and Tebodin (Ukraine).
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Carolyn Gochenour                  Task Team Leader
Pentti Aro                         District Heating Engineer
Luis Gutierrez                     Energy Economist
Enar Wennerstrom                   Financial Analyst
Peter Kyle                         Private Sector Development Legal Counsel
Kishor Uprety                      Legal Counsel
Eugen Finkel (Consultant)          Social Scientist
- 56 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
UKRAINE: SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Sevteploservis Financial Analysis
Sevteploservis Financial Management Assessment
Project Economic, Risk and Distributive Analyses
C. Other
Sevastopol Heat Supply Consultancy, Main Report, AF-Energikonsult, May 30, 1997
Sevastopol Heat Supply Consultancy, Report No. 1, Heat Demand Analysis, AF-Energikonsult,
April 21, 1997
Sevastopol Heat Supply Consultancy, Report No. 2, Heat Production Analysis, Technical
Background Report, AF-Energikonsult, April 1997
Sevastopol Heat Supply Consultancy, Report No. 3, Heat Distribution and Substations,
AF-Energikonsult, May 1997
Sevastopol Heat Supply Consultancy, Report No. 4, Decentralization of District Heating,
AF-Energikonsult, May 1997
Sevastopol Heat Supply Consultancy, Report No. 5, Environmental Review, AF-Energikonsult,
May 1997
Sevastopol Heat Supply Consultancy, Report No. 6, Economic Analysis, AF-Energikonsult, May
1997
Sevastopol Heat Supply Consultancy, Report No. 7, Institutional Analysis, AF-Energikonsult,
May 1997
Sevastopol Heat Supply Consultancy Phase 2, Sevteploservis Review, AF-Energikonsult, October
30, 1997
*Including electronic files
- 57 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
UKRAINE: SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Feb-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                        disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                 IBRD        IDA                GEF   Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig  Frm Rev'd
P055739      2000 KIEV PB ENERGY EFFIC                        18.29      0.00               0.00      0.00     18.11     0.12      0.00
P040560      1999 FIN SECAL                                   300.00     0.00               0.00      0.00    100.00    100.00    0.,)0
P049174      1998 TREASURY SYSTEMS                             16.40     0.00               0.00      0.00     16.09    11.19     1.39
P044832      1998 KIEV DISTRICT HEAT.                         200.00     0.00               0.00      0.00    195.40    52.00     13.43
P044728      1998 ODS PHASE-OUT (GEF)                          0.00      0.00              23.20      0.00     19.46    18.40     -0.10
P044851      1997 EXPORT DEVELOPMENT                          70.00      0.00               0.00      0.00     37.10    24.58      0.(10
P038820      1995 HYDROPOWER REHAB                            114.00     0.00               0.00     14.16     43.93    58.09     9.62
Total:    718.69      0.00             23.20      14.16    430.09    264.38     24 34
UKRAINE
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Feb-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                               Disbursed
IFC                                    IFC
FY Approval            Company                              Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic         Loan   Equity    Quasi    Partic
1998                   Creditanstalt Uk                      0.00      2.28      0.00      0.00      0.00      2.28      0.00      0.00
1996                   FUIB                                  0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      5.00      0.00      0.00
2000                   MBU                                   0.00      1.70      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.85      0.00      0.00
1994/96                Ukraine VC Fund                       0.00      1.50      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.80      0.00      0.00
Total Portfolio:              0.00      10.48      0.00      0.00       0.00     8.93       0.00     0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval            Company                                 Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic
1998                  Creditanstalt Uk                      5000.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
1996                  FUIB                                 10000.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
2000                   MBU                                  5000.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
Total Pending Commitment:           20000.00         0.00        0.00        0.00
- 58 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
UKRAINE: SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Europ. &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                              Central      Low-
UkraIna       Asia  incoma        Development diamond
1999
Pan lxtinn rnmd-I ve  (mit0ons)                         S.O n       A 47     717                    Life expectancy
GNP ocr caoila (Atlas method. US$)                       750      7.15fl      410
tGNP SAti/s method. USS bilions)                       37 S      I n77       933                         T
Averaos annual arowth. 199349                                                                             T
Pnniultalinn ItAl                                        .n7        0 1        19      GN -     
Labor force%                                             .0-4       0.6        2.3     GNP            .                   Gross
per                              primary
Most recent estimate (latest vear available. 1193491                                   capita
Povertv f% of oooulation below national oovertv line)     27
if rhxn nnrn,latinn (% oftotalnnoroiutifn) I4A                       47        R1
Life sesectanvC at birth tv*arsl                          67         A9        60
infant mnrtality rlo  1,000 iive bethisI                 1t4         79        77
Child noatlitrldrtl     of children tindor Si                                  4.3                Access to safe water
Access to imoroved wator source ( of oootulataon)          .-         .        64
tllilarecv 1% of oooufation ao                             0                   39                    Ukraine
Gross orimwrv earatlmnent 1% of schooftoe ooouait n)      S7        100        DeUkraine
Mato                                                    87        111      t107                   Low-income group
Femtale                                                  7         Sf        AA
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM  tRENDS
i979     1S9        t99S      19iS         _
Economic ratios*
GDP fUS$ billions at officiat exchanOe rate)     -.        ..      41.9       30.8
GrneA rinmast;n inv^etm^ntjC.flP                        7R a       20 A       1                         TirR
F: ntwt, nf nneitr andt 4Arviiof/lrnp                   A27 I      43 9       i7t                       Trade
Gross tdomestic savinosiGOP                       .      2t4       4 18.5     20.9
G,rnes national savin"IGOP                               A9        17 7       72.6
Current account baltnc.afGOP                      ..       ..      .3.1        2.7
Intw*est tvm^n,rlr)p                                                 1 o)      ; A     Domestic        '             Investment
T7tlAt 1rAhltrP                                                    .m 4       40 A     Savings
Total dbtserovicexloris                          ..                 11.1      14.4                         .
PWresnl valt- at eohlifrlP                                         27 R       R7 3
Ptrsnt valhm of dcbtlexnorts                               A. 338             6817
Indebtedness
1979.89  *s9t9.99     1s98       1f9S9   1*99sf3
(avwerso. annual ozrowthl
GnP                                            1( 7      .1         . 014      7                  -Ukraine
t. NP nr carnila                              .10 7      -24J      .n 7        7 f                  -Low-income group
Exoorts of ooed and srvicas            ..       0.5    .134         .7.9       3.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999       Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GOP)
Anrimilhirn.                                            77 9       14 2       17 A      o
Industrv                                          .     48.4       35.4       38.4    -20
Manitfartiurinn                                         9.1        3         5.7 Rs9
Services                                         ..    28.7        50.4       48.8    -40
Private cannnsumntion                                       P      s9s A      Rn 7     -so
Generatl onvernment consiumntion                 ..    17.3        71.3       19.0                     GDI          GDP
Imoorts of coods and services                    ..    32.1        44.2       51.7
1979-89  1989-99       1998      1999      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(avereoe annual owrowtht
Anrir.ilHrer                                            -fi 3      -11 7      -47      20
Industrv                                         ..   -13.5        -0.1        3       14 5o
Mantifarhirinn                                         13 4       n n         .5                    /
Sprvices                                                -3 1         f03      -1 R     o
94   95   559995             9
PrivatA ronsn-mntinn                                     -A 0       1 3       n s     -l
General onvernmrnt rnnsttmntinn                  ..    .4.7        -3 5      -12.0
Gross domestic investment                        ..   -22.4         0.4       -5.4    -20
Imnnrtl nt nnnrts and cervires                    .      4.0      -14 0      -19 1                  Exports        Imports
Gross national oroduct                           ..   -11.1         -2.7      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show tour kev indicators in the countrv (in bold) comoared with its income-oroun averaaes If data are missina. the diamond will
he innrmniele
- 59 -



Ukraine
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domesffc prices
(% change)                                                                       soo
Consumer prces                                                  20.0     19.2    400
Implicit GDP deflator                                 3.8       12.0     24.4    300
200
Govemment finance                                                                 fo0
(% of GOP, includes current grants)                                                0
Current revenue                                                 36.0     34.4             94   95   94   97   9B    9
Current budget balance                                          -2.1     -2.0            -GDP deflator  -CPl
Overall surplus/deficit                                         -2.8     -2.4
TRADE
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998     1999      Export and Import levels (USS mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                           13,699    12,463    20,000
Ferrous and non-ferrous metals                               5,336    4,874
Food and agricultural raw materials                          1,379    1,418    15,000
Manufactures                                                 2,393     1,981
Total imports (cif)                                           16,283   12,945    10Do
Food                                                         1,052      902  s   oo
Fuel and energy                                              6,170    5,441
Capital goods                                                3,172    2,255        o                       -
ExDort wice index /1995=100)                                     96        95            93  94  95  9s  97  98  99
ImDortorice index (1995=1001                                    102       105                * Exports     *Imports
Terms of trade t1995=100)                                        94        91
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                              1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                                 17,621    16,234    4
Imports of goods and services                                 18,828    15,237
Resource balance                                              -1,207      997     2
Net income                                                     -871      -869
Net current transfers                                           782       70782  706
Current account balance                                       -1,296      834
Financing items (net)                                           -28      -551
Changes in net reserves                                        1.324     -283
Memo:
Reserves includina old (USS millionsl                           793     1.094
Official exchanoe rate flocallUSS. averaeJe)                     2.4      4.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
fUSS millions)                                                                    ComposItion of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                          12,718   12,588
IBRD                                                         1,599    2,020                     G:480
IDA                                                             0        0                                A: 2.020
Total debt service                                             2,017    2,600
IBRD                                                           68        98
IDA                                                             0         0
Composition of net resource flows                                                  F                                2 ,9082 
Official grants                                                98        0                                      c 2,908
Official creditors                                            253      297
Private creditors                                            1,344     -574
Foreign direct investment                                     743      489                     :
Portfolio equity                                                0       62E1,0                          D:9
World Bank program
Commitments                                                   680         0     A - IR0)                   E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                                 385      422      B - IDA    0 - Other multsiateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                                            0         2     C - IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                                     385      420
Interest payments                                              68        96
Net transfers                                                 317      326
Development Economics
- 60 -



Additional
Annex 11
Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement Project
Social Assessment
I.   BACKGROUND
1.    A social assessment was carried out in Sevastopol to obtain feedback from households on a series
of issues related to the provision of heat and hot water. The issues addressed in the assessment are: (i)
quality and reliability of the provision of heat and hot water, (ii) level of satisfaction and hardships due to
insufficient provision of heat and hot water, (iii) pattems of supplementary heating and other coping
strategies, (iv) physical conditions of heat and hot water installations, (v) metering and conservation of heat
and hot water, (vi) expenditures for heat and hot water by different income groups, (vii) collections, cost
recovery, and indebtedness, (viii) poverty of residential customers, (ix) affordability, willingness to pay,
price-elasticities of demand, and (x) effectiveness of the social safety net in place.
2.     The assessment is based initially on qualitative research using structured in-depth interviews and
focus group discussions with residential district heat customers as well as consultations with staff from
Sevteploenergo and Sevteploservis, city representatives and civil society stakeholders.  Second, the
assessment is based on quantitative research by means of a questionnaire-based household survey
administered to 460 residential district heating customers. In particular, the survey provides information on
behavior and attitude differences between households receiving district heat from mini-boilers and
households obtaining heat from Sevteploenergo plants. The findings obtained from qualitative research and
the quantitative results from the survey research are presented below.
II.    SERVICES AVAILABLE TO HOUSEHOLDS
3.     All households with district heating have electricity, cold water supply, and central sewerage.
4.     Only 50% of Sevastopol's residential district heat customers have hot water supply in conjunction
with the provision of district heat. This share is much lower than in Kiev, where 96% of households have
centrally provided hot water. The percentage of households with centrally provided hot water is also lower
than the national average where 70% of households have hot water supply in conjunction with district
heating.
5.     Five percent of households have gas connections for space heating in addition to district heating.
Seventy-two percent of the households on district heat have telephones.
- 61 -



III.   APARTMENT OWNERSHIP, LIVING SPACE AND PRIVATIZATION
6.     53% of the households on district heat own their flats, 36% of the flats belong to the state, and
10% to a state agency. The living space available in these flats is 30 square meters, on average. Of those
households who own their flat, 58% privatized it, 21% bought it, and 10% got it under arrangements with a
housing construction cooperative. Of those households whose flats belong to the state, 34% plan to
privatize these flats.
IV.  HOUSEHOLD SIZE AND STRUCTURE
7.     Households on district heat have, on average, 3 members, 0.6 children less than 15 years of age,
and 0.4 elderly.
V.  THE STRUCTURE OF HOUSEHOLD EXPENDITURE
8.    In Sevastopol, households on district heat spend, on average, 61% of their total expenditures for
food (Table 1).
9.     For district heating they spend about 8% and for hot water about 2% of their total expenditures
(Table 2).
10.    For housing and communal services altogether, including the charges for district heating, hot water,
electricity, water and sewerage, gas, telephone (except long distance calls) as well as some other minor
services, households spend, on average, approximately 25% of their total expenditures (Table 1).
11.    Expenditures for housing and communal services altogether count for about 64% of all non-food
expenditures.
12.    Together, the charges for district heating and hot water amount to about 40% of all the charges for
housing and communal services (Table 3).
Table 1:
Household Expenditure for Food, Non-Food, and Housing and Communal
Services as a Percen tage of Total Household Expenditure
1. Food                                         60.68
2 Non-Food                                      39.32
3 Housing and Communal                          25.07
Services
- 62 -



Table 2:
Household Expenditure for Housing and Communal Services as a Percentage
of Total Household Expenditure
1. District Heating                                      8.38
2. Hot Water                                             1.71
3. Housing                                               4.16
4. Water and Sewerage                                    3.09
5. Gas                                                   2.16
6. Telephone                                             1.18
7. Electricity                                           3.85
8. Other Services                                        0.54
Table 3:
Household Expenditure for Housing and Communal Services as a
Percentage of Total Household Expenditure for these Services
1. District Heating                                      33
2. Hot Water                                             7
3. Housing                                               17
4. Water and Sewerage                                    12
5. Gas                                                   9
6. Telephone                                             5
17. Electricity                                          15
18. Other Services                                        2           J
VI.   HOUSEHOLD EXPENDITURES ACROSS EXPENDITURE QUINTILES
13.   Households in lower quintiles (poorer households) spend more of their total expenditure for food
than households in higher quintiles (better-off households).
14.   Also, poorer households spend much more of their total expenditure than non-poor households for
district heating, hot water, electricity, water and sewerage, gas, telephone and other minor services.
15.    Households in the bottom quintile spend about 3 times the shares of their expenditures for district
heating than households in the top quintile.
16.    After paying all charges for housing and communal services, households in the bottom quintile
have no money left for any other non-food expenditures. These households would even have to reduce their
expenditures for food if they intended to pay all charges for housing and communal services.
- 63 -



Table 4:
Household Expenditure for Different Expenditure Categories as a
Percentage of Total Household Expenditure by Expenditure Quintiles
Quintile  Quintile  Quintile  Quintile  Quintile
1        2        3         4        5
1. District Heating       13.23      9.14     8.06      6.75     4.29
2. Hot Water               3.58      2.69     2.24      .90       .58
3. Housing                 6.22      4.66     4.57      2.84     2.19
4. Water and Sewerage      6.15      3.70     2.45      1.82     1.07
5. Gas                     4.82      1.82     1.81      1.00      .78
6. Telephone               1.98      1.28     1.07      1.06      .62
7. Electricity             6.77      4.66     3.64      3.01     1.58
8. Other Services           .62      .49       .96       .32      .24
9. Total Housing and      43.37    28.44      24.8      17.7    11.35
Communal Services
10. Food                  68.83    65.48    63.34    56.15    50.17
17.   Graph 1, below, presents the distribution of household expenditure per capita. In addition, the
graph visualizes the distribution of household expenditure per capita by expenditure quintiles.
70
60
00
40
40
30
_lIl\                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mean = 120
0                                              N  458.00
8 53 981t41823 273236 41 455054 5986368 727781 88
Per capita expenditure, Hrivnyas
Q = Quinttle
VII.  lNDEBTEDNESS
18.   Forty three percent of the households owe for heating and hot water. On average, they owe 5
monthly payments. Graph 2, below, shows the distribution of household indebtedness by months of
indebtedness. This distribution allows estimating the extent of bad debts. When households pay, they pay
for 2 months, on average. The vast majority of households pay either in the Post Office or in Savings Bank
Branches. A small percentage of customers pay directly to the REPs.
- 64 -



19.   Indebtedness for heat and hot water charges is weakly related to poverty. Only few households
with lower per capita expenditures are more likely to owe for heat and hot water services than households
with higher per capita expenditures. Across all strata of the city population, there is a generalized attitude
of not paying bills for housing and communal services.
20.   Only very few households with debts for housing and communal services have used the facility of
entering into a formal arrangement with their REPs for paying these debts in installments over a mutually
agreed period of time.
Graph 2: Household indebtedness by monthly payments
40 
30 -
20
c: 10-a
0
Std. Dev - 4.67
o                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mean = 5
6   O        .             _                           N = 183.00
z   0_
Number of monthly payments owed for heating and hot water
VIII. ENFORCEMENT
21.   Indebted households care little about any measures of enforcing payment of charges for heat and
hot water. 87% of debtors indicated they would not pay even if they were fined. 85% indicated they would
not pay if their name would be published in the newspaper. 86% indicated they would not pay if their name
would be published in the entrance of their building. The most effective measure of enforcing heat and hot
water payments seems to be cutting off debtors from the telephone network because only 78% of them
indicated they would not pay if they were disconnected. However, the modestly higher effectiveness of
cutting off phone lines of households owing for heat and hot water cannot blur the strong impression that
indebted households are not afraid of any kind of enforcing payment of charges for heat and hot water.
22.   Interesting, but not surprising is the fact that households, which are not indebted, are much more
concerned about enforcement than households with debts. 41% of the households without debts would pay
if they were disconnected from the telephone network whereas 26% would be indifferent to this kind of
enforcement. Similarly, about one-third of the households without debts would pay if they were fined
whereas one-third of these households would be indifferent to this mechanism of enforcement.
- 65 -



IX.   EXPLAINING THE FAILURE OF HOUSEHOLDS TO PAY
23.   To better understand the failure of households to pay charges for housing and communal services,
indebted households were confronted with a series of statements explaining this failure. These explanations
had been previously identified in in-depth interviews and focus group discussions as key justifications for
not paying or not paying on time. Interviewees could agree or disagree to different extents with the
statements presented. Table 5 shows the results obtained.
Table 5: Household responses to different statements explaining the failure to pay utility
charges
Household responses to statements in
Statements                       agree     Difficult to  disagree
1. the charges are not affordable                    92           4          4
2. the state does not pay salaries on time           82           5          13
3. the charges exceed the agplicable costs           82           12          6
5. the state should pay part of the charges          73          17          10
4. the qualitv of service is too bad                 71           6          23
6. officials have many privileges, we don't have any  48         32          20
7. nothing hapens if we don't pay                    13          20          67
24.   The strong disagreement of a large number of households with the statement that nothing will
happen if households don t pay is not credible considering the above indifference regarding any efforts of
enforcement, and taking into account insights from in-depth interviews and focus group discussions.
According to these insights, households try to protect themselves and disguise their true attitudes by
denying that nothing will happen if nobody pays.
X.    WILLINGNESS TO PAY FOR IMPROVED HEAT SUPPLY FROM MlNI-BOILERS
25.   Table 6 shows the willingness of residential district heating customers to pay for improved heat
supply through mini-boilers. Close to 30% of the households are willing to pay for better service either 3,
2, 1.5, or 1.2 times the charges they currently pay. 46% of the respondents are willing to pay only what
they pay at present, although the quality of service would improve. And 25% even do not want to pay what
they pay now. Some of these households are willing to pay only 80% of their current charges, others 50%,
and a few not even 50 %.
- 66 -



Table 6: Willingness of Households to Pay (wtp) for Improved Heat Supply
% of households    cumulative %
of households
1. wtp 3 times the current charges         4.29               4.29
2. wtp 2 times the current charges          5.36              9.65
3. wtp 1.5 times the current charges       11.26              20.91
4. wtp 1.2 times the current charzes        7.51              28.42
5. wtp only the current charges            46.38              74.8
6. wtp 80 % of the current charges          8.31              83.11
7. wtp 50 % of the current charges         12.06              95.17
8. not wtp 50 % of the current charzes      4.02              99.19
9. do not need mini-boilers                 0.8               99.99
26.    However, the willingness-to-pay figures presented in Table 6 have to be adjusted for two reasons.
First, many of the households providing information on the different levels of their willingness to pay, in
fact, do not pay. Second, some of the households who indicate to be willing to pay less than they are
currently supposed to pay, do not have any arrears and, in fact, are paying more than they are willing to.
Adjusted figures are presented in Table 7.
Table 7: Willingness of Households to Pay (wtp) for Improved Heat Supply
and Effectively Paying Current Charges
% of households    Cumulative % of
effectively       households
paving       effectivelvy aving
1.wt 3 times the current charc es       3.49               3.49
2. wtp 2 times the current charges       2.95              6.44
3 .wti 1.5 times the current charges     9.38              15.82
4. wtt 1.2 times the current charges     5.36              21.18
5. wtp only the current charges         28.69              49.87
6. wtp 80 % of the current charges       3.75              53.62
7. wtp 50 % of the current charges       2.68              56.30
8. not wtp 50 % of the current          0.54               56.84
charges
9. do not need mini-boilers              0.54              57.38
27.    A comparison of Tables 6 and 7 shows that many households, who indicate to be willing to pay
more than they are supposed to, do not pay. Households, who indicate to be willing to pay exactly the
charges that they are supposed to pay, do not pay to an even larger extent. The majority of those
households who indicate to be willing to pay less than what they are supposed to pay, in fact, don't pay.
7.51 % of the households indicate to be willing to pay less than what they are supposed to pay and,
nevertheless, pay.
- 67 -



28.   Table 8 shows the extent to which the number of households paying for heat without delay would
effectively increase if the heat tariff would be reduced by 20% and 50%. Based on these figures, price
elasticities of demand (defined as the proportional variation of demand divided by the proportional variation
of price) have also been determined.
Table 8: Share of Households Paying Current Charges for Heat and Share-Increase if the
Heat Tariff would be Reduced by 20% and 50%.
% of households         Price-elasticities of demand
1. Households paying current           57.38
charges
2. Households likely to pay if         61.94                         0.23
tariff is reduced to 80% of the
current charges
3. Households likely to pay if         71.32                         0.28
tariff is reduced to 50% of the
current char2es
29.    The above table shows that demand for improved heat would increase only modestly if charges
would be dropped 20% (4.56% increase of demand), or reduced by 50% (9.38% increase of demand). This
means that demand is very inelastic in response to considerable price cuts (-0.23 and -0.28, respectively).
30.    Table 9 shows the extent to which the number of households paying for heat without delay would
effectively increase if the heat tariff would increase to 120, 150, 200, and 300% of the current charges.
Based on these figures, price elasticities of demand have been determined.
Table 9: Share of Households Paying Current Charges for Heat. Share-Increase if the Heat
Tariff would be increased to 120, 150, 200, and 300%. Price-Elasticities of Demand.
% of households       Price-elasticities of
demand
I.Households paying current charges             57.38
2. Households likely to pay if tariff is        21.18                  -1.81
3. Households likely to pay if tariff is        15.82                  -0.72
increased to 150% of the current charges
4. Households likely to pay if tariff is        6.44                   -0.25
increased to 200% of the current charges
5. Households likely to pay if tariff is        3.49                   -0.18
increased to 300% of the current charges I
31.   The above table shows that demand for improved heat would decrease sharply if charges would
rise to 120% of the current charges. The demand would further decrease if charges would rise to 150, 200,
and 300%. However, the extent to which the demand would shrink as a result of each additional increase
- 68 -



of charges (which themselves steeply increase) would decrease considerably. These relationships are
reflected in the above elasticity figures: Demand would be highly elastic in response to a 20% price
increase but inelastic in response to 50, 100, and 200% price increases.
32.   The reasons for households to pay more are clear: they want to always have appropriate room
temperatures and heat 24 hours a day without any interruptions. Households also indicated that they would
be willing to pay and could afford 3, 2, 1.5, or 1.2 times the current charges. Moreover, there is a slight
tendency for better-off households to be willing to pay more.
XI.   DISCOUNTS
33.   31% of the households surveyed receive discounts on the charges for heating and hot water. Most
of them receive a 50% discount (about 62% of the households enjoy discounts), some get a 75% discount
(27% of the households), and a few get a 25% and a 100% discount. In most cases, the discounts apply to
all family members (in 64% of the cases). Discounts are not targeted to the poor and vulnerable.
Recipients of discounts are rather equally distributed across all expenditure deciles.
XII. SOCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR LOW-INCOME HOUSEHOLDS
34.   In Sevastopol, 12% of the households are beneficiaries of the social assistance program. On
average, the social assistance per beneficiary household amounts to 23 hrivynas. 9% of applications
submitted have been rejected. About 63% of the population knows about the social assistance program,
42% know where to apply and 38% know how to apply. Most of these figures contrast with those known
from Kiev where 28% of the households receive social assistance, 3% of applications submitted have been
rejected, practically everybody has heard about the prograrn, and households know where and how to apply
for the subsidy.
35.   The targeting effectiveness of the social assistance program is constrained by serious flaws. First,
the program has a substantial leakage: 60% of the households receiving the subsidy do not deserve it
because their expenditure for housing and communal services, including electricity, would not exceed 15%
of their total expenditure per month, if they would not receive the subsidy.
36.   Second, the social assistance program has insufficient coverage: 37% of the households not
receiving the social assistance would deserve it because they have to pay more than 15% of their total
expenditure for housing and communal services. Most of these households are poor: 53% of them belong
to the 30% of households with the lowest per capita expenditures; 68% of them belong to the 40% of
households with the lowest per capita expenditures; and 82% of them belong to the 50% of households with
the lowest per capita expenditures.
37.   Fifty-eight percent of the households who do not receive social assistance, although they would be
eligible, do not plan to apply. Moreover, 40% of them do not know how to apply while 30% of them do not
know where to apply.
38.   Not surprisingly, 61% of the households who do not receive social assistance, although they would
be eligible, owe for heating and hot water. However, 52% of the households who do receive social
assistance and are eligible, owe for heating and hot water. Based on these statistics, it is not convincing
that households who do not receive social assistance but meet the eligibility criteria would be considerably
- 69 -



more likely to pay for heating and hot water if they would receive social assistance.
39.    Table 10, below, shows the incidence of reasons explaining why households eligible for social
assistance may not have applied to the program.
40.    For 68%  of the households, who meet the criteria but do not receive social assistance, the
requirement of declaring incomes seems not to be an issue for submitting an application (they disagree with
the statement they would not like the idea of declaring incomes). 56% of the same category of households
consider they would need more detailed information through radio, TV, newspapers, or pamphlets to find
out if they should apply for the social assistance or not. Furthermore, 42% of these households think they
would need confidential counseling from an independent agency to find out if they should apply for social
assistance or not. Only 32% of them think confidential counseling done by city officials would be the best
way to find out if they should apply for the social assistance or not.
41.    Households who applied for social assistance are highly satisfied with the performance of the
personnel processing the applications. They believe officials assisting them did their best to answer all
questions regarding their applications (82%); were friendly and polite (78.9%); assisted them as quickly as
possible (72.6%) and with a high degree of professionalism (61.5%). In line with these views, most of the
respondents did not agree with the statements that the officials assisting them were authoritarian (74.5%),
showed little interest in assisting them properly (66%), or do not know how to deal with people (62.7%).
However, 60% of the respondents are of the opinion that it was time-consuming to get all the docunents
required to apply for social assistance; they had to wait very long when they applied because there were too
many people (54%); and working hours of the subsidy offices were inconvenient (46.2%).
XIII. DISTRICT HEATING SERVICE
42.    Room Temperature. The room temperature was appropriate always or mostly, in 20% of the
flats; frequently, in 15% of the flats; sometimes, in 22% of the flats; rarely or never, in 43% of the flats.
43.    The temperature was too low always or mostly in 19% of the flats; frequently, in 20% of the flats;
and sometimes, in 27% of the flats. In 29% of the flats it was never or rarely too cold. In 92% of the flats
it was too hot rarely or never.
44.    Heating Interruptions. Households reported heating interruptions often in 50% of the cases,
several times in 34% of the cases; once in 7.7% and never in 7.9% of the cases. The interruptions lasted a
few hours in 25% of the cases; between a day and a week in 47%; and more than a week in 28% of the
cases. In 94% of the cases the interruptions were announced rarely or never. Based on the survey data, the
estimated availability of service for Sevastopol is 75%. The estimated availability of service in heating
districts 3 and 4 is 37 %.
45.    Supplementing District Heating. About 31% of households supplement district heat by using
electrical space heaters.  In 22%  of the cases, households use their gas-fired cooking ranges for
supplementing heat. Respondents do not use gas-fired space heaters or electrical cooking ranges for heating
purposes.
46.    Putting On Additional Clothes. To cope with insufficient heating, 28% of the households put on
additional clothes always or mostly; 30% frequently; 29% sometimes; only 13% put on additional clothes
rarely or never.
- 70 -



47.   Getting Sick. In 56% of the households somebody got sick because the room temperature was too
low.
48.   Insulation. To make their flats less drafty, 86% of the households insulate or weather-strip
windows; 79% insulate or weather-strip doors; and 28% of the households caulk panel joints, cracks and
cavities in the walls of their apartments.
49.   Radiators. In 15% of the flats radiators are leaking; in 18% of the cases radiators are full of rust;
21% of the households replaced radiators; and 13% plan to replace radiators.
50.   Pipes. Pipes are leaking in 7% of the apartments. In 18% of the flats they are getting more and
more clogged. 25% of the respondents think it is necessary to replace part of the pipes and 44% of them
plan to replace part of the pipes.
51.   Opening Windows. 33% of the responding households open their windows once or twice a day in
winter, 28% more than twice a day, and 39% never open their windows in winter. Households open the
windows 5 minutes or less in 28% of the cases, 5 to 10 minutes in 37%, and more than 10 minutes in 35%
of the cases. 96% of the households open windows in the apartments to get fresh air. High room
temperature was never a motive for opening windows in winter.
52.   Metering and Conserving Heat. 82% of the households strongly feel it would be better to have a
heat meter in each apartment, and pay for the heat actually received. 62% of the households would
consume less heat than they are currently consuming, if they paid only for the heat actually received. 77%
of the households would also consider it an improvement if heat meters were installed only at the building
level. 64% think the installation of heat meters would decrease heat bills.
XIV. HOT WATER SERVICE
53.   Quality of Service. Only in 11% of the apartments does hot water come out immediately when the
tap is opened. In 14% of the cases, it comes out after a minute, in 25% of the cases, after one to five
minutes, and in 50% of the apartments it takes more than five minutes.
54.   Hot Water Interruptions. Interruptions are reported by 94% of the households. 90% of the
households indicate that such interruptions occur almost always. 99% report interruptions to occur at any
time of the year. 97% say interruptions last more than a month. 89% of the households indicate that
interruptions are not previously announced.
55.   Pressure. 52% of the households have problems with hot water pressure.
56.   Alternative Sources for Heating Water. Those households who don't have hot water supply in
connection with district heating use electrical heaters for preparing hot water in 4% of the cases, electrical
cooking ranges in 13%, gas fired hot water heaters (kolonkas) in 76%, and gas fired cooking ranges in 18%
of the cases.
57.   33% of the households who don't have hot water supply in connection with district heating would
like to have centrally provided hot water, while 67% are not interested. 80% of the latter don't want to have
- 71 -



centrally provided hot water because they have a kolonka with which they seem to be satisfied.
58.    Metering and Conserving Hot Water. Eighty percent of the households would like to have a hot
water meter in their apartment. 76% are willing to consume less if they would pay for hot water based on
metering. 66% say metering would decrease bill.
XV. DISTRICT HEATING VERSUS HEATING FROM MINI-BOILERS: DIFFERENCES
AND SIMILARITIES
A. Differences
59.    Room Temperature. Whereas the room temperature in the flats of people with district heat was
appropriate always or mostly in 20% of the cases, the temperature in the apartments of households with
mini-boilers was appropriate always or mostly in 51% of the cases. Conversely, the room temperature in
the flats of the former was appropriate rarely or never in 43% of the cases, while the temperature in the
apartments of the latter was appropriate rarely or never in 14% of the cases.
60.   In the flats of people with district heat, the temperature was too frequently low, mostly or always in
45% of the cases, versus 8% of the flats of households with mini-boilers. In the flats of respondents with
district heat it was never or rarely too cold in 28% of the cases versus 61% of the cases of the flats of
households with mini-boilers.
61.    Heating Interruptions. Households with district heating reported heating interruptions often in
50% of the cases, households with heat from mini-boilers indicated heating was interrupted often only in
12% of the cases. In the case of the former, the interruptions lasted a few hours in 25% of the cases;
between a day and a week in 47%; and more than a week in 28% of the cases. In the case of the latter, the
interruptions lasted a few hours in 63% of the cases; between a day and a week in 40%; and more than a
week in 3% of the cases.
62.    Supplementing District Heating. About 67% of the households with district heating supplement
heat by using electrical space heaters rarely or never whereas households with heat from mini-boilers
supplement heat by using electrical heaters rarely or never in 83% of the cases. In 76% of the cases, the
former use gas-fired cooking ranges for supplementing heat while the latter use this form of supplementary
heating rarely or never in 93% of the cases.
63.    Putting On Additional Clothes. About 13% of the households with district heating put on
additional clothes rarely or never to cope with insufficient heating whereas households with heat from
mini-boilers put on additional clothes rarely or never in 55% of the cases. Conversely, 28% of the former
put on additional clothes always or mostly versus only 8% of the latter.
64.    Getting Sick. In 56% of the households with district heating somebody became sick because the
room temperature was too low, while households with heat from mini-boilers reported sickness due to
insufficient heating only in 37% of the cases.
B. Similarities
65.    Households with district heating and households with mini-boilers have similar structures of
expenditure, are indebted to similar extents for the provision of heat and hot water, and are comparable in
- 72 -



their willingness to pay for heat and hot water.
XVI. RECOMMENDATIONS
Improving the Social Assistance Program
66.    To provide better social protection to low-income households, it is necessary to improve the
effectiveness of the social assistance program. To achieve this objective, the following actions should be
taken.
67.   Improve the coveraze of the social assistance program. Based on data regarding household
expenditures obtained from the survey, 37% of the households eligible for receiving social assistance (19%
of all households) do not receive it. The key reasons for this lack of program coverage are that many
households do not know about the social assistance program, do not have appropriate information about it,
or make erroneous assumptions that prevent them from applying (including the beliefs of not being eligible,
having to pay back in the future financial support received, or the supposition that the assistance to be
obtained is insignificant). Thus, to improve the coverage of the social assistance program, a public
awareness campaign is recommended to provide suitable information to the public about the program.
Advisory support would be provided under the project to support the public awareness campaign. This
campaign would be based on informative and educational messages in TV, radio, and newspapers as well
as suitable leaflets and brochures to be distributed to the target population.
68.   Improve tareetiny of the social assistance program. Based on data regarding household
expenditure obtained from the survey, 60% of those households receiving social assistance (12% of all
households) are not eligible for it. This leakage has to be tackled by improving means testing currently
applied by the municipal social assistance offices. Means tests applied, at present, are predominantly
based on official income that imperfectly reflects real income. Thus, poverty correlates should be identified
and used for better targeting in addition to estimates based on official income. To identify these correlates,
advisory support would be provided under the project for organizing systematic in-depth interviews and
focus group discussions that would be carried out with household representatives, staff of the municipal
social assistance program, social workers and other key stakeholders and informants.
69.    Review rules and regulations of the social assistance program. In particular, operational
shortcomings of the program should be identified which prevent eligible households from applying. In
addition, the increasing complexity of rules and regulations should be reviewed. This complexity makes
program operations more and more cumbersome, time-consuming, and costly; surpasses the capacity of
beneficiaries and also of social assistance staff to fully understand the program; constrains transparency;
and jeopardizes identical prograrn application in different social assistance offices and by different social
assistance staff. Thus, the proposed review should, above all, promote streamlining and simplification of
existing rules and regulations, and make the program more customer-friendly. Advisory support would be
provided under the project for reviewing the rules and regulations of the social assistance program.
70.    Computerize communications and data exchange between social assistance offices, municipal
housing maintenance oreanizations, providers of utility services as well as other government agencies
such as tax authorities. This action comprises the provision of additional computers, software (such as
"Nash Dim"), the establishment of computer networks in local subsidy offices, the provision of training and
technical support as well as the development of a manual for carrying out tasks of data exchange.
Computerized communications and operations of data exchange simplify and accelerate processing of
applications for social assistance as well as facilitate better follow-up and monitoring. The provision of
- 73 -



computers, software, network development and training would be supported under the project.
71.    Social assistance covering all households who deserve it and not benefiting households who do not
deserve the assistance is fiscally sustainable and will make necessary increases of the residential heat tariff
socially and politically feasible.
Improvina Collections
72.    To ensure the feasibility of the project, it is necessary to enhance collections of the company from
residential customers. To achieve this objective, the current practice of collections and the issues related to
this practice have to be examined in detail and subsequently restructured based on the results of this
examination. In addition, a suitable strategy to enforce payment of utility charges from residential
customers should be developed and implemented. However, the implementation of such a strategy has to
be made contingent on the effective protection of low-income households by means of significant
improvements of the social assistance program in place.
73.    A task force should be created to design objectives, rules and regulations of the suggested
enforcement strategy. Furthermore, this task force should develop staff guidelines for dealing with
residential customers, and collection staff should be trained in how to successfully interact and
communicate with customers. Staff guidelines as well as the enforcement strategy should be developed in
close coordination with the heat company's collection staff and customer representatives. The principles of
both enforcement strategy and staff guidelines should be appropriately communicated to the public through
a suitable public information and education strategy. In particular, such a strategy should clarify the
rationale of tariff increases and the need of the heat company to ensure a satisfactory level of collections
through appropriate mechanisms of enforcing payment.
74.    While undertaking efforts to improve collections through more effective methods of enforcing
payments, it is necessary to undertake particular efforts to protect the rights of citizens and safeguard them
against measures to enforce payments. Suitable appeal mechanisms as well as provisions to mediate with
enforcement agencies should be made available to residential customers, and support should be provided to
residents through the position of an ombudsman.
XVII. GENERAL INDICATORS FROM THE SOCIAL SURVEY
1 Average size of household: 2.90
2 Expenditure per capita (hrivnyas): 110.10
3 Working population (percent): 41.60
4 Working population regularly paid (percent): 15.80
5 Average number of working members per household: 1.22
6 Children below age 15 (percent): 20.40
7 Average number of children per household: 0.60
9 Share of pensioners: men>60; women>55 (percent): 18.00
10 Pensioners working as a share of all pensioners (percent): 41.50
- 74 -



Y   S
BELARU ',|   RUSSIAN FEDERATION  SEVASTOPOL HEAT SUPPLY   #  J
IMPROVEMENT PROJECT   '                            ;
POLNGAR                                DISTRICTSI 
Sv.; ,,,,^,, --_SEVASTOPOL HEATIN*IITIS                    IETR1, 
lelIVA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
-<  ROMAIA                                  I 0t ttc<W  
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
GARIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
i1~~~~~~~~~~~1
f~~~~~~~~~~~~
-t-o0  1  Z  J  4  S   n                   M                     E         i
3  4~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ 
3~~f       2   s  r,  $z                                   I. 
>~~ aI      > /  b 01 1  ilb9 wI                                                    I
iOLMEIT                                         IAs-
CW                                  * =                           0R .  >     4            C
I~~~~~~~c



