Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4599-UA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
UKRAINE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated September 23, 2002 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4599-UA 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 2002, between UKRAINE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
(B) 
the Project will be carried out by Sevastopol City State Administration 
(Sevastopol CSA) and  Sevteploservis with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the loan provided for in Article II of this 
Agreement (the Loan) available to Sevastopol CSA for on-lending to Sevteploservis, as set forth 
in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the 
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank, Sevastopol CSA and  Sevteploservis (the 
Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 
1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank, Sevastopol CSA 
and  Sevteploservis of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time; and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(b) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 5.02 of the Project Agreement; 
 
(c) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
(d) 
“Subsidiary Loan Agreement” and “Subsidiary Loan” mean, respectively,  the 
agreement to be entered into between the Ministry of Finance, acting as the Representative of 
the Borrower, and Sevastopol CSA pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and including all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and any loan made pursuant to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; 
 
(e) 
“Sub-loan Agreement” and “Sub-loan” mean, respectively, the agreement to be 
entered into between Sevastopol CSA and Sevteploservis pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of the 
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and including all schedules 
to the Sub-loan Agreement;  
 
(f)    
“Sevastopol Social Assistance Program” means a program of financial 
assistance, funded by the Borrower, and administered by Sevastopol CSA, provided to low-
income families in support of their payments for rents and utility bills; 
 
(g) 
“Sevteploservis” means the municipal heating enterprise wholly owned by 
Sevastopol territorial community, established pursuant to Decree No 1412 of the Sevastopol 
CSA dated August 5, 1997, and registered with the Sevastopol CSA, on   May 29, 1998, and 
includes any legal successor thereto; 
 
(h) 
“Sevteploservis Statutes” means the charter of Sevteploservis approved by the 
Sevastopol CSA by its Decision No. 263 dated September 17, 1997, and registered on May 29, 
1998, as amended to the date of this Agreement, provided, however, that this term shall mean 
the charter or articles of agreement to be adopted by Sevteploservis as part of its reconstitution 
into a joint stock company in accordance with Sections 2.02 (b) and 4.01 (b) of the Project 
Agreement, once it is so reconstituted; and 
 
(i) 
“Sevteploservis Fiscal Year” means the year commencing on  January 1 and 
ending on December 31. 
 
Section 1.03. 
Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed as a reference to Sevteploservis. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to twenty eight million one 
hundred ninety thousand Dollars ($28,190,000). 
Section 2.02. 
(a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services 
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the 
fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement. 
Page  5
-
3
-
(b)  
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A, B.1 (a), B.2 (a) and B.3 of the 
Project, open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure 
and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006, or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the effective Date, the Bank shall 
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of the 
said fee. 
 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. 
(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date. 
 
(ii) 
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of 
this Agreement. 
 
(iii) 
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(iv) 
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three 
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted 
average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London 
interbank offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, 
in respect of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof 
Page  6
-
4
-
made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
 
(d) 
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
 
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
May 15 and November 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause Sevastopol CSA and Sevteploservis 
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of Sevastopol CSA and Sevteploservis therein set forth, shall take or cause 
to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Sevastopol CSA and Sevteploservis to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to Sevastopol CSA 
for on-lending to Sevteploservis under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into 
between the Ministry of Finance, acting as the Representative of the Borrower, and 
Sevastopol CSA, under terms and conditions which shall have been agreed by the Bank. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the 
following: 
 
(i) 
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be denominated in 
Dollars and shall be repaid by Sevastopol CSA to the Borrower in semi-
Page  7
-
5
-
annual installments over twenty (20) years, including a grace period of 
five (5) years; 
 
(ii) 
a fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan shall be charged and shall be payable upon the date of 
effectiveness of the Subsidiary Loan; 
 
(iii) 
interest shall be charged on the principal amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
a
rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower from time to time 
pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of this Agreement plus a margin of 
up to one percent (1%); and 
 
(iv)  
a commitment fee shall be charged on the undisbursed amount of the 
Subsidiary Loan at a rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower from 
time to time pursuant to Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and 
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and services required for Parts A, B.1 (a), B.2 (a) and B.3 of  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of  the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date, or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the 
Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan. 
 
Section 3.04.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, B.1 (a), 
B.2 (a) and B.3 of the Project shall be carried out by Sevteploservis pursuant to Section 
3.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Page  8
-
6
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements 
of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate 
opinion by said auditors as to whether the Project Management 
Reports or the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably request. 
 
Page  9
-
7
-
Page  10
-
8
-
ARTICLE V 
 
Remedies of the Bank 
 
Section 5.01. 
Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
Sevastopol CSA or Sevteploservis shall have failed to perform any of its 
respective obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that Sevastopol CSA or Sevteploservis will be able to perform its respective obligations 
under the Project Agreement. 
 
Section 5.02. 
Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely that the events specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. 
The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed 
between the Ministry of Finance, acting as the Representative of the Borrower, and Sevastopol 
CSA; and 
 
(b) 
the Sub-loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, has been executed between 
Sevastopol CSA and Sevteploservis. 
 
Section 6.02. 
The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning 
of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Sevastopol 
CSA and Sevteploservis, and is legally binding upon Sevastopol CSA and Sevteploservis, 
respectively in accordance with its terms; 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
(b) 
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified 
by the Borrower and Sevastopol CSA and is legally binding upon the Borrower and 
Sevastopol CSA in accordance with its terms; and 
 
(c) 
that the Sub-loan agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by Sevastopol 
CSA and Sevteploservis and is legally binding upon Sevastopol CSA and Sevteploservis in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. 
The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. 
The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative 
of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. 
The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 
of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
12/2 Hrushevsky Street 
 
Kiev, 252008 
 
Ukraine 
 
Telex: 
 
131450 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
Page  12
-
10
-
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the 
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UKRAINE 
 
By 
/s/  Kostyantyn Gryshchenko 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By 
/s/  Luca Barbone 
Director 
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova 
Europe and Central Asia 
Page  13
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) 
Goods 
27,458,100 
100% of foreign expenditures, 
 
100
%
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost), and 80% of  
 
local expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(2) 
Consultant Services,  
450,000 
100% 
 including 
audit 
 
 
 
(3) 
Fee 
281,900 
Amount due under Section 2.04  
 
_________
of
this Agreement. 
 
TOTAL 28,190,000
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower; and 
 
(b) 
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower. 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.  
Page  14
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are: (a) improving the efficiency, reliability and service 
levels in the heat supply system in Sevastopol and enhancing energy conservation through 
introduction of decentralized mini-boilers at targeted locations; and (b) promoting sound cost 
recovery policies and practices for the heat supply system in Sevastopol and the development of 
a
new heating enterprise, Sevteploservis, that would operate on a commercial basis. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives: 
 
Part A:
Heat Supply Improvement
1.  
Supply, installation and connection to the existing Sevastopol gas network of 
approximately 1,000 decentralized gas-fired boiler plants with auxiliaries (including the 
required design and work site management). 
 
2.  
Supply of mobile maintenance units and tools needed to maintain the boiler plants 
supplied and installed under Part A.1. 
 
Part B:
Institutional Support
1.  
(a) 
 Improving financial management systems of  Sevteploservis.  
 
(b)  
Developing project management capacity, including provision of training and 
acquisition of  equipment and software. 
 
2.  
(a)  
Carrying out by Sevastopol CSA of a heat tariff study. 
 
(b)  
Designing and implementing measures required to improve the functioning of the  
Sevastopol Social Assistance Program. 
 
3.   
Carrying out of audits of Sevteploservis required under the Project. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005. 
Page  15
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Amortization Schedule 
 
Payment of Principal 
 
(Expressed in 
 
Date Payment Due
Dollars)
*
November 15,  2006                   
550,000 
 
May 15,  2007                              
570,000 
 
November 15,  2007                   
590,000 
 
May 15,  2008                               
610,000 
 
November 15,  2008                   
630,000 
 
May 15,  2009                               
650,000 
 
November 15,  2009                  
675,000 
 
May 15,  2010                            
695,000 
 
November 15,  2010                     
720,000 
 
May 15,  2011                               
745,000 
 
November 15,  2011                   
770,000 
 
May 15,  2012                               
800,000 
 
November 15,  2012                     
825,000 
 
May 15,  2013                               
855,000 
 
November 15,  2013                     
885,000
 
May 15,  2014                              
915,000 
 
November 15,  2014                    
945,000 
 
May 15,  2015                              
980,000 
 
November 15,  2015               
1,015,000 
 
May 15,  2016                            
1,050,000 
 
November 15,  2016           
1,085,000 
 
May 15,  2017             
1,125,000 
 
November 15,  2017           
1,160,000 
 
May 15,  2018                   
1,200,000 
 
November 15,  2018              
1,245,000 
 
May 15,  2019                 
1,285,000 
 
November 15,  2019           
1,330,000 
 
May 15,  2020                    
1,380,000 
 
November 15,  2020          
1,425,000 
 
May 15,  2021         
1,480,000 
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 4.04 
(d) of the General Conditions. 
Page  16
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Category” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table 
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of  goods and services required for Parts A, B.1 (a), B.2 (a), and B.3 of the 
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request 
or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at 
such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments 
in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each 
such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from 
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
Page  17
-
15
-
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of 
time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Category, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to Parts A, B.1 (a), B.2 
(a), and B.3 of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Category shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and 
to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit 
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as 
the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not 
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank 
Page  18
-
16
-
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions. 
Page  19
-
17
-
Soh Hoon Selden 
M:\BACKUP\UKRAINE\w-1410LAneg.doc 
March 23, 2001 2:26 PM
 
