Report No. PID6734
Project Name                     Ukraine-Sevastopol Heat Supply (+)
Improvement Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Energy
Project ID                       UAPA55738
Borrower                         Republic of Ukraine
Implementing Agencies            Sevteploserviss
3, L. Pavlitchenko St.. Sevastopol 335000,
Ukraine
Contact Person :Mr. Sergey Doral, Director
Telephone No.:   (0690) 52 58 96
Facsimile No.:   (0690) 52 07 20
Date This PID Prepared           April 14, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         August 1998
Projected Board Date             December 1998
Sector Background
1.      District heating (DH) systems provide the majority of heat and hot water
supply in Ukraine's urban areas as well as steam for industry. These systems
utilize primarily gas and some mazut, which during the period of the Soviet
regime were provided primarily from Russia at very low prices and at virtually
unlimited supply. As the cost of these fuels have increased over the past
four years while incomes have not kept pace, this has created a situation
where the DH service has become difficult to afford and service levels have
had to be reduced. In addition, many of the DH systems are in excess of 40
years old and have not been subject to the normal process of upgrading and
modernization which takes place in Western systems.
2.      A DH system of significant size and importance is in southern Ukraine in
the Crimea in Sevastopol, a city of about 400,000 people. The DH service in
Sevastopol is provided by Sevteploenergo, a municipal enterprise.
Sevteploenergo's heating networks are in bad condition due to corrosion. It
has been estimated that 909 of the networks should be replaced within the next
five years. This would represent an investment of approximately US$ 80
million, which is out of reach of the City's economic capacity. Therefore, it
is likely that Sevteploenergo's centralized heating system will gradually
cease to function during the next 5-10 years. Given the conditions prevailing
in Sevastopol (e.g., short heating season, warm climate, constrained heating
and hot water services), it is likely that DH would never be the least-cost
option for provision of heating and hot water services, even if the networks
would perform as in Western systems. Therefore, a new enterprise,
Sevteploserviss, has been established to start heating services in Sevastopol
through utilization of small gas-fired boilers in individual buildings in the
areas of worst DH conditions.
Objectives
3.      Against this background, the objectives of the proposed project would be



to: (a) increase the efficiency of, enhance conservation of, and improve the
reliability and service levels in the heating system in Sevastopol through
introduction of decentralized mini-boilers in the areas of worst heating
conditions and in key public buildings; and (b) promote sound cost recovery
policies and practices and the development of a new heating enterprise,
Sevteploserviss, which would operate on a commercial basis.
Description
4.      The proposed project would consist of the following components:
(a)     heat supply improvement program, including introduction of gas-fired
mini-boilers in buildings in areas of worst heating conditions; and
(d)     institutional support program, including training, equipment and
technical services to support project implementation, commercialization and
further development of the new heating enterprise, Sevteploserviss.
5.      The amount of the loan would be about US$ 30 million.    It is recommended
that the loan finance about 80t of total project cost (net), as the project
agency and Sevastopol Municipality have limited capability to contribute to
the capital cost of the project. Donor support is expected to be sought for
implementation support and for the institutional support component of the
project.
Implementation
6.      Implementation of the project would be the responsibility of
Sevteploserviss and Sevastopol Municipality. Project coordination
responsibilities have been assigned to the State Committee for Housing and
Communal Services. Performance indicators for each project objective will be
defined during project preparation and appraisal. Supervision requirements
will be identified during project appraisal.
Sustainability
7.      The institutional and financial sustainability of the project would be
analyzed and supported through: measures to improve the financial performance
of Sevteploserviss, capacity building of Sevteploserviss to evaluate technical
options and prioritize investments based on economic considerations, and other
measures to be identified for inclusion under the institutional support
program for the project agencies.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
8.      [Note:   Lessons learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by
the Bank and other development agencies.]The proposed Sevastopol Heat Supply
Improvement Project is the first project of its nature to be financed by the
Bank. Past experience in implementing other energy projects in Ukraine has
shown that strong commitment of both the implementing agencies and the sector
ministries is crucial to ensuring approval by the Government. Past experience
- 2-



in implementing other DH projects in the former Soviet Union is available from
projects in Estonia and Latvia, all on-going. Some lessons learned to-date
include: (a) strong project ownership and advanced preparation of project
components is necessary for timely implementation; (b) the relationship
between prices and incomes changes rapidly in countries in transition and the
heating service which appears largely unaffordable will become easier to
afford in a relatively short period of time; and (c) strong support from
municipalities is needed to resolve collections and payment issues. These
lessons are being considered during the preparation period of the proposed
project.
Poverty Category
9.      Not applicable.
Environmental Aspects
Environmental Data
Specify environmental category; indicate whether an indigenous peoples plan or
resettlement plan will possibly be developed.
For category B projects, an environmental analysis is to be summarized in an
annex to this PID. If this analysis has yet to be undertaken, a reference
should be made accordingly.
10.     Implementation of the project is anticipated to have positive
environmental benefits through improved efficiency in the use of gas in the
Sevastopol heating system. It is proposed that the project be placed in
environmental screening category "B," under which an environmental review and
mitigation plan would be prepared.
Program Objective Category
11.     The project is classified under the category of EN/GX - environmentally
sustainable development/other energy (100%).
Contact Point:
Carolyn Gochenour, ECSEG
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
(202) 473-9681 (tel)
(202) 477-8518 (fax)
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending August 14, 1998.
- 3 -



Annex
The heating system rehabilitation would focus on improving energy efficiency;
environmental issues are principally restricted to the selection of materials for
insulation and the disposal of waste, possibly asbestos. The heat production plants
support the use of natural gas. Further investments would focus on improvements to
increase fuel use efficiency, reduce water losses in networks.
An environmental review would be prepared for the Sevastopol heat supply improvement
program, and it would include preparation of an environmental mitigation plan.
The potential impacts from the installation of gas-fired boilers in individual
buildings are
generally positive; potential adverse impacts would be highly localized and could be
effectively addressed through an environmental mitigation plan.
- 4 -



