Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 4599-UA 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Sevastopol Heat Supply Improvement Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
SEVASTOPOL CITY STATE ADMINISTRATION 
 
and 
 
SEVTEPLOSERVIS 
 
Dated September 23, 2002 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
LOAN NUMBER 4599-UA 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 23, 2002, among INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), SEVASTOPOL CITY STATE 
ADMINISTRATION (Sevastopol CSA) and SEVTEPLOSERVIS (Sevteploservis). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between Ukraine (the 
Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount 
equal to twenty-eight million one hundred ninety thousand dollars ($28,190,000), on the terms 
and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that Sevastopol CSA and 
Sevteploservis agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Ministry of 
Finance, acting as the Representative of the Borrower, and Sevastopol CSA, the proceeds of the 
loan provided for under the Loan Agreement will be made available to Sevastopol CSA for on-
lending to Sevteploservis on the terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS Sevastopol CSA and Sevteploservis, in consideration of the Bank’s entering 
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in 
this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) 
have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project 
Obligations of Sevastopol CSA 
 
Section 2.01. 
(a) Sevastopol CSA declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end:  
(i) 
shall carry out Part B.2 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and 
Page  4
-
2
-
engineering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for Part B.2 of the Project; and  
 
(ii) 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations 
under the Project Agreement, shall cause Sevteploservis to carry out 
Parts A, B.1 and B.3 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, 
environmental, engineering and heating practices and to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the 
obligations of Sevteploservis herein set forth, shall take or cause to be 
taken all action including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Sevteploservis to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
Sevastopol CSA shall on-lend the proceeds of the Subsidiary Loan to 
Sevteploservis under a Sub-loan agreement to be entered into between the Sevastopol CSA and 
Sevteploservis under terms and conditions which shall have been agreed by the Bank. Except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall include the following: 
 
(i) 
the principal amount of the Sub-loan shall be denominated in Dollars and 
shall be repaid by Sevteploservis to Sevastopol CSA in semi-annual 
installments over twenty (20) years, including a grace period of five (5) 
years; 
 
(ii) 
a fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Sub-
Loan shall be charged and shall be payable upon the date of effectiveness 
of the Sub-loan; 
 
(iii) 
interest shall be charged on the principal amount of the Sub-loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate equal to the rate 
payable by the Borrower from time to time pursuant to Section 2.06 (a) of 
the Loan Agreement plus a margin of up to one percent (1%); and 
 
(iv)  
a commitment fee shall be charged on the undisbursed amount of the Sub-
loan at a rate equal to the rate payable by the Borrower from time to time 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Sevastopol CSA shall exercise its rights under the Sub-loan Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of Sevastopol CSA, the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sevastopol 
CSA shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Sub-loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
(d) 
Sevastopol CSA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the Sub-loan Agreement and exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement and the Sub-loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Page  5
-
3
-
Borrower, the Bank, Sevteploservis, and Sevastopol CSA and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Loan. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sevastopol CSA shall not take or concur in any 
actions which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof or the Sub-loan Agreement or any 
provision thereof. 
 
Section 2.02. 
Without limitation upon the generality of the obligations of the 
Sevastopol CSA set forth in Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Sevastopol CSA shall: 
 
(a) 
take all measures necessary to enable Sevteploservis to cover the costs of heat 
and hot water production, operations and maintenance, depreciation, interest and a profit margin 
while remaining competitive with other heating alternatives and to meet the financial covenants 
set forth in Sections 5.05 and 5.08 of this Agreement through periodic adjustment of hot water 
and heat tariffs of Sevteploservis, which tariff adjustments shall be determined in accordance 
with a methodology acceptable to the Bank; and  
 
(b)  
take all measures necessary to reconstitute Sevteploservis as a joint stock 
company by December 31, 2004, as set forth in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. 
Sevastopol CSA shall: 
 
(a) 
by July 1, 2003, carry out a heat tariff study in accordance with terms of 
reference acceptable to the Bank with the assistance of consultants satisfactory to the Bank;  and 
 
(b) 
within 30 days of completion of the said study, furnish to the Bank a copy of its 
findings and recommendations.  
 
Section 2.04. 
By June 30, 2002, Sevastopol CSA shall implement the measures 
required to improve the functioning and effectiveness of the Sevastopol Social Assistance 
Program, including undertaking a public awareness campaign, improving means testing for 
households to better target assistance to those in need, reviewing the rules and regulations 
governing the Sevastopol Social Assistance Program and meeting its computerization 
requirements.  
 
Section 2.05. 
(a) Sevastopol CSA shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views 
with the Bank with regard to progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under the Sub-loan Agreement, and 
other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
(b) 
Sevastopol CSA shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Sevastopol CSA of its obligations under this 
Agreement, under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and under the Sub-loan Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
Obligations of Sevteploservis 
 
Section 3.01. 
Sevteploservis declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Parts A, B.1 
and B.3 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering, environmental and heating practices, and shall provide, or 
cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
 
Section 3.02. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
required for Part A of the Project and services under Parts B.1 (a) and B.3 of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule 
to this Project Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. 
Sevteploservis shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Parts A, B.1 (a), B.2 (a) and B.3 of the 
Project. 
 
Section 3.04. 
Sevteploservis shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, the carrying out of 
Parts A, B.1 and B.3 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, on or about December 31, 2003, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of Parts A, B.1 and B.3 of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying 
out of Parts A, B.1 and B.3 of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
Page  7
-
5
-
(c) 
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2004, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures 
required to ensure the efficient completion of Parts A, B.1 and B.3 of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
report and the Bank’s views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.05. 
For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto,  Sevteploservis shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) month after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and 
Sevteploservis, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
Sevastopol CSA and  Sevteploservis on said plan. 
 
Section 3.06. 
Sevteploservis shall duly perform all its obligations under the Sub-loan 
Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sevteploservis shall not take or concur in 
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving the Sub-
loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.07. 
(a) Sevteploservis shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to progress of Parts A, B.1 and B.3 of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Sub-loan Agreement, and other matters relating 
to the purposes of the Loan. 
 
(b) 
Sevteploservis shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes 
or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A, B.1 and B.3 of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by Sevteploservis of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Sub-loan Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Management and Operations of Sevteploservis 
 
Section 4.01. 
(a) Sevteploservis shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental and heating management 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent 
staff in adequate numbers. 
 
(b) 
Sevteploservis shall, by December 31, 2004, take all measures required on its 
part to be reconstituted as a joint-stock company under the applicable laws and regulations of the 
Borrower with operational and other policies and procedures acceptable to the Bank. 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section 4.02. 
Sevteploservis shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial, 
environmental and heating management practices. 
 
Section 4.03. 
Sevteploservis shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such 
amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 5.01. 
(a) Sevteploservis shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to Parts A, B.1 and B.3 of the Project. 
 
(b) Sevteploservis 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and concerning 
said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, 
Sevteploservis shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
Page  9
-
7
-
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at 
least one (1) year after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records. 
 
(d) Sevteploservis 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (c) (i) of this 
Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested, including a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request. 
 
Section 5.02
.
(a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement, Sevteploservis shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for 
the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
5.01 in order to enable Sevteploservis, not later than September 30, 2001, or such later date as 
the Bank shall agree, to prepare semi-annual Project Management Reports, acceptable to the 
Bank, each of which: 
 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the period covered by said report, and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-
Loan during the period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-Loan during the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
 
(ii) 
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
Page  10
-
8
-
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Sub-Loan, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, Sevteploservis shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and 
furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar semester a Project 
Management Report for such period. 
 
Section 5.03. 
Sevteploservis shall implement the second phase of the financial 
management systems development which shall include the development of systems and 
procedures for cost accounting, budgeting, treasury and cash management, management 
information and billing and collection, all in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to 
the Bank and with the assistance of consultants satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 5.04. 
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sevteploservis shall not 
incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of Sevteploservis 
shows that the estimated net revenues of Sevteploservis for each fiscal year during the term of 
the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times the estimated debt service requirements of 
Sevteploservis in such year on all debt of Sevteploservis including the debt to be incurred.  
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of the Sevteploservis maturing 
by its terms more than one (1) year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on the 
date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been entered into. 
 
(iii)  
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations and 
net non-operating income; and 
(B) 
 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, other 
non-cash operating charges and interest and other charges on 
debt. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
(iv) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference between: 
 
(A)   
revenues from all sources other than those related to operations; 
and 
 
(B)  
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges on, debt. 
 
(vi) 
The term “reasonable forecast” means a forecast prepared by the 
Sevteploservis not earlier than twelve (12) months prior to the incidence 
of the debt in question, which both the Bank and the Sevteploservis 
accept as reasonable and as to which the Bank has notified the 
Sevteploservis of its acceptability, provided that no event has occurred 
since such notification which has, or may reasonably be expected in the 
future to have, a material adverse effect on the financial condition or 
future operating results of the Sevteploservis. 
 
(vii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of the currency of the Borrower debt payable in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
Section 5.05. 
(a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sevteploservis shall 
maintain a ratio of current assets to current liabilities of not less than 1.3. 
 
(b) 
Before August 31 in each of its fiscal years, Sevteploservis shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by Sevteploservis and satisfactory to the Bank, review whether it would meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next following fiscal 
year and shall furnish to the Bank the results of such review upon its completion. 
 
(c) 
If any such review shows that Sevteploservis would not meet the requirements 
set forth in paragraph (a) for the Borrower’s fiscal years covered by such review, Sevteploservis 
shall promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of the 
structure of levels of its tariffs  in order to meet such requirements. 
 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 
(i) 
The term “current assets” means cash, all assets which could in the 
ordinary course of business be converted into cash within twelve 
Page  12
-
10 - 
 
months, including accounts receivable, marketable securities, 
inventories and pre-paid expenses properly chargeable to operating 
expenses within the next fiscal year. 
 
(ii) 
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will become 
due and payable or could under circumstances then existing be called 
for payment within twelve months, including accounts payable, 
customer advances, debt service requirements, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, and dividends. 
 
(iii) 
the term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and interest 
and other charges on, debt. 
 
(iv) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to value, 
in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another 
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the prevailing 
lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency is, at the time of 
such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt, or, in 
the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to 
the Bank. 
 
Section 
5.06.  (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, during Project 
implementation, Sevteploservis shall not declare any dividend or make any other distribution 
that exceeds 10% of its annual net income after taxes. 
 
(b) 
 For the purposes of this Section the term “net income after taxes” means the 
sum of all operating and non-operating revenues less all operating and non-operating expenses, 
administrative expenses, depreciation, other non-cash charges, interest and other charges on 
debt, and taxes.  
 
Section 5.07. 
Sevteploservis shall take all actions required on its part to request 
Sevastopol CSA to establish heat and hot water tariffs for Sevteploservis at such levels as shall 
enable Sevteploservis to cover the costs of heat and hot water production, operations and 
maintenance, interest payments, make allowances for depreciation and make contributions to its 
reserves and comply with the covenants set out in Sections 5.05 and 5.08 of this Project 
Agreement. 
Section 5.08. 
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, Sevteploservis shall maintain 
its overall accounts receivable at not more than 90 days during its Fiscal Years 2001-2003 and 
reduce its overall accounts receivables to not more than 75 days during its Fiscal Year 2004, and 
60 days in each Fiscal Year thereafter. 
 
Section 5.09. 
Beginning with its Fiscal Year 2001, Sevteploservis shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank on or about August 31 of each year during Project implementation, a 
financial report, containing its financial projections for the upcoming Fiscal Year. 
 
Page  13
-
11 - 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 6.01. 
This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which 
the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 6.02. 
This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank, of Sevastopol CSA and 
of Sevteploservis thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify Sevastopol CSA and 
Sevteploservis thereof. 
 
Section 6.03. 
All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VII 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 7.01. 
Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under 
this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be 
in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall 
be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  14
-
12 - 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
   
64145 (MCI) 
 
For Sevastopol City State Administration: 
 
2
Lenina Street 
 
Sevastopol 
99011, Ukraine 
 
For Sevteploservis: 
 
25  General Ostryakov Prospect 
P.O. Box 35, Sevastopol 
 
99029,
Ukraine 
 
Section 7.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
document required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of 
Sevastopol CSA, may be taken or executed by the Chairman or such other person or 
persons as the Chairman shall designate in writing, and Sevastopol CSA shall furnish to 
the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person. 
 
(b) 
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required or 
permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of Sevteploservis, may be taken or 
executed by the Managing Director or such other person or persons as the Managing Director 
shall designate in writing, and Sevteploservis shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person. 
 
Section 7.03. 
This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
 
Page  15
-
13 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District 
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By  /s/  Luca Barbone 
Director 
 
Ukraine, Belarus and Moldova 
Europe and Central Asia 
 
SEVASTOPOL CITY STATE ADMINISTRATION 
 
By  /s/  Kostyantyn Gryshchenko 
Authorized Representative 
 
SEVTEPLOSERVIS 
 
By  /s/  Kostyantyn Gryshchenko 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  16
-
14 - 
 
Page  17
-
15 - 
 
SCHEDULE 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for boiler equipment shall be grouped in bid 
packages estimated to cost $1,000,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract and up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Page  18
-
16 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods 
and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to all contracts procured under the Loan, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based 
selection of consultants. 
 
Part C:
Least Cost Selection
Services for audit under Part B.3 of the Project which are estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Page  19
-
17 - 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
Prior Review
1. 
With respect to each contract for services, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 
(other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
2. 
With respect to each contract for the employment of audit firms estimated to cost 
$50,000 equivalent or less per contract the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the audit firms shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval. The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
Page  20
-
18 - 
 
Soh Hoon Selden 
M:\BACKUP\UKRAINE\w-1410paneg.doc 
March 26, 2001 12:53 PM
 
