Document of                       '
The World Bank                                        i
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. P-28,72-PH
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMF
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
August 21, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso
.F 1         =  US$0.135
P 1 million = US$135,000
US$1         =  P 7.40
ABBREVIATIONS
BOI      -   Board of Investment
CB       -   Central Bank of the Philippines
EPZA     -   Export Processing Zone Authority
LIDP     -   Letter on Industrial Development Policy
MOI      -   Ministry of Industry
NACIDA   -   National Cottage Industry Development Authority
NEC      -   "Nonessential" Consumer Good
NEDA     -   National Economic and Development Authority
SAL      -   Structural Adjustment Loan
51SI    -   Small- and Medium-Scale Industries
UC       -   "Unclassified" Consumer Good
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF THiE PHILIPPINES
PROPOSED STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROGRAIS SUM1LARY   . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i
PART I - THE ECONOMY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
PART II - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT IN THE ECONOMY AND THE
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
PART III -THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
PART IV - THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM   . . . . . . . . .  17
PART V - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN  . . . . . . . . . . .   32
PART VI - OTHER WORLD BANK OPERATIONS  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
PART VII - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY . . . . . . . . . . .  38
PART VIII -RECOI4ENDATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
ANNEXES
I. Country Data
II. Status of Bank Operations
III. Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
IV. Government Letter on Industrial Development Policy
V. Selected Documents Available in the Loan File
VI. IMF Financial Relations with the Philippines
VII. Statistical Appendix
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PHILIPPINES
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:             Republic of the Philippines
Amount:               $200 million equivalent
Terms:                Payable in 20 years, including five years of grace
at 9.25% per annum
Program               The proposed loan would support the implementation of a
Description:        comprehensive industrial developnent program described
in a Letter from the Government to the Bank. The program
is designed to accelerate industrial growth, expand
employment more rapidly, maintain the rapid growth of
nontraditional exports, increase the efficiency of
capital use, and stimulate industry outside of the
Metropolitan Manila area. To achieve these long-term
objectives, actions would be taken, in phases, in the
five major areas of export promotion, tariff reform and
trade liberalization, investment incentives, industrial
restructuring, and major industrial projects. The
initial phase of policy reform measures, to be supported
under the proposed loan, concentrates on export promo-
tion, tariff reform and trade liberalization.
Loan Description:   The proceeds of the proposed loan would help finance
industrial imports and technical assistance during the
start of the structural adjustment process. The import
component ($195 million) would provide foreign exchange
for imports of industrial raw materials, intermediate
and investment goods, and spare parts. The Philippine
peso counterpart funds generated by the proposed loan
would be credited to a special account in the Central
Bank and would be used to finance economic development
expenditures. The technical assistance component of
the proposed loan ($5 million) would finance consultancy
services to help the Government formulate and implement
industrial policy measures and programs.



- ii -
Estimated             The import component of the proposed loan would be dis-
Disbursements:      bursed in two tranches over a period of twelve months.
The first tranche of $100 million would be available for
disbursement at the time of loan effectiveness. The
second tranche of $95 million would be available on
January 31, 1981 if progress in liberalizing import
licensing and realigning tariffs is satisfactory. The
technical assistance component of the loan would be
disbursed over a period of four years as expenditures
are incurred.
US$ million
Bank   FY81       FY82    FY83    FY84
Annual                  195           1        2        2
Cumulative              195         196      198      200
Appraisal Report:   None.  This is a combined President's and Staff
Appraisal Report.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPKENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
structural adjustment loan to the Republic of the Philippines for the
equivalent of $200 million to support its industrial development program.  The
loan would have a term of 20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest
at 9.25% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic mission visited the Philippines in May/June 1979, and
its report, entitled "The Philippines: Domestic and External Resources for
Development" (No. 2674-PH), was distributed to the Executive Directors under
Sec-M79-822 dated November 16, 1979.  An industrial sector report, entitled
"Industrial Development Strategy and Policies in the Philippines" (No. 2513-
PH) was distributed on the same date. A related financial sector report,
entitled "The Philippines: Aspects of the Financial Sector" (No. 2546-PH),
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 12, 1979.
Introduction
3.        Despite the deterioration in the Philippines- terms of trade and
the sharp cyclical fluctuations in the international economy during the 1970s,
better economic management made possible considerable improvements in the rate
and structure of the country's economic growth. The trend growth rate of GNP
was accelerated from 5% to 6%. The ratio of fixed investment to GNP was
raised from 16% in the early 1970s to nearly 25% at the end of the decade, and
the export growth was increased. Although the level of domestic savings rose
substantially, high foreign borrowing was still necessary to help finance the
acceleration of growth and investment and to provide time for orderly adjust-
ments to reduce the large balance of payments deficits experienced after the
1973-74 energy crisis. The public sector played a much more dynamic role in
stimulating development in the 1970s, and the perfonrance of the agriculture
sector was also quite good.
4.        However, some difficult longstanding problems remain to be tackled
more intensely in the 1980s, and new development issues are emerging.  The
most important of these are further slowing of the population growth rate,
acceleration of enployment creation, and alleviation of widespread poverty.
In addition, the 1979 oil price increase and international recession have
significantly tightened the balance of payments constraint facing the
Philippines. Hence, a major structural adjustment effort will be necessary if
the country is to continue to make reasonable progress towards its development
objectives. An increase in the efficiency of investment, reduced dependence
on imported oil, and improved performance of the manufacturing sector will be
critical to the success of the adjustment process and the development effort.



- 2-
Economic Performance in the 1970s
5.        More Dynamic Role of the Public Sector.  The public sector had
historically played a relatively passive role in the development of the
Philippine economy and had claimed a much smaller share of national resources
than in many other developing countries. In the late 1960s, general govern-
ment expenditure averaged only 12% of GNP, public investment was strikingly
low at about 2% of GNP, and tax revenues stood at 11% of GNP. Government
expenditures were dominated by general administration and social services.
6.        The public sector assumed a much more important and dynamic role in
the 1970s. Both the overall level of expenditures and the shares going to
economic services and public investment were raised dramatically. By the end
of the decade, government expenditures reached an estimated 16% of GNP, and
public investment equaled about 5.5% of GNP. This expansion brought about
badly needed improvements in basic infrastructure particularly in transpor-
tation, power, and irrigation as well as the development of more effective
programs in the fields of urban and rural development, health and family
planning.
7.        At present, the size of the public investment program is appro-
priate. Its composition is, with a few exceptions, broadly consistent with
the countrys development priorities. However, as resource constraints are
likely to be tight during the next decade, further strengthening of investment
programming and budgeting procedures will be needed to concentrate resources
on the highest priority projects.
8.        The rapid expansion of public expenditure has been made possible by
a program of systematic tax reform to raise the needed revenues equitably and
efficiently. The dependence on cyclically volatile taxes on international
trade has been reduced, and the proportion of revenue coming from domestic
taxes has been increased.  The domestic sales tax has been restructured to
improve its progressiveness. Numerous increases have also been made in excise
taxes, both to raise revenues and increase the progressivity of the indirect
tax system. Overall, the tax ratio was raised by more than two percentage
points during the 1970s. Although revenue performance was thus quite buoyant,
this buoyancy resulted from a series of annual packages of new tax measures
and vigorous efforts to improve taxpayer compliance and collection
performance. The elasticity of the revenue system to GNP growth is still
below unity. Consequently, continuation of a strong revenue effort, both by
the Government and government corporations, will be necessary to allow for
further expansion in infrastructure and social services. Further tax reforms
are needed to raise the tax system-s elasticity, to improve its equity by
increasing the proportion of revenue coming from direct taxes, and to reduce
distortions in economic incentives.
9.        Population.  The Philippine family planning program now registers
approximately 650,000 new acceptors per year.  The estimated proportion of
married women of reproductive age practicing family planning increased from
15% in 1973 to 27% in 1978.  However, by East Asian standards, this index is



- 3 -
still relatively low, and the number of new acceptors has reached a plateau as
the program has faced the increasingly difficult problem of reaching rural
areas.
10.        In part because of the more active family planning efforts during
the 1970s, ... population growth rate fell from 3.0% in the intercensal period
1960-70 to 2.8% in the intercensal period 1970-75.  It is currently estimated
at about 2.5% per annum. Nevertheless, rapid population growth is still
straining available land resources, aggravating already serious employment and
poverty problems, and burdening the public budget with a high growth rate of
demand for basic services. Further reduction of the population growth rate is
therefore vital for the country's future economic development.
11.       Agriculture and Rural Development.  Although there has been con-
siderable variation in performance among subsectors, the trend growth rate of
the agricultural sector as a whole was about 5% during the 1970s, which by
international standards is quite high. Increased support for agricultural
production has been provided through improved price policy and credit, exten-
sion, and irrigation programs. Expanded rural development programs such as
water supply, electrification, and health have also been initiated. However,
little progress has been made in raising incomes in rainfed areas, population
pressure on the arable land is steadily increasing, and soil erosion in hilly
areas that have been logged over or settled is a serious problem.
12.       With the spread of irrigation and high-yield varieties, rice produc-
tion from irrigated areas has expanded strongly. The Philippines, once a
chronic importer of rice, actually exported about 1% of rice production in
the last two crop years. With the completion of the large irrigation projects
now under construction, continued rice self-sufficiency appears assured for
the 1980s. An agrarian reform was instituted in 1972 to transfer holdings of
rice and corn land in excess of seven hectares to tenant farmers and to
replace sharecropping with leaseholding on remaining tenanted holdings.
Production of nontraditional export crops such as bananas and coffee has also
expanded rapidly.
13.       On the other hand, the development of rainfed agriculture, which is
necessary for raising the incomes of the rural poor in nonirrigable areas, has
lagged behind. Locally adapted technologies for improving yields of rainfed
grains, particularly corn, are still under development. Productivity in the
coconut sector is relatively low because of a large number of overaged trees,
although a replanting program is scheduled to start in the early 1980s when a
sufficient number of high-yielding variety seedlings will become available.
Solutions of the interrelated problems of low incomes and soil erosion in the
settled hilly areas will require development of new tree cropping and mixed
farming technologies, resolution of difficult land tenure questions, and sub-
stantial upgrading of the administrative capabilities of the agencies
concerned. Although progress in rainfed agriculture is likely to be slow
because of the difficult technical and institutional issues that need to be
solved, it is essential if the benefits of development are not to bypass a
significant percentage of the population.



14.       Industry.  Two of the economy's critical structural weaknesses are
in industry and energy.  Despite some improvements in industrial and trade
policies in the early 1970s, the rate and pattern of industrial growth has
remained unsatisfactory and continues to be a major cause of the Philippines
economic problems.  Rather than being a dynamic leading sector, manufacturing
grew relatively slowly during the last decade at 6.5% per annum, about the
same rate as total GDP. The majority of industries are highly protected and
produce only for the domestic market. Since the early 1950s, manufacturing
employment has grown slowly, instead of providing job opportunities for an
increasing share of the labor force, and has remained constant at about 10-12%
of total employment. Efficiency of investment is also low, and manufacturing
industry is heavily concentrated in the Greater Manila area.
15.       Historically, the industrial sector has been a large net burden on
the balance of payments, relying heavily on imported equipment and intermedi-
ate goods but exporting very little. Successful steps were taken during the
early 1970s to promote such nontraditional manufactured exports as garments,
electronics, footwear and handicrafts. Nontraditional manufactured exports
increased rapidly during the decade and currently account for nearly a third
of the country's total merchandise exports. As a result, the rate of employ-
men.t creation recently appears to have improved somewhat.  However, the export
expansion has been concentrated on a few items, and backward linkages with the
rest of the economy have been limited. Consequently, the nontraditional
manufacturing export sector is an outward looking enclave in an otherwise
heavily protected economy.
16.       Energy.  At the start of the 1970s the Philippine economy was almost
completely dependent on imported oil for energy.  Since 1974, considerable
effort has been made to reduce dependence upon imported oil through both
energy conservation and the development of alternative domestic energy
resources. Increases in world oil prices have been fully passed on to
consumers, and gasoline taxes and electricity tariffs have been raised to
restrain demand. Consequently, the growth rate of energy consumption has been
held two percentage points below that of GDP. Measures to diversify energy
supply have included the development of hydroelectric, geothermal, coal, and
nuclear energy. More importantly, limited domestic petroleum production was
started in 1979. However, due to the long gestation period of energy
projects, total domestic energy production still constituted only 15% of total
commercial energy consumption at the end of the decade.
17.       Savings and Financial Sector Development.  Both public and private
savings performance improved considerably during the last decade. Gross
domestic savings expanded from 20% of GNP in the early 1970s to the present
leve!l of 25% of GNP, financing about 80% of total investment, with the balance
coming from foreign savings. The Philippine financial system is relatively
well developed and in recent years has become increasingly sophisticated.
Significant improvements have been made in financial policy to increase the
efficiency of financial markets in intermediating between savers and invest-
ors. The banking system was strengthened by increases in capitalization;
interest rates were realigned to encourage a greater flow of financial savings
into time and savings deposits relative to short-term deposit substitutes and



- 5 -
to reduce the spread between borrowing and lending rates; and special credit
programs were introduced to expand lending to the credit-short agricultural
sector and rural areas and to serve the needs of medium- and small-scale
industries.
18.       However, some important issues concerning the mobilization and
allocation of financial resources remain to be tackled in the 1980s. Buoyant
private savings will continue to be the primary source of financing for
investment. The level of domestic savings will need to rise by 2-3% of GNP
over the next decade in order to maintain the level of investment while
simultaneously reducing the current account deficit and the country's reliance
on foreign savings. Industry relies heavily on foreign financing, and more
domestic finance needs to be made available on longer terms. Financial
policy, especially with regard to interest rates, will also need to encourage
greater efficiency in capital use and to allocate resources more effectively
to priority development needs such as labor-intensive and export-oriented
industries.
Development Strategy and Key Issues for the 1980s
19.        The Philippines development strategy was set out in a Five-Year
Development Plan for the period 1978-82. The Plan's major objectives are (a)
to accelerate the rate of growth first to 7% and then to 8%; (b) to generate
sufficient productive employment opportunities for the rapidly growing labor
force; (c) to provide for the basic needs of the population; and (d) to reduce
social, regional, and economic disparities. The Plan-s agricultural strategy
emphasizes food production, agricultural diversification, and stronger
linkages between agriculture and industry. Its industrial strategy calls for
further processing of domestic raw materials, accelerated employment
generation by small- and medium-scale industries, and selected large-scale
projects. The projected current account deficit is to be restrained to
managable levels by inter alia aggressive export expansion and domestic energy
development. The Plan also includes social development targets in education,
housing, health, and family planning.
20.        The Plan's objectives and strategy are still broadly appropriate,
and its quantitative targets were reasonable given the assumptions about the
external environment prevailing at the time of its drafting. However, in
light of adverse external developments, the growth targets subsequently had to
be revised downwards, and adjustment policies need to be strengthened.
Furthermore, the Philippine economy still suffers from a number of fundamental
longstanding development problems which need to be addressed during the 1980s.
Efforts to improve economic performance will need to concentrate upon employ-
ment creation, poverty alleviation, and the efficiency and labor intensity of
investment.
21.       Fmployment Creation.  The economy has not generated sufficient pro-
ductive employment opportunities for the labor force which is growing at 4%
per year. Due to the slow expansion of industrial employment, an excessively
high proportion (85%) of additional labor has been absorbed by the agriculture
and service sectors. This resulted in a low or even declining value added per



- 6 -
worker in some areas and subsectors and has held down the overall growth of
labor income since manufacturing employment is, on average, much more pro-
ductive than that in other sectors. With the exhaustion of most new land
resources suitable for cultivation and the exploitation of the most irrigable
areas, the agriculture sector will be able to absorb only about 40%, or
250,000, of the 600,000 annual entrants to the labor force in the 1980s.
Manufacturing will have to provide employment for at least 150,000 of the
other 350,000 new workers, a sharp contrast to the annual average of only
40,000 jobs created in the manufacturing during the 1970s.
22.        Poverty Alleviation.  For historical reasons, income distribution in
the Philippines is highly skewed, and there is a small elite which is conspic-
uously wealthy. The incidence of poverty has remained high, at 40-45%, in
both rural and urban areas, and malnutrition is widespread. Regional dispari-
ties are also pronounced, with the incidence of poverty reaching up to 60-70%
in the least developed regions. During the last two decades, population pres-
sure has led to an increasingly unfavorable man/land ratio and an expansion of
cultivation into marginal lands with lower productivity. It has also in-
creased landlessness and accelerated migration into urban areas. Both of
these factors, in combination with the limited productive employment opportu-
nities in the modern sector, have put downward pressure on urban and rural
real incomes. Real wages fell at the start of the decade as part of an ad-
justmlent necessary to restore external balance and have been held down since
then because of the deterioration in the external terms of trade and inade-
quate employment creation. Hence, despite relatively high overall economic
growlh of 6% per annum, no significant reduction was achieved in the
incidence of poverty during the last decade. The key elements in an attack on
the country-s poverty problem will be a rapid expansion of manufacturing
employment, development of rainfed agriculture, continued improvement in basic
public services, and a further reduction in the population growth rate.
23.        Efficiency and Labor Intensity of Investment.  Private and public
investment have risen sharply during the last decade, and both are now at
levels appropriate for a country with the Philippines' per capita income and
resource endowment. The expansion in the economy's real output has, however,
been low relative to the high level of fixed capital formation in the 1970s.
The E'hilippines has an incremental capital/output ratio about 35% higher than
neighboring Asian countries which have roughly comparable patterns of
investment. In addition, as noted earlier, the rate of nonagricultural job
creation has been inadequate, indicating that, overall, investment has not
been labor-intensive enough.
24.       Consumption needs to grow moderately rapidly if the poverty problem
is to be addressed and continuation of the prolonged containment of real
wages is not to generate unbearable social stress. Hence, the scope for
generating additional domestic savings by constraining consumption growth
is limited. Since reliance on foreign savings needs to be reduced, it is not
realistic to aim at further substantial increases in the investment rate.
Consequently, it will be the efficiency of investment (output per peso
invested) and the labor intensity of investment (employment per peso invested)
that will be the critical determinants of the growth in output and employment.
A primary cause of low investment efficiency and low labor intensity has been



- 7 -
the distortive effects of past trade, industrial, and financial policies on
the allocation and use of capital by domestic market-oriented manufacturing
and service industries. Furthermore, as the public investment program rises
during the next decade to levels at which resource constraints become
increasingly important, greater attention will have to be devoted to questions
of the efficiency of infrastructure investment.
PART II - STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT IN THE ECONOMY
AND THE BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
25.        The Philippines experienced chronic external deficits during the
1960s, and at the start of the last decade the structure of the balance of
payments was very weak. The structural balance of payments problem was aggra-
vated by the 1.973/74 oil price increase and the subsequent collapse in commod-
ity prices.  In the second half of the decade, substantial progress was made
in effecting the necessary adjustment in the balance of payments. However,
the 1979 oil price increase has offset the recent gains and necessitated a
second major structural adjustment effort. Improved efficiency of resource
use in the industrial sector and maintenance of the rapid growth in nontradi-
tional exports will be critical to the success of the adjustment effort.
Response to the First Energy Crisis
26.        The Government responded to the first oil price increase by
continuing its efforts to improve the basic structure of the balance of
payments, while simultaneously undertaking a large foreign borrowing program
to maintain the growth of output and investment in the interim. At the start
of the 1970s, export earnings came largely from a group of traditional primary
commodities with relatively unattractive long-term price prospects. During
the decade exports were diversified and earnings performance strengthened
through development of nontraditional products and increased processing of
primary commodities.  Earnings from nontraditional manufactured exports
increased dramatically from around $50 million at the end of the 1960s to $1.5
billion in 1979. The trend growth rate of exports accelerated from the 5%
rate of the late 1960s to 7% during the 1970s. The growth of imports was also
slowed by constraining energy demand, accelerating domestic energy production,
expanding rice production to eliminate food grain imports, and restraining the
growth of consumption through effective demand management policies.
27.        To finance the imports to sustain growth and investment levels,
gross disbursements from medium- and long-term external borrowing was expanded
from $400 million per year prior to the first energy crisis to over $2 billion
per year at the end of the decade. Good external debt management policies
were pursued throughout the decade, with favorable market opportunities being
utilized to improve the maturity structure of the debt. Accelerated inflation
also tended to erode the real burden of the external debt and hold down the
debt service ratio.
28.        The above adjustment policies were supported by a series of IMF
programs, including a three-year extended financing arrangement during 1976-78



- 8 -
and a one-year standby in 1979.  The policies enabled growth and investment
rates to be maintained by the high level of borrowing, while the current
account deficit was stabilized at about $1 billion in nominal terms and was
reduced from a peak of 6% of GNP in 1975-76 to 4.5% of GNP in 1977-78.
Impact of the 1979 Oil Price Increase
29.        The improvement in the balance of payments was, however, reversed by
the 1979 oil price increases. Since the Philippines imports about 80 million
barrels of oil annually, the increase in oil prices from $13/barrel in 1978 to
an estimated $29/barrel in 1980 has added about $1.3 billion (3.5% of esti-
mated 1980 GNP) to the import bill. Although a recovery in the prices of some
primary commodities contributed to a large increase in nominal export earn-
ings, the current account deficit nevertheless widened to $1.6 billion (5.4%
of GNP) in 1979 and is expected to reach $2.2 billion (or 5.8% of GNP) in
1980,
30.        The increase in oil prices has adversely affected the Philippines'
overall economic growth and rate of inflation as well as the balance of
payments. Instead of accelerating to 7% in 1979 as targetted in the
DeveLopment Plan, real GNP growth slowed from 6.3% in 1978 to 5.8% in 1979.
Real growth is likely to be 5-6% in 1980. Although agriculture has
continued to perform well, the recessionary effect of deteriorating external
terms of trade has slowed industrial growth, employment, and investment.
31.        The rate of inflation, which had averaged about 7% annually during
1976-78, accelerated to 19% in 1979. This increase resulted largely from
higher energy costs, abolition of price controls in June 1979, and adjustment
in other prices to reflect the higher cost of imported oil. In order to
maintain the real income of workers, which had been considerably eroded in
earlier years, the Government increased minimum wages and allowances substan-
tially in mid-1979. This adjustment further intensified cost push inflation-
ary pressure. Consequently, in February 1980 the Government found it neces-
sary to temporarily reverse its policy of price de-regulation and impose a
three-month freeze on the prices of nine important food items. The rate of
inflation is likely to decelerate only gradually in the course of 1980.
The Adjustment Problem and Policy
32.       The recent oil price increase has considerably tightened the long-
term balance of payments constraint facing the Philippines. Moreover, despite
the policy improvement of the early 1970s, the balance of payments still re-
flects a number of underlying structural problems. The country still relies
on traditional commodity exports for more than two-thirds of its foreign ex-
change earnings, and the industrial sector is still too great a net burden on
the balance of payments.  More than 80% of the economy s energy is supplied by
imported oil, and its rising price has raised oil½s share in total merchandise
imports from under 12% in the early 1970s to over 25% in 1980. While there is
no imrmediate liquidity problem, deficits of 6% of GNP cannot be sustained
indefinitely. Further structural adjustment in the balance of payments will
be required in the coming years to reduce the current account deficit to



- 9 -
sustainable long-term levels of 3-4% of GNP. The policy challenge is to
achieve the necessary long-term adjustment through measures that will permit
maximum attainment of the country's development objectives.
33.       Viewed from the perspective of the balance of payments, the major
elements of adjustment policy can be classified into those af tzting exports,
imports, and reliance on foreign savings. The essence of the long-term
adjustment problem is to raise further the trend export growth rate relative
to the trend import growth rate through a combination of measures to
accelerate the former and/or to decelerate the latter.   The success of the
export drive will be critical because, in addition to helping reduce the
current account deficit, it will determine the level of benefits that can be
realized through international trade and, hence, the growth and adjustment
paths open to the economy.
34.       Agriculture, mining, and service exports can still make important
contributions to export growth. However, it is nontraditional manufactures
that have been and must continue to be the most dynamic source of growth.
Since the base is now much larger, it will be hard to maintain the spectacular
25-30% compound real growth rates of nontraditional manufactured exports
achieved in the last decade. However, even somewhat slower growth will have
an increasingly important effect on overall export performance as nontradi-
tional manufactures now account for 32% of total merchandise exports in
contrast to a mere 6% a decade earlier.
35.       Export growth and the availability of capital flows on appropriate
terms will necessarily determine the affordable level of imports. The import
bill is dominated by investment goods (30%), raw materials and intermediate
products for use in manufacturing (35%), and oil for energy (25%). Hence, it
is on these three areas that efforts to adjust the structure of production
must be directed in order both to reduce import elasticity and to use
available foreign exchange resources efficiently. Investment, particularly in
industry, is import intensive. Policies to improve its efficiency and labor
intensity, thus, are important for achieving balance of payments as well as
macro objectives. Similarly, imported intermediate goods need to be utilized
efficiently and domestic substitutes for these developed where possible.
Finally, in the absence of appropriate policies, the volume of oil imports
would tend to grow as fast as real GDP. In light of the rising relative price
projected for oil, such growth in oil imports would further increase an
already heavy burden on the balance of payments. Consequently, the volume of
oil imports will need to be held down through further conservation measures to
retard demand growth and through accelerated domestic energy production.
36.       If the desired acceleration of export growth relative to import
growth is to be achieved, disciplined demand management and appropriate factor
pricing policies will be needed to encourage the necessary shifting of
resources and help reduce the reliance on foreign savings. To attain the
necessary savings levels, the strong public revenue and private savings
efforts of the last decade will have to be continued. In addition, financial
sector policy will need to facilitate allocation of savings to priority
investments on appropriate terms.



- 10 -
The Adjustment Process and Capital Requirements
37.       A successful structural adjustment effort will, thus, depend pri-
marily upon (a) restructuring of the industrial sector; (b) energy conserva-
tion and development of domestic energy supplies; (c) financial sector reform;
(d) appropriate factor pricing policies; and (e) continued disciplined demand
management. Reasonable performance in these areas during the decade should
permit the balance of payments constraint to be overcome gradually.
38.       As shown in Table 1, the growth rate could be maintained at 6-6.5%
during the initial years of the adjustment process when the balance of
paymenats situation will be most difficult. Subsequently, if the balance of
payments situation improves, it would be possible to raise the growth rate
to 7-3%. These gains would result largely from improved performance of the
manufacturing sector, the growth of which would accelerate from 6.5% to 9%.
Export growth would also be accelerated from 7% to 11%, while the rate of
growth of import demand would be held slightly below that of GDP.  As a
consequence, the current account deficit would be stabilized at 5-6% of GDP
and then gradually reduced to 2-4% of GDP in the period 1985-90.
39.       Medium- and long-term borrowing would need to average $2.2 billion
annuaLly to finance the projected current account deficits of the early 1980s.
In order to ensure that debt service obligations remain within reasonable
limits, most of the capital needed will have to come from medium- and long-
term loans. The Philippines has traditionally enjoyed good access to private
capital markets. On the basis of the economic and financial programs
supported by the IMF standby arrangement for 1980/81 discussed below,
commercial lenders are expected to make available $1.2 billion per year.
Commitments of official assistance would need to average at least $1.0 billion
annually during 1980-82, a level of assistance which is likely to be provided
by the members of the Philippine Consultative Group. However, because the
external financing requirement has increased substantially and many of the
projects planned for financing from official sources have low direct foreign
exchange costs, the necessary transfer of external resources can be achieved
only through some financing of local costs of projects combined with
nonproject lending. The projected borrowing program would raise the debt
service ratio from 17% in 1979 to 20-22% in the mid-1980s, and it would
decline slowly thereafter.
40.       In the absence of structural adjustment measures, growth would be
seriously limited by balance of payments and creditworthiness constraints.
The growth rate of GDP would drop to about 5% by the end of 1980s. Lower
export: growth combined with a higher import elasticity would mean that,
despite lower overall growth and borrowing, the debt service ratio would rise
to nearly 30% and limit further borrowing. Because of the high rate of
population growth and the further deterioration expected in the terms of
trade, real per capita consumption would expand by only about 2% per year over
the decade. Employment in the manufacturing sector, instead of accelerating,
would grow at about its historic rate of 3%. Together, these two factors
would imply that there would be little progress in alleviating poverty during
the decade.



- 10a -
Table 1: PROJECTED MACROECONOMIC PERFORMANCE: WITH AND WITHOUT STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
A.  Without Structural Adjustment                               B.  With Structural Adjustment
US$ bln.
(current           Share of GDP /a             Average increase (1)             Share of GDP /a             Average increase (%)
prices)        (Constant 1978 prices)         (Constant 1978 prices)        (Constant 1978 prices)         (Constant 1978 prices)
1979           1980    1985    1990    1975-80   1980-85   1985-90          1980    1985    1990    1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
National Accounts
Gross domestic product /a            28.8          100.0   100.0   100.0         6.0        5.5        5.3      100.0   100.0   100.0         6.0        6.4        7.6
Agriculture                           7.0           26.8    25.8    24.8         4.8        4.7        4.5       26.8    25.0    22.0         4.8        5.0         5.0
Industry                             10.1           35.5    35.9    36.2         7.8        5.7        5.5       35.5    37.7    40.6         7.8        7.6        9.1
(of which Manufacturing)           7.1            24.8    25.5    25.7         6.5        6.0        5.4      24.8    26.8    28.8          6.5        8.0        9.2
Services                             11.7           37.7    38.3    39.0         5.8        5.8        5.8       37.7    37.3    37.4         5.8        6.1        7.7
Consumption                          21.9           76.5    75.7    73.4         5.2        5.1        4.7       76.5    72.4    68.7         5.2        5.2        6.5
Fixed investment                      6.9           24.0    23.5    23.7         6.5        4.5        5.5       24.0    24.5    25.0         6.5        6.8        7.8
Exports of GNFS                       5.5           20.3    24.3    28.0        10.0        9.3        8.4       20.3    24.7    27.5        10.0       10.7       10.0
Imports of GNFS                       7.1           26.0    27.2    28.6         8.0        6.4        6.4       26.0    26.2    25.4         8.0        6.6        6.9
1980    1985    1990    1975-80   1980-85   1985-90         1980    1985    1990    1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Other Indicators
Current account balance
(billion of US$ at                               -2.2    -3.7    -5.8                                         -2.2    -2.7    -1.8
current prices)
(as % of GDP)                                      5.8     6.3      5.7                                        5.8      4.4      2.0
Average annual per capita
consumption growth rate (%)                                                    2.6        2.6        2.2                                    2.6        2.7        4.0
Incremental capital/output
ratio (5-year average)                                                         4.6        4.9        5.1                                    4.6        4.5        3.8
Import elasticity (5-yr avg.)                                                   1.20       1.20       1.20                                   1.20       1.05       0.95
Manufacturing employment as %
of total employment (%)                           12.4    11.9    11.5                                        12.4    12.8    14.4
Debt service ratio (end of
period)                                           16.6    24.3    29.2                                         16.6    21.2    18.3
/a At market prices.
Note:  These projections are intended to illustrate the structural adjustment process.  They are based on numerous estimates and  assumptions about domestic
and external parameters/conditions.  While these are all believed to be reasonable, some of them could be invalidated by subsequent developments.



- 11 -
41.       The Critical Role of Industry.  Improvement in the performance of
the industrial sector is crucial to the success of the structural adjustment
process and the attaining of the Philippines development objectives. Manu-
facturing is the key to accelerating macro income, employment, and export
growth. It is also important for restraining growth in imports of capital and
intermediate goods and for using capital and foreign exchange resources
efficiently.
The IMF Program
42.       In response to the widening of the Philippines  balance of payments
deficit, the Government has formulated an adjustment program which is
supported by a two-year IMF standby arrangement of SDR 410 million for the
period 1980-81. The program's major objectives are (a) to sustain the real
rate of economic growth; (b) to reduce the rate of inflation; and (c) to
restore approximate equilibrium by 1982 in the overall balance of payments,
which registered a deficit of about $580 million in 1979. The program
includes quantitative limits on net domestic assets of the banking system,
bank credit to the public sector, the level of net international reserves, and
new approvals of external borrowings of 1 to 12 years maturity.
43.       The Government is undertaking a number of policy measures to achieve
the objectives of the program. With respect to demand management, cautious
monetary, credit, and fiscal policies will be continued. These will be
supported by increases in certain interest rates to encourage domestic
savings, capital inflow, and overall capital efficiency. Additional tax
revenues will be mobilized in each year of the program, and the responsiveness
of the tax system to income growth will be improved. Needed increases in
current expenditures will be provided for, and budgetary capital outlays are
projected to continue to rise as a proportion of GNP. In the external sector,
the Government plans to follow a flexible exchange rate policy and to continue
its prudent debt management policies. In addition, it is fostering the growth
and diversification of exports and reducing the level of protection of domes-
tic industry as discussed below. These measures should also facilitate the
country's access to the foreign commercial borrowings necessary to help
finance the external deficits expected in the early 1980s. IMF financial
relations with the Philippines are summarized in Annex VI.
44.       An IMF staff mission visited the Philippines in May 1980 and
summarized progress under the standby program as follows: "Economic activity
in the Philippines has slackened somewhat this year, the rate of inflation,
though decelerating, is higher than projected, and the current account of the
balance of payments is expected to show a further deterioration in 1980.
These developments, which are related to the worsening in world economic
conditions and the considerable increases in oil prices, suggest that the
achievement of the adjustment envisaged in the program will be more difficult
than earlier envisaged and point to the need for strengthening existing
policies." The IMF Staff Report went on to note that, although important
progress was being made in the industrial and energy policy, further attention
to wage, interest rate, and exchange rate policy is required.



- 12 -
PART III - THE INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Inttroduction
45.        The pattern of industrial growth was a major cause of the
Philippines' structural problems and suboptimal macroeconomic performance in
the 1960s. Postwar trade and industrialization policies provided strong
prot:ection for selected donestic industries. Although virtually cmplete
impcirt substitution was achieved in consumer goods industries, excessive
protection led to high-cost production, inefficient use of resources, only
limited export development, and overconcentration of industry around Manila.
Moreover, incentives favored relatively capital-intensive industries; and
manufacturing employment grew slowly.
46.       A number of selective improvements in export incentives in the early
1970s marked the start of a more outward-looking industrial policy. These
incentives encouraged the establishment of a relatively labor-intensive
manufactured export sector, which has expanded its output and employment
rapidly. Although this sector is still an enclave in an otherwise over-
protected industrial sector, its performance has demonstrated the potential
benefits from an improved industrial policy regime. Comprehensive reform of
the present industrialization and trade policies is, however, needed to
reorient home industries, broaden the export base, and promote structurally
sound long-term growth of the industrial sector.
47.        This section reviews industrialization and trade policy in the
Philippines, both before and after the changes introduced in the early 1970s.
It then analyzes the present structure of the manufacturing sector,/l the
various elements of the incentive system, and its effects on the allocation
and use of resources.
Postwar Industrialization and Trade Policies, 1950 - c.1970
48.        In the early 1950s import substitution was adopted as the principal
objective of Philippine industrialization policy. In response to severe
balance of payments problems, controls on imports and foreign exchange were
introduced to curb the consumption of "nonessential" imports. These controls
created strong protection for the domestic production of substitutes, i.e.,
main:Ly finished manufactured consumer goods. Imported raw materials,
intermediate goods, and capital goods were, on the other hand, available at
artificially low prices because of the higher valuation of the domestic
currency that the controls permitted. This exchange regime, together with
the absence of effective measures to refund taxes and tariff duties on inputs
to exporters, discriminated against both export industries and the domestic
production of intermediate and capital goods.
/1 The industrial sector is normally defined to include mining and quarrying,
construction, electricity/gas/water and manufacturing. The last of these
is the focus of the discussion in this and subsequent sections of this
report.



- 13 -
49.        Initially, the manufacturing sector responded well to import substi-
tution opportunities in consuner goods production, with output growing at an
average annual rate of over 12%. However, by the late 1950s, the domestic
market started to limit the expansion of the sector. Output growth fell to 5%
in the 1960s. Although the strict import restrictions were gradually relaxed
in the early 1960s, a high level of protection was maintained through a tariff
code that had been adopted in 1957. Thus, trade policy continued to favor
import substitution in consumer goods production. At the end of the 1960s,
the manufacturing sector was heavily dependent on imported inputs, and there
were virtually no manufactured exports other than traditional processed
primary commodities. Moreover, the artificially low prices of capital goods,
in combination with high protection, led to inadequate employment creation of
only 2.4% per year in manufacturing and allowed considerable inefficiency of
investment reflected in a high capital/output ratio.
Industrialization Policy in the 1970s
50.        In the late 1960s, the economy was again faced with a rapid
deterioration of the balance of payments, due in part to the structurally
unsound pattern of manufacturing growth. Although an extensive system of
import licensing was reintroduced, there was a growing realization that
exports in general, and manufactured exports in particular, needed to be more
actively encouraged if the balance of payments was not to remain a constraint
on growth. Furthermore, steps were clearly needed to accelerate industrial
output and employment growth and to encourage more efficient use of resources
by domestic industries.
51.        Consequently, an Industrial Incentives Act was introduced in 1967,
which provided fiscal incentives (e.g., tariff exemption for imported
equipment, accelerated depreciation, reinvestment allowances) for industrial
investment in preferred areas. The Act also created a Board of Investment
(BOI) to determine the preferred areas eligible for investment incentives
through an annual Investment Priorities Plan and to administer the granting of
incentives. Subsequently, fiscal benefits (e.g., tax credit for import duties
and domestic taxes paid on inputs) were made available for export production
under an Export Incentives Act enacted in 1970. This Act is also administered
by BOI, which prepares an annual Export Priorities Plan listing products
eligible for incentives.
52.        Additional related policy measures included floating and subsequent
depreciation of the exchange rate in 1970, and the introduction of various
export promotion measures designed to give selected exporters of nontradi-
tional manufactures access to duty-free imports. Initial steps were taken in
1973 to reform the tariff system by simplifying the rate structure and
reducing the rate spread. Various programs for the promotion of small- and
medium-scale industries were also adopted, and the Ministry of Industry was
established in 1974. Although manufactured export performance improved
significantly as a result of the selective promotion measures, the performance
of home industry remained inadequate, and overall sector employment and output
growth improved only marginally.



- 14 -
53.        The manufacturing sector now accounts for 25% of GDP.  Food
processing is the largest industry, contributing one-quarter of total manu-
facturing value added. The contribution of the chemical industries has
steadily increased in relative importance during recent years while the
relative shares of most other industries have fallen gradually over time (see
Table 1, Annex VII).
54.        Instead of being a dynamic leading sector, manufacturing grew
relatively slowly during the last decade at 6.5% p.a. Despite the growth of
labor-intensive nontraditional exports, the manufacturing sector as a whole is
still a heavy net burden on the balance of payments. Employment in
manufacturing has remained virtually constant at 10-12% of total employment
since the early 1950s, and industry remains heavily concentrated in the
Greater Manila area.
Present Structure of the Manufacturing Sector - Problems and Performance
55.        The Philippine manufacturing structure is highly dualistic.  The
"unorganized" sector, defined as manufacturing establishments with less than
five workers, employs nearly two-thirds of the manufacturing work force but
produces less than 5% of total manufacturing value added. The "organized" or
"factory" sector produces most of the value added but provides limited
employment opportunities.
56.        Home Industries.  Home industries (i.e., those industries producing
primarily for the domestic market) account for more than 80% of total
manufacturing output. As would be expected under the trade regime that has
prevailed, consumer goods constitute over 50% of home production, and the
sector is heavily dependent on imported materials. Home industries in the
factory sector are relatively capital-intensive, tend to use capital
inefficiently, and have generated relatively little employment overall. Firms
in the "unorganized" part of the sector, although they employ many workers in
totaL, are characterized by low investment and productivity levels.
57.        Manufactured Export Sectors.  Manufactured exports are still
dominated by traditional mineral and agro-processing industries. Considerable
progress was made during the last decade in increasing processing of primary
products such as copra, logs, and copper and thereby achieving a higher
percentage of domestic value added. Exports of such traditional manufactured
products as refined sugar, coconut oil, plywood and veneer, pulp and paper,
and copper concentrates increased from about $550 million in 1972 to over $2.0
billion in 1979 and account for about half of total Philippine exports.
Primary product processing industries are mainly large-scale and quite
capital-intensive.
58.        In response to the various export promotion measures introduced in
the early 1970s, industries producing such nontraditional exports as garments,
electronics, handicrafts and footwear substantially expanded rapidly. Their
exports rose from just under $200 million in 1972 to $1.5 billion in 1979 and
currently account for 30% of the country's total exports. In contrast with
primary export product processing, nontraditional export industries are more
varied in size and are relatively labor-intensive. Employment in these



- 15 -
industries increased ten-fold during the decade from 20,000 to over 200,000
workers. However, due to the high cost and low quality of domestic inputs,
nontraditional exports are largely dependent on imports and, as a result, have
remained enclaves with only few backward linkages with the rIMestic
manufacturing sector. Consequently, value added is only 25% of output.
59. Employment Creation. Labor absorption in manufacturing has been low
because of the relatively low growth rate of the sector and the capital
intensity of organized home industries and commodity export processing.
Recently, employment in manufacturing has expanded at an average annual rate
of about 3%, creating a mere 40,000 jobs and absorbing less than one tenth of
the annual increase in the labor force. Employment in the dominant
"unorganized" sector, in particular, has expanded by only 1.1% annually.
60.       Regional Dispersion.  The dependence of import-substituting consumer
goods industries on imported inputs has created a strong incentive for these
industries to locate near Manila, the country's major port and consumer
market. Provision of better infrastructure, investment and financial
incentives, and centralized government administration have added to the
attractiveness of Manila. Consequently, the only subsectors in which there is
a degree of regional dispersion are the resource-based wood and food
processing industries and anall-scale consumer goods production. Excluding
the resource-based industries, nearly 90% of all manufacturing value added is
produced in and around the capital city.
The Incentive System and Its Effects
61.       The two major elements of the Philippine incentive system are (a)
the tariff and trade regime and (b) fiscal and financial incentives.
62.       Tariff and Trade Policy.  The key instrument of the import
substitution strategy, and an important cause of the structural problems of
the manufacturing sector, has been the tariff and trade regime.  Present
nominal tariff rates range from 10% to 100%, with the highest rates for
consumer goods and lower rates for intermediate and capital goods. The level
of effective protection for the domestic market is 36% for the economy as a
whole./1 For the manufacturing sector, the average level of effective
protection is higher at 44%. There is also a pronounced escalation in the
structure of protection with effective rates rising sharply from 18% on
capital goods and 23% on intermediate goods to 77% on consumer goods. On the
other hand, export industries that do not have access to duty-free inputs are
discriminated against, receiving much lower than average effective protection
of only 4%. Furthermore, the structure of protection is quite uneven, with
effective tariffs ranging from -61% to well over 1,000% in a number of
important industries and gives widely varying incentives to the growth of
different industries.
/_ The nominal tariff is the rate of protection on output. The effective
tariff is the rate of protection on value added taking into account
tariffs on imported inputs.



- 16 -
63.       The tariff protection of the domestic market is reinforced by an
extensive system of import licensing restrictions administered by the
Central Bank. Imports of commodities classified as "nonessential consumer"
goods (NEC) or "unclassified consumer" goods (UC) are banned because they are
either domestically produced or are considered luxuries. Imports of a number
of intermediate goods which are important inputs into exports and domestic
production are also "regulated". In addition, investments in "overcrowded"
domestic industries have been restricted,/l and most imports of capital
equipment by export industries and firms receiving investment incentives
require approval of the Board of Investment.
64.       High tariffs and import restrictions have led to an inefficient use
and allocation of resources, particularly capital, and have imposed an effec-
tive penalty on export production. They have channelled resources into those
sectors and industries with higher levels of protection, i.e., mainly those
producing consumer goods for the domestic market. Furthermore, effective
protection is highest for those industries having the highest domestic
resource cost so that tariffs have given relatively greater encouragement to
those industries which are the least economic. The lack of international com-
petiLtion has led to high-cost production and considerable excess capacity.
Labor intensity and employment generation in home industry are also low.
65.       The rapid growth in nontraditional manufactured exports was made
possible by the introduction of selective measures (such as duty drawback
schemes and bonded manufacturing warehouses) to enable export producers to
import duty-free raw materials and intermediate goods. However, the
Philippine export regime still suffered from a number of shortcomings which
constrained export growth and diversification. Investment incentives for
export industries were generally less favorable than the similar incentives
available to home industries; excessively stringent eligibility requirements
precluded many potential exporters from utilizing both fiscal and non-fiscal
ince!ntives; complicated administrative export-import procedures presented
obstacles to exporters, particularly the smaller ones; and various export
promotion institutions needed strengthening. In addition, as a result of high
duties and quantitative restrictions on imported inputs, combined with
hight-cost/low-quality domestic production of the same items, export industries
have formed only limited backward linkages with the domestic manufacturing
sector. Furthermore, the profitability of the export sector has been depressed
by the higher valuation of domestic currency permitted by the protection
system itself. Hence, tariff and trade reform will be crucial to
reorientating the manufacturing sector toward greater cost competitiveness and
labor intensity.
66.       Fiscal and Financial Incentives.  The bias of the trade and tariff
system against labor intensity and exports has been one of several reasons why
manufacturing employment has grown at half the rate of manufacturing output.
/1 "Overcrowded industries" are those considered to have sufficient capacity
to satisfy existing and projected demand. Therefore, firms making
investments in these industries have not been eligible for BOI incentives,
Government bank financing, or access to foreign borrowings.



- 17 -
Another important factor is that the fiscal incentives administered by the BOI
have had a significant capital-cheapening effect, encouraging both an industry
mix and a choice of technology within industries that are excessively capital-
intensive. First, tax privileges tied to the use of capital equipment (e.g.,
tariff and tax exemptions for imported capital equipment, accelerated depre-
ciation allowances) have strengthened the bias towards capita'l intensity
created by the low import duty on capital goods. In some cases fiscal incen-
tives are estimated to reduce the user cost of capital for an individual firm
by as much as 45%. Second, the actual allocation of investment incentives
through the investment priority plans has favored capital-intensive subsectors
because of inadequate attention to labor intensity in determining investment
priorities. Third, the administrative burden of elaborate procedures and
lengthy processing has effectively favored relatively large capital-intensive
firms with representatives in Manila that can cope with the additional
overhead costs.
67.       The financial system has reinforced the capital-intensive bias of
investment incentives. BOT-registered firms have been given preferential
access to low-interest credit and foreign borroviings. Bank lending rates
themselves have been subject to administrative ceilings, which have tended to
reduce the user cost of capital. This effect has been particularly pronounced
for long-term domestic currency borrowings. Since interest rate policy
prevented banks from setting lending rates to compensate for risk and the
effects of inflation, other rationing devices (such as excessive reliance on
collateral and preferential treatment for selected customers) have been unduly
utilized to the detriment of the smaller, less well-established firms.
68.        To stimulate the dispersal of industry, new non-export projects were
temporarily prohibited from locating within 50 km of Manila, and BOI adopted a
practice of negotiating the location of projects at the time investment
incentives were applied for. However, to the extent that the investment
incentives and financial policies de facto discriminated against small- and
mediun-size enterprises and labor-intensive industry, they indirectly
discouraged regional dispersal since these industries are ones that might be
expected to locate outside Metro Manila. In addition, the incentive system is
centrally administered from Manila making it more difficult for entrepreneurs
in the other regions to avail of the fiscal benefits. The financial system
also channels resources from the outlying regions, where excess deposits are
collected, to Manila, where the transferred funds are invested.
PART IV - THE INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
Background
69.       As noted earlier, since the late 1960s the necessity of modifying
the import-substitution industrial and trade policies of the previous two
decades has been increasingly recognized in the Philippines.  The reforms of
the early 1970s marked the start of a more outward looking policy. In 1977,
the Government commissioned a study of its industrial policies by a University



- 18 -
of the Philippines team.  This study, financed in part by the Bank, indicated
that the chief causes of poor industrial performance were the highly protec-
tive trade regime and the capital-intensive bias of investment promotion
po]icies./l Simultaneously, the Ministry of Industry carried out studies of
several industries that were felt to need restructuring.
70.       The shared concern of the Bank and the Government about the perform-
ance of the industrial sector led to the subsequent undertaking of a Bank
industrial sector mission in early 1979. This was followed by a financial
sector mission, which was a joint effort with the IMF, to look at interrelated
questions of banking reform and industrial finance. The reports of these two
missions confirmed the findings of the Government-s own studies and helped to
formulate strategies for industrial and financial development. During
discussions of the two reports in August 1979 there was general agreement on
industrialization strategy and the reforms needed in industrial and financial
policy.
Industrialization Strategy
71.       As set forth in the 1978-82 Development Plan, improved industrial
performance will aim at accelerated growth, continued large increases in
exports of nontraditional manufactures, more rapid expansion of employment,
more productive use of capital, and greater development of industry outside
the Metropolitan Manila area. Broadly, the Government seeks to develop an
industrial structure which is based on the country s comparative advantage
with respect to labor costs and raw material availability and which is
eff:icient and competitive by international standards. To achieve these
objectives, both continued export expansion and restructuring of home
industries are necessary as neither, alone, is likely to be sufficient.
72.       Continued Export Expansion.  By strengthening export promotion
measures, the mmentum of the manufactured export drive can be maintained with
increased backward linkages and greater participation by industries, firms,
and regions. The Philippines is in a potentially strong conpetitive position
to expand further its labor-intensive exports. Philippine wage rates and
labor productivity levels compare favorably with those of its international
competitors, and Philippine workers are easy to train because of their high
literacy rate. Marketing channels have been established, and entrepreneurs
have gained significant experience in exporting. Besides the already
successful garment and electronics industries, the Philippines has a strong
comparative advantage in such labor-intensive industries as footwear, watch
assembly, travel goods, and the production of relatively simple mechanical
engineering items. Industries processing food, wood, and mineral resources
also have a comparative advantage due to the domestic raw material base.
/1 Romeo M. Bautista, John H. Power and Associates, Industrial Promotion
Policies in the Philippines (Manila, Philippines, The Philippine
Institute of Development Studies, 1979).



- 19 -
73.       Home Industries.  Home industries still account for more than 80% of
manufacturing investment, output, and employment. Hence, an improvement in
their performance is necessary if the manufacturing sector as a whole is to
make more efficient use of capital and foreign exchange resources and create
substantially more employment.  Reorientation of trade and investment incen-
tives to improve capital efficiency and to allocate investment to more 'abor-
intensive lines of production will both save resources and generate more
employment per peso of investment. The resources saved, ir turn, can be
devoted either to raising investment or to expanding consumption and the
domestic market more rapidly. Furthermore, if home industries are encouraged
to become more competitive by international standards and to develop in line
with the country's comparative advantage, they should also be able to export
an increasing share of their output, either directly or indirectly.
Status of the Policy Reform Program
74.       The Government recently outlined its industrialization strategy and
policy reform program in a Statement of Industrial Policy for the 1980s (Annex
IV, Attachment 1). Its program includes staged reforms over a 5-year period
to correct the import substitution and capital-intensive biases of existing
industrial and trade policies. The program covers the following five major
areas: (a) export incentives and promotion measures; (b) tariff reform, trade
liberalization, and complementary measures; (c) investment incentives and
their administration; (d) industrial restructuring; and (e) major industrial
projects. The program is summarized in the attached Letter on Industrial
Development Po'icy (LIDP) to the Bank, which conveys the Government's official
request for the proposed structural adjustment loan (Annex IV).
75.       Not all the elements of the industrial policy reform can be imple-
mented simultaneously. Hence, the Government's initial policy reforms have
been focused primarily on trade policy (i.e., export incentives and tariff
reform) since it has been chiefly responsible for the disappointing perform-
ance of the industrial sector. Many of the planned reforms in trade policy
have already been implemented or will be shortly. Although significant
progress has been made in the other three areas (investment incentives,
industrial restructuring, and major industrial projects), major advances in
these areas will take a number of years to achieve.
76.       The paragraphs which follow analyze the overall industrial develop-
ment program including: the major tasks accomplished since the discussion of
the Bank's industrial sector report in August 1979, the steps that the
Government plans to take in the next year, and other initiatives that will be
needed in the future. Specific policy measures which have been completed or
are in the process of implementation are listed in Attachment 2A to the
Government's Letter on Industrial Development Policy; additional measures
planned for the next year are listed in Attachment 2B to the Letter.



20 -
Export Incentives and Promotion Measures
77.       In 1979 the Govermnent started taking steps to strengthen the export
regine by: (a) strengthening and broadening fiscal incentives for export
production and trading; (b) simplifying import and export procedures; (c)
liberalizing bonded manufacturing warehouse arrangements for exporters; (d)
improving export financing facilities; and (e) strengthening institutions that
promote exports and international trade. Substantial progress has been made
in all these areas.
78.        Fiscal Incentives.  Fiscal incentives, administered by the Board of
Investment under the Export Incentives Act, are the primary instrument for
increasing the relative profitability of export production and stimulating
investment in it. However, in the past, a number of fiscal incentives which
were provided for home industries under the Investment Incentives Act have not
been available to export industries,/l and only limited export incentives were
available to export traders.  Therefore, in October 1979 the Government: (a)
made all fiscal incentives provided under the Investment Incentives Act also
availLable under the Export Incentives Act; (b) extended tax credit/duty draw-
back facilities to indirect as well as direct exporters; and (c) increased
the deductions allowable to export traders and trading companies for both
domestic costs and operation of overseas offices (LIDP, Attachment 2A, item
II.A.2).
79.        Import/Export Procedures.  Two of the most important disincentives
for exporting have been the time-consuming procedures of the duty drawback
system  and burdensome export documentation requirements.  To improve import
and export procedures, the Government: (a) introduced in October 1979 a
schenme by which exporters are awarded an advance tax credit/duty drawback on
imported inputs within seven days after exportation of their finished product;
(b) reduced the marginal deposit requirements for imported inputs into export
production in January 1980; and (c) streamlined the operations of the govern-
ment agencies responsible for export clearances in October 1979 and again in
June 1980 (LIDP, Attachment 2A, items II.A.1, II.A.3, and II.B.2). In order
to streamline duty-exempt importation arrangements further, the Government
plans; to introduce standard costings/allowances for the tax credit/duty
drawback on imported inputs into export production./2 The IMF is currently
providing technical assistance on the operation of this scheme, and its imple-
mentation is scheduled for the end of 1980 (LIDP, Attachment 2B, item I.1).
80.        Bonded Manufacturing Warehouses.  The bonded maanufacturing warehouse
system permits export industries to operate on a truely free-trade basis with-
out being physically located in an export processing zone. It has been the
/1  Ihe most important of these are accelerated depreciation, carryover of
net operating losses, and anortized deduction of pre-operating expenses.
/2 Standard costings are calculations of standardized costs of the imported
inputs contained in export products and of the import duties to be rebated
to the exporter. The use of standard costings eliminates the need to cal-
culate separately the import duty rebate for each export shipment.



- 21 -
mechanism most preferred by export producers for expeditious importation of
duty-free inputs.  To avoid abuse, eligibility to operate these warehouses was
initially subject to very stringent requirements. In order to make bonded
manufacturing warehouses more generally available to both large and small
exporters, in September 1979 the Board of Investment improved its control
procedures and eased the eligibility requirements. A Bonded Export
Marketing Board was created in October 1979 to promote this free-trade export
production mechanism more actively and to extend it to a wider range of
products and industries (LIDP, Attachment 2A, item II.C.1).
81.       Export Financing.  Availability of credit for working capital
requirements of export industries has been limited, particularly for smaller
and nontraditional exporters. The Central Bank instituted a short-term
rediscount facility for export financing in April 1979, but it initially
tended to serve mainly traditional export industries. To correct this short-
coming, the Central Bank subsequently reduced the rediscount rate for non-
traditional exports, while increasing that for traditional exports. The value
of loans to cottage industries eligible for rediscounting was raised from 80%
to 100% at the same time. In addition, to reduce the risk to commercial banks
in extending export financing, in December 1979 the Government established the
Philippine Export and Foreign Loan Guarantee Corporation to guarantee loans to
qualified exporters and contractors with approved service contracts abroad
(LIDP, Attachment 2A, items II.B.1 and II.B.3).
82.        To improve export financing facilities further, the following are
needed: (a) a medium-term facility for financing inputs into export produc-
tion; and (b) greater initiative by the commercial banking system in extendi°ng
export financing, particularly to the smaller and newly established export
industries. The Government plans to address these issues in the context of
its overall financial sector reform program (LIDP, Attachment 2B, item 1.2).
83.        Institutional Support.  Important institutional improvements have
also been made in the institutions that promote exports. The Government (a)
reorganized the Ministry of Trade in December 1979 to focus more clearly on
promoting international trade; (b) encouraged (October 1979) the establishment
of export trading companies, which would, inter alia, extend export finance to
their small-scale suppliers; and (c) broadened the charter of the Export
Processing Zone Authority (EPZA) in June 1980 to enable it to plan, develop,
and manage 12 new industrial estates (LIDP, Attachment 2A, items II.C.2-4 and
V.4.)
84.        The above actions have substantially strengthened the export
promotion regime. They have implemented nearly all the recommendations on
export promotion made in the Bank's industrial sector report. When standard
costings and further improvements in export financing have been introduced,
the strengthened export regime should enable the Philippines to achieve the
projected growth of nontraditional exports discussed in para. 117 below.  The
establishment of backward linkages between the export sector and home
industries will, however, depend on measures such as tariff reform and
restructuring programs that are necessary to increase the latter-s efficiency.



- 22 -
Tariff Reform and Complementary Measures
85.        The objectives of the Government's tariff reform are to lower the
overall level of protection in the economy and to even out the spread in
tariff rates within and between industry sectors. The tariff reform will
establish a system of nominal tariff rates between 10% and 50%. Many exces-
sively high and low rates of effective protection will be eliminated, and
most effective rates of protection will be brought within a range of 10-80%.
Since the continuation of import licensing would thwart the aim of the tariff
reform, liberalization of licensing will be undertaken simultaneously. Com-
plementary measures, such as a flexible exchange rate policy and realignment
of indirect taxes, will be taken to offset any adverse effect which tariff
reform and trade liberalization may have on revenue collection or the balance
of payments. Subsectoral restructuring programs will also be initiated to
help existing industries adjust to the policy changes.
86.        Tariff Reform.  In August 1980, the Government legislated a compre-
hensive tariff reform covering 75% of the line items in the Tariff Code.
Starting in January 1981, tariff rates for 14 important industry subsectors /1
will be realigned to achieve greater uniformity in protection. The adjust-
ments affecting the 14 industries will be staged over a four-year period to
cushion their impact. In addition, the current peak tariff rates for all
other industries will be reduced from 100% and 70% to a ceiling rate of 50% in
two steps on January 1, 1981 and January 1, 1982 (LIDP, Attachment 2A, items
III.1-III.4).
87.       High effective protection for a particular industry can come from
relatively low protection on its inputs as well as from relatively high pro-
tection on its outputs. In the Philippines, low duties on material inputs
have in many cases contributed to excessively high rates of effective pro-
tection for industries using them. Hence, the tariff reform includes selec-
tive increases in low tariff rates to complement the movement toward greater
uniformity in the structure of protection resulting from the reduction of peak
tariffs. In addition, the raising of below average tariffs is necessary to
encourage development of potentially efficient import-substituting industries
such as mechanical engineering. In general, a minimum tariff of 10% has been
esta'blished to provide some protection to encourage the growth of industries
that have been discriminated against as well as to limit the overall balance
of payments and revenue impact of the tariff reform. Only in a few exceptional
cases has a tariff rate of 5% been applied.
88.        The reform will reduce overall effective rates of protection for the
economy from 36% to 23% and for the manufacturing sector from 44% to 29% (see
Table 2, Annex VII). The degree of "escalation" in the structure of protec-
tion will also be lessened. The average effective rate for consumer goods
/1 The 14 industry subsectors are: food processing, textiles and garments,
'Leather and leather products, pulp and paper, iron and steel, cement,
automotive, wood and wood products, motorcycles, ceramics/glass,
electrical/electronics, domestic appliances, machineries, and furniture.



- 23 -
will be cut from 77% to 41%, whereas that for intermediate goods would rise
slightly from 23% to 29%. Average effective rates for inputs into construc-
tion and capital goods will remain substantially unchanged, at 15% and 18%,
respectively. The dispersion of effective protection rates in individual
manufacturing subsectors from the average will also be reduced considerably.
The movement towards greater uniformity in effective rates will reduce alloca-
tive distortions and provide a more even incentive for import substitution.
The reduction in the higher rates of protection afforded to some industries
should lead to increases in competitiveness and efficiency and help strengthen
the linkages between home and export industries.
89.       The Government plans to complete, by December 1980, a review -
including public hearings - of the remaining 25% of the line items in the
tariff schedule. This would complete the realignment within the 10% to 50%
range of the nominal tariff rates in all subsectors. The principal industries
that would be affected by this rationalization are drugs and chemicals, plas-
tics, rubber, and nonferrous metals (LIDP, Attachment 2B, item II.1).
90.       Prior to the present tariff reform, Philippine nominal and effective
tariffs were similar to those in Thailand and well below those of highly
protected economies such as Chile and India during the early 1970s. Tariff
reform and the liberalization of import licensing should push Philippine
effective protection significantly closer to those of Korea and Taiwan which
have experienced rapid industrial and export growth (see Table 3, Annex VII).
The estimated effective protection rates cited above in fact understate the
extent of the improvement because they do not allow for the effects of
liberalizing import restrictions (see para. 93 below). In the long run,
further adjustments in tariff rates should aim at establishing uniform
effective protection in the 20%-30% range. These future adjustments could be
based on the specific industry development programs to be formulated in the
next few years (see para. 107 below). In addition, the indirect tax system
also serves as an implicit tariff system by taxing imports at a higher
effective rate than domestic production. This protective effect is quite
important for certain industries, and the sales tax treatment of imports and
domestic products will need to be equalized eventually as part of the overall
realignment of the structure of protection.
91.       Preliminary estimates indicate that imports would be raised by 3-5%
($250-400 million) as a result of the tariff reform. However, these estimates
do not take into account the impact of liberalization of import licensing that
will be implemented simultaneously with the tariff reform and will probably
generate some additional import demand. Since the balance of payments situa-
tion is already difficult, it will be important to maintain a flexible
exchange rate policy to offset the possible adverse near-term effects of the
trade liberalization measures (see para. 97 below). In the longer run, how-
ever, the measures should lead to greater efficiency in domestic industries
and improved export performance that should strengthen the balance of
payments.



- 24 -
92.        The loss of revenue resulting from the tariff reform is expected to
be negligible for three reasons.  First, very little of the items subject to
peak rates are now imported, so that any importation of these caused by the
lowering of tariff rates will generate new revenues. Secondly, where rates
have been raised, import volumes are normally high, implying substantially
increased revenues. Thirdly, the lowering of tariff rates and simultaneous
liberalization of import licensing may encourage legitimate imports to replace
smuggling, contributing to an increase in revenues.
93.        Import Licensing Liberalization.  Although maintained for balance of
payments reasons, import licensing is in some cases a stronger protective
device than the applicable tariff and would certainly become so when the
tariifs are reduced. Many of the products on which peak tariffs are being
lowered, as well as the products of 13 (out of 14) subsectors for which tariff
revisions are being made, are subject to licensing. Continued import
licensing would thus defeat the tariff reform's objectives of fostering
greater competitiveness of domestic industry and of encouraging stronger
linkages with exports. Therefore, in August 1980 the Government adopted a
formal plan for removal of import licensing restrictions that are maintained
for protection of domestic industries or for balance of payments reasons
(LIDI', Attachment 2A, item III.5).
94.       The liberalization of licensing will proceed in stages in coordina-
tion with the tariff reform to allow time for local industries to adjust and
to spread the balance of payments effect over the four-year reform period.  Of
the 1,304 items presently classified as NEC/UC, 960 will be made freely
importable over the next 3 years, with 263 items being liberalized in 1981,
610 in 1982, and 87 in 1983. If liberalization has too disruptive an effect
on the balance of payments, complementary measures e.g., increases in taxes on
luxuries and exchange rate policy - will be adopted. Reimposition of exchange
restrictions will be resorted to only as a last recourse and would require
approval by the IMF.
95.       A precise date has not yet been established for liberalizing the
remaining 344 NEC/UC items. Most of these are luxury, nonnanufact-ured con-
sumer items, the liberalization of which would lead to significant additional
imports. The liberalization of these will be scheduled once measures, such as
high internal taxes, have been adopted to discourage consumption of them. The
remaining items are restricted for national security, public health, safety,
and similar reasons. The mechanism for controlling imports of these items
will be reviewed to see if a better alternative can be found. The Government
also plans to liberalize the importation of the 26 groups of commodities which
the C,sntral Bank "regulates". A detailed plan for doing so will be formulated
before the end of the year (LIDP, Attachment 2B, item II.2).
96.       Realignment of Indirect Taxes.  Although the revenue loss from the
tariff reform is expected to be small, increases in indirect taxes are desir-
able to help restrain private consumption and the expansion of imports that
could result from lowering tariffs and relaxing import licensing. A strong
revenue performance will, in any case, need to be continued throughout the
period of structural adjustment. The P 1 billion tax package accompanying



- 25 -
the 1981 Budget provides for increases in the specific taxes on alcoholic
beverages and certain luxury-type cigarettes. The Government is prepared to
consider further revisions in indirect taxes if they become necessary in the
future as tariFfs are lowered and import restrictions eased (LIDP, para. 13
and Attachment 2B, item I1.3).
Exchange Rate Policy
97.       An important reason for the rapid growth of non-traditional manufac-
tured exports in the 1970s was the substantial increase in export competitive-
ness and profitability that resulted from the 1970 devaluation. This improve-
ment was maintained through 1978. However, since then, the relative
acceleration in Philippine inflation, combined with the strengthening of the
peso in line with the dollar, has partly eroded the competitiveness and
profitability of some exports. As tariffs are lowered, the exchange rate will
also become increasingly important as an instrument for promoting efficient
resource allocation. Furthermore, while the proposed tariff and trade policy
reforms will ultimately have beneficial effects on the balance of payments,
the time path of the adjustment process and the short-term effects on the
balance of payments will depend greatly on exchange rate policy. Flexible use
of the exchange rate to control the balance of payments is also important to
avoid pressure to revert to high tariffs and import controls.
98.       As noted in its letter to the IMF last December in connection with
the current standby arrangement, the Government intends to maintain a flexible
exchange rate policy consistent with basic market forces, taking into consi-
deration the need to keep the current account deficit at a sustainable level
as well as the desire to prevent disorderly fluctuations in the exchange rate.
The Government has stated that its exchange rate policy will be consistent
with the objectives and policies in its industrial development program (LIDP,
para. 14). The exchange rate issue is being kept under close review by the
IMF, and the Bank keeps in contact with the Fund on the issue.
Investment Incentives and Promotion Policy
99.       Analytical work on investment incentives and industrial restruc-
turing was started after that on export promotion and tariff reform, and the
Government-s program of major industrial projects was not announced until
September 1979. Although significant progress has been made in these areas,
major improvements in investment incentives and their administration,
restructuring of individual subsectors, and successful implementation of the
major industrial projects will require sustained effort over time.
100.      As discussed in paras. 66-68, the investment incentive system has
several shortcomings. Revising the incentives, improving the allocative
mechanism, and simplifying administrative procedures are necessary to better
channel investments to industrial subsectors in which the Philippines has a
comparative advantage and to encourage more effectively both employment
generation and the growth of industry outside of the Metropolitan Manila area.



- 26 -
101.      Revision of the Incentives.  To ameliorate the capital-intensive
bias of the incentives, MOI/BOI plans to study the feasibility of introducing
a labor-favoring package of incentives to complement the present capital-
favor'ing ones (LIDP, Attachment 2B, item III.1.a).  The feasibility of elimi-
nating the tariff exemption on imported equipment as an investment incentive
for firms oriented towards the domestic market will also need to be examined
in the future.
102.      Improving the Allocation System.  In the last year, MOI/BOI has made
significant changes in its processes of priority determination and project
evaluation.  In October 1979, the use of "measured capacity" for priority
determination was eliminated in the food processing industries in order to
encourage greater competition and efficiency. Revised guidelines were also
adopted to reduce the number of industries on the "overcrowded industries"
list, and 29 industries (out of 38) were removed from the list in January 1980
(LIDP, Attachment 2A, items IV.3 and IV.4). In March 1980, MOI/BOI formulated
proposals for making greater use of economic analysis in priority determina-
tion aLnd project evaluation. The approach contemplated would be based on the
formulation of well-articulated programs for selected subsectors and the
detailed analysis of both individual large-scale, capital-intensive projects
and projects in subsectors. where no development plan has been formulated
(LIDP, Attachment 2A, item IV.2). MOI/BOI plans (a) to review present guide-
lines on the use of economic analysis in priority determination and project
evaluation; and (b) to review the usefulness of the "measured capacity"
concept in priority determination (LIDP, Attachment 2B, items III.2 and
III.1.b).
103.      Reducing the Administrative Burden.  MOI/BOI has streamlined some of
the procedures for the administration of incentives. The paperwork required
for registration has been reduced, and the processing time for the evaluation
of projects was shortened from 90 to 60 days in September 1979 (LIDP, Attach-
ment 2A, item IV.1). Additional steps to shorten processing time further will
be considered (LIDP, Attachment 2B, item III.1.c).
104.      Dispersal of Industry.  In order to encourage the location of indus-
try in underdeveloped areas of the country, a law was enacted in May 1980 to
provide additional incentives for investments in these areas (LIDP, Attachment
2A, item IV.5). BOI-registered projects locating in identified less developed
areas now receive an investment allowance and are entitled to the additional
incentives previously accorded only to so-called "pioneer industries." In ad-
dition, all government financial institutions are to give priority to projects
in the less developed areas. The Government plans to study the feasibility
of introducing additional measures such as (a) differential sales tax rates
between Manila and the outlying areas and (b) administrative steps to favor
industries in the outlying regions in the allocation of investment incentives
(LIDP, Attachment 2B, item III.l.d). Improved infrastructure would be pro-
vided in the regions through the national export processing zone/industrial
estate program (see para. 83 above).
105.      Management and Staffing.  MOI/BOI is currently being reorganized
along sector lines to enable it to implement the above changes. The



- 27 -
Government plans:  (a) to review the staffing requirements and complete the
reorganization of MOI/BOI to implement improved procedures; and (b) to
consider improvements in BOI's management information system for monitoring
the performance of BOI-registered projects (LIDP, Attachment 2A, item IV.6
and Attachment 2B, item III.3.)
Industrial Restructuring
106.      Subsectoral Restructuring Programs.  Subsectoral programs are to be
implemented concomitantly with trade liberalization and improved investment
promotion procedures. Typically, a subsector program would set the course for
the development of a particular industry over a five-year period. It would
specify the direction of the subsector's development, government policies and
the role of the private sector, and the instruments required to implement the
program (e.g., incentives, level of protection, financial and technical
assistance). The tariff reform will necessarily establish the price levels at
which home industry must be competitive and also a schedule for the rehabili-
tation programs. These would be designed to help existing industries to pro-
duce at lower costs, improve efficiency, and otherwise increase competitive-
ness in order to adjust to the policy changes.  Such sectoral restructuring
programs would constitute "adjustment" assistance to affected industries,
which would stress "positive" measures to increase competitiveness rather than
the continuation of "negative" or protective measures that retard development.
Other development programs would encourage the growth of neglected industries
- such as food processing and mechanical engineering - that have a potential
comparative advantage.
107.      A program for restructuring the cement industry is underway, and the
Bank is assisting MOI in preparing one for the textile industry (LIDP,
Attachment 2A, items V.2 and V.3). Tentatively, five additional industries
have been identified for which preparation of restructuring programs would
start shortly: food, pulp and paper, iron and steel, leather and leather
products, and mechanical engineering. However, much remains to be done to
give focus and content to these programs, and their implementation will
require sustained effort that needs to be planned in some detail now.
Guidelines, a schedule, and a work program for the formulation of detailed
restructuring programs will be prepared during the next few months (LIDP,
Attachment 2B, item IV.1).
108.      Development of Small- and Medium-Scale Industries.  The development
of small- and medium-scale industries (SMSI) can contribute to creating
employment, generating exports, utilizing more domestically available resour-
ces, and stimulating development outside of I4etropolitan Manila. The transfer
of the National Cottage Industry Development Association (NACIDA) to the
Ministry of Industry in March 1980 put responsibilities for cottage industry
development programs under the same aegis as those for SMSI.  This change
makes possible the integration of the programs and should help strengthen
efforts to assist the lower end of the spectrum of small-scale industries
(LIDP, para. 19 and Attachment 2A, item V.1).
109.      Existing SMISI development programs suffer from a number of short-
comings. Although the overall availability of credit to SlSI has been



- 28 -
improved, the various credit programs remain highly concentrated in the Metro
Manila/Southern Tagalog areas. Provision of working and risk capital also
needs to be improved. Managerial assistance for SMSIs have been provided for
a number of years, but technological and skill development programs need to be
strengthened. MOI plans to broaden the scope of its 9MSI programs to deal
with these problems. The revised programs would include components for
developing specific priority industries, such as leather and footwear,
furniture, food processing, and mechanical engineering (LIDP, Attachment 2B,
item IV.2).
Major Industrial Projects
110.      In September 1979, a program of 11 major industrial projects was
announced by President Marcos.  In October 1979, the National Development
Company was reorganized and revitalized to act as the corporate arm of the
Government in initiating priority industrial projects. The 11 projects are
expected to contribute to technological deepening and import substitution in
the production of intermediate goods. The Government is taking an active role
in promoting the projects because they are typically large, have relatively
long gestation periods, and hence are considered risky by private entrepre-
neurs. As there are multiple demands on the country's limited capital
resources, initiation of the projects would be phased over a five-year time
period. To the extent possible, foreign capital and export credits would be
utilized to finance the projects.
111.      The 11 major industrial projects will have a significant effect on
the outcome of the overall industrial development program. Much will depend
on care and good judgment in preparing and carrying out the projects, and
project design will need to emphasize foreign exchange -earning or saving
capacity. The Government intends to continue a prudent and flexible approach
towards the implementation of the major projects, establishing them only after
rigorous economic and financial analyses have convincingly demonstrated their
viability (LIDP, paras. 21 and 22).
FinarLcial Reforms and Interest Rate Policy
112.      Planned financial reforms will play an important complementary role
in improving the performance of the industrial sector. The interest rate is
probably the single most influential determinant of the cost of using capital
in projects. Financial policies will both need to encourage greater effi-
ciency of investment and to channel financial resources more effectively
towards priority development needs (e.g., exports and SMSI). The Government
is in the process of restructuring the financial system to make it more
flexible and responsive to. the country-s longer-term development needs. A
major step was taken in March 1980 when legislation was passed enabling the
monetary authorities to move the financial system towards multipurpose
banking. This reform will reduce the present excessive specialization and
fragmentation of financial institutions and improve the efficiency of
financial intermediation. Additional reform measures with respect to interest
rate policy, Central Bank rediscounting policy, and increased incentives for
longer-term lending are currently under consideration.



- 29 -
Program Impact: Benefits and Risks
113.       The industrial development program is summarized in Table 2.  To
date, the Gor-ernment has acted promptly and in a well-coordinated manner to
implement this program. Most of the reforms discussed during the review of
the industrial sector report are either satisfactorily accomplished or
progressing as rapidly as could reasonably be expected. Initial reforms have
concentrated on the rationalization of trade policies, which has involved both
the most important and the most difficult of the actions required. The
reforms already completed represent a major step towards a freer and more open
trade regime. They will place home industry in a much more competitive envi-
ronment and encourage productive resources to be allocated to areas in which
the Philippines has an existing or potential comparative advantage. These
reforms are likely to mark a turning point in Philippine trade policy as
important as that of the early 1970s. Subsequent phases of the reform program
will require large inputs of staff and management time and the continued full
support of BOI/MOI at the highest levels. In view of the Government's strong
commitment to the program and its performance to date, significant further
progress is likely over the next few years.
114.      Projected Industrial Development in the 1980s.  The policy program
should lead to a substantial restructuring of the industrial sector and an
improvement in its performance. Table 3 projects industrial development under
two alternative sets of assumptions: first, that the policies existing before
the reforms continue in effect and performance is in line with that observed
in the 1970s; and, second, that the policy program is successfully carried
through and performance improves as a result.
115.      The combined effect of the policy reforms aimed at domestic and
export industries would be to accelerate the growth of manufacturing value
added from 6.5% to over 9% in 1985-90. Higher output growth, together with an
increased employment elasticity, would double the annual rate of employment
creation from 3% to over 6%. As a result, the manufacturing sector would
generate an average of 150,000 jobs per year and account for about one-fourth
of the new jobs required in the economy as a whole. This would be nearly a
four-fold increase in the absolute number of jobs currently added in manufac-
turing each year. Assuming six persons per household, the income effect of
this expansion might reach as many as 6.6 million people over the next decade.
116.      Domestic market-oriented and nontraditional export industries would
each generate about half the projected increment in manufacturing output and
employment growth.  The growth of production in home industries would accele-
rate from its present annual rate of less than 6% to about 9% by 1990, and the
growth of employment in them would more than double from less than 2% to 5%.
Output and employment in nontraditional export industries would continue to
grow much faster than those in home industry, but, home industry is starting
from a much larger base in 1980. Nontraditional manufacturers would play a
central role in sustaining the country's export drive, while home industry
would contribute to reductions in the capital/output ratio and the import
elasticity.



0     0                             .0
00                                              0
0    .0      .                         0.    0    0                         00     0                                 00
0      0    0                          -    0
.10      4                                       00    10       o                         000   .0    0                         0
0                         .00          0                       10*0    .00
00.0       0                             00    0*                               0    00
000    *0   10                       000    00.0
000.0  .0  0  0                          0.0                                  0.0
10                                      .0  0  .0  .0                          00    10    0                        00    .10M                                o
1010  0.      0                         0.0    0    0                           0      0                               0
0000          .0                         .00   .0    0                         0      0000
.0                      .00    00                                0
00000                                            o    0                        0.0   .0
0000       0  0                          4.0    0    00                        0      00
00000  00    .0                          -      .0    0                        0.0    00
4000   0  00  0                          00     0    00                        00     .000
0  00  0  0.                         o      00   00                       .000    0400                              00
00    .0  0  0                           0010    0                            0000    00                                0.0
5    10                         0-jo    0    00                       00.    010                                05
-        00                                     .000  10  0  0                                                                                                           000
0-                                         0.  0  00  00                        .05    10    0                        010    .00.     .                         000
00       0.00                                    000000.0.                                        2                             2...    00
0.       0                                       0000           o                         oo      S                             Oo '"0                                   0.0
10        10                                     10000   0      0                         .00    0    0                         0  0  0                                  00
0                                                .0.0.0   o                                            0                          010  0.4                               00.0
0        0                                      00000       0  10                         00    00                             0000   SO
.0000000                                         0    10                       000   0.00                               000
0       00                                      0000   0  0  0                           00.0   0'  .0                         0.0.0  .00                               100
10       140                                     00000  00  10  10                        050   .00   0                         1000   00                                0-
5 o 000. 00 0. 10. 00000.2* .0.0.0 00.0 oo
0        000                                     0.4o  S  0  5                           00.0  000  00                        .000   .010.                              00
0.       00                                      00             0                         .0     00    104                      4      40
00                                             0.0    004         0              0      0        .0                     0'  .0
00                                      10   000  0000.                        00       0        0                      0              00
0o                                     000100000.100.0          000!             104100    0       0       4           oo52         !...                            .0
0.010                                  000.00004.0   .000    .0.0.0             .000.0             0       0.40.      00   00000    010.0
000  1000                              000.000    00            00010            000.0    OoO       0   000-00       0010  0010    0040
.00...010                              401010   00  100.0.0.   1000              ooo      010410         0000          010.000.0000.0
00000                                  .000400   04   0010         .0            000      1000     0    0  4.0        000.0  .00    .0  0                       .0    0
0400                                   04000000.010001.. 40                        00     0  0    00   0.0  .0           00100.0       00                      00   00
10000000                               a040                     .000             .0.00000-4.000  2L2.    00000000                     00000                   10    0
0.000   0                                                        .0             000       0010     00   000000        0040.00.0    .10000                       0    00
0.  .0100.00    1000                     1004     0.0-      00   00000         0000010.         0  00                   0    0
00  00.000                                00000*0000.0          00.00                      0000     000       .0       01000100100  0000
000.                                 1040  01040000o0.00        0.0                                    .00.0   0    0.0000.0000.0000
10*0                               000000.0    00  0.010   0  .0                                0..      00-10       Oo       0  000.0
o   o                                10.   00-1000.00000.00                           000         0  010100.0    00.00.00.10        OOo
0010                               40010*0100.00.00.0                        04.0.    0  .0   .00   0000100000000.0   0  0
0        040000                                  00000000010.0.000 00100                           000   000  010.00   00000
001.                               *0...  000410   0100   0000                        04       .000   04   000     00000000   00004
0  00                                00000.00004.0            00                        0000    0    004.0             00   00000  000000                     4    0
01000                                00000   0  0000000   1000.0                       10  0.          .0  0000      0000000   0000
10000                                  0000.01001004   0.00                             000.00   000  00440          500  0.00000
00.00000                             .0  .000   . 00000.0  00000                        00100   0 0004104            0  10 00
000.0                              00010000.0.00000            4                      0   0000100    001000100.00.0                 00
1000..                               00000000.000104   0.0                              000.0   ..0  1000  00.    .0000.0  .00   ooo4o
00.                                0.00.00000.00.0.0.0   400                          0010000010000   0    0  0000o   00000
000  00                              04      1000001000001000                  00010    000.0   .00    1010000.    1001010  00   00o.0
01000                                0   40010000100.0          .0.0                    0010000   00   10  00        0.0100.0010001010
0010                                000000.00.010.000.00.0                   410.0    0010101000.4000.               00   0  .0   0.000
000  0000000000   0000                            00.000  100.  00000.0      0000000000000  00  10
0.000000000000            40                      00  10o  000   0001010       00   000010   001000
000000                                                  000  .0    0                    00104      .0                         00   0000
04000                                  0000  000.01010   000000                100  0  004000  0000  0-00000        100.0.010  4   040  00
.0                                 0000   0    0..0.0 4   00  00             0100.0    00.00  00       .00  .0   .0  010000   0000000                       000  0'
000000.                              01000    000  ...0000      00                      00    0  0.0  00000.0       0001004000
51
0100000.100   0    00  00  .0                      0.00.0   00   000101010     0001010.0.0.4  1040  .0
.00100100      010104   0010                       00000   -0   4000010        040    00   10410
0400010                              0    0000100  10100    000100             00.000000   '10  -100.0010001000.0   400.0
01000 000 000000000.00000   00
00 I           10000-000                               .0000.5025010.000   040                                                                           0
0  01000                                            000.010   000.0                     0.0.00  00    00000          040004.00.   0040
0.0.4.00                             5sZg.o.2os   5558                     5.000   .00.0.0          100400       OO00OO00O5O.0                                S
00000.10                                              o    .    o                      10                          4
Of                                  0                00't.0O           0005       0000         .0.0     045      00                 .00
00                  100.0          00.00.0040               400      00        0                  04                      I    0
0000.        1000.0            0404              0.0.00       00         oO       000       .0
00410             010000           4000.    00  0           010      0       .0                    00                                      0
5     40
0000  000           0000            00   0    0.010         00       1010    000                  00010                 0010   00          4
0410                                   00.0.0           oo.0             00010       0000         .00      10.-o.o                     o0000                    0    0
0410         00  00..           0000               0000.    0000         0.40               0                  .0  0*00              00    .0           .0
0.    0               0  0          .010.0.00          000  0           0010       0000           0      .00    00                   00.0100                10      0          .0
0.    0                OOo                                               10000    00  0                  00                           1010000               0010   0.
000.00     0000                   404                         4410                    0    0           .4
0                     00  0.        0500010                             0    0    0000                   00.00  oO                    01000                 00    10           0
0    0                 004          001004.0            10  10           0000        .00        000      01010  000                   000.0                 000    0.          0
00    0               00.0                                              -.000      00010                                               00  00               100                00
.0                     0000         o   00.             000            000000      00           10100            5                   00000
8.00                                            10.000        0.0
0000.      .0.000                                             0020010
.0              0010                                             .0100       0  00        0000    0.00    00                    100100                 0.00    0          0.
10  00                00  .0        0.000*0            -0000              40.0                  0.00     10.00  000
.0   00                040.                           00000.            -1000        1000         00       00   00                    00 101
5  0 0                                                                 -0-10       1000         000      0000   0                                          00    10
10                                              .01000.0                     .0oo         410500    00oO                        40
00  .0                00.00         10000010-           1000           0000        000      0  00000    00.0.0   0                    .0  1010              1000   0           10
4                     1000o           0  00            1000000          004        101010   10   00          00    0                  100000                0*00010            .0
10  10000         4    00          00   0    0.10000.00.0                                          0.00
0  000                    0         0    00   00-       01   40
500            0  04400                  0         10  00  00.00                                     00                 o000   0
10  10-0000                              10  010      0000   100                    .0.000
0  0    0'          10.0  0    1000.0.000.            0004   .00                   00040
10100         0  400.0  10         10.004      0000.0    '10.0.0    10000   00                       .0                 00000  0.
00100          0-00       00.0101010.00          000.  000                     0.10
I                      10000.10.0     0  0.  0.00                     01010010010            10100   00                    00010
1000  010     0  4404   0                        0000.0.000          0000   00                       000                .0100
0000           000040            00.010         410400      0.00000.000                                           00
00000  10'    0.-OS 0                               10 .0  00        0000   00.              00  .010.010
4   000000    100040.               000004     .010.00  00  4   0    400   40                       00000
0  00*1000          .00040      010100   0    100
.010  0.0                    00  0   10  00o       100    10  00                 -00.0
100000   4                        0.0    0.000-                                      OOoo                05
.0  .0   10   0   00.  0           .0   .        00                                  00  -  10
10  000  0000                    0.0010  00  0.0      0.00   0.4-                    0.00.00
4010  00 000.2                                     00.010              0.100  0
000220        0  0.04010           00000       .00.0.00010.o
00000010    0.  000404           1000004     0040         0400.                                   .0.000
0140.00                                    0.00.0              0.000.  0
Zr                                  4000.04.0.     0  41004-                         00.00
5                   100-         .00         2      0         .0    4
0                                                               000                          00                                           000
00000000.000                          0  4.00.                                              5         100    00    .0  1000  10.010
.0  2  00.00000000                   000   .0  00010
100000000                       0        01000            0000                     00.0       .44    00      10000      00.000  0. 0 0.
40100040                      00    00  000.                                     4.0004     0  0                     10  0  41  100
00                                  -  000100.  0                     00     0101000              0000                   0.0010     00.
00                                        4.   0400 -                    0010   10  0.1.0.0                                  000       0.0.0
0.000.0000      00.0        10000000.000                                           1000       00
040  1000                                                                        0.000...  000-0.400.0
0.00400   0                                  000                                 001.       010       010000.00000   4  00
0    00  10.0                 0      0  0-   0
00   0  0.                  0000040000                                           00..-    10000
001  001.040                      100    00   0.00                                   10.000    0-0
000.00010                  10  00  .0000                                       4004    10  00                       .o0    100
00     00                       10010      0                    10       10400                                     000000    00-10                     000   00
040-00000                   10010        10010                                   00000        100
*  00.0-  000.0                0010      -  00000                                       0      00100.
>0.000                    000    4   100000                                    0000     00                          000-   00.0
00000000010-                    0        00100                                    -0000000.0         401010.00
0 4 0 10 0 0 10                00        0 00 0.0                                0 00 00    000
00.0    00                    100        0    0                     04         02100.4.
005   00
t02
00.00000  000                 4            00000
00.    4.                       0000-0-000                      .0       0100                                   10  10.0    1040                        0.00   .0100
410.1000000000.0010         00-           0  0                                   004010      000000.000-
00010.0.0.0                   0          000.00                                  0001000    4   0.  00.0    0000
00   04   0    0010           00         .0.000                                  4.0000     0-
0 4-00.                       00         0.0.                                    0.0000.000.10
40001010400                   0.0         >0002           0.0                        0  10       .0  4010   004'$
.00.  0                                40.040   000010
040000000                   000          0100                                  0401000  01000           0
00100    0.00                  .0        04  .000                                  000010         00
100-  000  00.                04         1010000                                 1000040   0000                         .0000  00..
4            0  00                                 00   04
00000000                        .0       0-00                                      1000000  00000
.0     0  4101000  10  00         100010        0-000                                  000      40.- 10
.00000.0  00                  00         .004.0           000.0                  00000.   OOO.o   00.00  00  0
0000000.00000                 00         1000010                                 10001000.00000   00         00
0.00   0040                   100        0.0000                                    000.00   0.000                       00-   100
00.    40                       00.0000   0                    *0       104000                                  0100.04   .00010                       100o   000
I     10000                                                                                                                                                           0.0000
I                         ..                  00000000000                   00         00.0405                                 100100.0 ooo
0    10   00
000.00                    1000000000
00100 0 000 00400000



- 29b -
Table 3:  PROJECTED EANUFACTURING PERFORIMANCE:  WITH AND WITTIOUT STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT
A.  Without structural adjustment                                                                   B.  With structural adjustment
Gross value added           Manufacturing employment    Manufactuiring employment                 Gross value added           MLanufacturing employment    Manufacturing employment
1975-S0   1980-85   1985-90   1980           1985       1990   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90    1975-80   1980-85   1985-90   198                1985        9       975-80   1980-85   1985-90
(Average annual increase I)    (Thousands of workers)    (Average annual increase X)    (Average annual increase Z)    (Thousanids of workers)    (Average annual increase 1)
Manufactured export sector
Primary product processing           6.1        6.7         7.2       150       180        230       3.9        4.1        5.0         6.1        6.7        7.2         150       180        230       3.9         4.1        5.0
Nontraditional manufacturing /a  25.0           15.0       12.0       230       420        620      32.0        13.0       8.0        25.0       17.0       15.0         230       500        860      32.0        17.0       11.5
Domestic market-oriented
industries                           5.9        5.3         4.4    1,710    1,845        2,025       1.9        1.9       2.0          5.9        7.5        8.9      1,710    1,960        2,490       1.9        2.8         4.9
Total Manufacturing               6.5        6.0         5.4    2,090    2,445        2,875       3.1        3.2       3.3          6.5        8.0        9.2      2,090    2,640        3,580       3.1        4.8         6.3
Without structural adjustment                             With structural adjustment
Other Indicators                                                                         1975-80    1980-85    1985-90                            1975-80    1980-85    1985-90
Average incremental capital!
output ratio                                                                              4.6         4.9          5.1                             4.6         4.5          3.8
Average growth of nontraditional
manufactured exports                                                                     25.0        14.1         12.0                            25.0         18.0        15.0
Averag,e employment elasticity                                                             0.47         0.53        0.61                            0.47         0.60        0.68
Average import elasticity                                                                  1.20         1.20        1.20                            1.20         1.05        0.95
Average cost per job (US$ in
1978 prices):
Primary product processing                                                             27,000      ---- 25,000 -----                            27,000      ---- 25,000 ----
Nontraditional manufacturing                                                           ----------- 3,300 ----------                             ---------  3,300 ----------
Domestic market-oriented
industries                                                                          14,000       13,000      11,000                          14,000       12,000       8,000
Percentage of manufacturing
value added produced outside
of core region /b                                                                                                                                   13           17          22
/a  Growth rates inflated due to relatively low base.
/b Governuent target.
Note:  These projections are intended to illustrate the structural adjustment process.  They are based on numerous estinates and  assumptions about domestic and external parameters/conditions.  While these
are all thought to be reasonable, some of them could be invalidated by subsequent developments.



- 30 -
117.        The recent strengthening of export incentives and promotion
measures should permit the nontraditional manufactured export drive to be
continued with increased backward linkages and participation by more firms,
industries, and regions. Given the projected growth in overseas markets, the
volume of nontraditional manufactured exports could potentially grow at an
average rate of 16% over the next decade, with employment in these export
industries growing at a slightly lower rate. Although the projected growth
rate is lower than the 25% rates achieved during the late 1970s, the export
base was substantially smaller then. The projected export growth rate
significantly exceeds the average 11% manufactured export growth projected for
all developing countries. Some Philippine nontraditional manufactures (such
as garments and electronics) are expected to increase their share in overseas
markets and replace those of some international competitors which have
experienced rapidly increasing wage costs. In the absence of the measures
being taken to strengthen export incentives, Philippines export performance
would be closer to the average for developing countries, and employment
creation would be correspondingly lower.
118.      The reforms affecting home industry would help raise its employment
elasticity from 0.32 to 0.55. Greater labor intensity in home industries,
together with the projected growth in nontraditional manufactured exports,
would also benefit small- and medium-scale industries because of their
comparative advantage in labor-intensive sectors. This, in turn, would
stimulate manufacturing activities in outlying regions, where labor costs are
lower, and reinforce the locational effects of planned infrastructure
investment in these regions.
119.      Without the policy program, manufacturing performance would continue
along the lines of the 1970s. The average annual growth of manufacturing
value added would fall from 6.5% to 5.4% in the late 198Qs primarily because
of increasing constraints imposed by high cost and inefficient production for
a limited domestic market. Manufacturing employment growth would, neverthe-
less, improve slightly as a result of the continued relatively high growth of
nontraditional labor-intensive exports and their larger initial base. However,
the absolute number of jobs added in manufacturing each year would be 70,000
lower than would be created with the policy reform program. Although
nontraditional manufactured exports would grow at a respectable average rate
of about 13% per annum, they would be nearly $2 billion lower in real terms
at the end of the decade.
120.      The Transition Problem.  The substantial projected increase in
manufacturing employment would be the net result of gains and losses caused by
the policy changes. Much will depend upon how successfully domestic industry
adjusts to the more competitive environment. A five-year period has been
allowed for it to make the necessary adjustments. Extensive public hearings
have been held on the effects of the tariff reform on domestic industry. The
general conclusion from these was that industries and firms which are
reasonably economic should be able to adjust without undue difficulty to the
lower tariff levels during the period over which the reductions would be
implemented. An in-depth Bank study of the garment and textile industries -
two major affected employers with 120,000 and 100,000 workers respectively -



- 31 -
indicated that the garment industry should experience no difficulty at all
because of the Philippines very competitive labor costs and that textile
employment could increase over the next five years with more efficient firms
expanding operations to take over from marginal ones.
121.      Although there may be a few highly visible plant closings, any
transitional unemployment will be insignificant in comparison to the number of
additional workers for whom job opportunities will have to be found in any
case. Transitional unemployment would be spread over a five-year period
starting in January 1981. If this totaled 5% of current manufacturing
employment or about 100,000 jobs, it would be only 3% of the 3 million new
workers who will join the labor force in the same period.  One of the
principal objectives of the policy programs is to reorient industry along more
labor-intensive lines in order to provide jobs for the rapidly expanding labor
force. Reabsorbing those who may be displaced in the process - and who would
be best placed and qualified to compete for new jobs - is a minor task in
comparison to solving the fundamental employment problem.
122.      Risks.  The Government-s industrial reform program has two major
risks. The first arises from the difficulty in estimating with any precision
the quantitative effect of the policy reforms on the economy. The above
projections illustrate, on the basis of one set of reasonable assumptions,
what t:he policy program might achieve over the next decade. However, neither
the magnitude nor the timing of the long-term benefits and transitional
disruption can be predicted with certainty because of a shortage of data and
absence of any satisfactory theoretical basis to estimate accurately the
quantitative impact of the measures. The responsiveness of Philippine
enterprises to increased incentives and greater competition is difficult to
predict precisely. Furthermore, the benefits that will result from
strengthened export incentives will depend very much upon the openness of
markets in industrial countries and the degree of competition from other
developing countries in supplying these markets. Hence, although the ultimate
benefits from the reforms are clear, the length and difficulty of the
adjustment process are less certain.
123.         The second major risk is that for internal or external reasons the
policy reforms may not be completely carried out within the time frame
envisioned. The short-term costs of some of the measures - in the form of
higher imports, plant closings, and transitional unemployment - are likely to
precede the long-term benefits of greater competitiveness and accelerated
employment generation.  The Government will undoubtedly be pressured to modify
its program by those domestic firms adversely affected by policy reform.
Moreover, external circumstances such as continued oil price increases, high
rates of international inflation, and increasing protectionism by the
industrial countries, together with the Philippines large balance of payments
deficits, create a difficult climate for the reforms. On the other hand, the
more hostile the external environment, the more urgent will be the need for
the improvements in industrial efficiency that the reforms should yield.
124.      The policy program has three features that reduce the above risks.
First, the program includes measures to offset the possible adverse short-term



- 32 -
effects of tariff reform and trade liberalization. For example, indirect
taxes would be realigned and a flexible exchange rate policy would be main-
tained to protect the country s balance of payments position. Industrial
rehabilitation and rationalization programs would be implemented to help firms
adjust to the more competitive environment. Export promotion schemes and
large-scale industrial projects are expected to have a positive effect on
private sector expectations and to stimulate private investment.
125.      Second, the reforms are being announced in advance and implemented
in stages over four years in order to provide the private sector with an
opportunity to prepare for the required transition. The staging will also
permit the strength and timing of the complementary measures to be adjusted as
the quantitative impact of the reforms becomes known.
126.      Third., the reforms are being implemented in a situation which,
although difficult, is by no means a crisis." One of the problems of similar
reform programs elsewhere has been lack of staying power to carry the reforms
through because they were instituted only in response to an extremely serious
balance of payments situation. The Philippines is not in such a situation and
has as yet unutilized borrowing capacity and creditworthiness. Moreover, by
improving the country s long-term prospects, the reforms should also
strengthen its international creditworthiness. Hence, if the adjustment
process proves more difficult than anticipated, it should be possible to
mobilize additional financial resources to support the policy programs.
PART V - THE STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan History
127.      The Bank has provided about $400 million to the Philippine indus-
trial sector through the Private Development Corporation of the Philippines,
the Development Bank of the Philippines, the Industrial Guarantee and Loan
Fund, and the Philippine Investment Systems Organization. While the Bank's
participation helped strengthen the institutional capacity of these financial
intermediaries, it supported a pattern of industrial development about which
there were increasingly serious misgivings.
128.      The structural adjustment loan was initially identified in August/
September 1979 during discussions of the industrial sector report. At that
time a comprehensive understanding was reached at the highest levels on the
objectives that could be achieved through a series of staged industrial policy
reforms, the initial stage of which could be supported by a structural
adjustment loan.  The program s scope was confined to industry because the
sector-s performance is an important cause of the economy's overall structural
problems and its problems would be difficult enough to solve without simulta-
neously tackling other major issues. In addition, the specific solutions to
other major problems were not readily available, and the Bank was not then in
a position to help formulate these. The Bank had not yet undertaken detailed
analytical work on energy; rainfed agriculture faces inordinately difficult



- 33 -
technological and institutional constraints; and the size and composition of
the public investment program appeared, with a few exceptions, fairly
reasonable.
129.       In October 1979, the Government appointed an interagency committee
chaired by the Minister of Industry to coordinate its industrial development
program. A preappraisal mission visited the Philippines in November/December
1979 to help work out the initial package of reform measures to be supported
by the proposed loan.  Substantial progress seemed possible in the areas of
export promotion and tariff reform, and improvements in trade policy were
adopted as the primary objective of the initial reforms. There was less
agreement on the exact revisions needed in investment incentives; preliminary
formulation of industrial restructuring programs was just starting; and the 11
industrial projects had just been announced. Consequently, major actions in
these areas were likely to take longer.
130.       In December 1979, the Government requested an advance, subsequently
approved, of up to $50,000 under the Project Preparation Facility to finance
consultants to assist with the initial work on investment incentives and
industrial restructuring. The loan was appraised in March/April 1980. Nego-
tiations were held in July 1980 with a delegation headed by the Honorable
Cesar E.A. Virata, Minister of Finance.  In general, the strong commitment of
the Government to industrial restructuring has resulted in rapid progress in
the preparation of the measures to be supported by the proposed loan.
Supplementary loan data are given in Annex III.
131.       Work on the structural adjustment loan has been carefully coordi-
nated with the IMF staff throughout the entire period of loan preparation.
The IMF mission which negotiated the 1980-81 standby arrangement was in the
field at the same time as the Bank-s preappraisal mission. Draft documents
and views were exchanged at every stage in the processing of the structural
adjustment loan and the standby.  The IMF staff is in broad agreement with the
program for restructuring the industrial sector, which is complementary to
that supported by the current standby arrangement.
Relationship between the Proposed Loan and Policy Reforms
132.       The proposed loan would support the initial phase of the Govern-
ment's long-term comprehensive industrial development program, which focuses
on measures to strengthen export incentives, liberalize trade, and realign
tariffs.  The policy measures that would be supported by the proposed loan
have been adopted. Satisfactory progress in implementing the two most
important and difficult of these - i.e., liberalization of import licensing
and tariff reform - would be the condition for releasing the second tranche of
the loan (see para. 138 below).
133.       Most of the specific steps listed in Attachment 2B of the Govern-
ment's Letter on Industrial Development Policies primarily involve the
preparation of measures for possible future implementation. The Government
would submit to the Bank, by January 1, 1981, a report evaluating the progress
made in these areas since loan approval. This report would serve as a basis



- 34 -
for a mid-term review (draft Loan Agreement Section 3.05(b)). The proposed
technical assistance component would help continue translation of the policy
reform program into action. The Bank would continue to work closely with
MOI/BOI to help strengthen its planning and analytical capability much along
lines of normal institution-building support for development finance
companies.
Loan Amount
134.      The primary justification for the proposed loan is the expected
beneficial effect of the policy reform program on the performance of the
industrial sector. Although the measures would strengthen the balance of
payments in the long term, they may initially lead to some net increase in
importing. The additional foreign exchange resources to be provided by the
proposed loan would help finance the increase in imports and permit higher
growth and investment rates than might otherwise be possible during this
adjustment period. The size of the loan was determined on the basis of the
Philippines- long-term capital requirements, the size of the Bank's lending
program, and the amount of financing that the Bank could make available to
support a policy reform program of the type being undertaken in view of other
priority needs.
135.      Of the proposed loan amount of $200 million, $195 million would
finance a broad range of imports of industrial raw materials, intermediate and
investment goods, and spare parts. A list of eligible imports by commodity
group is given in the Annex to Schedule 2 of the draft Loan Agreement. Loan
proceeds would represent less than 5% of the anticipated imports in the eli-
gible categories (which reached $4 billion in 1979) making rapid disbursement
possible.
Technical Assistance Component
136.      A $5 million technical assistance component would be used to help
formulate and implement measures in four major areas. First, it would finance
assistance to strengthen MOI/BOI-s planning and analytical capabilities with
respect to: (a) methodologies and procedures for the identification, design,
and appraisal of projects; (b) access to up-to-date information on technolo-
gical alternatives; (c) overall administration and organization of MOI/BOI;
and (d) the review and possible revisions in the existing package of fiscal
incentives. Second, technical assistance would be provided to prepare textile
and other subsector restructuring programs and broadened SMSI development
programs. Third, on-the-job and overseas training would be financed for the
staff of the Tariff Commission. And, fourth, support would be given in
establishing an international trade center and in strengthening training,
product development, and related activities to help exporters. In order to
make it feasible to carry out a technical assistance program of the scope and
complexity planned, consultants would also be employed to help with the pro-
gram s management and administration.



- 35 -
137.      Requirements for about 120 man-months of foreign consultants and 300
man-months of local consultants have so far been identified. These have been
costed at $10,000 and $5,000 per man-month respectively. Consultant contracts
of $100,000 and above would be on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank
(draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03). Any portion of the technical assistance
component for which a use is not identified would be reallocated to finance
imports.
Disbursement and Procurement
138.      The import component of the proposed loan would be disbursed in two
tranches and is expected to be fully disbursed within one year of loan effec-
tiveness. The first tranche of $100 million would be available upon loan
effectiveness. The second tranche of $95 million would become available on
January 31, 1981. Disbursement of the second tranche would be contingent on
satisfactory progress in liberalizing import licensing and realigning tariffs
(draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 3(e)).
139.      Procurement and disbursement procedures have been designed to ensure
the rapid draw down of loan proceeds. The import component of the proposed
loan would reimburse 100% of the CIF cost of eligible imports on the basis of
evidence that they were paid for and imported after loan signing.  Imports
financed from other sources would not be eligible for Bank financing.
140.      The Government of the Philippines would be the borrower.  It has
designated its Central Bank to be responsible for maintaining the loan
account, for collecting the relevant Letters of Credit and subsequent Release
Certificates showing evidence of bona fide importation and payment, and for
submitting withdrawal applications. The withdrawal applications would not be
accompanied by the supporting documentation but would include a statement
certifying that the required documents were held by the Central Bank and would
be available for inspection by the Bank.
141.      Procurement would be limited to Bank member countries and Switzer-
land. Both private and public sector imports would be eligible for financing.
Imports are likely to be procured primarily by private firms, which would
follow normal commercial practices. Public sector imports would be in
accordance with standard government procurement practices, which ensure
reasonable prices. Public sector purchases exceeding $5 million in size would
be through international competitive bidding. If there are any such
purchases, the contracts would be subject to a post review, i.e., the Central
Bank would provide a brief report with the withdrawal application containing
evidence that the contracts were let in accordance with Bank guidelines.
142.      The technical assistance component would be disbursed over a four-
year period. It would reimburse 100% of expenditures on consultants
services, training, and fellowships.  The $50,000 advance under the Project
Preparation Facility would also be retroactively refinanced from the loan
proceeds.



- 36 -
Counterpart Funds
143.      The Philippine pesos generated by the sale to importers of the
foreign exchange proceeds from the loan would be credited to a Project Account
that would be established by the Central Bank. These counterpart funds would
be used to finance economic development expenditures. The Government has
indicated that it intends to use the counterparts for industrial development
purposes, broadly defined to include manufacturing, agroindustry, mining,
construction, and utilities. The Government stated that the following are
high priority areas for use of the counterpart funds: (a) energy generation
facilities and conversion of industrial plants to non-oil fuels; (b) develop-
ment of domestic engineering industries; and (c) the national industrial
estate/export processing zone program. Quarterly reports would be submitted
to the Bank on the utilization of the counterpart funds in accordance with the
general provision of Section 3.04(a) of the draft Loan Agreement that the Bank
shall be provided at regular intervals with all such information concerning
the loan as it shall reasonably request.
Relationship to Other Structural Adjustment and Industrial Lending
144.      Implementation of all the structural adjustment measures needed in
various sectors will require a period of years, and a series of structural
adjustment type loans is envisioned. Each loan would support a program of
policy measures, with the timing of the loan being determined by that of the
measures it would support. Continued lending for structural adjustment would
be contingent upon satisfactory progress in implementing agreed reforms. If
the first loan proceeds as expected, a second S.A.L., focussing on investment
incentives and industrial restructuring programs, to provide further support
for the industrial development program will be consider-ed. An energy sector
mission visited the Philippines in June 1980 and is now preparing its report.
145.      In addition to continued structural adjustment lending, the Bank's
future lending program would assist industrial restructuring through: (a) fi-
nancial sector (apex) loans to support complementary financial policy and
institutional reforms; (b) individual subsector loans that would assist in the
restructuring of major industries; and (c) broadened institutional support for
employment-creating activities. Future loans to financial intermediaries
would concentrate on the resolution of major financial sector policy issues.
In order to widen the institutional coverage of Bank financing and address
sector issues more effectively, industrial lending to financial intermediaries
will be channelled through an "apex" unit in the Central Bank. The first
financial sector or  apex  loan is expected to be presented later this fiscal
year. Such "apex" lending would replace conventional development finance
company lending.
146.      A series of loans is contemplated to help finance the Ministry of
Industry's programs for restructuring key industrial subsectors affected by
policy reform. Candidate subsectors include both weak ones in need of
rationalization (e.g., textiles) and underdeveloped ones with a potential
comparative advantage (e.g., food processing, mechanical engineering). A



- 37 -
first subsector loan to support restructuring of the textile industry is under
discussion. The Bank has also undertaken a subsector study to help formulate
a rehabilitation program for the cement industry and to guide development
finance cmpany and IFC lending for cement projects.
147..     The remaining component of the Bank's industrial lending will be
strengthened institutional support for employment creation. A third snall-
scale industry development project is planned to support the broadened SMSI
programs discussed in para. 116.  Improved industrial vocational training
programs with a more comprehensive approach and an institutional framework
designed to encourage greater enterprise involvement in training are being
developed. These would help meet the manpower requirements of the Govern-
ment:s industrial strategy and would form the basis of a future training
projiect. Future urban projects will be broadened to include not only slum
upgrading and sites and services but also infrastructure and other components
to support employment creation. The Bank also expects to be executing agent
for a UNDP technical assistance project on industrial estate planning.
148.      As of June 30, 1980, IFC had total commitments in the Philippines of
$103.6 million. IFC is currently considering possible investments in the
cement and mining sectors as well as in capital markets projects with emphasis
on the financing of medium-scale enterprises. A copper smelter, which is one
of the 11 major industrial projects, is being appraised.
PART VI - OTHER WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
149.      As of July 31, 1980, the Philippines had received 71 Bank loans (of
which two were on Third Window terms) amounting to $2,382.9 million and six
IDA credits amounting to $122.2 million. The share of the Bank Group in total
debt disbursed and outstanding is about 10% and its share in total debt
service is about 7%. These ratios are expected to be about 16% and 9%,
respectively, by 1985. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits and Bank
loans as of July 31, and IFC investments as of June 30, 1980, respectively, as
well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
150. The Bank Group has financed projects in virtually all sectors of the
economy with particular emphasis on agriculture and basic infrastructure.
Each of these accounted for about one-third of total Bank Group lending. In
agriculture, emphasis has been given to expanding the irrigation system to
increase food production, to credit programs to support foodgrain production
and processing, and to livestock, fisheries and tree-farming production.
Integrated rural development projects in low income areas have also been
supported. The Bank Group has provided large amounts of financing for
developing power and transportation to provide the basis for future growth of
the productive sectors and development outside Metro Manila. About 20% of
total Bank lending to the Philippines has gone to the industrial sector.
151.      Execution of Bank-financed projects has improved markedly in the
1970s compared with the experience of the late 1960s, when shortages of peso



- 38 -
counterpart funds and weak administration caused serious problems. Almost all
ongoing projects are being implemented reasonably well. Supervision and pro-
ject completion reports indicate that the economic benefits for most projects
are likely to be in line with appraisal estimates. Recently, however, admin-
istrative problems resulting from the acceleration of inflation and the need
to maintain tight control on expenditures have caused some delays in project
implementation, and disbursements have been slower than anticipated. A
Project Implementation Review was held in May 1980, and steps are being taken
to correct the procedural problems.
152.      The Bank's future lending program has been designed to assist the
Government in achieving the objectives of its Five-Year Development Plan (see
para. 19). Agricultural and rural development will account for the largest
part of future lending with continued emphasis on food production and programs
to increase the productivity and incomes of small farmers. Several needed new
initiatives include support for strengthening the national agricultural
extension service through Loan 1626-PH (National Extension Project) and for
developing multiple cropping systems in rainfed areas, where there is
substantial rural poverty, through Loan 1815-PH (Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo)
Project). Greater assistance will be provided for integrated rural
development projects which support the Government's objectives of redressing
regional imbalances in income.  Substantial financing will also go to
industry, as described in paras. 155 through 159. Greater emphasis on water
supply, education, population and health, and slum upgrading and low-cost
sites and services projects, particularly in areas outside Metro Manila, will
raise the share of lending for social sector projects. The Bank Group will
continue to provide some support for transportation and power infrastructure.
However, the share of lending for these sectors will decline somewhat in the
years ahead primarily because alternative sources of financing are available
for a large part of the power generation program and because Bank efforts are
being directed toward improving the less-costly rural transportation system.
153.      This is the third loan to be presented to the Executive Directors
this fiscal year and the first in a series for structural adjustment. It
would be the first loan to the Philippines under the currency pooling arrange-
ment. Loans for agricultural support services and the financial sectors are
under preparation and will be scheduled for Board presentation later in the
fiscal year.
PART VII - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
154.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines and
the Bank and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
155.      Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III.  The condition for disbursement of the second tranche is that the Bank
shall be satisfied with progress in implementing the tariff reform and the
liberalization of import licensing (see draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,



- 39 -
para. 3(e)). The specific actions that the Govermaent has taken or plans to
take during the period of loan disbursement to implement its industrial
development program are listed in Attachment 2 of its Letter (Annex IV).
156.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VIII - RECOMMENDATION
157.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 21, 1980



- 40 -                           ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5 pages
PBILIPPIFSlb - SOCIL  MICATOES DATA SEET
PHILIPPINES                      REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEMGES
LAND AUEA           5 N.)                                                           - )DST XECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            300.0
AGRICULTURAL      90.7                               MOST RECENT          MDDLE INCOME           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b   1970 A  ESTIMATE lb        ASIA & PACIFIC   LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
GSP PER CAPITA (1S1)                140.0       230.0    510.0                 894.8                 1384.1
ENERGY CONELTYION PUR CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    147.0       301.0    339.0                 842.4                 1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)    27.4        36.9      45.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCPJT OF TOTAL) 30.3       32.9      35.4                  39.1                  63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     75.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      126.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2075
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      91.0       123.0    152.0                 376.1                   28.1
PER SQ. 1X. AGRICULTU1RAL LAND    360.0     472.0    503.0                2350.4                   81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.7        45.5      44.8                 40.4                   41.4
15-64 YRS.                        52.3        53.6     52.1                  56.2                   54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         2.9       3.1                  3.4                    3.9
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.7         3.0       2.7                  2.4                    2.7
URBAN                             3.9         3.9       3.7                  4.4                    4.1
CRUW  BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    45.0        44.0      35.0                 28.7                   34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    15.0        11.0       9.0                  7.9                    8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.5/c       3.3       2.4                   1.9                   2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       191.7    509.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         2.0      22.0                 39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        102.0       101.0    114.0                 116.9                  106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REUUIREMENTS)                  8B.0        92.0      97.0                108.9                  107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)        .45.0        50.0      53.0                 60.3                   65.6
OF WRICH ANIMAL ANDt PULSE     17.0        20.0      21.0                 18.8              -    33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    16.0        10.0       7.0                  5.3                    8.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   51.0        57.0      60.0                 63.0                   63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          98.0        S0.0      74.0                 52.8                   66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      39.0                 42.4                   65.9
URBAN                              *-          *-      51.0                 62.1                   80.4
RURAL                              ..          ..      33.0                 29.7                   44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..      56.0                 52.8                   62.3
URBAN                              ..          ..      76.0                 71.1                   79.4
RURAL                              ..          ..      44.0                 42.4                   29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             ..          ..   2758.0                4120.1                 1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..      3840.0   3058.0                2213.6                 1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1208.0       850.0'    639.0                819.4                  480.3
URBAN                              ..          .
RURAL                              ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL. BED         ..          ..        ..                 28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.8         5.9
UERAN                              ..         6.2
RURAL                              ..         5.8
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         2.3
URBAN                              ..         2.1
RURAL                              ..         2.4
ACCESS TO ELECTRICrTY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                            16.5        22.9/d   31.0
URBAN                               ,        62.8/8d     .
RURAL                              ..         6.S/d    10.0.



-  41 -                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
PHILIPPINES - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PHILIPPINES                     REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE!AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT          MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         ASIA & PACIFIC    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        114.0     105.0                   98.6                     99.7
MALE                  98.0       115.0      103.0                   99.2                    101.0
FEMALE                93.0       113.0      108.0                  97.7                      99.4
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 26.0        50.0       56.0                   55.5                     34.4
MALE                  28.0        59.0       65.0                   60.7                     33.5
FEMALE                25.0        42.0      47.0                    49.9                     34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)  15.0           6.0        ..                   13.7                     38.2
PUP'IL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            36.0         29.0      29.0                   34.6                     30.5
SECONDARY                          27.0        33.0       31.0                   28.5                     14.5
ADLLT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        71.9         82.6      87.0                   85.8                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0          8.0       8.9                    9.0                     43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         22.0        46.0       41.0                  118.9                    245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
?3PULATION                          1.4         11.0      17.0                   39.4                     84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOJSAND POPULATION                  17.0         14.0      18.0                     ..                     63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.6            ..       7.6                    4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10893.2       13478.1   16310.9
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   34.4         33.1      32.0                   36.8                     22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              61.0         53.0      48.0                   51.9                     37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 15.2         15.8      16.0                   21.9                     23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                39.8         36.6      35.3                   39.1                     31.5
MALE                                 52.1         48.6      47.1                   48.5                     48.9
FEMALE                               27.4         24.4      23.3                   29.6                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.2          1.3       1.2                    1.1                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIlHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   28.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  56.2          53.9      53.3
LGWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.2           3.7       5.5
LWNEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   11.9          11.9      14.7
POVERT'Y TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEI (US$ PER CAPITA)
UREAN                                ..           ..     250.0
RUPAL                                ..           ..     190.0                  192.1                   190.8
ESTIPATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     132.0                     ..                   474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      87.0                  182.5                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      39.0
RUMRL                                ..           ..      44.0                   33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  ThE group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
acong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1950-55;  Id 1967, household.
April, 1980



- 42 -                                                                                 ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
EEFINITIINS OP _SOCIaL INDICATORS
Note.:  Although the date are draw   fr, source  generlly judged the moat authoritative   od reliable, it should ol   be noted chat they say not be intte-
nait.. lly coparble because of the lack of standardized definitions and conce.pts use d by differet coun tries in co1leotiog the data.  The data urr  tour-..
ohelsa ...   .. f.  to de-orbe ordec  of magnitude, indicat  treade, nod rarcetecrtauo  ujor doffe-ot.o..bt                            ....couire..
The refern,       grusae ) the  am   ooon-Y genu.P of the sub len   -outty and (2) a no-ty greup  ithb  anohat higher averag  income. tha  the ..un.try group
of th   ubject coantey(accept fon "Capital Surplus Oil tupoctets  group where  'Middln  I.-on  N-tho Afnico atd Middle East' is chose  because ot strager
..onio-culnra  affinities).  1a the efeeeaoe group data the  veags.  are populanion  eighted aintea-io mean  for e..ob indiao- and show   unly  h.e at
least haltIf..ibmhcountria ia  grouP bee daat;.ot tolt indicator.  SInc  the.  --nrg  of conrnaog the indicator  dpenda on tho availability of
data ad  entuIform, caution must be_ease ie               i  rlting averges of nn  indiotor- no acth-r  Thee   --verae    -r  only ...etol In  -oParong the value
of one indicator an a time among  .b..coutry and r-f-ren.. grops.
LAND ARIA (thousnd  aim.)ror latcco ph lcuccuac-cPalunio   cooure by ou-e  00pacuugPty-
otl-Totalstaaas   npiiglo    rasdiln    aes                                                   lin    ulfo          o      ela c-hol  t    lvrnty  rvl
daiutrl-Esomt-   of agri-ulo-a    roae   eprrl   rproenl                                oualnrthrioPro                     PPopularon dfirdrd by numbr if prociolog
ion orops, pastures,  -aken and kitchen   gedn    or to' lie fa.'ion; 1977 de""Iaadda"egautn~na    rcIaltre,edauitn    aes
Gj .ttS CAPITA (US$) - GNfP pot o-pito  ntiatsa ut curret sarkt prices. cal-                   Boooitcr  ortlSd - tota. nrbao.a                       fl.       Popuintion  (total.
iffP                                                                    urbac, so~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d rura11l) dIvdd by their raPentle  nuber of hoeplioI bade_
nu9ate  by -sncnerin thod ea RW-ld Saab Atlos (1976-78 basis); 1960f,                            avilable  in public and prio-te ge-ra  and speialioad bopitea  an.d  e
9i,Aod 1978 deia.                                                                            habilitatir   centers t-    tospital  ste etablishments pnreeetly staffed
tffniTCSfSIDTDS  U CPIA -Anualconumnic  o  u eenia  enrg  (cal            by cclatOne phynioi-n   Etenbliebm-te providing prinripsily o..nodia1
ENERGY CONS   TIoN   - Ati.. of                  .-gy (...I               car_ste ot  toldnd.  trnI hospitals, h -nevr  incode health med medical
en   ignite,  eiris , natural geeand hydra-, nuolna  en           Ietbeo  slec-               cetres  oel  rrevty  staf nod by sphysician  (ban by a medical assistant,
nrio ity) in kilogram   of o.a. Iquivelent pen cipii.; 1960, 1970, end 1978                      n e,ndioet.ehioh off-o in-patient a......dtin  sod provide 
dote.~~~~~~~~~~~~~, o. o t~Io
POPSLhDION AND VlTAL, STATISTICS                                                                   cola llIr iepinpa  geneol ad seio1lsd  hospitals  an_trts
Tntel  .perletion, Wid-Yea   (mlin)- hA. of July i; 1960, 1970, end 1978                         hoytaeIca          Br oo  icToptca   codeed`       a  and mo...teroi- cenhter..
d.t.                                                                  ~ ~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fro    boioodirided by rho  oebet of bedu.
lUAt  "Poroltia   loron citotal)  R- fs    of urban to  -ot1 yPoPlntion;
different dainitrn   of urba  areas mayffect coparbilitY of dote                           011
aoeonrr;19ff  1970. snd 19 dt.Avr..s. ti.e of uo-hbld (Ireso   a  hoos..hold) -total orb-n. sd  -sre-
PonainP-cisoi...                                                                           u house hold corelint of a  ropoff individuals ohn nhate ltiig q-aters
Poultoni  ye   2001 - Cun-et population prolir    r  bsdo   91                          ad their nao mealt.  A b-di  or lodger nay or nay oot be included in
tonal popultion by age and sea and their motality and frriility rates.                            ... h hueoli  for tata teiivl p-rpoaes
ProjecIon pec-stet  fot motality rtes. -uprian of tb... laa- soat                         Overage omber of pern  err toon - coel. urban, oed rurl - Arer9g  ou--
leg life enpeonanyiat bir h~thicasn    u    c-uotry'n pet  cpica inco.e                     hot of pnr.... per ..oa  II,.al  urban, and rura  oc-Pied co.nvootiunn.l
leva, edfemal  lIfe enpecrtny stebilisingot 77.   Yon.   The' par-                          Swlig,rsetvl.lmligocuo                               tptaentir-otos- and
natsre for fe-nility rtet also bae- be t eve.l-e u.wnuin  d-clir  La
fnrtilityaooodioa  t0 ino-. leve  aid pas  family poningi  pof-ecc.                          oooe d pu-to.
t ihtoune  istet       aindm   o   hennceiatouo   anlt                                  Ac.rnu to fec -rcir           ...eoet of  -Inelias) - trial, urban, and rural -
end f.nrility torads for pronuln prp O.c.                                                    ictn Iotldelosso    lcrct   i   iigqai                              cfreig
Soationsrv oorulaton-I tataiioaY population  nhere is g    growth circe                 of total.u1o,   coIdgrurl delosepciny
che birth tote Ee oqual to tdo desob rate,.sd  la  ro   g  nr-cu-  r-                   "iDICATECN
mo1innronot.,t   This in achievd only aftac fenilityp rtes de'.ee to                       AjtdE-1 tR~.
the crylcie.e.n  level of unit -et roproduti-  t.tuo, oh          h en   ...o . gereratlor.Adusted1tocoirolt fon1
of  -oo  repla.es itanf sacly.  Ths sootio-ay population   le  cccntlim of a  all  gen or thr printy lo-e  or p--tortgr.of  -op-ci-a
oninod 00tAn basin of ihr projectd otaonso                  of thepultopimysco-a ppooeins%onll    clde-hl rtae    -li
lo tbo fear lOl, ad Ohr rate of decieoffr ocoeE   epae                                         year   buIdjse    to  difrc Leghs ot primay odo-tior; for
Th. y-    h.. .-i ..   P.P.I. ~       ocancriro   ith  niro  eduo-i- enrole-o  may eced 100 peren
fea natorryootlaio  i  ccotd    Tn  ea  wen  utiOae  ppulono              ioe o-  - partil. ar  b - or above th  officia1l shool ear
Poooletion lonsity                                                      ~~~~~~~Iro...dary rhool -total, nob an  fanalo  - Computad ne .bo-:  -ocotity
Pe ke.h. -Mid-yea  popalatiwn per  quore kilomete  (100 h-onarn) of                          odu_atioI requires si In..t foryer  of epprovd primary iotrl
toflac. tvdsgreo,crair    o   roe  crainolg i-o -rcions for popih1
Per en. te- o-ioulcueal land - Compated ac above ion ai-a1--l len                               -enlyd of1 -         1    .                          ....t.                . .I
64ualrAeSnatr  reei      Childrn  (0-l4 year) , wrhiog-age  (11-                                   oud crhce,Edsil,rotrprgmebob prteoee-
Ohyear), an  retrn  (65 1ynen and _vor) an p___nign   of rid-pee  popo-                        dol   rt   eooot_o   rodr   otrtoa
ltiicn; 1900, 1970D..ad 1979 date.                                                             Pupal-yncr ra      tti    ..rnoy on"!,d ncner-          otln esaeroldi
Pronatin Irwib  nte reren)- toal A Anneal gro-hcte  of tota  rid-                      pT-r1n eonaylcl   iiddhomnno   -ache     in the                                   I
year  apalnion  fet1911-f60, 1960-70, sod 1970-pg.                                          o-ryonpodio -orl.dy1-.iiddb                      bt   ot..ht   ith
P.raMtno irwi  athoRt  (Peroart) - urb-c-  Arn..  groil- are  of urban pope-                    hAl iooycoe(ecr)- Litrrnadt                         i   (obl  to rea  a-d write)
latiron  for 1910-Al. 1960-70, ond 1970-7S.                                                       Isyrecg    fttlautpplto    gd1   or   r   vr
Crude Bierb Rate Seer thousand) - Annual live births per thousan.d of nid-yrar
pplto;1960, 170, and 1919 data.                                                    CONSCOTIbi
CedeEno  an  for husn) - Annul deetho per thounad of nid-y-r                            fnrnrCt  ptObuadppltrl-Pstro    eacmrc    oo
iracReroacio  A  n-Aerge0 mbrof deegbsr- aono   ill boa  £0                          rlnuychiln
tility rains; usua lly fiv-year average  ending in 1960  1070, cod 1977.                       brothnnorg          -ro   aloc  e  ios  Ad0fppuaio;  uue  unli-t
Family Pla-in2A-coostor, IAtalthousands) - Annua  -ueh-  ci o-cpto-                              beedrr-elcor   In cocoopbles atd in  nooergitato of iPn1ia cow
Pnly Pln...itu-smo ...      oet o    aeid .oer   .    ...toeg  at married                                                   -         y- -ylo    .    p-l    i
one  of ohiId-bering9ago 15-401-' per)eouobrhcnro    eie   o                                 cetinhliahed 1it.enelig.
oIl nr_ied n-e  lose   g  a p                                                                TO eci-era (yen thoIess-d prltol-TV en r   fta  broado.n. to
POOR _AND OIIIt                                                                                     lrooread  In yous-              e  togiauio of I ecrwi   fet
loden of Food Production Pose Capoe (1909-171_10.) - End-o of pot cctriu..o   ..uprr  leato                                   .pot ...oo .o I Iopal-no) - Shoos :the  vrrage cicls,-l
I -                      ~~~~~li-otico  devted primaily to recoding gnrlon.i   ncniee
ia or Tneda  po  houio.  Cosadinisocoer proar  goods (c.g. .uacae                              t h.aly.f..pe.o..racTurnmnork
instoad of  ugor)  hbich erredbl  cod  --imm   outrieron  (e.g. coffee and                   Ctooo oduoly e ifaoot  ear- -air per tac-tate    antenuhr
orcrroladed).  Aggreat  prduction of n..chou...nty Is ba...d 00coensllofgooya,icuigamoir   0dieS    aoa
uctoc   - voag  proscor  price onights; 1901-Al, 1970, and 1078 dor.t.lkt   - lt1gh   y- i- d.gdi-                                                                      i
Per carinu supply of calories (enroent of roouireeentsl - imputed  from       cod rCohpidlo unto..bil. I i
erorgy rquivcloot of net food tapplionavutlaklo  locourony  for on pita  LAbOR P05t11"' "":.  BO, FORC
per_day.  AVailable su~ppilee ronprina.u ....nij  production.  .rpo.. ten    ~           lor_ loooo  jbeodl - Oooisl    cieprr                                    nldn
coo ,adoagen in Nt.,Se    upplinseoclde  ,,-I toed, needa,                         ovsrdb          F. forr h-nd  .e..cyd.ha  -ocllyo bocliven,S. icdot lR.d
tuOotitetaesd   t food  rocessin, cod  ison  Indibriutir.-eodn-               c    firticorooa  bus.yl bccote  ar-       rtcopoildi96,  91to
nooceerenngnted   y Pu  besd onphysoloia   m    for_ttes) RI           i           17  da"ta.        o  i                               -
clity and h-o1tb coisderiog erivo-eru  temperaur, body rihn  uge                           fera0(pcoo)- Fetol  labor focanpretgcfoclooroc.
cod  -n  dtn-cbuti- of pplain,cd alo-iog  17 percoot for Iost  at                          cor- uor- Itret)-            Laborfrc-    n fornoog, f.-Z71   ofentry, hootIng and
hc...ehold lovel; 1961-65, 1970, sod 1977dar.                                                                                                       ..ty         t
tooOortaeorv c  ooteo (rot rr ay)- rotiu   ontntof  er  upta          lfiogi a  fec-t-5   of t-ce  lahoc forc; 1960,  9190 cod' 1978' dta.
ro    opl   ffodprdy.fs   epl   ffodI   ofndo  ooo    o-         ldor -(eoot) -Lbrfrel   iig   toestcit  eou totio
quioneta  ot  ll  oarroe   esablaho   hflia  povie  fr coirs             ad eecticiy,  oce  od gn c  pacencgeof  cta  laor`orc; 000
Word Pod   urvy;  96-60  190 od orl, popood  y                 160  191,  ci  97)Sao.The no cr0                   d ili.n 1 pato P-tortinrpflec-
rcdIon 6otol  and   tolro  i,t gen  pot day;ol 1901-60    197  sri.107  Idat.          nrnc0to   ocolnuc
egodirco    1-1yas  io. children  to &this aof     rup   c  con1oto.j   Seelpooo-              -thet total labo  force.,ldf lol.-f.
Lifeiocecuocvat lri (vecna) -1fl athrg   raldher. of droor  oAG lt0   nerac£o                  P      - yrr ft iort-100.1 penodo yfores p  percoti , sod poorror -pl tpncly
atbrc;190  1970 andi7  daa.cihonicd.t
Pofuocoforcaltv Sam(per--tus-odo- bood  deats ofiloo, ..dt don  ootiro                                                                                     t-pdo Tacf- ISlit
of ago par thoneard live births.                d-h._  th ....    I                _                            R.i. of.d., _                    .._65 ..
8-p; f.,..St d-lpilg           intihato  -btlo 1 ocb ct f     on   oo (t  o   c  h)-abt-o   oa 
doHoEA      aeWLrTprHo   fpouol)-ttl,ahr o     ua   -b                                                  lte poet   moefcli  than   ooseleve  h-o  ohi-h  ay liom-t
octet E apply)ridnrerdtr Ac - ntar  orb.   anrf ne  hat~ utocoicnicaod                          poffordopblto.l                                                    __40   _
fouotlo orniaodonr lcate  oon  one tan 11  entrs frm 0 hoar ny hn             prroo-   Otor  qof  b  oratory           ...Cebit  levl-infrird    o   th  rra
'ooIt" errdps hellogooi t      enrbeucsao   hthee.I   oa   ru                                   lvlnbtjauvr   a   ihc  oio   lid                         0ubncon
ernouloaron  tldirl  tatte   oself   r  eeen  fth  hnobl              TrlaodPoaacr llocSholt Prcr. ros io Ieoo.c  ars
doctov _opedointrportorat    fatibnuliroigtna dborl-  occopp1totehonrt1oaeunbtto
poo   a   c led   herl notion a...d blapnl   ih   rctoctetr_ iroo    clyoto  rdfriroI.tlonleutr
dc-i      -1   p-ctetdicocp-tjo an             -tnto-nator b.outer-h-hiogptcono or-tr  can olt -.                                               April. lOre ~                      .
pl  pcoroov  -tria   cota lPlc



43 -                                     1;Page 4 of 5 pages
Population         45.6 million (mid-1978)
ONP per Capita: US$510 (1978)
PHILIPPINES - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(uillion US$ at                            Annual growth rates (X)
current prices)                    Actual                                  Projected
Indicator                             1979           1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a         28,854            6.6    7.1    6.2    5.9    5.7    6.0    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    7.1
Agriculture                      6,991            3.7    8.6    5.0    4.8    4.4    4.7    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Industry                        10,174            9.7   10.0    7.7    6.4    6.7    6.8    7.5    7.5    7.5    7.5    8.5
Services                        11,689            6.0    3.7    5.7    6.3    5.7    6.1    6.0    6.0    6.0    6.0    7.0
Consumption                       21,860            3.8    4.3    5.2    4.6    4.8    4.8    5.4    5.2    4.9    5.1    5.8
Gross investment                   8,576           20.4    8.0    0.7   13.3    7.4    7.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    6.3    7.1
Exports of GNFS                    5,528           -0.3   19.9   17.6    1.6    7.4   12.3   10.2   10.7   11.2   10.6   10.8
Imports of GNFS                    7,110            4.8    1.3    5.3   13.2   10.3    5.8    6.6    6.7    6.5    6.6    6.8
Gross national savings             6,665            2.7   -2.0   11.3    8.3    7.7    -          -       -       -       -       -
PRICES
GDP deflator (1972 - 100)                         167.7  183.6  198.8  210.6  250.8    -          -       -       -       -       -
Exchange rate (US$1 =)                             7.27   7.45   7.41   7.38   7.39    -           -      -       -       -       -
Export price index (1978 - 100)                    97.2   92.6   95.8  100.0  124.6  140.3  149.9  160.0  171.5  183.3  195.7
Import price index (1978 = 100)                    92.5   91.6   94.2  100.0  117.4  142.2  157.0  170.8  185.2  197.1  210.6
Terms of trade index (1978 - 100)                 105.1  101.1  101.7  100.0  100.0   98.7   95.5   93.7   92.6   93.0   92.9
Share of GDP at market prices (x)                      Average annual increase (v)
(at current prices) lb                               (at constant prices)
1960      1970      1975      1980      1985        1960-70    1970-75    1975-80    1980-85
Gross domestic product /a          100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0                5.1         6.1         6.0          6.4
Agriculture                       28.1      27.8      29.0      26.8      25.0            4.3         4.3         4.8         5.0
Industry                          24.3      29.6      33.5      35.5      37.7           6.0          8.6         7.8         7.6
Services                          46.1      42.6      37.5      37.7      37.3           5.2-         5.4         5.8         6.1
Consumption                       85.3      79.2      75.8      74.5      72.4           4.8          5.5         5.2         5.2
Gross investment                  16.3      21.5      31.0      30.1      29.2            8.2        11.5         6.5         6.8
Exports of GNFS                   10.8      19.4      18.5      19.4      24.7            5.8         3.2        10.0        10.7
Imports of GNFS                   10.6      19.7      25.3      24.0      26.2           6.8          6.8         8.0         6.6
Gross national savings            16.2      20.5      25.3      23.1      25.4            7.4         9.7         -           -
As % of GDP
1960       1970       1975       1979       Labor Force in 1978 /d    Millions   (X)
PUBLIC FINANCE: /c                                                                         Agriculture                  7.4     44.4
Current revenues                           9.8        9.5       15.0       13.7         Industry                     2.7      16.2
Current expenditures                       9.6       10.9       13.2        9.6         Services                     5.6      33.0
Current surplus                            0.2       -1.4        1.8        4.1         Unemployed                   1.1       6.4
Capital expenditure                        2.3        1.9        3.2        4.3
Foreign financing                          -          0.1        0.3        1.5              Total Labor Force    16.8    100.0
1960-70         1970-75             1975-80          1980-85
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual CNTP growth rate (x)                                5.1             5.6                 6.0              6.2
Annual GNP p,er capita growth rate (7)                     2.0             2.7                 3.2              3.6
Annual energy consumption growth rate (x)                  7.4             6.2                 4.2              4.7
ICOR                                                      4.5              4.7                 4.6              4.5
Marginal savings rate                                   0.285            0.330                0.26             0.35
Import elasticity                                         1.33            1.12                1.20             1.05
/a  At market prices.
7T Projected years at constant prices.
7T  1975 revenue and expenditure as x of GDP were considerably ahove the 1960-79 trend.
7__ Estimate based on second quarter, 1978.



AR?.'EX I
-  44                                                     Pa*seS5 of 5 pages
IALANCE  OF PAYM1'.?TS ANO EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(US$ million)
Actual                                       Projected
1976       1977        1978       1979           l9pO       1981       1982        19R5
Sumary of Balance of Payments
Exports of goods and services                 1,387      4,161       4,838      6,177          8,010    9,400       11,100    18,200
Of which:  exports of goods                 2,574      3,151       3,425      4,601          6,040    7,100        8,500    14,300
Imports of goods and services                 4,763      5,248       6,323      8,108         10,950   12,400       13,800      21,7nO
Of which:  imports of goods                 3,633      3,915       4,732      6,142          7,830    9,300       10,300      16,200
Transfers (net)                                 269         260        313         355            390       550         600        800
Current Account balance                   -1,107        -827    -1,172       -1,576         -2,150    -2,450      -2,760     -2,700
Direct investment (net)                         144         216        171          99            130       150         160        200
MLT loans (net)                               1,040         662        891      1,091          1,200      1,900      2,400       2,600
Official-source loans (net)                   282        332         333        449            630        800      1,000         95n
Private-source loans (net)                    758        330         501        642            570     1,100       1,400       1,650
Other capital (net) /a                         -238         113         56       -193             440       400         200        300
Overall Balance /b                          -161         164         -54       -579           -380          -           -        400
International reserves (end-year) /c    1,640            1,525       1,883      2,424          2,330      2,340      2,450       3,200
Grants and Loan Connitments
Official grants                                 0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0
Total public loans                         1,577.4    1,392.0   2,417.0   2,105.2
IBRD                                       226.0       317.5      533.0       210.5
IDA                                           0.0        0.0       28.0        62.0
Other multilateral                          64.2       226.6       189.2      286.6
Governments                                391.6       182.3       370.4      223.6
Suppliers                                    52.0      194.2        76.7       52.3
Financial institutions                     476.4       341.7   1,000.5   1,224.4
Bonds                                      367.2       129.7      219.2        45.8
Other MLT loans                               603.6      115.0       914.0      278.8
Memorandum Items
Grant element of commitments                    8.9        14.7       16.8        16.5
Average interest (x)                            8.3         7.9        7.4         7.7
Average maturity (years)                       13.1       15.3        15.9       15.9
Medium & Long-Tern Debt
Total debt outstanding (disiursed
only, end of period)                     4,3R3.0   5,554.0   6,839.0   7,920.0
Including undisbursed                      6,817.0   8,155.0  10,R56.0  12,225.3
Public debt service                         -239.2    -441.9    -468.1    -652.5
of which:  interest                        -97.9    -215.2    -167.1    -300.0
Other MLT debt service                      -283.5    -320.1    -441.9    -375.5
Total debt service                          -522.7    -762.0    -910.0  -1,082.0
Debt Burden
Debt service ratio                             15.4       18.3        18.8       17.4
Debt service ratio /d                          19.4       22.1        21.2       18.2
Debt service/CDP                                2.9         3.8        3.9         3.6
Public debt service/government
revenue                                       9.9       12.0        20.1       18.3                                         Outstanding
December 31, 1979
Terms                                                                                                                         Amount    nercent
External Debt                (US$ mmn)
Interest on total DOD/total MD                  4.1        6.4         4.0        6.1
Total debt service/total DOD                   10.5        15.8       13.3        13.0        (Disbursed only)
IBRi                           731      14.1
Dependency Ratios                                                                                  Bank Group /e                  763      14.8
Other multilateral             397       7.7
Gross disbursements/imports (GNFS)             37.9       28.7        34.3       30.7           Governments                  1,094       21.2
Net transfer/imports (GNFS)                    29.6       20.8        16.0        16.7          Suppliers                       250       4.8
Net transfer/gross disbursements               78.0        73.0       59.0        52.R          Financial institutions    1,879          36.4
Bonds                          783      15.1
Exposure                                                                                          Total public -L0T debt    5,167         100.0
Other MIT debt               2,753      53.3
IBPD disb./gross total disb.                    5.5         7.4        8.3       10.4           Total SLT debt               7,920      153.3
Bank Group disb./gross total disb./e            6.2         7.5        8.3        10.4
IBRD DOD/total DOD                              7.2         7.3        8.0        9.9         (Including undisbursed)
Bank Group 00D/total DOD /e                     7.8         7.8        8.4        10.3          PubhlIc ttLT deht          8,971.4      173.6
IBRD debt service/total debt service            6.6         5.6        6.9         7.3          Total MLT debt            12,225.3      237.0
Bank Group debt serv./total debt. serv    6.7               5.6        7.0         7.4
/a Short-term capital, monetization of gold, allocation of SIRs, and errors and omissions.
7i Equals change in net international r-serves.
7-' Gross reserves of the Central Bank ("International reserves", IFS).
71 Includes net direct Investi-et inc-e.
7e  Excludes IFC.
East Aato and Pac-Ifi Reglon
August 19BU)



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 18 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE PHILIPPINES
A. STATEMFNT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
As of July 31, 1980
Loan or
Credit                                                                     Amount (Less cancellations)
Number    FY      Borrower                 Purpose                         Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Seventeen Loans and three credits fully disbursed                          264.0   32.2
720-PH   1971  Rep. of the Philip.       Rice Processing & Storage         14.3                0.3
809-PH   1972  National Power Corp.   Power                                22.0                0.2
939-PH   1973  Rep. of the Philip.    Ports                                 6.1                0.1
950-PH   1973                             Second Highways                  68.0                0.2
984-PH   1974                            Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation    9.5                    1.6
998-PH   1974                            DBP I                             50.0                3.9
1034-P'   1974  National Power Corp.   Power                                61.0                3.2
1035-PH   1974  Rep. of the Philip.    Population                           25.0               11.4
1048-PH   1974                             Shipping                         20.0                7.5
1052-PH   1974  Philip. National Bank  PDCP IV                              30.0                3.8
1080-PH   1975  Rep. of the Philip.    Tarlac Irrigation                    17.0                5.8
1102-PH   1975                            Rural Development                 25.0               10.6
1120-PH   1975                             Small & Medium Industries        30.0                0.5
1154-PH   1976                            Magat Irrigation                  42.0               15.7
1190-PH   1976                            DBP II                            75.0                5.1
1224-T-PH 1976                             Education III                    25.0               12.5
1225-PH   1976                            Livestock II                      20.5                4.7
1227-PH   1976                            Chico Irrigation                  50.0               35.3
1272-T-PH 1976                            Manila Urban                      10.0                5.7
1282-PH   1976                            Mantla Urban                      22.0               12.5
1269-PH   1976                            Second Grain Processing           11.5                9.7
1270-PH   1976                            Second Fisheries                  12.0                2.2
1353-PH   1977                            Third Highways                    95.0               71.1
1367-PH   1977                            Jalaur Irrigation                 15.0                8.4
1374-PH   1977                            Fourth Education                  25.0               14.6
1399-PH   1977 Central Bank of che        Fourth Rural Credit
Philippines                                               36.5               21.1
1414-PH   1977 Rep. of the Philip.        National Irrg. Sys. Improv.   50.0                   39.4
1415-PH   1977                            Provincial Cities Water Sup.  23.0                   17.4
1421-PH   1977                            Rural Dev. Land Stlmt. II         15.0               12.8
1460-PH   1977 National Power Corp.    Seventh Power                        58.0               50.7
1506-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Smaliholder Tree Farming           8.0                7.4
1514-PH   1978 Philip. National Bank   PDCP V                               30.0               18.8
1526-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.         2nd Natnl. Irrg. Sys. Improv. 65.0                  52.7
790-PH   1978                            Rural Infrastructure                     28.0        27.1
S.8-PH   1978                            Education                          2.0                1.7
1547-PH   1978 Nat. Electrif. Admin.   Rural F.lectrification               60.0               33.3
1555-PH   197& Philip. National Bank   PISO                                 15.0                3.7
1567-PH   1978 Rep. of the Philip.        Magat II                         150.0               88.4
1572-PH   1978                             Industrial Investment III        80.0               53.2
1615-PH   1978                            Manila Water Supply II            88.0               85.4
1626-PH   1979                            National Extension                35.0               34.9
1639-PH   1979                            Magat River Multipurpose          21.0               18.8
1646-PH   1979                            Small Farmer Dev. Land Bank   16.5                   14.9
1647-PH   1979                            Second Urban Development          32.0               29.2
1661-PH   1979                            Highways IV                      100.0               99.5
1710-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                   16.0               16.0
920-PH   1979                            Water Supply II                           22.0       21.8
1727-PH   1979                            Small & Medium Industry II    25.0                   25.0
923-PH   1979                            Population II                             40.0      40.0
1772-PH   1980                             Samar Island Rural Devel.        27.0               26.9
1786-PH   1980                            Fisheries Trng. (Educ. VI)    38.0                   38.0
1809-PH   1980                            Medium-Scale Irrigation           71.0               71.0
1814-PH/a 1980                            Manila Sewerage & Sanitation  63.0                   63.0
1815-PH   1980                            Rainfed Agric. Dev. (Iloilo)  12.0                   12.0
1821-PH/a 1980                            Third Urban                       72.0               72.0
1855-PH/a 1980                            Third Ports                       67.0               67.0
1860-PHTh 1980                            Rural Roads Improvement           62.0               62.0
Total /b                                                            2,382.9  122.2   1,471.7
of which has been repaid
(Bank and third parties)                                            174.3
Total now outstanding                                               2,208.6  122.2
Amount sold                                              24.3
of which has been repaid
(third parties)                                        16.2           8.1      -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange rate adjustments)                              2,200.5  122.2
Total undisbursed                                                   1,382.8   88.9   1,471.7
/a Not yet effective.
7    Not included:  Watershed Management (1890-PlR) and Third Livestock/Fisheries
(1894-PH) signed August 4, 1980.



- 46 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 18 pages
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMFNTS
As of June 30, 1980
Fiscal                                                      Amounts ($ million)
Year                     Company                          Loan   Equity   Total
1963 & 1973  Private Development Corporation of the        15.0      4.4    19.4
Philippines
1967         Manila Electric Company                        8.0       -      8.0
1967         Meralco Securities Corporation                  -       4.0     4.0
1970         Philippine Long Distance Telephone             4.5       -      4.5
Company
1970 & 1972  Marivasa Manufacturing, Inc.                   0.8      0.4     1.2
1970         Paper Industries Corporation of the             -       2.2     2.2
Philippines
1971 & 1977  Philippine Petroleum Corporation               6.2      2.1     8.3
1972         Marinduque Mining and Industrial              15.0       -     15.0
Corporation
1973         Victorias Chemical Corporation                 1.9      0.3     2.2
1974         Filipinas Synthetic Fiber Corporation          1.5       -      1.5
1974/1979    Maria Christina Chemical Industries, Inc.   1.5         0.7     2.2
1974         Republic Flour Mills Corporation               1.2       -      1.2
1975         Philippine Polyamide Industrial                7.0       -      7.0
Corporation
1976/1980    Philagro Edible Oils, Inc.                     2.6      0.2     2.8
1977         AcoJe Mining Company, Inc.                     2.3      1.2     3.5
1977         Sarmiento Industries, Inc.                     3.5       -      3.5
1978         Cebu Shipyard and Engineering Works, Inc.   2.1          -      2.1
1979         General Milling Corporation                    4.0      1.1     5.1
1980         PISO Leasing Corporation                       5.0      0.1     5.1
1980         Ventures in Industry and Business              -        0.3     0.3
Enterprises, Inc.
1980         Consolidated Industrial Gases, Inc.            4.5       -      4.5
Total gross commitments                       86.6    17.0   103.6
Less sold, acquired by others,              39.1    12.7    51.8
repaid or cancelled
Total commitments now held by IFC             47.5     4.3    51.8
Total Undisbursed                              6.9     0.3      7.2



- 47 
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 18
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
Agricultural Sector
Loan No. 720    Rice Processing and Storage; $14.3 Million Loan of
February 4, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980
Project funds have been fully committed. Final disbursements
are expected to be made by September/October 1980 on completion of a warehouse
construction project, now about 40% complete. The repayment arrears situation
has iraproved, with arrears of principal and interest amounting to 10.8% of the
loans outstanding. Half of the arrears are less than 12 months old.
Credil: No. 472 Aurora-Penaranda Irrigation; $9.5 Million Credit and
Loan tNo. 984    $9.5 Million Loan of May 14, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
August 22, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of the project is satisfactory. Work on the dams
and transbasin diversion channels was completed in 1975, about one year ahead
of schedule. There were initial delays in the award of contracts for the
service area improvement works. Further delays were caused by a typhoon in
1978 which damaged some of the project area. Completion is now planned for
1980 - a two-year delay in the original schedule. Due to increased costs, a
reduced cropping intensity and delays in construction, the internal rate of
return is expected to be close to 12% compared with the appraisal estimate of
17%.
Loan No. 1080   Tarlac Irrigation; $17.0 Million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All major civil works contracts are in progress and the remaining
work is under way. Progress continues to be slow, with about 70% of project
works completed. Mainly because of managerial problems, the project is not
likely to be completed before June 1982. The total project area is likely to
be reduced by about 20%, mainly due to elimination of areas subject to deep
flooding by the Chico, Camiling and Agno rivers. Project costs have
increased from appraisal estimates with the result that the economic rate of
return will be reduced from 15% at appraisal to about 10%.
/1 These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 18
Loan No. 1102      Rural Development; $25.0 Million Loan of April 16, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: July 28, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Physical implementation of the irrigation and drainage components
is about 62% of the appraisal estimate. Due to delays in contract award and
recent shortages of fuel and construction supplies, construction has slowed
down. However, now that the Pula river irrigation system contract has been
awarded, progress is expected to improve. The road subproject is about 68%
complete. Disbursements are in line with physical projects, with 50% of the
loan amount allocated for road works disbursed.
Loan No. 1154      Magat Multipurpose Project; $42.0 Million Loan of
August 7, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Civil works by local contract and force acount for rehabilitation
and new construction of canals, drains and access roads are progressing well,
and the project is about 70% complete. The water management training is
continuing satisfactorily. A delay in the contract award for improvements to
the project diversion dam will mean about a year's delay in the completion of
the project.
Loan No. 1225      Second Livestock; $20.5 Million Loan of April 8, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness:  September 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Over 90% of project funds has been committed, and the loan should
be fully disbursed by June 30, 1981. Funds for the project's nutrition
research funds are unlikely to be used, due to difficulties in recruitment of
consultants, and the Bank has proposed that these funds be made available to
DBP for further lending. The establishment of the monitoring and evaluation
system is proceeding satisfactorily, and procurement of laboratory equipment
for the Feed Quality Control Program is complete. Repayments of many of DBP-s
borrowers under the project are still under grace, but a build-up of interest
arrears is beginning to emerge. The Bank has assisted DBP with the
development of an intensive action-oriented collection program which is being
further reinforced under the Third Livestock and Fisheries Credit Project.
Thanks to government approval of increased salary scales, DBP has
significantly improved its staffing position. Various improvements to DBP's
organizational structure have been instituted and other organizational
developments are under consideration.
Loan No. 1227      Chico River Irrigation Project; $50.0 Million Loan
of April 8, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project had a slow start due to delays in procuring construc-
tion equipment for force account works. Changes in the design of the Chico



- 49 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 18
diversion weir, the main diversion dam and the main canal siphon resulted in
contracts being awarded behind schedule. Even though progress has improved
since the contracts were awarded, and work is now proceeding satisfactorily,
the project is about two years behind schedule.
Loan No. 1269      Second Grain Processing Project; $11.5 Million Loan
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: October 4,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to delays in implementing the first phase project, handling of
applications for the project only started about 2 years after effectiveness.
After three years of bumper rice crops, medium and large millers continue to
make reasonable profits, but Government controls have affected the investment
climate. DBP has undertaken to intensify its technical assistance to the
smaller millers, and this should result in better repayments. Demand for
subloans has also been slowed down by what is perceived by prospective
applicants as slow processing of subloans by DBP and because of the easy
availability of suppliers credit. The Bank has, in consultation with DBP,
developed a list of detailed recommendations on actions to be taken, and has
approved various amendments to broaden the scope of the project for the loan
to become more responsive to current needs and to speed up disbursements.
Little progress has been made with the Grains Losses Study and the Bank has
made suggestions as to how this situation may be remedied.
Loan No. 1270      Second Fisheries Project; $12.0 Million Loan of
July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 12, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Due to problems related to procurement procedures for fishing
vessels and increased deployment of staff on loan recovery work, the
Development Bank of the Philippines slowed down the processing of subloan
approvals in the second half of 1977. However, loan approvals had picked up
considerably during 1978; the loan was fully committed in August 1979,
and is expected to be fully disbursed by September, 1980.
Loan tio. 1367     Jalaur Irrigation Project; $15.0 Million Loan of
February 14, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: Ilay 12, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the project is about 40% compared with appraisal
estimates of 55%.  Force account work is proceeding satisfactorily.  Some of
the 24 civil works contracts failed, due to unsatisfactory procurement
procedures, but the Government has now taken action to improve the situation.
Progress has recently improved, and a timely completion is still expected.



- 50 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 18
Loan No. 1399       Fourth Rural Credit Project; $36.5 Million Loan of
April 11, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 2, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
After three years of project implementation, commitments and
disbursements are roughly one-half of appraisal estimates. The Central Bank
has reassessed the project and as a result new categories of lending (for
medium-size trucks, tree crops and working capital), and a new set of
financial intermediaries (private development banks) have been included in the
project. Although these should accelerate implementation, it is tentatively
estimated that the completion date will be delayed by about 18 months. A
better idea of eventual performance will be obtained during the next
supervision, scheduled for October 1980.
Loan No. 1414      National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project;
$50 Million Loan of May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
August 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Progress in project implementation has been slow, initially because
of staffing and design problems, and more recently because of delays in
contract processing.  Shortages of fuel and construction materials, which have
been a major cause of delay, have now been overcome. The project is now
expected to be completed in 1982, one year later than originally estimated.
Implementation has improved during the 1980 construction season, and further
improvements are expected in 1981, mainly because of better planning and
organization, less complicated contract procedures, and completion of
designs. Final project costs and benefits are expected to be in line with
original estimates.
Loan No. 1421       Second Rural Development (Land Settlement) Project;
$15.0 Million Loan of June 10, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
October 27, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Satisfactory progress is being maintained in work towards
appropriate technical packages in agriculture, and in completion of health
centers. The Government has taken decisive actions to legitimize settlers
landholdings and make them eligible for medium- and long-term rural credit.
A thorough review of project accounts has been made, and steps are being taken
to speed up reimbursement claims.
Loan No. 1506       Smallholder Tree Farming and Forestry Project; $8.0 Million
Loan of January 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: May 11,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
All six project components are now operative after considerable
delays during 1978/79 because of shortages or nonavailability of complementary
Government funding. Smallholder enrollment in the DBP treefarming component,
which has been slow in the past, has improved considerably following DBP-s
liberalization of application procedures and collateral requirements. The



- 51 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 18
other components, all of which involve Government agencies, now have, for the
first year, budget appropriations commensurate with project requirements,
although delays in fund releases still occur. The organization of BFD's Abra
plantation component has been strengthened, but vehicles for this component
have still not been acquired. The young planted pines have been infested by a
shoot borer insect, which will require immediate control measures. Cumulative
disbursements have improved from 10% to 27% of appraisal estimates.
Loan N4o. 1526     Second National Irrigation Systems Improvement Project:
$65 Million Loan of March 15, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
June 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Topographic surveys, project planning and design have been completed
for most of the systems, and construction is fully underway. No major
contracts have been awarded and those originally scheduled for 1980 have been
delayed because of difficulties in completing designs. To help with this
probletm, NIA has agreed to retain local consultants to assist in design
preparation and thus avoid delays in subsequent contract works. Overall
progress is satisfactory and the project is expected to be completed as
scheduled.
Credit No. 790    Rural Infrastructure; $28 Million Credit of April 21,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: July 21, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
Construction work on communal irrigation systems, village water
supply, health stations and ports is proceeding well. Construction of about
70 km of roads has started and about 50% of the design work on the remaining
roads has been completed. While construction of the road component is
behind schedule, overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1567-PH The Magat River Multipurpose Project - Stage II;
$150 Million Loan of May 23, 1978; Date of Effectiveness;
August 24, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress is generally satisfactory. Work on the diversion tunnels
and the main dam and spillway has accelerated due to a marked improvement in
the management, planning and execution of the contractor-s operations. River
diversion through both tunnels was completed on May 1, 1980. Excavation under
the maiin contract is ahead of schedule, but there has been some delay in
bringing the batching plant into production.
Loan No. 1626-PH National Extension Project; $32.0 Million Loan of
December 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: March 26, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
A Management Committee has been created under the Chairmanship of
the Minister of Agriculture, and appropriate subcommittees established.



- 52 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 18
Nominations have been pproved by the President for 12 MOA Regional Directors,
and 24 Assistant Directors. The first staff appointments have been
contracted. Allocation of 500 proposed agricultural centers has been made to
all 75 Provinces and negotiations on site ownership and registration are in
progress. The first year's vehicle allotment is being procured, including
about 1,000 motorcycles with sidecars which will be purchased by extension
workers under the project-s newly-estabished special vehicle loan fund.
Training is well under way. The first consultancy, to establish project
monitoring and evaluation procedures within BAEx, is about to begin. The
appointment of a second consultant should be contracted soon. Pilot areas
have been selected in all 12 regions of the Philippines for introduction of
the "training and visit" extension system, and specialized training of the
district agricultural extension supervisors, who will administer the pilot
areas, has been completed. Four pilot areas are operational, and the
remaining eight will be as soon as the benchmark agroeconomic surveys are
completed in 1980.
Loan No. 1639-PH  Magat River Multipurpose Project; Stage II Irrigation;
$21.0 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Force account construction started in early 1980. There have been
some delays in awarding major construction contracts. However, contractors
began work in April/May 1980, and completion is still expected, as scheduled,
by end-1982.
Loan No. 1646-PH  Small Farmer Development Project through the Land Bank of
the Philippines; $16.5 Million Loan of January 26, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Notable progress has been made in the release of term credit for all
the major subprojects, and cumulative disbursements have improved from about
34% to 61% of the appraisal estimate. No disbursements have been made,
however, under the infrastructure component, mainly because of difficulties
with the Government's budgetary procedures. Measures are now under way to
resolve these problems. The Land Bank is continuing its efforts to improve
implementation of the lending component, primarily through increasing its
field staff and expanding the area covered by the project. A gradual improve-
ment is expected as these measures become effective.
Loan No. 1772-PH Samar Island Rural Development Project; $27.0 million
Loan of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
Nay 21, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, and was declared effective
on May 21, 1980. Procurement of services, materials and equipment is now
under way.



- 53 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 18
Loan No. 1809-PH Medium-Scale Irrigation; $71.0 million Loan of March 28,
1980. Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This loan was signed on March 28, 1980 and was declared effective
on June 25, 1980. Design work is progressing well.
Loan No. 1815-PH Rainfed Agriculture (Iloilo); $12.0 million Loan of
March 28, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 25, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986
This loan was signed on March 28, 1980 and was declared effective
on June 25, 1980.
Transportation Sector
Loan No. 939       Second Ports Project; $6.1 Million Loan of October 24,
1973; Date of Effectiveness:  December 19, 1973;
Closing Date: July 15, 1980
Project civil works at General Santos were completed and turned
over to the Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) on December 7, 1978.  At
Cagayan de Oro, 99% of the project is complete, and PPA is already using the
new quay extension.  The final disbursement has now been made, leaving a
small balance which will most likely be cancelled. The latest project cost
estimate is $20.2 million compared to $12 million at appraisal.
Loan No. 950       Second Highway; $68.0 Million Loan of December 12, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: February 27, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall, the project is about 99% complete. Difficulties have been
encountered by contractors at various times in the execution of the works
which, together with inflation, have resulted in cost increases and time
delays. These problems have now been overcome. Further major problems are
not anizicipated, and the project is expected to be completed by August 1980,
except for one bridge reconstruction, which is scheduled for completion in
June 1981. This represents a delay of about 3 years. Total project cost is
now estimated at about $189 million, an increase of about 47% over the
original appraisal estimate, due primarily to inflation and the serious time
delays that have been experienced throughout the project.
Loan No. 1048      Inter-Island Shipping; $20 Million Loan of October 29,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The Closing Date was extended recently to June 30, 1981 to allow
for the completion of training programs and for ship construction guarantee



- 54 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 18
payments. About 60% of the loan has been disbursed. Loan applications
covering the balance of uncommitted funds are under consideration by DBP.
Loan No. 1353       Third Highway Project; $95.0 Million Loan of January 12,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Overall, the project is about 39% complete. Major problems have
been encountered in the implementation of the national roads contracts which
progress slowly; five out of fifteen contracts are to be retendered
due to unsatisfactory performance by the contractors. As a consequence,
delays and costs higher than the original bids are expected. Contracts for
the improvement of minor roads have been awarded and the works are under way.
After substantial initial delays, the road maintenance and restoration
programs are now making some progress. Of the 28 workshop contracts, 15 have
been awarded but work has only begun on 12 of them, while three contracts are
to be terminated and retendered. There is a significant cost overrun on the
workshop contract, caused by changes in the design and price escalation.
Procurement of road maintenance equipment, tools and other machinery has been
completed. Consultants for supervision of construction of roads and workshops
are in place and the road and ferry feasibility studies have been completed.
The technical assistance advisors to MPH completed their assignment in
November 1979. Training advisors to MPH completed their work in March 1980.
Overall, the project completion is likely to be delayed until mid-1983, more
than 30 months later than the appraisal schedule. This delay is due to the
late start of some critical activities and to the serious delays in the
execution of some of the road construction contracts.
Loan No. 1661      Fourth Highway Project; $100 Million Loan of March 9,
1979 ; Date of Effectiveness: June 15, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project has made a slow start, but prequalification of contrac-
tors for the road construction works has now been completed, utilizing new
procedures agreed during loan negotiations.  Proposals for the technical
assistance to MPH and MLGCD have been evaluated and negotiations with the
consultants begun. A consulting firm for the design and construction super-
vision of workshops has been selected. Preparatory work for the continuation
of the road maintenance and road restoration programs begun under the Third
Highway Project (Loan 1353-PH) has begun. Selection of technical assistance
consultants to MPWTC/NEDA for the continuation of the transport planning
advisory services, begun under a previous project (Loan 1272-T/1282-PH) is in
process. Land acquisition for road construction and workshops is under way.
Prequalification for equipment suppliers has begun, but bids will be invited
only after the construction of workshops has been completed.



- 55 -
ANNEX II
Page 11 of 18
Loan No. 1855      Third Ports Project; $67 Million Loan of June 13, 1980;
Proposed Date of Effectiveness: September 11, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This loan was signed on June 13, 1980 and is expected to be declared
effective on September 11, 1980.
Loan No. 1860      Rural Roads Improvement Project; $62 Million Loan of
June 13, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness: Septem-
ber 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan was signed on June 13, 1980 and is expected to be declared
effective on September 11, 1980. MLGCD has selected consultants for technical
assistance with engineering, which is urgently needed to assist in the
preparation of detailed engineering for the construction and improvement
components.
Education Sector
Loan No. 1224T    Third Education Project; $25 Million Loan of April 8,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 29, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The central part of the project, which is the development of primary
and secondary textbooks and teachers- manuals in five subject areas, has made
continuous progress since the inception of the project. Eighteen million
books have been produced and distributed. The project should meet its goal
of producing and distributing to schools 75 titles amounting to 27 million
copies, as well as training about 250,000 teachers, by the middle of 1981.
Civil works are about 20 months behind schedule. Project costs are close
to appraisal estimates and disbursements are about 70% of appraisal estimates.
Loan Nqo. 1374     Fourth Education Project; $25.0 Million Loan of March 25,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: June 9, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Implementation of the project is generally about one year behind
schedule because of delayed contract awards, shortages of building materials
and rapid price escalation. Remedial measures have now been taken by the
Government. Enrollment projections and staff development programs show that
the project is making steady progress towards its development impact targets.
Project costs are close to appraisal estimates, but disbursements are about
43% of appraisal estimates, reflecting the implementation delays.



56 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 18
Loan No. S-8-PH   Educational Radio Technical Assistance:  $2 Million Loan
of April 21, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 22, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project is being implemented by an Educational Communications
Office (ECO), established for this purpose within EDPITAF. ECO is functioning
smoothly and is successfully preparing and distributing radio programs and
printed materials for the two major project subcomponents - Radio Assisted
Teaching in Elementary Schools (RATES), and Continuing Education for Teachers
(CET). These programs have been implemented efficiently. The preliminary
report on the project summative evaluation which has been completed by the
University of the Philippines' Institute of Mass Communication, contains
encouraging data on the use of radio for the improvement of education. The
Educational Communications Office is now formulating follow-up plans
incorporating this data into the forthcoming Elementary Education project.
Loan No. 1786-PH Fisheries Training Project; $38.0 Million Loan
of February 1, 1980; Date of Effectiveness:
May 19, 1980; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
This loan was signed on February 1, 1980, was declared effective on
May 19, 1980. Physical progress is on schedule. A monitoring and evaluation
unit has been established within EDPITAF and the collection of base line data
is in progress. A review of combined World Bank and bilateral sources
assistance shows that the fishery technical assistance-program is well
coordinated and mutually complementary.
Urban Sector
Loan No. 1272T    Manila Urban Development Project; $10.0 Million and
Loan No. 1282      $22.0 Million Loans of June 9, 1976; Date of  Effectiveness:
December 9, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Overall construction on the Tondo project is about 65% complete.
The 65-classroom high school is now occupied, and final designs for the
remaining four schools are nearing completion. 98% of the infrastructure and
1,501 of the 2,000 units in the Dagat-Dagatan sites and services component are
complete. Both packages for the Radial Road (R-10) have now been awarded,
although construction has been delayed pending resolution of price adjustment
provisions in the contract. The traffic component is progressing well. The
overall project is now anticipated to be complete by September 30, 1982.



- 57 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 18
Loan 1415-PH   Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $23 tillion Loan of
May 13, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: September 9, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Major contracts have been awarded. Work has started in four of the
six project cities, and contractors are mobilizing in the remaining two. LWUA
expects to complete the works before the end of 1981, as originally planned.
Loan 1615-PH   Second Manila Water Supply Project; $88 Million Loan of
July 26, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 21, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Delays in ADB-financed components of the project have resulted
in similar delays in IBRD-financed parts of the project. Nevertheless,
according to new re-scheduling prepared by consultants, it is expected that
the original target of completing the project by June 1983 will be met.
Water rates were increased by 25 centavos in May 1980. Proposals for
additional tariff increases are intended to be presented by MWSS to the
Government before the end of 1980 in order to (a) meet the 5% rate of return
on water supply operations; and (b) implement the 10% waste water surcharge.
Loan No. 1647-PH Second Urban Development Project; $32.0 Million Loan
of January 26, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: April 26,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Implementation has begun on earthworks, sewerage and drainage
contracts in Manila and the three regional cities of Cebu, Davao, and Cagayan
de Oro. Designs for community facilities in Dagat-Dagatan are complete, and
those for the elementary and high school are in various stages of production.
Loan disbursement has improved considerably during FY80.
Credit 920-PH  Second Provincial Cities Water Supply Project; $22 Million
Loan 1710-PH   Credit and $16 Million Loan of June 27, 1979; Date of
Effectiveness: November 30, 1979; Closing Date: December
31, 1985.
Consultants have been hired to assist LWUA in the preparation of
feasibility studies for 48 cities. Work has started on the development of a
financial planning and control system. Consultants have started the
preparation of a comprehensive management assistance and training proposal.
LWUA is still considering ways in which to solve the problem of drilling
wells in remote areas.
Loan 1821-PH Third Urban Development Project; $72 Million Loan of
June 2, 1980; Proposed Date of Effectiveness:
September 2, 1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
This loan was signed on June 2, 1980, and is expected to be
declared effective on September 2, 1980. Much has already been done to
establish effective organizational and staffing capability and to develop the



- 58 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 18
necessary administrative relationships between involved agencies and with
local governments. Upgrading works are ongoing in Bagong Barrio and bids will
shortly be invited for five other sites. The MMINUTE program is at an
advanced design stage. Initiating documentation, including an Executive
Order to create the Management Coordination Board, Subsidiary Loan and
Investment Agreemets, and Memorandum of Agreement have been reviewed by the
Bank and found satisfactory.
Power Sector
Loan No. 809       Fifth Power; $22.0 Million Loan and $10.0 Million Credit
Credit No. 296    of April 3, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:  July 1, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project was completed in mid-1977, two years behind schedule.
Due to cost overruns, a part of the transmission project was transferred to
the Sixth Power Project, and the actual project cost as finally constructed
was about $59.3 million, an increase of about $11.0 million over the original
estimate. As of the end of June 1980, the undisbursed funds amounted to
$190,000. Credit 296-PH was fully disbursed in April 1975.
Loan No. 1034      Sixth Power; $61.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974:
Date of Effectiveness: November 15, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project consists of a 100 MW hydropower plant at Pantabangan,
Luzon, transmission lines for the expansion of the Luzon grid and consultants
services. The generating plant was commissioned in April 1977, and the
transmission facilities are now expected to be completed in the first quarter
of 1981, more than three years behind schedule. The revised cost of the
project is estimated at $124.2 million, an increase of about 35% over the
original estimate ($92 million). The Closing Date of the loan has been
postponed from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1981 to allow additional time for
completion of the transmission systems and payment of the retention money.
Loan No. 1460      Seventh Power Project; $58.0 Million Loan of August 9,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 6, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The revised foreign exchange component is estimated at $44.4
million, compared with the original estimate of $58.0 million. Procurement
has been slow, with the result that disbursements have been behind schedule.
The Bank waived the 8% rate of return requirement for 1978 and the Government
has requested that this be repeated for 1979. NPC-s financial performance was



- 59 -
ANNEX II
Page 15 of 18
reviewed by the Bank during the energy sector review in April/May 1980. In
the meantime, the Government authorized a 31% power rate increase effective
February 1980, and NPC expects to meet the covenanted 8% rate of return in
1980. Plans for establishing a training center, which is to be financed by
the Bank, are being prepared.
Loan No. 1547      Rural Electrification; $60.0 Million Loan of May 10,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Execution of the project is now improving, after initial delays in
tender document preparation and procurement. Following reorganization of
NEA½s management, the first contracts for purchase of Bank project materials
were awarded in April 1979. Construction started in late 1979 following
receiLpt of project materials. Bid documents for the third and last package of
materials have been prepared, and contract awards are expected in September
1980.. NEA's financial performance in 1978 and 1979 was satisfactory, and
steps are being taken by NEA to strengthen its monitoring of the financial
performance of the cooperatives, especially their compliance with the
Government s financial performance guidelines.
Industrial Sector
Loan No. 998       Industrial Investment and Smallholder Tree-Farming;
$50.0 Million Loan of June 12, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
September 9, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The industrial portion of the Loan ($48 million) has been fully
drawn down by DBP to finance medium and relatively large industrial projects.
DBP is using the balance ($2 million) to finance about 1,300 smallholders in a
pilot tree-farming project in Mindanao; this part of the loan is almost fully
disbursed.
Loan No. 1052      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines;
$30 Million Loan of November 12, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: February 7, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
The loan is for on-lending by PDCP to financially and economically
viable industrial subprojects. After some slowdown in commitments and dis-
bursements experienced in 1976 and 1977 the loan has now been fully committed.
Overall progress is satisfactory. Disbursements amounted to $25.4 million as
of June 30, 1980.



- 60 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 18
Loan No. 1120      Small and Medium Industries Development; $30.0 Million
Loan of June 5, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 20,
1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The DBP ($16.7 million) and IGLF ($12 million) portions of the loan have been
fully disbursed. The Rural Industrial Cooperative Program ($0.6 million)
which is being implemented by the National Electrification Administration is
facing management and staffing problems because of its experimental nature.
Disbursements on this component have been slow. The Small Business Advisory
Centers program ($0.7 million) of the Ministry of Industry has been
implemented and is working satisfactorily. Overall progress of the project is
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1190      Industrial Investment; $75.0 Million Loan of January 28,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: April 6, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1981
Commitments of funds, which were initially much slower than expected
due to a slowdown of investment in the industrial sector as a whole, improved
in 1978 and 1979.  The loan has since been fully committed by DBP for
subprojects.  Disbursements are now proceeding satisfactorily, and amounted
to $69.8 million as of June 30, 1980.
Loan No. 1514      Private Development Corporation of the Philippines (PDCP);
$30 Million Loan of February 9, 1978;-
Date of Effectiveness: June 23, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
The proceeds of the loan are being on-lent by PDCP for financing
viable private industrial enterprises. As of July 31, 1980 commitments under
the loan amounted to $21.9 million. The project progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1555      Philippines Investments Systems Organization (PISO);
$15 Million Loan of May 8, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 12, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The loan is now fully committed. Based on the present rate of
disbursement the loan is expected to be fully disbursed ahead of the Closing
Date. Overall progess of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1572      Third Industrial Investment Credit Project through the
Development Bank of the Philippines: $80 Million Loan
of June 6, 1978; Date of Effectiveness: September 15,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Out of the total loan of $80 million, $50 million is earmarked for
financing large industry and $29.7 million for small-scale industry projects



- 61 -
ANNEX II
Page 17 of 18
and a small portion ($0.3 million) for technical assistance. Commitments for
subprojects under the large industry component amounted to $49.4 million as of
July 31, 1980; disbursements as of the same date amounted to $26.8 million.
In addition, as of the same date the small and medium industry and the
technical assistance components had been disbursed to the extent of
$7.6 million. The overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Loan No. 1727       Second Small and Medium Industries Development Project;
$25 Million Loan of June 29, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:
November 9, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
In the last quarter of 1979, the Government and the Central Bank
worked on the introduction of policy changes in IGLF, for which purpose $24.5
milli'on was provided under the loan.  Loan utilization is now progressing
well. Overall progress of the project is satisfactory.
Population Sector
Loan No. 1035      Population; $25.0 Million Loan of July 31, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: November 13, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
As of March 1980, 193 of the 219 project facilities had been
completed, 12 were under construction and 14 had not been started. Contrac-
tors have completed about 92% of all construction work. During the period
January to October 1979, many project components experienced implementation
delays due to non-availability of Government counterpart funds. While this
problem was partially solved by internal transfer and reallocation of funds
it is likely that there will be a 6- to 12-month delay in project completion.
Following the disbanding on December 31, 1979, of the administration unit for
this project, a Project Coordinator was appointed for both this and the second
project. This action is expected to speed up significantly the completion of
this first project. In January 1979 the project was amended to include
financing of additional vehicles and equipment for service delivery; training;
infornation, education and communication campaigns; and studies in preparation
for the second population project. The amended total project cost is $38.5
million. The total cost estimate had decreased from the estimate at apprai-
sal, due mainly to price increases not materializing as forecast. The manage-
ment situation in the Commission on Population (POPCOM) is improving and a
functional analysis of the Ministry of Health is completed. The reccmmenda-
tions of this study are being considered to strengthen the integrated health/
nutrition/family planning programs.



- 62 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 18
Credit No. 923    Second Population Project; $40.0 Million Credit of
June 29 , 1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 15, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This credit was declared effective on October 15, 1979. Implemen-
ting agencies obtained sufficient GOP budget allocation for CY1980 and have
started several significant activities under this project. A new construction
unit has been established to monitor and coordinate all civil works under the
project. Most of the contracts for operational research and production of
communication materials have been finalized. The Ministry of Health is
streamlining the project management activities into its line functions. A
national task force is engaged in developing the operational policies,
guidelines and manuals for implementation of Primary Health Care Program and
two independent studies to strengthen the finance/accounts management and
integrated health/population/nutrition management information system are
underway. Although implementation is slightly behind schedule due to
delayed release of GOP funds, overall progress is satisfactory.



- 63 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1 page
PHILIPPINES
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Supplementary Loan Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Industrial and financial sector missions             February/March 1979
(b)  Discussions of the recommendations in the            August 1979
industrial and financial sector reports;
and identification of the proposed
structural adjustment loan
(c)  Preappraisal mission                                 November/December
1979
(d)  Appraisal mission                                    March/April 1980
(e)  Completion of negotiations                           July 3, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness                        October 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Prior to January 31, 1981, the Bank would review the Government's
progress in implementing its industrial development program as set forth in
its Letter on Industrial Development Policies to the Bank.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Disbursement of the second tranche of the proposed loan would be
contingent on satisfactory progress in liberalizing import
licensing and realigning tariffs (para. 138).
(b) By January 1, 1981, the Government would submit a progress report
to the Bank which would cover the items listed in Attachment 2 of
its Letter on Industrial Development Policies (para. 133).
(c) The local counterpart funds generated by the proposed loan would
be deposited in a special account in the Central Bank and would
be utilized to finance economic development expenditures. Quarterly
reports on the utilization of counterpart funds would be submitted
to the Bank (para. 143).



- 64 -
Republic of the Philippines
w '^,3tA         ~~MINISTRY OF FINANCE                       ANNEX IV,
Office of the Minister               Page 1
Manila
12 August 1980
Mr. Robert S. McNamara
President
The World Bank
1818 H. St., N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
USA
Dear Mr. McNamara:
Re: Philippine Industrial Development Policy
Introduction
1.      One of the principal objectives of the Five-Year Philippine
Development Plan, 1978-82, is to improve the performance of the
industrial sector. In the last year we have made considerable
progress in formulating and adopting the policy measures needed
to achieve this objective. This letter is to request a structural
adjustment loan to support our industrial development program.
To this end, I should like to recapitulate briefly the reforms
completed to date and outline the actions that the Government plans
to take in the coming years.
Objectives of Industrial Policy
2.      Philippine industrial policy aims at accelerating the
growth of industrial output and employment, maintaining the rapid
expansion of non-traditional exports, and stimulating greater
development of industry outside the Metropolitan Manila area. To
promote industrial development along these lines, over the next
several years the Government intends to take action in the follow-
ing five major areas: (a) export incentives and promotion
measures; (b) tariff reform and liberalization of commodity import
procedures; (c) investment incentives and their administration;
(d) industrial restructuring; and (e) major industrial projects.
The Government's objectives and policies for industrial development
are stated in an Industrial Policy Statement dated May 1980
(Attachment I).
"Isang Bansa, Isang Diwa"



- 65 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2
Status of Policy Measures
3.      In December 1979, the Government obtained a two-year stand-
by from the UIF for SDR 410 million. This standby is to support
the macroeconomic policies in the context of which the industrial
develonment Drogram will be undertaken.
4.      In the past, protective trade policies, among others, have
been reponsible for industry's suboptimal performance. The initial
phase of the Government's policy program has, therefore, concentra-
ted on reorienting trade policies toward greater openness and on
lowering protection. This is being done both by reducing and
evening out the tariff rate structure and by promoting exports.
Measures recently adopted in these and other policv areas are
enumerated in Part A of Attachment 2.
5.      Obviously, not all the elements of a revised industrial
policy can be implemented simultaneously. Improved administration
of investment incentives, restructuring individual subsectors, and
initiation of the major industrial projects are necessarily medium-
and long-term propositions. While significant improvements have
been made recently in these areas, there remain many tasks that
need further thought and action. Those on which we will be start-
ing work shortly are enumerated in Part B of Attachment 2.
Export Incentives and Promotion Measures
6.      Philippine export policy is to support direct and indirect
export producers/traders through streamlining administrative
procedures related to international trade and other appropriate
measures.     Export industries will also be provided with all
reasonable forms of support through financial and other active
promotional measures.
7.      In the last year, we have virtuallv completed all improve-
ments needed in export incentives and promotional measures by:
(a) strengthening and broadening of fiscal incentives for export
production and trading; (b) simplifying import and export proce-
dures;  (c) liberalizing bonded manufacturing warehouse arrangements;
(d) improving and broadening the availability of export financing
facilities; and (e) strengthening the institutions that promote
exports and international trade.
3.      The Government intends to introduce standard costings/
allowances for the tax credit/duty drawback on imported inputs of
export industries in order to streamline further the current arrange-
ments for duty-free importation by export industries. We also will
be undertaking studies on how best to improve the working capital
financing for exporters and how to encourage commercial banks to
take greater initiative than hitherto in providing exDQrt financing.



- 66 
ANNEX IV
Page 3
Tariff Reform, Liberalization of Commodity Import Procedures, and
Complementary Measures
9.      In order to allocate scarce resources more rationally to
industries where the Philippines is competitive, the Government is
revising the tariff structure and liberalizing commodity import
procedures. Any adverse near term effects which these reforms may
have on revenue collections and the balance of payments will be
offset through additional internal revenue measures, among others.
10.     Tariffs across and within sectors, particularly on raw
materials and intermediate inputs vis-a-vis finished products,
are being evened out and the nominal levels reduced, resulting in
substantial reduction in the average effective protection rate.
11.     We plan to realign the tariff rates for 14 major industries
over a five-year period beginning January 1, 1981. In addition, the
current peak tariff rates for other industries will be reduced from
70Y' and 100% to 50% in two stages on January 1, 1981 and January
1, 1982.  In general, the maximum tariff would be 50%O and the
minimum tariff will continue to be 10%.  Thus, the average nominal
tariff rate would be reduced from 44% to 30%.  The effective rate
of protection for the four industry sectors (Phase 2) would be
reduced from 153% under the present rates to 30% under the proposed
rate, and for the ten industry sectors (Phase 3) from the average
effective rate of protection of 53% under the present rates to 18%
under the proposed rates. We will commence the review of the next
phase of tariff reform shortly. For this purpose, public hearings
have been started in late July and reports thereon are expected to
be completed before the end of the year.
12.     The Government has, in addition, established a phased plan
for the liberalization of commodity imports. The liberalization
plan covers both nonessential and unclassified consumer goods and
other items which are "regulated." In order to insure that the
liberalization plan is carried out expeditiously, complementary
measures will be adopted when needed to offset any adverse effects
liberalization may have.
13.     To cushion the revenue and balance of payments impact and
curb luxury consumption, sales and excise taxes on particularly
conspicuous luxuries may be increased on a selective basis. Further
realignment of indirect tax rates will be subsequently considered
if it appears necessary to deal with the effects of tariff reform
and liberalization of commodity import procedures.



- 67 -
ANNEX IV
Page 4
Exchange Rate Policy
14.     As noted in our letter to the ISF last December in connec-
tion with the current standby arrangement:
"We intend to follow a flexible exchange rate policy that
will allow the exchange rate of the peso to reflect basic
market forces, taking into consideration our desire of
keeping the current account deficit at a sustainable
level in the medium term as well as other policy objectives,
and official intervention in the exchange market will be
limited to preventing disorderly fluctuations."
Our exchange rate policy will also be consistent with the objectives
and policies outlined in this letter.
Investment Incentives and Administration
1.5.    A number of steps are being taken in order to encourage more
effectively investment in industries in which the Philippines has
a comparative advantage, to correct distortions in the prices of
labor and capital, to accelerate employment generation, and to
stimulate further the growth of industry outside of Metro Manila.
First, investment priority plans will give greater emphasis to
labor-intensive industry. Second, steps are being taken to simplify
and streamline procedures for the administration of incentives.
16.     We have already made significant progress towards the above
objectives. Procedures for the administration of incentives have
been streamlined by reducing the paper work required for registra-
tion and shortening the processing time for evaluation of projects.
The use of "measured capacity" for priority determination has been
eliminated in the food processing industries in order to encourage
greater competition and efficiency in that sector. Revised guide-
lines have been adopted to reduce the number of industries on the
"overcrowded industries" list. As a result, 29 out of 38 industries
have been removed from the list. To encourage the location of
industry in identified "less developed" areas of the country, a
law has been enacted to provide additional incentives for such
investments.
17.     To deal with remaining tasks in this area, we are currently
reviewing the staffing and organization of the Ministry of Industry/
Board of Investment (MOI/BOI). We will be reviewing guidelines for
using economic analysis in determining of priorities and the
evaluation of projects. We intend (a) to consider a labor-oriented



- 68 -
ANNEX IV
Page 5
package of incentives as an added alternative to the present
package of incentives; (b) to review the usefulness of the
concept of t"measured capacity" in priority determination; (c) to
consider additional steps to further shorten processing time for
BOI registration and project evaluation; and (d) to consider
additional measures to encourage industry to locate outside the
greater Manila area.
Restructuring Programs
18.     Subsectoral restructuring programs will be implemented
concomitantly with trade liberalization and improved investment
promotion procedures. Some of these are intended to help existing
industries produce at lower costs, improve efficiency, and other-
wise increase their competitiveness so that they can adjust to
the policy changes. Other programs would encourage the growth
of neglected industries that have a potential comparative advantage.
Restructuring programs are intended to provide a positive, construc-
tive alternative to highly protective tariffs and trade restrictions.
The Government is now working out the details of programs to restruc-
ture the cement and textile industries. In the next few months, the
schedule, work program, and guidelines for formulating the other
restructuring programs planned will be finalized. A national
industrial estate program to support the regionalization of industry
will also be considered.
Development of Small-and Medium-Scale Industries
19.     The recent transfer of the National Cottage Industry Deve-
lopment Authority (NACIDA) to the Ministry of Industry has put
under one aegis the development programs for cottage, small-,
medium-, and large-scale industries. This change should facilitate
policy administration and assistance to the lower spectrum of
small-scale industries, which has until now fallen under a different
administrative framework. We are integrating NACIDA and Ministry
of Industry programs for development of small- and medium-scale
industries.
Major Industrial Projects
20.     A program of 11 major industrial projects was announced by
President Marcos in September 1979 as an additional instrument for
accelerating industrial development. The Government, through the
National Development Company and other agencies, is taking an
active role in initiating these projects because they are typically
large, have relatively long gestation periods, and are hence con-
sidered risky by private entrepreneurs.



- 69 -
ANNEX IV
Page 6
21.     In view of the multiple demands on the country's limited
capital resources, initiation of the projects would be phased
over a five-year period. The Government is carefully analyzing
the balance of payments effects of the projects and will, to the
extent possible, utilize foreign capital and export credits to
finance the projects.
22.     The Government intends to continue its prudent and flexible
approach towards the implementation of the major projects, estab-
lishing them only after rigorous economic and financial analysis
have demonstrated their viability.
Financial Reforms
23.     Reforms in the financial sector will play an important
complementary role in improving the performance of the industrial
sector. Seven banking laws were revised in March 1980 to make
possible the development of multipurpose banking. These reforms
are intended to eliminate artificial legal barriers to competition,
increase the flexibility and responsiveness of the financial
system, improve the efficiency of financial intermediation for
export-oriented and labor-intensive industrial development, help
lengthen the maturity of lending, and increase the flow of financial
savings. Progress is being made in the preparation of the proposed
;World Bank financial sector loan which would support these insti-
tutional and policy initiatives.
Conclusion
24.     In view of the initiatives being taken to further develop
the industrial sector, we would appreciate your favorable conside-
ration of the Government's request for a structural adjustment
]Loan of $200 million. We appreciate the continuing exchange of
.ideas with the Bank and look forward to the opportunity to discuss
from time to time the progress in the implementation of the further
industrial development measures planned.
Sincerely yours,
CESAR E.A. VIRATA
Minister of Finance



- 70 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 1
STATEMENT OF INDUSTRIAL POLICY FOR
THE 1980s
BACKGROUND
The Philippines is one of the richest countries in
Southeast Asia in terms of natural resources, ranking
second only to Indonesia because of the latter's oil
reserves. Moreover, the country's highly literate and
English speaking population constitutes another most
important resource particularly for the development of
industry. However, notwithstanding its many natural endow-
ments, the Philippines has lagged behind its neighbors in
economic.growth. In terms of industrialization, a recent
World Bank report indicates that one of the principal
features of the Philippine economic development is a "slower
than desired industrial growth".
The Philippines after the Second World War, started out
with an industrialization policy that emphasized the
establishment of industries producing import substitute
products. This policy was backed up with the corresponding
support of high tariff rates and other protective measures
that discouraged imports rather than promote efficient
and world competitive prices. After almost 30 years there-
fore, the shift in policy from import substitution to export
and world competitive orientation for industries is expected
to be a difficult but imperative move for the country.
OBJECTIVES
The Ten-Year Development Plan 1978-1987 sets the basic
framework for the direction of developmental efforts during
the 1980's. While sustained support to the developmentcof
the agricultural base is the key focus of the Plan, it recog-
nizes that more intensified efforts for greater industriali-
zation are essential. This is mandated by the need to provide
income earning opportunities not only for those that are at
present underemployed and unemployed, but also for the large
and progressively increasing numbers entering the labor force



- 71-               ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 2
annually estimated between 600,000 to 700,000. Moreover,
the need to generate foreign exchange to support the over-
all development programs and the growing import bill
provides an equally important reason for greater industria-
lization efforts.
In this light, industry will play an increasingly important
role in the overall economic development in the 1980's,
such role reaching equal importance with the role of agri-
culture by the end of the ten-year planning period. This
task will not be an easy one and will require the concerted
efforts of government and the private sector as well as
the willingness of both sides to accept responsibilities
and make short term sacrifices for long term industrial
development.
The thrust of the industrialization program shall be
towards the creation, in a relatively short period of time,
of a dynamic industrial structure based on comparative
advantage, which is efficient and competitive by global
standards. While emphasis-will continue to be placed on
the development of small and medium scale industries
especially in rural areas, particular attention will be paid
to ensuring that industries, based on the country's compa-
rative advantages of a relatively inexpensive, efficient
and sizeable work force and a substantial raw material base,
operate at scales which are efficient by international
standards making them competitive in the world market. This
will require both the encouragement of the establishment of
new enterprises in identified priority areas and the ratio-
nalization and modernization of existing industries serving
the local and/or foreign markets.
The government also intends that the accelerated industrial
growth in the 1980's will not add to the congestion of the
M1etro Manila area but rather be dispersed all over the archi-
pelago to distribute more evenly the benefits of industria---
lization among the population.



- 72 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 3
POLICY FRAMEWORK
The prime mover in the industrialization effort in the
Philippines in the 1980's will continue to be the private
sector. The Government will become directly involved in
the establishment of industrial enterprises only in areas
which are strategically important and vital to the national
interest and those projects which the private sector will
not otherwise undertake without the initiation and vigorous
support of the Government.  Whenever possible, Government
involvement in such industrial enterprises will be in joint
ventures with the private sector and only for a period
required to achieve the projects' viability. Foreign invest-
ments, side-by-side with domestic investments, will play an
important role in this industrialization effort in providing
the much needed market access, technology and entrepreneural
knowhow. While the Government recognizes that this will
necessitate allowing wholly owned foreign enterprises in some
areas for a considerable period of time, the main focus will
be in encouraging joint ventures between foreign investors
with domestic entrepreneurs.
The Government's main role in the industrialization in the
1980's will be to provide the infrastructure and policy en-
vironment which will allow the market mechanism to operate
effectively. The Government will ensure that private sec-
tor business decision making is not stiffled by too many
cumbersome rules and regulations. The Government's role will
be to adequately perceive the market mechanism and to formulate
policies and programs which will encourage private sector
investment and activities in the appropriate areas/directions.
To provide this policy environment, Government will adopt a
more active posture and redirect its involvement away from
the regulatory towards a more promotional and directional
focus. Henceforth, while exports will be encouraged through
the granting of special incentives, guidelines and programs
for the rationalization, modernization and develonment of
industries will be differentiated between domestic and export
oriented operations, as in the past, and adopt world compe-
titiveness as the common yardstick for all industries and
projects. This will be achieved by a set of policies which
will:
-- Allow international market forces to play a
greater role in the allocation of resources.



- 73 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 4
Assist all industries to move towards the
adoption of technologies and scales of
operations which are efficient by inter-
national standards and appropriate to the
country's comparative advantages.
Encourage increased investment into priority
areas in a fashion consistent with overall
national development objectives.
Reduce institutional and procedural barriers
(and red tape) which hinder the efficient
working of the market mechanism and private
enterprise.
T!HE nUSTRIAL POLICY FOR THE 1980'S
The Industrial Policy for the 1980's will be marked by
th6 following principal factors:
A focused and organized exiort promotion
program;
The rationalization/restructuring of 14
key industry sectors;
The accelerated implementation of major
industrial projects;
The accelerated dispersal of industries;
Increased emphasis in the promotion of
small and medium scale industries;
The continued encouragement of foreign
investments in selected areas;
The closer cooperation and regular dialogue
between the government and private sectors
in the planning and implementation of
industry policies and program.



- 74 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 5
A FOCUSED AND ORGANIZED EXPORT PROMOTION EFFORT
The Government, in the 1980's, will undertake a more
selective approach in export development both in the
choice of non-traditional export products to be promoted
and the markets where these products will be promoted.
The choice of products will focus on Philippine industries
enjoying distinct, permanent and substantial comparative
advantages such as cheaper labor rates and indigenous raw
material costs over other international competitors.
The products expected to lead prominently in the export
development program are electronics, garments, furniture
and wood products, shoes and leathercraft. Other promising
non-traditional exports which have been exhibiting increasing
export sales recently,include processed fruits, vegetable
and seafood products.
An organized marketing approach to cover the whole world
will be put into full operation jointly by the Government
and the private sector within the first half of the 1980's.
Pursuant to this goal, 12 Filipino conglomerates have been
selected to organize international trading networks and are
expected to establish a network of 150 offices around the
world by 1984 and consequently Philippine market presence in
42 of the world's major trading centers by end of 1980.
The Government.has also started actively dialoguing with
150 of the largest manufacturing companies each having a
substantial domestic market base to motivate them to focus
more attention on exports. In three years, it is estimated
that the program will earn for the country between
US $300-$500 million in additional exports without any
significant additional investments in manufacturing facilities.
In the latter part.of 1979, the Government started the
implementation of a number of administrative reforms on
export procedures as part of the long term objective of
Government to extend the free trade export reforms to all
direct export producers and traders and, where possible,
also to indirect export producers. These reforms include
the following:



- 75 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 6
-- Simplification and shortening of the
procedure for avatlment of export incen-
tives through the Board of Investments.
--  Reduction.of the marginal deposit
requirements of imported inputs of export
industries from 50% to 25%. In certain
circumstances, marginal deposits may be
waived.
-- Liberalization of guidelines and pro-
cedures for the establishment and operation
of bonded manufacturing warehouses.
--  In addition, the Government continued planning
for the establishment of 12 new export
processing zones throughout the country and
started the undertaking of a study for possible
implementation of standard costings for duty
drawback and tax credits on imported inputs
into exports. This study is expected to be
completed by end of June with the assistance
of an International Monetary Fund (IMF)
Technical Consultant who will work in the
country starting early May.
One other area of major concern of the Government at
present, in its drive to promote and support exports, is
the need for special financing facilities for non-traditional
export industries., At the same time, Government is also
concerned about enlisting the more aCtive support of
financing institutions for the export drive. Pursuant to
these concerns, inter-agency discussions and consultations
have been initiated to formulate measures and proposals
on the establishment of special financing facilities for
exports and the role financing institutions will play in the
Government's drive  to promote exports.  Specifically, the
proposals center on shifting export financing away from the
letter of credit to a more historical performance orientation
as well as away from a short term to a more medium and even
long term orientation.



- 76 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 7
RATIONALIZATION/RESTRUCTURING OF 14 KEY INDUSTRY SECTORS
Philippine industry is not benefited by overprotectionism.
Removing excessive protection, while painful, is the only
alternative to promoting a truly efficient and competitive
industry sector.
For the 1980's, 14 industry sectors have been lined up for
rationalization, modernization and/or rehabilitation.
These industries are as follows:
-- Basic and Intermediate Capital Goods
Manufacturing Industries
oo Iron aiid Steel
oo Cement
oo Pulp and Paper
oo  Wsood and Wood Products
0o Heavy Engineering Machineries
oo Ceramics/Glass
-- Transport and Appliance Goods Manufacturing
Industries
oo Automotive
oo Motorcycles
oo Electrical/Electronics
oo Domestic Appliances
Consumer Goods Manufacturing Industries
oo Food Processing
oo Textile and GarXments
oo Leather and Leather Products
oo Furniture Industry



- 77 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 8
The cement industry has been successfully launched as
the first of these sectoral rationalization/restructuring
programs and over the next 5 year period, other sectoral
rationalization and restructuring programs will be
formulated and implemented.
Sectoral rationalization and restructuring programs, in
order to be effective will be presented to the private
sector as a package consisting of policy changes and
reforms, such as rationalization of tariff and liberali-
zation of import licensing, that will spurn industry to
improve its competitiveness and cost efficiency, and assis-
tance programs, such as access to financing for rehabilita-
tion/modernization and technical assistance, to help indus-
try adjust to the policy changes and reforms during the
transition period.
Preparation of sectoral development programs for textile and
garments, food, pulp and paper, iron and steel, leather and
leather products and furniture manufacturing industries and
the mechanical engineering sector have already been started
and are expected to be completed and ready within the year.
Formulation of other sectoral programs for two sectors,
wood and wood products and glass and ceramics, is being
planned and will be started within the year.  Four other
sectors have on-going rationalization programs under the
supervision of the Board of Investments. These rationaliza-
tion programs will be reviewed.
Already, as a start on the industry restructuring program,
the Government reviewed and subsequently limited considerab-
ly the scope of its Overcrowded Industry Policy. The Over-
crowded Industry Policy was adopted in the early 1970's to
conserve limited government financing and foreign exchange
resources by discouraging investments in industries where
established capacities are grossly in excess of local demand.
Through the years however, the policy has taken an industry
protective nature as it limited competition which in turn
prevented improvements on product cost and quality in indus-
tries classified as overcrowded. The recent move of the
Government reduced the number of industries in the over-
crowded list from 30 to 9. The status of industries remaining
in the List are at present being evaluated under the revised
guidelines for retention or immediate delisting.



-78 
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 9
Tariff Rationalization
A key instrument in the industrial restructuring program
is the rationalization OL tariffs aimed at narrowing down
the range of nominal tariff rates between 10% to 50% and
at establishing, in the long run, a more reasonable range
of effective tariff protection levels between 10% to 80%.
This will involve the reduction of hi.gh tariff rates as
well as the raising of some low ones particularly for
products of the mechanical engineering industry sector.
As a first step in this direction, the Government will
reduce peak tariff rates, or rates in excess of 50%, to
50% in two steps over a maximum period of 2 years starting
1981.  This has been called the Phase I of the Tariff
Reform Program and the staging of the reduction over a
maximum period of 2 years is designed to give the private
sector ample time for adjustment. Henceforth, the Govern-
Rent- will also adopt, as a matter of policy, 50% as the
highest tariff level for any product.
As a second step, rationalization of tariffs for products
involved in the selected industries will be undertaken on
a sectoral basis to go hand in hand with the industry
assistance and support measures that will be an integral
part of the development programs for these industries.
The phased adjustments an a sectoral basis have been desig-
nated Phase II (for the. food, textile and garments, pulp and
paper and leather and leather goods manufacturing sectors)
and Phase III (for the remaining 10 sectors) and will be
staged over a four to five-year period starting 1981.
The third step (Phase IV) will be the rationalization of
tariffs not covered in the peak rates reduction and the
sectoral tariff reform (Phases II and III). The Tariff
Commission will soon start conducting public hearings to
solicit the opinions and positions of the different sectors
on the rationalization of this last batch of tariffs and it
is expected that specific proposals on the extent and staging
of the reductions and increases will be submitted for con-
sideration by the NEDA within the year.



- 79 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 10
Liberalization of Import Licensing
In consonance with the tariff reform, the government will
undertake a phased and gradual liberalization of all
existing import licensing requirements in order that the
full effect of the tariff reform program in fostering
competitiveness, efficiency and a more dynamic growth in
industrial output, employment and exports will not be frus-
trated.
However, it is recognized that the liberalization of
import licensing may adversely affect the balance of payment
position of the country if not properly planned and implemen-
ted. As such, selectivity must be exercised in the choice
of products for which import licensing should be immediately
liberalized giving priority to producer goods over consumer
goods and high tariff goods over low tariff goods.
The liberalization shall cover not only products in the
UC and NEC Commodity Classifications of the Central Bank
but also, in the long run, products imports of which are
being regulated or monitored by the Central Bank in coope-
ration with other government agencies. Liberalization will
be started earlier than or simultaneous with the start of the
tariff reform  in  cases of products whose tariffs are to be
reduced and simultaneous with or later than the start of
the tariff reform in cases of products whose tariffs are to
be raised.
Realignment of the Structure of Indirect Taxes
The tariff reform and import licensing liberalization
programs, while necessary to the over-all industry restruc-
turing' exercise, may reduce government revenues while
increasing foreign exchange expenditure. To offset these
anticipated effects, the government is considering the
realignment of the structure of indirect taxes to offset
possible revenue losses and to discourage consumption of
luxury items. This realignment will however be subjected-to
extensive studies and will be implemented once the final
tariff levels are reached in the reform program.



- 80 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 11
The realignment will also make sure that no further
discriminatory treatment will be imposed between imported
and domestically produced goods.
Industry Support and Assistance Measures
To enable industry to withstand the initial adverse
impact of the restructuring program, particularly the
effects of the tariff reforms and the liberalization of
import licensing, and to eventually achieve improved
efficiency and cost competitiveness, Government will provide
industry assistance and support measures on a sectoral basis,
the major components of which will be access to financing
and fiscal incentives.
Investment Promotion Policy
In the drawing up of the annual Investment Priorities Plan,
following the pattern of sectoral restructuring, the
Board of Investments will shift from its present shopping
list - approach to a more sectoral approach. In addition,
the domestic resource cost of every project/area will be
taken into account to make sure that investments are
encouraged in areas that will really contribute to the
country's development objectives of increased employment,
generation of foreign exchange earnings, and industry
dispersal,among others. The more thorough economic analysis
will be applied both to the industry subsectors as well as
specific major projects for Inclusion in the Investment
Priorities Plan.
The review of the fiscal incentives package being granted
to the Board of Investments'registered projects will continue
for the purpose of identifying means of making it more
attractive to investors without unnecessarily increasing the
burden to the government.  At the same time, Government
will consider the desirability of introducing an alternative
incentives package that will be more meaningful to investors
in labor intensive projects.



- 81 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 12
The Government is not only concerned about using better
methods of identifying investment priority areas and
more meaningful incentives packages, it will also
continuously look into simplifying and shortening the
procedure for Board of Investments registration and
availment of incentives. <Moreover, in view of the recog-
nition of the important role of financing in industry
development and investment promotion, conscious effort is
being and will be exerted to better define areas of
coordination between the Board of Investments/Ministry of
Industry and the government financing institutions such as
the Development Bank of the Philippines.
THE MAJOR INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
The Philippine Government has identified 11 major national
projects which it intends to establish in the 1980's to
constitute an important component in its industrialization
program. These 11 major national projects are the copper
smelter, phosphatic fertilizer plan, aluminum smelter,
heavy engineering industries, integrated steel mill, petro-
chemical complex, diesel engine manufacturing program,
cement industry rationalization program, alcogas project
and the integrated pulp and paper mill. Initial analysis
of' these projects indicate that they are economically
viable. The study on the foreign exchange requirements and
implications of the projects indicate that most of them could
generate enough foreign7exchange to offset their foreign
exchange costs. Moreover, while the projects are admitted-
ly' capital intensive, downstream labor industries with
promising export potentials are envisioned to be established
once the projects are operational. Still, the Government
is exercising extreme prudence in planning their establish-
ment and ensuring their viability and has always emphasized
that it will only undertake any project when, at the time
all factors have been considered and requirements have been
negotiated, such project is proven convincingly viable.
The Government realizes that the postponements in the
establishment of these projects have inflated the
investment requirements considerably. It also realizes
the need for prioritization of these projects as the
investment requirements are substantial.



ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 13
In view of this, work is now being focused at the
following:
--  Identifying the best foreign partners to
invite into the project taking into
consideration what the partners have to
offer in terms of equity, technology,
raw materials supply, market support, etc.
--  Securing the best Possible financing and
credit terms for the projects to keep
the public budget frm being unduly
burdened.
THE ACCELERATED DISPERSAL OF I N)USTRIES
The concentration of industries in a few urban centers,
particularly the Metro Manila Area, is undesirable not
only from the environmental but also the social and
sconomic noints of view.  As such, indu:strialization in
the 1980's will aim both at increasing industrial
output and distributing more equitably throughout the
population the benefits of increased industrial activity.
The Government recognizes that industry proj6cts locating
outside urban centers, unless such location is dictated by
specific natural and other resource availability, incur
cost penalties or disadvantages primarily due to additional
transport,communication and managem,ent costs.  The continued
priority rankings of the Government's infrastructure
and cormmunication developmeent programs is expected to
reduce thesecost disadvantages wn the 1980's.  In an attempt
to further diminish these cost disadvantages, the Government
will implement the following strategies for industry
dispersal:
Distribution and location of major national
projects in various sites al11 over the
country. Because of the magnitudes
of these major national projects, they
justify Government investment in infra-
structure development linking their sites
to urban and market centers. Consequently,
they will serve as industrial nuclei
around which smaller manufacturing and
service projects may be established.



- 83 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 14
-- Establishment of industrial estates,
export processing zones or smaller
industrial villages throughout the
major islands. The National Industrial
Estate Program has at least 12.sites
already identified for development.
The establishment of the first 4
industrial estates under Phase I
of the program is expected to commence
very soon.
-- Granting of incentives to firms
locating in identified priority areas.
Recently, the Batasang Pambansa
passed the Batas Pambansa Bilang
44 granting additional incentives
to Board of Investments' registered
projects if they locate in less
developed areas identified by the
Ministry of Industry, Ministry of Human
Settlements and the National EconomiLc
and Development Authority.
INCREASED EMPHASIS IN THE PROMOTION OF SMALL AND
MEDIUM SCALE INDUSTPRIES
The Government's emphasis in the promction of small and
medium scale industries will continue in the 1980's as
these sectors contribute significantly to increased
employment generation and industry dispersal and may also
do the same to exports.
Ihe major problems of small and mediun. scale enterprises
may be classified into three categories, namely, technical,
financial and organizational. In response to these problem--v
areas, Government promises to undertake the following:
-  Increased technical assistance in the
establishment (i.e., conduct of feasibility
studies" and operation (i.e., extension of
of technical training and cor.sultancy
services) of small and mediunt scale
industries.



- 84 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 15
-- Increased access to financing. The
Government is studying various schemes
and incentives to encourage commercial
banks to participate with financing of
small and medium industry projects.
Recently, an agreement was reached by
commercial banks and government and
semi-government banks to set up venture
capital corporations to finance small
and medium scale enterprises, particularly
those in rural areas and utilizing
indigenous raw materials.
-- Organization of cooperatives and/or
other groupings for the acquisition
of common facilities and for pool
purchasing of raw material requirements
as well as pool marketing of finished
products.
'Promotion of subcontracting to link
small and medium firms with large
industries and vice-versa for better
operating and production efficiencies.
THE CONTINUED ENCOURAGEMENT OF FOREIGN INVESTMENTS IN
SELECTED AREAS
The accelerated industrialization program of the Government
in the 1980's will require tremendous equity and financing
funds. To lessen the burden of raising these investment
requirements, the government will continue to encourage and
welcome inflow of foreign investments into selected areas
and under certain conditions.
Foreign investments will be particularly welcomed in
the field of plantation agriculture, which could utilize
large tracts of land which areat present idle and
unproductive.
Anticipating a positive reaction of foreign investoZs to
the Government's open invitation, the National Development.
Corporation was recently revitalized to facilitate co-
venturing. At the same time, mves have been made to relax



- 85 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 16
the citizenship re uirement for investments. Specifically,
the recently passed Batas Pambansa Bilang 44 provides
exemption from the citizenship requirement of investments
in identified less developed areas.
Aside from foreign investors, the Government has also been
encouraging the Philippine banking sector to take a deeper
involvement in irdustry. Pursuant to this end, the Batas
Pambansa recently passed Batas Pambansa Bilang 61 to 67
amending the General Banking Act, Savings and Loan
Association Act, Private Development Banks' Act, the creation
of the Devel-opment Bank of the Philippines, Rural Banks'
Act, the Investment Houses Law, and the Central Bank Act,
respectively, to achieve the following major objectives:
- Increased long-term financing, through the
elimination of legislated restrictions on
long-term lending, by banks and the
modification of monetary policies to minimize
the bias against long-term lending.
-- I.$ncreased competition and efficiency of
banking institutions through minimizing the
enforced distinctions of functions between
different types of banks, such as allowing
investment banking and ownership of equities.
Specifically, the amendments which usher Universal Banking
into the country are as follows:
Batas Pambansa Bilang 61 amending the General
Banking Act of 1948 grants commercial banks
expanded authority to grant long-term loans
and to function as investment houses, invest
equity in non-allied undertakings, in non-
bank financial intermediaries and in
thrift banks. The law also provides that
commercial banks may, upon prescription
of the Monetary Board, carry lower capital
to risk assets ratio than the 10 percent
otherwise prescribed (but not lower than 5
percent) in order to make them competitive
with investment houses and to enable them
to lend more than 10 times their combined
capital accounts. Other reforms introduced
under the same law include: broader own-
ership in rural and thrift banks to include



- 86 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 17
holding companies specifically formed to
invest equity in these banks; allowing
rural banks to set up nationwide
branches; permitting savings and mort-
gage banks to undertake full domestic
commercial banking, exclusive of
foreign operations and investment house
functions; and liberalizing credit terms
from savings and mortgage banks.
Batas Pambansa Bilang 62 amending the
Savings and Loan Association Act allows
savings and loan associations to extend
the maturity period for short-term
loans to 5 ye rs (from the previous 3),
and for medi i-and long-term  loans to
finance home building and agricultural
projects to 3 years  (from the previous
20). To e4able t hese institutions to
raise fundg for  , ng-term lending, the
Monetary Board may now raise their
borrowing ceilings up to 30 percent of
total assets, from the prescribed 20%.
Batas Pambansa Bilang 63 amending the
Private Development Banks' Act provides
that private development banks may now
operate as savings and mortgage banks
and perform commercial banking activities.
To strengthen their capital structure,
these banks may also convert preferred
shares' to common shares when sold to
private individuals.
Batas Pambansa Bilang 64 amending the Charter
of the Development Bank of the Philippines
states that private development banks may
still purchase capital shares of a private
development bank in an amount equal to the
difference between the required paid up
capital of the private stockholders. The
Development Bank of the Philippines however,
may retire such preferred shares if and
when the Monetary Board deems that the
private development bank has accumulated
enough capital streng.h to permit the
retirement of such shares.



- 87 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 18
Batas Pambansa Bilang 65 amending the
Rural Banks' Act changed the provision
that previously restricted rural banks
to lend only to small farmers owning
no more than 50 hectares of cultivated
land, merchants, and cooperatives.
Rural banks may now give credit to the
people of rural communities in general.
To strengthen their capital structure,
rural banks may seek counterpart capital
of more than 01 million upon prescription
of the Monetary Board to promote and
expand rural economic development.
Adding flexibility to rural bank
services is the extension of the expanded
banking authority to operate as savings
and mortgage banks and as a commercial
banks.
- Batas Pambansa Bilang 66 amending the
Investment Houses Act gave investment
.houses added powers to engage in foreign
exchange operations directly related to
encouraging companies to go public and
to promoting enterprises, and to act
as trustees of trust funds or trust
properties. With the approval of the
Monetary Board, investment houses may
now be converted into commercial banks
under an expanded commercial banking
authority.
Batas Pambansa Bilang 67 amending the
Central Bank Act states that the Central
Bank Monetary Board has now the power to
impose administrative sanctions on erring
non-bank financial intermediaries
performing quasi-banking functions and
which are now given access to Central Bank
credit facilities.



- 88 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 19
THE CLOSER COOPERATION MND REGULAR DIALOGUE BETWEEN
THE GOVERNMENT AND THE PRIVATE SECTOR IN THE PLANNING
AND IMPLEMENTATION OF INDUSTRY POLICIES AND PROGRAM
The Government is taking a big step with the industry
restructuring program. It cannot make this step
alone for in the Philippines, easily 80% of total indus-
trial investments are still by the private sector and
Government has no intention of changing that figure.
The program must therefore be managed in active consul-
tation with the private sector whose interests must be
considered in any reform which Government institutes.
The Government has made a "one voice for industry"
proposal and the Philippine Chamber of Commerce and
Industry has taken up the challenge of being that voice.
The President himself regularly meets with various
representatives of foreign business chambers to explain
new policies and hear out problems as well as suggestions
and ideas of these groups. This practice will continue
with greater emphasis in the 1980's.
The preparation of sectoral rationalization or development
programs will be an activity which will provide oppor-
tunities for active consultations and dialogues. Other
programs which will be undertaken and which will require
active participation of.the private sector include export
promotion, standardization and testing of product quality,
industry dispersal, planning and design of industrial estates,
and many others.
CONCLUSION
It is difficult to predict what the 1980's will bring,
all over the world, uncertainty prevails. This global
uncertainty which tempts other leaders to opt for a status
quo is the very driving force that made the Philippine
Goverrment undertake this ambitious industrial restructuring
program.
The Government believes that the solution to our growing
problems, particularly, unemployment and the negative
balance of payements, cannot be solved by a status quo but



- 89 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 1
Page 20
rather by a decisive move that outlines clearly the
Government's desire to set up a growing industrial base
competitive with any other in the world.
The Government realizes that this step is an irreversible
one. Once taken, it offers no second chance for turning
back. With this knowledge, the Goverrment is fully
committed in seeing the program through.  With the help
and full cooperation of the private sector, the Government
is confident that the industry restructuring program has
every chance for success.



- 90 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 2
Page 1
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
A. POLICY MEASURES COMPLETED OR IN THE PROCESS OF IMPLEMENTATION
I.   General
Industrial Policy Statement dated May 19S0. (See Attachment 1)
HI. Export Promotion
A. Incentives and Procedures
1.  Streamlining of import and export procedures (Letter of
Instruction No. 942, dated October 16, 1979).
2.  Extension of BOI fiscal incentives for exports to all
direct and indirect export producers and traders on a
substantially expanded basis, both in scope and avail-
ability (Presidential Decree No. 1646, dated October
1979).
3.  Further rationalization of the administrative arrangements
for the export trade (Letter of Instruction No. 1040,
dated June 26, 1980).



- 91 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 2
Page 2
B. Financial Measures
1. Improvement of rediscounting facilities for nontraditional
exports by the Central Bank (C.B. Circular Nos. 647, 658,
668, 671 and 672, dated January 22, 'March 5, March 20, and
April 6, 1979, respectively).
2. Reduction of marginal deposit requirements for imported
inputs into export industries from 50% to 25% (effective
since January 1980 through C.B. letters to the Philippine
Bankers Association).
3. Transformation of Philippine Foreign Loan Guarantee
Corporation into the Philippine Export and Loan Guarantee
Corporation for purposes of guaranteeing loans granted by
Philippine or foreign financial institutions to qualified
exporters and contractors (Revised Rules and Regulations
dated February 21, 1980 to implement Presidential Decree
No. 1080, dated January 31, 1977). Transfer to it of the
functions of the Philippine Export Credit Insurance and
Guarantee Scheme for the purpose of eventually providing
export credit insurance (Executive Order No. 574 of
December 1979).



- 92 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 2
Page 3
C.  Export Promotional Measures
1. Liberalization of requirements for bonded manufacturing
warehouses (Executive Order No. 565, dated October 1979),
creation of the Bonded Export Marketing Board, and stream-
lining of BOI procedures (September 1979).
2. Approval for Export Trading Companies to set up overseas
trade offices, to operate bonded manufacturing warehouses,
and to utilize preferential export credit financing
facilities. (Republic Act No. 6135 as amended by Presi-
dential Decree No. 1646 dated October  1979).
3. Reorganization of the Export Processing Zone Authority
to play a more dynamic role in industrial estate and
export processing zone planning, development, and manage-
ment. Initiation of planning and implementation of
twelve such zones (Executive Order No. 567, dated November
1979 and Letter of Instruction No. 1033, dated June 1980).
I. Reorganization of Ministry of Trade and creation of the
Philippine Export Advisory Board (Executive Orders No. 573
and No. 574, dated December 1979).



- 93 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 2
Page 4
III. Tariff Reform and Complementary Measures
1. Reductions in tariffs on some 40 items of the food processing
industry to stabilize domestic prices and assist export-
oriented food processing industry (Presidential Decree
No. 1628, dated July 11, 1979).
2. Accession to full membership of GATT effective January 1, 1980
(Executive Order No. 578, dated February 1980).
3. Revision of Tariff Code to provide greater flexibility-in the
setting of tariff rates (Presidential Decree No. 1690, dated
April 1980).
4. Reduction of the peak tariff rates from 70% and 100% to 50% in
two stages on January 1, 1981 and January 1, 1982. Realignment
of tariff rates for 14 major industries over a period of five
years, beginning January 1, 1981 (Executive Order No. 609,
dated August 1, 1980).
5.  Approval of the plan for liberalizing commodity importation
procedures for items in the Central Bank NEC and UC Commodity
Classifications. (Monetary Board Resolution 1495 , dated
August 15 , 1980).



- 94 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 2
Page 5
IV. Investment Incentives and Administration
1. Streamlining of procedures for the administration of investment
incentives, reduction in number of documents/papers required
for registration, and shortening of project evaluation period
from 90 to 60 days (September 1979).
2. Formulation of proposals for making greater use of economic
analysis in industrial priority determination and project
evaluation based on subsector development programs (March 1980).
3. Issuance of guidelines for eliminating industries from the
"'overcrowded industries" list, reducing the number of over-
crowded industries from 29 to 9 (January 1980).
4. Elimination of "measured capacity" criterion for food processing
industries (October 31, 1979).
5. Provision of additional incentives to BOI-registered projects
locating in identified less developed regions (Batas Pambansa
Bilang 44, May 1980).
6. Review of staffing requirements and completion of reorganization
of MOI/BOI (in the process of implementation).



- 95 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 2
Page 6
V. Industrial Restructuring
1. Transfer of NACIDA to Ministry of Industry (March 1980).
2. Announcement of the sectoral program for the restructuring of
the cement industry (April 1980).
3. Preparation of a sector program for the restructuring of the
textile industry (in progress and expected to be completed
by June 19S1).
4. Preparation of a plan for providing infrastructure to support
regionalization of industry through the National Industrial
Estate/Export Processing Zone Development Program (in progress).
VI. Major Industrial Projects
1. Policy on major industrial projects announced by President
Ferdinand E. Marcos (September 1979). Implementation of these
projects, according to Industry Minister Roberto V. Ongpin,
will be subject to rigorous economic analysis and proof of
economic and financial viability.
2. Revitalization of the National Development Company to act as
equity arm of the Government to initiate priority industrial
projects (Presidential Decree No. 1648, dated October 25, 1979).



- 96 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 2
Page 7
B. POLICY MEASURES TO BE TAKEN
I. Export Incentives
1. Completion of arrangements for utilizing standard costing for
duty drawbacks and indirect tax refunds for exporters (as soon
as possible after review of the IMF report now being drafted).
2. Study of (a) increasing the availability of working capital
funds to exporters over and above those currently available
through the export trading corporationsand Central Bank redis-
counting facilities; and (b) of providing even greater
incentives and promoting greater initiative by the commercial
banks in extending facilities for export financing. (Inter-
agency discussions have been initiated to formulate the terms
of reference for such a study).
II. Tariff Reform and Complementary Measures
1. Review of the next phase of tariff reform to rationalize the
remaining tariff lines within the 10-50% range. (Public
hearings started in July 1980 and review expected to be
completed by end of 1980).
2. Preparation of a plan for the liberalization of import
procedures for non-essential and unclassified consumer items
and "regulated " commodity groups not covered in the initial
liberalization plan. (Interagency discussions to start in
August and plan expected to be completed by end of 1980).
3. Increase in specific tax rates on alcoholic beverages and
certain luxury type cigarettes and introduction of various
other tax measures expected to generate peso 1.0 billion in
additional revenues (Tax Program in support of the 1981 Budget:
Cabinet Bills No. 36,37,38 & 39)



- 97 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 2
Page 8
III, Investment Incentives and Administration
1. Studies of (a) the feasibility of introducing a labor-oriented
package of incentives as an added alternative to the present
package of incentives; (b) the usefulness of the concept of
"measured capacity" in investment priority determination;
(c) additional steps to further shorten processing time for
BOI registration and project evaluation; and (d) additional
measures to encourage industry to locate outside the greater
Manila area. (Studies are included in the technical assistance
component of the loan and are expected to be started in 1980).
2. Review of present guidelines on the use of economic analysis
in ptiority determination and in project evaluation. (Review
is included in the technical assistance component of the loan
and is expected to be started in 1980).
3. Study on improving the project data system for, monitoring the
status and performance of BOI-registered projects. (Study is
included in technical assistance component of the loan and is
expected to be started in 1980).



- 98 -
ANNEX IV
Attachment 2
Page 9
IV. Industrial Restructuring
1. Preparation of a schedule, work program, and guidelines for
formulating detailed industrial restructuring programs.
(Included in the technical assistance component of the loan
and expected to be started in 1980).
2. Preparation of an integrated program for small- and medium-
scale industrial enterprises. (Included in the technical
assistance component of the loan and expected to be started
in 1980).



- 99 -
ANNEX V
Page 1 of 1
PHILIPPINES
STRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Selected Documents Available in the Loan File
A. General Reports and Studies on the Industrial and Financial Sectors
A.1   IBRD Report No. 2513-PH:  Industrial Development Strategy and
Policies in the Philippines (in 3 vols.), October 29, 1979.
A.2   Joint IMF/IBRD Report No. 2546-PH:  The Philippines, Aspects
of the Financial Sector, October 1, 1979.
A.3   Romeo M. Bautista, John H. Power and Associates:  Industrial
Promotion Policies in the Philippines, Philippine Institute
of Development Studies, Manila, 1979.
B. Reports, Memoranda and Working Papers Prepared by the Bank Staff
B.)1   Industrial Policy Reform in the Philippines, Aide-Memoire to
Philippine Government, August 1979.
B.2   Financial Policy Reforms and the Financial Sector (Apex) Loan,
Aide-Memoire to the Philippine Govermnent, August 1979.
B.3   Back-to-Office Report and Summary Findings, Industrial Program
Loan Preappraisal and Appraisal Missions, December 1979 and
April 1980, respectively.
B.4   Consultant's reports on tariff reform proposal; Computer
print-outs on projected structural improvements in the economy.
C.  Working Papers and Documents Prepared by the Philippine Government
C.1   Measures/Steps Taken by the Governnent in Connection with the
Industrial Policy Recommendations Contained in the World Bank's
Industrial Sector Report, Ministry of Industry, November 1979.
C.2   Issue Paper on Status of Tariff Reform, Tariff Commission,
March 1980.
C.3   Foreign Exchange Evaluation of Eleven Major Industrial Projects,
Bancom/Ministry of Industry, March 1980.
C.4   Proposed New Policy Toward Investment Promotion and Status of
Sector Programs, Ministry of Industry, March 1980.
C.5   Legislation, Presidential Decrees, Executive Orders, Letters of
Instruction, and administrative papers pertaining to various
industrial policy reform measures.



- 100 -
ANNEX VI
Page 1 of 1
IMF FINANCIAL RELATIONS WITH THE PHILIPPINES /1
Quota:                     SDR 210 million.  The Philippines has consented to the
proposed maximum quota of SDR 315 million under the
Seventh General Review.
Use of Fund resources:  Total outstanding purchases SDR 566.4 million, as
follows:
- SDR 175.0 million under the Compensatory
Financing Facility;
- SDR 101.9 million under the 1975 Oil Facility;
- SDR 217.0 million under the Extended Fund Facility;
- SDR 52.5 million under the credit tranches; and
- SDR 20.0 million under the Supplementary Financing
Facility.
Current arrangement:    Stand-by program covering the two years through
December 1981 in the amount of SDR 410 million of
which SDR 333 million is being provided under the
Supplementary Financing Facility. (The first drawing,
SDR 20 million, was made on April 25.)
SDR position:              Net cumulative allocations amount to SDR 95.2 million.
Holdings amount to SDR 14.5 million or 15.2% of net
cumulative allocations.
Gold distribution:         Received 132,654 fine ounces of gold in the four
phases. Received profits amounting to US$14.5 million
in the three distributions.
Trust Fund:                Received loans totalling SDR 64.2 million in the first
period, and interim disbursements of SDR 79.2 million
in the second period.
/1  Position as of May 31, 1980.



- 101 -
ANNEX VII
Table 1
COMPOSITION OF GROSS VALUE ADDED IN MANUFACTURING
Average annual
Amount /a (P million)         Share /a (%)          growth /b (%)
1970   1975    1979       1970   1975   1979   1970-75  1975-79
Food               2,660   7,231  13,100    27.8   25.3   24.8            3.6      5.5
Beverages             516   1,264   2,402       5.4    4.4    4.6         5.8     10.3
Tobacco               714   1,875   2,625       7.5    6.5    5.0        14.5      0.5
Textiles              553   1,687   3,057       5.8    5.9    5.8         5.9      9.5
Footwear/
clothing           395      834   1,834       4.1    2.9    3.5        5.7       9.0
Wood                  460      871   2,563      4.8    3.1    4.9       -1.1       8.0
Furniture              77      131     232      0.8    0.5    0.4       -3.4       4.4
Paper                 261     826   1,354       2.7    2.9    2.6         7.3      3.6
Printing              202     557      726      2.1    2.0    1.4       11.3       0.5
Leather                17       42      74      0.2    0.1    0.1        0.0       5.4
Rubber                124     400      502      1.3    1.4    0.9        17.7     -1.4
Chemicals             813   3,530   7,864       8.5   12.4   14.9       18.3      12.0
Petroleum
& coal             738   3,526   4,898        7.7   12.4    9.3        7.5      -1.9
Nonmetallic
mineral
products           388      954   2,077       4.0    3.3    3.9        2.8       4.7
Basic metal
industries         465   1,373   3,089        4.9    4.8    5.9        3.2      10.2
Metal products        305      678   1,419      3.2    2.4    2.6         1.4      7.7
Machinery
(except
electrical)         154     303      534      1.6    1.1    1.0        1.3       6.4
Electrical
machinery          269      751   1,545       2.8    2.6    2.9        4.3      10.8
Transport
equipment          349   1,447   2,504        3.6    5.1    4.7        4.0       4.4
Miscellaneous
manufactures        114     264      399      1.2    0.9    0.8       11.3      -0.4
To_al
gross
value
added       9,574  28,544  52,798   100.0  100.0  100.0           7.0       6.3
/a In current prices.
lb In constant prices.
Sources: NCSO and NEDA.



- 102 -
ANNEX VII
Table 2
RANGE OF NOMINAL PROTECTION RATES FOR MAJOR INDUSTRY GROUPS
(%)
Industry Group                         Current              Proposed
Manufacturing
Consumption goods                    70-100                40-50
Capital goods                        10-20                 20-30
Intermediate goods                   30-50                 20-30
Raw material inputs                     10-20                 10-30 /a
/a  The actual legal minimum tariff rate of 5% will be applied in
exceptional cases only.
AVERAGE EFFECTIVE PROTECTION RATES FOR MAJOR INDUSTRY GROUPS
(%)
Industry Group                         Current              Proposed
Agriculture and primary                     9                    5
Manufacturing                              44                   29
Consumption goods                       77                   41
Intermediate goods                      23                   29
Inputs into construction                16                   15
Capital goods                            18                  18
Exports                                     4                    5
Nonexportables                             61                   47
Import, competing                       37                   30
Import, noncompeting                   148                  113
Overall average                            36                   23
Source: Bank staff estimates.



- 103 -
ANNEX VII
Table 3
AVERAGE NOMIINAL AND EFFECTIVE PROTECTION FOR
MANUFACTURING IN SELECTED DEVELOPING COUNITRIES
Average rate of          Average rate of
nominal protection   effective protection
in manufacturing         in manufacturing
Country              Year                (%)                        (%)
Philippines          1965                 n.a.                       51
1974                 31/a                      44
(planned)  1984                 n.a.                       29
Argent;ina           1958                 n.a.                      162
1969                 57                        89
1977                 37                        39
Brazil               1966                  99                       181
1967                 48                        76
1973                 57                        47
Chile                1961                 111                       182
Colombia             1969                 n.a.                       29
India                1961                 n.a.                     313
Malaysia             1965                   2                        -6
Mexico               1960                  33                        27
Pakistan             1964                  85                      271
South Korea          1968                  59                       -1
Thailand /b          1971                 n.a.                       44
1974                n.a.                       46
1978                 36                        90
Other
Taiwan               1965                 n.a.                       33
/a  Estimate is for the economy as a whole.
/b Estimates are for all industries, except food, beverages and tobacco.
Source: Various academic publications and World Bank reports.



