OFFICIAL
DOCUMENTS              LOAN NUMBER 1903 PH
Loan Agreement
(Structural Adjustment Loan)
between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                            (   1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1903 PH
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated  v2 24                      , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is undertaking a comprehensive
balance of payments stabilization program for 1980/81;
(B) one of the objectives of the Borrower's 1978/82 Develop-
ment Plan is to accelerate and reorient its industrial develop-
ment;
(C) the Borrower intends, inter alia, to implement a program
of industrial development measures summarized in-the letter dated
August 12, 1980, addressed to the Bank by the Borrower's Minister
of Finance;
(D) the Borrower has requested the Bank's assistance in
achieving the aforementioned objectives by providing part of the
foreign exchange required to finance imports and technical assist-
ance as specified in Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(E) by a letter agreement dated January 7, 1980, the Bank
granted to the Borrower a loan (hereinafter called the Project
Preparation Advance) in various currencies equivalent to fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000) to assist in the preparation of a
proposed industrial development program by the Borrower;
(F) the Bank has, pursuant to its terms, requested that the
Project Preparation Advance be refunded out of the proceeds of the
Loan provided for herein and the Borrower and the Bank agree with
such request; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Central Bank" means the Central Bank of the Republic of
the Philippines;
(b) "Project Account" means the account to be established by
the Borrower pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.02
of this Agreement;
(c) "Project Preparation Advance" means the advance of up to
$50,000 made available by the Bank to the Borrower for
the preparation of a proposed industrial development
program on terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Bank's letter dated January 7, 1980.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
two hundred million dollars ($200,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in


﻿-3-
respect of the reasonable cost of imported goods and services
provided for in such schedule.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
public sector imports of goods costing more than $5,000,000
equivalent per contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those sat forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines. Before requesting a withdrawal of proceeds of the Loan on
account of any such contract, the Borrower shall cause the Bank to
be furnished with a report, in form and substance satisfactory to
the Bank, certifying that such contracts have been let following
the Guidelines.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
nine and one-fourth per cent (9-1/4%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on &pril 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial and


﻿-4-
administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall open the Project Account
with the Central Bank and shall, upon each withdrawal from the
Loan Account, deposit in said Account in accordance with its usual
financial procedures the equivalent in Pesos of the currency or
currencies withdrawn from the Loan Account (such equivalent to be
determined as of the respective date of such withdrawal).      The
amounts so deposited in the Project Account shall be used exclus-
ively to finance economic development expenditures.
Section 3.03. In order to assist the Borrower in formulation
and carrying out of industrial development programs under Part B
(2) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment,
in the event contracts for such services cost $100,000 equivalent
or more, shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04 (a) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and
procedures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the
Project and to identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan; (ii) enable the Bank's accredited represen-
tatives to examine any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank at regular intervals all such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the
expenditure of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(b) Promptly after completion of Part B (1) of the Project,
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the Project,
the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall, from time
to time, at the request of either party, exchange views on the
progress achieved in carrying out the industrial development
program referred to in Recital (C) of this Agreement.


﻿-5-
(b) The Borrower shall, by January 1, 1981 or such other
date as the Borrower and the Bank may further agree, furnish to
the Bank a report, containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request, prior to and for the purpose of such an
exchange of views.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the mutual intention of the Borrower
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any priority
over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental assets.
(b) To that end the Borrower: (i) represents that at the
date of this Agreement no lien exists on any governmental assets
as security for any external debt except as otherwise disclosed in
writing by the Borrower to the Bank; and (ii) undertakes that,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any such lien shall
be created, it will ipso facto equally and ratably, and at no cost
to the Bank, secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect. The Borrower
shall promptLy inform the Bank of the creation of any such lien.
(c) The foregoing representation and undertaking shall not
apply to: (i) any lien created on property, at the time of pur-
chase thereof, solely as security for payment of the purchase
price of such property; and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary
course of banking transactions and securing a debt maturing not
more than one year after its date.
(d) As used in this Section, the term "governmental assets"
means assets of the Borrower or of any agency of the Borrower
including the Central Bank of the Philippines or any institution
performing the functions of a central bank for the Borrower.
(e) The Borrower further undertakes that, within the limits
of the laws in force in its territories, it will make the f ore-
going undertaking effective with respect to liens on the assets of
its political subdivisions and their agencies, and to the extent
that the Borrower is unable within the limits of the laws in force
in its territories to make this undertaking effective, the Bor-
rower will give to the Bank an equivalent lien satisfactory to the
Bank.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                     , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
Manila
Philippines
Cable address:
MINFIN
Manila
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By
Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Imports of                  195,000,000         100% of for-
goods as listed                                eign expendi-
in the Annex                                   tures
to this Schedule
(2) Consultants'                  4,950,000         100%
services,
training and
fellowships
(3) Refunding of                     50,000
Project
Preparation
Loan
TOTAL       200,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) subject to the provisions of paragraph 6 of this
Schedule, payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;


﻿-9-
(b) expenditures for goods to be supplied under a contract
which another national or international financing institution or
any other agency shall have financed or agreed to finance;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower on goods, or on the importation, manufacture, pro-
curement or supply thereof;
(d) expenditures for goods procured under invoices for less
than $5,000 equivalent; and
(e) any expenditures under Category (1) in, excess of
$100,000,000, prior to January 31, 1981 and until the Bank is
satisfied with respect to the progress achieved by the Borrower in
the carrying out of its tariff Ireform and liberalization of
commodity import procedures.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Borrower and the Bank have reasonably determined
that the amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category needs
to be adjusted, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower reallocate
to such Category, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category.
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan.
6.   The Bank shall, on the Effective Date, withdraw from the Loan
Account and pay to itself, on behalf of the Borrower, under
Category (3), the amount required to repay the principal amount
withdrawn and outstanding, together with interest and other
charges thereon, of Project Preparation Advance. Any amount
remaining undisbursed in the Project Preparation Advance shall be
cancelled on the same date.


﻿- 10 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 1
The items that may be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be those imported items included in SITC* Divisions 2,
5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, as specified below:
A.   Items included in SITC Divisions. 2, 5, 6, and 7, respec-
tively, may be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
except, however, for the following items which may not be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan:
Description of Items
SITC Code                     Crude Materials and Inedible
Division 2:                   materials, except fuels
271                         Fertilizers, crude
292.7                       Cut flowers and foliage
SITC Code
Division 5:                   Chemicals
533.52                      Artists, students, and sign-
board painters' colors,
modifying tints, amusement
colors and the like, in tab-
lets, tubes, jars, bottles,
pans or colors in sets or in
similar forms or packaging
(including such colors or
outfits, with or without
brushes, palettes, or other
accessories)
553                         Perfumery and cosmetics, den-
tifrices and other toilet
preparations (except soaps);
aqueous distillates and aqueous
solutions of essential oils
*    As defined   in  Standard International Trade Classification,
Revision 2 (New York: United Nations, 1975).


﻿- 11 -
Description of Items
SITC Code
Division 5:                   Chemicals
554.1                       Soaps; organic surface-active
products and preparation
for use of soap, in the form
of bars, cakes or molded pieces
or shapes, whether or not
combined with soap
SITC Code                     Manufactured Goods Classified
Division 6:                   by Material
641.97                      Wallpaper and lincrusta; window
transparencies of paper
642.2                       Writing blocks, envelopes,
letter cards, plain postcards,
correspondence cards; boxes,
pouches, wallets and writing
compendiums of paper or paper-
board, containing only an
assortment of paper stationery
642.41                      Cigarette paper, cut to size,
whether or not in the form of
booklets or tubes
642.43                      Toilet paper, cut to size, in
rolls or in sheets
658.3                       Travelling rugs and blankets
(other than electric), not
knitted or crocheted
658.4                       Bed linen, table linen, toilet
linen, and kitchen linen, cur-
tains and other furnishing
articles of textile materials,
not knotted or crocheted
658.9                       Other made-up articles of tex-
tile material, not elsewhere
specified


﻿- 12 -
Description of Items
SITC Code                     Manufactured Goods Classified
Division 6:                   by Material
659                         Floor coverings, etc.
665.2                       Glassware (other than articles
falling in heading 665.82) of
a kind commonly used for table,
kitchen, toilet or office pur-
poses, for indoor decoration or
for similar uses
665.82                      Glass beads, imitation pearls,
imitation precious stones and
semi-precious stones, frag-
ments and clippings, and
similar fancy or decorative
glass smallwares, and articles
of glassware made therefrom;
glass cubes and small glass
plates, whether or not on a
backing, for mosaics and
similar decorative purposes;
artificial eyes of glass (in-
cluding those for toys but
excluding those for wear by
humans); ornaments and other
fancy articles of lamp-worked
glass, glass grains (ballo-
tini)
666                         Pottery
667                         Pearls, precious and semi-
precious stones, unworked
or worked
696                         Cutlery
697                         Household equipment of base
metal, not elsewhere speci-
fied


﻿- 13 -
Description of Item
SITC Code                     Machinery and Transport
Division 7:                   Equipment
713.1                       Internal combustion piston
engines for aircraft, and parts
thereof, not elsewhere speci-
fied
761                         Television receivers (includ-
ing receivers incorporating
radio-broadcast receivers, or
sound recorders or repro-
ducers)
762                         Radio-broadcast receivers
(including receivers incor-
porating sound recorders or
reproducers)
763                         Gramophones (phonographs),
dictating machines and other
sound recorders and reproducers
(including record players and
tape decks, with or without
sound heads); television image
and sound recorders and repro-
ducers, magnetic
764.2                       Microphones (and stands there-
for); loudspeakers; audio-
frequency electric amplifiers
775                         Household type, electrical
and non-electrical equipment,
not elsewhere specified
781                         Passenger motor cars (other
than public service type
vehicles), including vehicles
designed for the transport of
both passengers and goods


﻿- 14 -
Description of Item
SITC Code                     Machinery and Transport
Division 7:                   Equipment
785.1                       Motorcycles, autocycles and
cycles fitted with an auxiliary
motor, with or without side-
cars; sidecars of all kinds
785.2                       Cycles not motorized
786.11                      Trailers and semi-trailers
of the caravan type for housing
or camping
792                         Aircraft and associated equip-
ment, and parts thereof, not
elsewhere specified
793.1                       Warships of all kinds
793.21                      Yachts and other vessels for
pleasure or sports
B.   With respect to items included in SITC Division 8 and 9, only
the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan:
SITC Code
Division 8:               Miscellaneous Manufactured Articles
871                     Optical instruments and apparatus
872                     Medical instruments and appliances,
not elsewhere specified
873                     Meters and counters, not elsewhere
specified


﻿- 15 -
Description of Item
SITC Code
Division 8:              Miscellaneous Manufactured Articles
874                    Measuring, checking, analyzing
and controlling instruments and
apparatus, not elsewhere specified;
parts and accessories, not else-
where specified of the instruments
and apparatus of groups 873 and
874
884                    Optical goods, not elsewhere speci-
fied
885.2                   Clocks, clock movements and parts
899.6                  Orthopedic appliances, surgical
belts, trusses and the like;
splints and other fracture appli-
ances; artificial limbs, eyes,
teeth and other artificial parts of
the body; hearing aids and other
appliances which are worn or
carried, or implanted in the body,
to compensate for a defect or
disability
SITC Code                Commodities and Transactions
Division 9:              Not Classified According to Kind
931                    Materials and accessories imported
on consignment basis for the
manufacture of electrical and
electronic machinery, and for
embroidery or manufacture of
apparel


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are improvement in export
incentives and promotion measures, in commodity import procedures
and tariff structure, in investment incentives and their admini-
stration and in the design and implementation of major industrial
projects and measures for restructuring selected industries.
The Project consists of: (A) The implementation of a program
of industrial development measures being undertaken by the
Borrower as summarized in the letter referred to in Recital
(C) of the Preamble of this Agreement, which measures include
the liberalization of commodity import procedures, tariff reform,
an appropriate exchange rate policy, strengthening of fiscal
incentives for exporters, and administrative actions to promote
and facilitate exports; and (B) The associated importation of
goods and services as follows:
(1) Import of industrial raw materials, intermediate goods,
capital goods, spare parts, and other goods.
(2) Utilization of technical services for the formulation
and implementation of industrial policies and programs.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning April 15, 1986
through   April 15, 2000                    6,665,000
On October 15, 2000                              6,715,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                               Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                   1.40%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                          2.75%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                   5.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                                   7.40%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                                   8.30%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                                   9.25%


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this &2&*.L-day of         , 198 0.
FOR SECRETARY


