Docment of
The World Bank
FOR omCAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-6483-RW
MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 34.3 MILLLION
TO
THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR AN
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
JANUARY 12, 1995
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: P-    6483 RW
Type: MOP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                               Rwanda Franc (RwF)
US$ 1.00                                    RwF 134 (average for 1994)
SDR I                                       US$ 1.43
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                            US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                                       3.28 feet (ft)
I hectare (ha)                                    2.47 acres (a)
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BNR                              Central Bank of Rwanda (Banque Nationale de Rwanda)
CCFF                             Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility
ERC                              Emergency Recovrery Credit
ERP                              Emergency Recovery Program
ESAF                             Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU                               European Union
FAO                              Food and Agriculture Organization
IDA                              International Development Association
MEf                              International Monetary Fund
NGO                              Non Governmental Organization
PCC                              Project Coordination Committee
PFP                              Policy Framework Paper
RPF                              Rwanda Patriotic Front
SAC                              Structural Adjustment Credit
SAF                              Structural Adjustment Facility
UN                               United Nations
UNDP                             United Nations Development Program
UNHCR                            United Nations High Commission for Refugees
UNICEF                           United Nations Children's Fund
WHO                              World Health Organization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROGRAM SUMMARY
Borrower:                         Rwandese Republic
Implementing Agency:              Ministry of Finance
Credit Amount:                    SDR 34.3 million (US$ 50 million equivalent)
Terms:                            Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Economic Rate of Return:          Not applicable
Poverty Rating:                   Not applicable
Environmental Rating:             C
There is no Staff Appraisal Report. A Technical Annex is being distributed together with
this report.
Emergency Recovery Program (ERP) Financing Plan for 199S
Amount                   Percent
(US$ milions)
IDA: 
Emergency Recovery Credit                 50.0                     25.0
Project Rescturing                        25.0                     12.5
Subtotal                                    75.0                     37.5
Other donors 1:___                                                  __
_EMSgency support                0       100.0                     50.0
Project restiucturing                     25.0                     12.5
S_u_b_total                                125.0                     62.5
TOTAL                                200.0                     100.0
Othea donors include the Aria Development Bank, Belgium, Canad, the Eurpean Union, Geman,y the
Nethlands, Swivtemrd, UNDP and the United States. Other donor fim commitnens to date amount to US$
81 million, from the European Union; the rainder are to be finmed up at a govrtmentUNDP round table
meetingscheduledforJanuaiy 18-19,1995.
ThIs docU has a metid ditbun and may be used by recipiesant ona the peftane Ifte
afficialduties Its content may not oherw  be disclosedwitot World Bantborztl-



MEMORANDUM AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCL'IION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT TO RWANDA
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation for a
proposed Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) to Rwanda for SDR 34.3 million (US$50
million equivalent), on standard IDA tenns with a matuity of 40 years, to help finance
Rwanda's Emergency Recovety Program (ERP). The credit would finance imports of high
priority items on a broad positive list and technical assistance for basic governent
finctions and for the implemnentation of the ERP.
Country Backound
2.     Rwanda is a small (26,000 square kilometers), resource-poor and landlocked
country in Central Afiica. Its population has been growing at an average of 3.0 percent
per annum since 1980. By 1993, the country had the highest population density in Africa
(290 inhabitants per square kilometer), while its GDP per capita was estimated at US$195,
among the lowest of the continent. In the 1960s and 1970s, Rwanda achieved sustained
growth in per capita income and made inportant advances in health and education based
on prudent economic managemen, increased agricultural output and generous external
assistance. Agricultural success in this period was aided by an expansion of cuttivated
lands and by relatively favorable world prices for coffee, which accounts for 80 percent of
the country's exports. In the 1980s, however, Rwanda faced a severe financial crisis
brought about by a combination of falling coffee prices, the impact of oil price shocks and
inappropriate macroeconomic policies. In 1990, the government embarked on a reform
program supported by an IDA structural adjustment credit (SAC), approved in FY91, and
a Strucural Adjustment Facility (SAF) arrangement with the IMF. The government
implemented most of the agreed structural reforms, but the macroeconomic framework
was thrown off course owing to civil war in 1991, causing unsustainable fiscal deficits due
largely to increasing military outlays.
The Emeruencv
3.    The Civil War. The Rwandan civil war was the culmination of widespread
opposition to President Juvenal Habyarimana, a military officer from a clan of the
country's maority Hutu tribe, who had seized power in a coup in 1973. In late 1990, the
rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) - composed mainly of Tutsis lving in neighboring
Uganda - invaded Rwanda, seeldng to militarily overftirow the regime. The Rwandan
army fought the imvading group to a standstiL but fighting between the army and the RPF
continued on and off through early 1994. Meanwhile, the internal opposition to President
Habyarimana organized into a number of political parties, most of which were made up ot
and headed by, Hutus opposed to the president.



2
4.   In the face of widespread and growing opposition at home, President Habyarimana
sought to obtain international support by casting his opponents as Tutsis detenmined to
seize power from the Hutus Internaily, Mr. Habyariana increased the size of the army
and created a large militia torce, which harassed opposition groups and was responsible
for the murder of a number of prominent opposition leaders, most of whom were Hutus.
5.    Beginning in 1992, neighboring Tawzania sought to defuse the growing Rwandan
crisis by sponsoring peace talks in Arusha between the Habyarimana government and the
opposition (including the RPF). In August 1993, a power-sharing agreement was igned
in Arusha, but implementation of the accords lagged. An impasse developed and that is
where things stood on April 6, 1994, when President Habyarimanas plane was
mysteriously downed over the airport at Kigali (Rwanda!s capital) as he was returning
from a fiuther round of negotiations, accompanied by the president of Burundi. Both
presidents were killed, and immediately thereafter the Rwandan blood bath began.
6.    Subsequent events are well known. Over several months of violence that shocked
the world, up to one miUion people (i5 percent of Rwanda's population) were killed. The
victms were mainly Tutsis, but up to 200,000 opposition Hutus were also kIlled by
militiamen and some elements in the arm-y. Fighting between the RPF and the army also
resumed. By nid-July, the RPF achieved minty victoly and a new government was
sworn in on July 19, 1994. The President, the Prime Minister and most Cabinet members
are Hutut, belonging mostly to parties that had been aligned against the Habyarimana
regime. True power rests, however, with the Tutsis from the RPF who control the army.
7.    The situation in Rwanda - and, indeed, in the region - is precarious. Some two
miilion Rwandan reffugees fled to neighboring Zaire, Burundi and Tanzania, where they
have been living in large, squalid refugee camps. Another million people have been
displaced within Rwanda and are also facing the grim conditions of camp life. These
refugees and internally displaced persons are afaid to return to their homes, either
because they mistrust the new regime or because they are being deterred by militiamen and
soldiers from the former Rwandan army who, in effect, control the camps and hold their
compatriots hostage.
8.    Rwanda now has a govemment but virtally no aininstration. On average, only
about a fifth of public sector professionals are currently at work, as most officials have
eiter been klled or fled the country. The new govenment is nearly devoid of financial
resources and has barely been able to pay the army. Meanwhile, an estimated 300,000
"old refugeesW - Rwandans who had left their homeland in the late 1950s and early 1960s
- have returned from neighboring countries and have, in some instances, reclaimed for
themselves the property of absent or deceased former owners. This has comelicated the
property rights picture, particularly in Kigali and in other towns.
9.    Within this explosive framework, the new goverment is confronting the complex
task of consolidatig peace and national reconciliation, seeking to reintegrate into the



country both old and new ref&gees while iniating efforts to rehabilitate the economy and
stimulate recovery. Should these efforts fail, conditions could once again degenerate and
throw the entire region into a renewed state of tmoil. In this difficult situation, the
donor community is looking to the Bank to take the lead in mounting a rehabiitation-cum-
recovery effort that would help reduce tensions in Rwanda and get the country back on
the road to recovery.
10. Economic and Social Impact. Although relatively short, the Rwandan civil war
dealt a severe blow to the foundations of a narrow and fragile economy, badly battered
even before this latest crisis. As esfimated by Bank staft real GDP declined by as much
as 50 percent in 1994. Tlis came on the heels of an 11 percent contaction in 1993. More
than half the country's agncultural and industrial output has been lost, while most
enterprises are not operating. The coliapse of the banking system is also impeding efforts
to normalize economic activites. Foreign exchange reserves have vanished, coffee stocks
have been stolen and the government can barely generate revenue. Damage to physical
infrastructure such as roads and bridges has been relatively modest, but human losses have
been huge; as a result, the central administrative capacity has been paralyzed. The
country's institutional memory and project implementation capacity have been all but
wiped out by the ldllings and disappearance of personnel, destruction of files, and theft of
computers and equipment. Overall, the sharp decline in economic activity has intsified
poverty in Rwanda, which ranked among the continent's poorest countries even before the
crisis.
11.   Losses of agricultural output were particularly severe because of the widespread
dislocation of people; furthermore, the most violent phase of the war coincided with the
harvesting season. Although subsistence crops were not totally lost, being harvested by
passers-by, cash crops were badly affected: only about 700 tons of coffee were formally
exported in 1994 (the annual average had been around 30,000 tons). Tea was not
exported at all in 1994 and almost all the tea plantations and processing plants were
destroyed. Estimates of industrial losses in the private sector range between 60 and 80
percent of normal annual output. Although ifrastructure was mosdy spared by the
violence, public buildings, particularly in Kigali, were significantly damaged. The state of
many roads and bridges has deteriorated due to both lack of maintenance and damage
caused by the rainy season. In the areas of energy, water and sanitation, the war made it
impossible to carry out normal maintenance, thereby compounding an already precarious
situation. Although water supply has been almost normalized in many parts of Kigali,
other cities and the countryside are facing serious shortages.
12. The crisis caused a sharp drop in the delivery of social services. Particularly hard
hit were health and education. A sizable part of the services personnel in both sectors was
ffilled or fled. Medical supplies, essential medicines and vehicles were stolen, medical
centers were damaged and normal distribution channels broke down. Equally, educational
equipment was stolen and schools vandaLized. Nevertheless, some primary schools had
restarted activities by mid-September 1994, albeit with greatly reduced resources:
student/teacher ratios, already high before the crisis (57 primary pupils per teacher) have



4
greatly deteriorated; school buildings have been danaged and basic equipment and
essential learning materials (textbooks, notebooks, pencils, etc.) are lacking.  Re-
establishment of basic social services to their normal levels would facilitate the return of
displaced persons and refiigees to their homes.
13.   Early emergency assistance.  Beginning in the sunmer of 1994, external
assistance began to arrive in the region mainly to provide relief to Rwandan refugees in
neighboring countries. Total outlays since the onset of the crisis have been estimated at
over US$1.0 billion. Early on, the UN made a consolidated appeal to donors to meet
needs in July-December 1994 related to the provision of food aid, health, nutrition,
education, water supply and sanitation, and the related logistics. Donors have responded
generously.  In addition, NGOs have been extremely active.  The Bank has also
participated in the relief effort: in August 1994, the Executive Directors approved grants
totaling US$20 million to four UN agencies (UNICEF, UNHCR, FAO and WHO). The
objective of these grants is to help lay the foundations of a broad-based reconstruction and
development program, filling identified gaps in each of these agencies' programs for
Rwanda, with parficular emphasis on the emergency needs of returnees. Agreements with
the agencies on indicafive programs were completed; the first tranche (for a total of US$
11 nillion) has already been disbursed to all four agencies. According to a progress report
prepared in December 1994 by the UN agencies and the Bank's resident mission in Kigali,
implementation of the grants is proceeding well; more than 60 percent of the first tranche
has already been spent and release of the second tranche is expected to take place before
the end of Februauy 1995.
14.   The government of Rwanda was not a party to the early relief efforts, as none of
the early assistance was channeled through it. With a firmer grip on the administration,
the government is now initiating efforts to respond effectively to the current situation. To
do so, however, it has aniously appealed for international support.
15.   The Govemment's Response. The Government of Rwanda has embarked on
rebuilding the nation and the economy. To that end, it is taking steps to demonstrate its
commitment to peace based on national reconciliation. Important among these are its
recent appointment of a high-level official to coordinate the government's human rights
efforts, and its commitment to take significant actions in the political, social and economic
areas (para. 16 and 17). An essential condition for fostering national reconciliation is the
resettlement within Rwanda of both refigees and intermnlly displaced persons; equally
critical are efforts towards the rehabilitation and development of infrastructure as well as
socio-economic recovery. The government has sought international support for getting on
with the urgent task of reconstruction and for taking up, once again, the economic reform
agenda. The total costs associated with reconstruction and resettlement are esimated by
the government at US$764 million, to be incurred over several years. The government's
Emergency Recovery Program (ERP) for 1995 represents a short-term recovery program
aimed at addressing the country's most immediate reconstuction needs, including the re-
establishment of the government's capacity to rebuild the nation. The ERP has a total cost
of US$200 million and was designed in consultation with donors, on the basis of an IDA



5
preparation mission in September 1994 followed by an appraisal nission in November
1994.
16.   The government recognizes that national reconciliation is essential for the success
of the recovery effort and for the sustainabifity of donor support. In this regard, a multi-
part National Assembly was swom in on November 29, 1994. Furthermore, tue
government issued in December 1994 a Declaration of Principles spelling out its political,
social and economic agenda for a "New Rwandae. On the political side, the Declaration
deals with political-cun-reconciliation issues such as human rights and policy actions to
stimulate the return of refligecs. Specifically, the government is allowing the deployment
of human rights monitors and UN troops; seeking support for establshing an impartial
judicial system; and ensuring adherence to property rights. The government is also
committed to a substantial reduction of the army as soon as the security situation permits.
Regarding social issues, the Declaration recognizes the sharp decline in recurrent and
investment expenditures for social services relative to pre-war levels and the resulting need
to urgently rebuild and re-equip health and school infrastructure. Shortage of qualified
managerial and other staff is, however, identified as a major constraint. The Declaration
also promises special efforts to address the needs of vulnerable groups, including women,
children and surviving war vicfims.
17.   On the economic side, the Declaration addresses issues such as the size and scope
of government, the role of the private sector, the privatization of public enterprises, the
trade and exchange rate regime, the appropriate level of miltary expenditures and
regulatory reform. The government is committed to a market-based economy, with a key
role for the private sector and with a smaller government focusing on the social sectors.
The current economic team includes the Mnister of Finance and Director of the Ministry
of Planiing, who had both shown comiutent to liberalizing the economy while holding
the same posts in pre-crisis administrations. The Declaration's economic principles, and
accompanying actions, would serve as the basis for a medium-term macroeconomic
framework to be designed by the government in close consultation with the Fund and
Bank. A joint Bank/Fund mission is scheduled to visit Rwanda in February 1995. These
consultations and the government's early actions would pave the way for a possible Fund
ESAF arrangement and a resumption of adjustment lending by the Bank.
Proiect Obiectiva and Descrintion
18.   Project Objectives. The Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC), recommended in
this memorandum, aims at helping Rwanda begin to overcome the problems created by the
events of the past months, and facilitate the return to normal life and productive activities.
Success in the pursuit of this objective is important for both the ongoing process of
national reconciliation and for creating conditions for longer-term development. Towards
that end, the operation is designed to: (i) help the government begin the restoration of key
economic and social services, rebuild the institutional capacity necessary for sustainable
economic recovery and design a coherent economic policy framework; and (ii) provide the
private sector with the means to resume operations and crate jobs.



6
19.   Project Description. The proposed credit of US$50 million would help support
the government's Emergency Recovery Program (ERP) during 1995. The project's
components support imports by the government and the private sector of high priority
items on a broad positive list, and technical assistance to help implement reconstruction
and re-establish basic government fimctions. Eligible imports would include spare parts,
inputs and capital equipment in priority sectors such as: agriculture, industry,
transportation, energy, water and sanitation, education and health. The project is part of a
broader support effort (para. 20) which also features the restructuring of the Bank's and
other donors existing portfolios to make them more responsive to Rwanda's immediate
priority needs. These combined efforts should lay the groundwork for economic activity
to rebound in 1995.
20.   The 1995 Emergency Recovery Program. Rwanda's overall funding needs under
the ERP for 1995 are estimated at about US$200 million. The proposed ERC would
finance US$50 million of reconstruction-related import needs, and some urgently needed
short-term technical assistance. Other donors are expected to fund the remaining US$100
milion; firm commitments to date amount to US$81 niillion (para. 27). This quick-
disbursing support by IDA and other donors would be complemented by the restructuring
- amounting to US$50 mi}lion in 1995 - of ongoing donor-financed investment projects,
including IDA's to respond more effectively to Rwanda's immediate priority reconstruction
needs (see Technical Annex). To facilitate private sector access to imports, special
attention would be paid to the quick reactivation of the financial system and availability of
credit to the private sector. This objective would be achieved primarily through the
restructuring of the IDA-financed FY94 Private Sector Development Credit (Cr.2541-
RW), under which US$12.7 million is undisbursed.
21.  Indicative Sectoral Allocations. Preliminary estimates of the sectoral breakdown
of the 1995 ERP, along with the respective contributions from IDA, are shown in Table I.
The IDA allocations are based on an analysis of priority needs for 1995, but maxinum
flexibility wil be maintained to ensure effective complementaity with other donors and
rapid project implementation.
22.     The ERC's contribution to the private sector addresses the need to replace lost
assets, encourage new activities and restore the sector's operational capacity. Assistance
for rehabilitation efforts in the agricultural sector would help fund imports of inputs, such
as fertilizers, insecticides, agricultural instnments, live animals for breeding, and disease
control supplies. In health, the ERC would finance medical and surgical equipment, and
medicines and supplies to help re-funiish health facilities, including rural health centers. In
education, the ERC would meet the costs of school equipment, textbooks and other
educational materials, as well as short training programs for teachers. In all sectors, poor
women, widows and female-headed households are likely to be among the principal
beneficiaries of the recovery program. The infiastructure component would provide
building mateials for repairs and upkeep of roads and bridges, public buildings and water
and sanitation installations. To help ensure efficient implementation of the project, a sum



7
of US$2 million of the total funds earmarked for institutional capacity needs would be
used to finance the services of a private agency which would be responsible for
procurement and project management. This sum accounts for a portion of the total
technical assistance of US$5 million to be provided under the ERC (para. 23). Indicative
sectoral allocations are covered in more detail in the Technical Annex to this report.
Table 1
IDA Contribution to Rwanda's Economic Recovery Program
(In millions of US dollars)
IIDA Contribution
Sector        ERP        ERC          Project        Total (% of ERP)
restructurint
Prtivate sector    40.0      25.9            3.2          29.1 (73%0)
Agriculture        40.0       6.0            2.0           8.0 (20%)
Health             36.0        5.0           6.0           11.0 (31%4)
Education          30.0        4.0           3.0           7.0 (23%)
Eerg               21.0         -            1.0            1.0 (5%)
Infrastructure     18.0       4.9            5.5          10.4 (58%)
Instit. capacity    9.0        2.8           0.8           3.6 (40%)
Other               6.0        1.4*          3.5**         4.9 (82%)
TOTAL         200.0      50.0           25.0          75.0 (37,50%)
* Central Bank of Rwanda (US$0.9 million)
Commerce and Industry sector (US$0.5 million)
** To be identified
23.   Technical assistance to the government. The collapse of adniinistrative and
project implementation capacity resulting from the recent events has made the early
provision of technical assistance a top priority in Rwanda. The ERC proposes a total of
US$5 million to help meet the technical assistance needs identified under the ERP. The
focus of the proposed technical assistance, beyond the immediate needs of effective
project implementation, would be on training and rebuilding capacity.  gh priority would
be given to strengthening: (i) local project implementation capacity (for the proposed
credit and other projects) in procurement and project management, by providing short-
term technical support to key ministries and by contracting a private agency to temporarily
perform these services; and (fi) capacity to cary out key govermment functions, including:
preparation and monitoring of the budget and of the public investment and expenditure
programs; foreign exchange management; and implementation of recovery activities and
economic policy reform.



8
24.   Technical assistance to help establish basic government functions and implement
recovery will also be funded by a number of other donors. A detailed technical assistance
program would include the services ", short-term foreign experts to carry out specific
tasks and provide training. The IMF, for instance, will assist the government in
reconstituting its revenue collection and tax administration efforts; it will also help in the
re-establishment of basic central bank functions, including accounting and bank
supervision as well as reconstituting the collection of key economic data for policy
making. A number of other donors/agencies, including UNICEF and UNDP, are already
providing technical assistance in key ministries. Other donors plan to support the re-
establishment of the justice system.
25.   Project implementation.  A Project Coordination Committee (PCC), composed
of the Ministers of Finance and Planning and the Govemor of the Central Bank of
Rwanda, will be responsible for overall project coordination. A Project Manager will
oversee day-to-day project implementation in close collaboration with the central
procurement agency. The process of selecting a suitably qualified project manager is
proceeding well. The agency would be fully responsible for procurement execution and
contract management, given the government's limited capacity to manage ERP
implementation. In addition, the agency would meet both public and private sector
procurement needs and be recruited (in accordance with Bank guidelines) prior to credit
effectiveness. Simplified procurement procedures would be used in accordance with Bank
guidelnes. To facilitate disbursements, a special account of US$10 million will be set up.
Retroactive financing up to an aggregate amount of US$10 million would be acceptable
for eligible imports paid for after project appraisal (November 28, 1994).
Bank Stratesp and Donor Sugnort
26.   Rationale for IDA involvement The Country Assistance Strategy for Rwanda
presented to the Board in June 1992 was geared to the country's long-term development
needs. It focused on the goal of promoting private sector-led, export-oriented economic
growth, poverty alleviation, a reduced role for the state, and protection of Rwanda's
environment. These goals remain valid, but reconstruction is the imnmediate order of
business to get the country through the critical recovery phase. Following the US$20
million emergency grants, approved by the Executive Directors on August 1994, IDA!s
response has been two-fold, consisting of the proposed Emergency Recovery Credit
(US$50 nillion) and the restructuring of ongoing credits (US$25 million). Beyond these
actions, Bank staff have begun preparations for the resumption of IDA lending that was
suspended in April 1994. This would include both investment and adjustment operations.
At this time, the proposed ERC would support the government's efforts in meeting urgent
post-war needs and pave the way for renewed implementation of economic reform, by
helping to restore institutional capacity and financial viability. This operation has also
served as a catalyst for a coordinated global approach to the reconstruction of Rwanda
and has encouraged burden-sharing amongst donors; as such, it represents an important
part of a broad-based international rescue effort.



9
27.   Donor coordination. Donor coordination has been an important element in the
preparation and implementation of Rwanda's recovery program. The Bank convened two
donor meetings in Paris, in September and October 1994. With growing world confidence
in the new govermment's commitment to national reconciliation, many donors have
declared their readiness to participate in the international effort to rehabilitate the country.
Belgium, Canada, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland and the United States have
already provided funds with which Rwanda's arrears with the Bank through Januaty 1,
1995 have been cleared and which cover debt service payments to the Bank through June
30, 1995 (US$9.5 niillion). Donor mobilization to cover Rwanda's reconstruction needs
for 1995 is at an advanced stage, although not yet completed; commnitments will be more
firmly established at the Round Table for Rwanda to be held in mid-January 1995. As of
now, firm commitments amount to US$81 million, from the European Union (EU).
Funding for reconstruction needs is also expected from the Afiican Development Bank,
Belgium, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the USA and other countries.
Finally, balance of payments support is likely from the IMF, which is expected to make
available in 1995, initially about US$13 million under the Compensatory and Contingency
Financing Facility (CCFF) and subsequently a larger amount under the CCFF and another
facility to be determined. Apart from these contributions, donors are expected to
contribute US$25 million through the restructuring of ongoing projects.
Lessons from other Emeneenci OQerations
28.     Several lessons learned from similar operations in war-tom countries are being
incorporated into the design of the proposed operation. The ERC thus seeks to ensure: (i)
simple project design to be complemented by the restructuring of the existing portfolio;
(ii) strong government commitment to, and provision of technical assistance for, effective
implementation; (iii) frequent communications and close coordination between the
Borrower, other donors and the.Bank; and (iv) simplified procurement and disbursement
procedures.
Environmentad Asgects
29.     The imnplementation of the ERC is not expected to have any negative
environmental impact.
AWreed Actions
30.   Management of procurement and contract administration will be delegated to a
procurement agency, to be recruited competitively based on a list of international agencies
specialized in general procurement and contracting (para. 25). The recruitment of this
agency will be a condition of credit effectiveness. Pre-shipment inspection for all imports
under the credit will be undertaken by a private firm already under contract with the
Centra Bank of Rwanda. The ERP will be an integral part of the 1995 budget that is
being prepared in close consultation with the IMF, the Bank and other donors. This



10
would help ensure that the quality and composition of government expenditures would
support peacefuil economic recovery and lay the foundations for development.
Proiect Benefits and Risks
31.   The proposed operation provides imrportant support to Rwanda at a critical time,
in particular by catalyzing assistance from the donor community, to help achieve the
restoration of basic conditions for economic and social recovery and continued
adjustment.  Specifically, it would contribute to the emergency need to rebuild
government capacity, help the private sector get back on its feet and facilitate national
reconciliation. In parallel, it would provide an opening to begin the tasks of redefining the
functions of government and building a leaner and more efficient public administration.
Finally, it would reopen the policy dialogue between the government and the Bank and lay
the groundwork for a resumption of sustainable economic growth in Rwanda.
32.   This operation faces significant risks. Rwanda and some of its closest neighbors
are in a state of political flux. Ethnic tension have been exacerbated in the past 18 months
and the large number of refugees and displaced persons in the region is contributing to the
area's volatility. One threat which Rwanda faces is that troops and militia from the
previous regime may seek to re-open the civil war by invading from neighboring countries,
especially Zaire. And within the country, conditions could be destabilized by abuses by
the current government's army or by fissures in the current coalition government. Finally,
the badly deteriorated economic and social conditions in the wake of last year's civil war
contribute to unrest in the country as does the absence of a well endowed civilian
administration to provide minimal governance and also spearhead econonic and social
recovery.
33.   As is indicated by its moderate behavior to date and by its recent Declaration of
Political and Economic Principles, the govermnent has embarked on the path of national
reconciliation and on a binding of the country's wounds. It is also committed to beginning
the task of social reconstruction and to laying the groundwork for a modern, more
efficient state and sound economic policies. Against this backdrop, the Bank has played a
leading role in mobilizing international financial and economic support for Rwanda's
reconstruction. Bilateral and multi-lateral agencies have joined the Bank in an economic
rescue effort and are also seeking to contribute to the resolution of Rwanda's political
issues. This international coalition has come together aware that conditions in Rwanda are
in a tenuous environment but also in the realization that the stakes are high in the country
and the sub-region and that the risks associated with inaction or delays far outweigh those
linked to moving ahead with a constructive program of support.
34.  Ultimately, it wili be up to the people and government of Rwanda to find sufficient
common ground for the country to get back on the path of peaceful and sustainable
development. But without strong international support, including the credit proposed in
this memorandum, the chances of Rwanda recovering economically and socially --a
necessary albeit insufficient condition for sustainable development- are nil as is the



I)
likelihood of making Rwanda whole again. Given the delicate nature of conditions in
Rwanda, Bank staff will monitor developments in the country closely. Moreover, IDA
would suspend or cancel undisbursed amounts of the proposed credit if conditions in the
country deteriorated to the point where the credit's objectives were no longer attainable.
Recommendation
35.   I am satisfied that the proposed Credit of SDR 34.3 million would comply with
the Articles of the Association and recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
Washington, D.C.
Januay 12, 1995
Attachments



Schedde A
RWANDA
EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT
OISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ Mlilon)
(IDA Fiscal Year)
FY                               1995             inLsL
IDA ERC                           20              30               50



Schedule B
RWANDA
EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT
rimetable of Key Processinc Events
Time taken to prepare the ERC                        2.5 months
ERC prepared by                                      Govemrnment and IDA staff
Appraisal mission                                    November 17-30, 1994
Negotiatons                                          December 28-29,1994
Board presentation                                   January 31, 1995
Planned date of effecUveness                         March 31, 1995
Expected compleiUon                                  March 31, 199



(fA   N"r*x 30. O99)
aIn USS uumom
Cr9a                dDa        soer                                                                                                             MLo) £83  (i  (pf   mI -   ( L)
Numbn                                                                                                                           .rn I WAdb.)
Crsdia: 31 cd          1966S19t6    R _ada                                                                                 310.A
Ct. t733                    1987       twlab      Wmrsunppy a5.00o                                                .Q0          IS.0M          0.00        11.15          3.85
Cc. 1796                    £927      Rusad       Sectal          _ ad pm.£n ulum Diii              7.40          0.00          7.40         0OO          t1.36          6.03
CA.0BS                      1982      Ru_b        llb0i VI (ec)                                    10.00          0.27'         9.73         40.0          4i9           1.54
Cf. 20200                   I989      Rwa         AuI Suv£. 0                                      19.90          0.00         19.90        0Q00           69           13.7t
Cf.200                      £1M9      awna         l u     Iut - (Aule                              1.43          1.43          0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
Cr. 21130                   199       R _         P       pd                                        4.40          0.00          4.40         0.             0            3.3
Cr. 21340                   t990      it          TnW        e                                     40.00         0.00          40.00        O             6.03         33.97
Cf. 21890                     I       it           C_12.80                                                        0.00         £2.80         MO           4.35          a45
Cr. 22270                   1991       R _         E&=  C=                                        U23.3           0.00         23.30          O0           0.96         22.34
Cr. 22710                   1991      RUUd        SAL I                                            9000           0.0          90.00         0.00         51.77          A23
c. 27m                      1990       Ruama                                                       Wh1            0.00             o          .oo 00.00                 19.70
cr. 230                     1992   .Rada           Po6Se& Sci Acdoa                                19.20          too          19.10         0.00          1.41         17.69
Cr. 24560                   1993      R _and4     Sr yS                                            26.00          0.00         26.00         0.00          0.00         25.4
Cr. 2S410                   £994      Rw          Pi    S                                          12.00          0.00   n.ot                            0.00         12.70
cr. 247                     1994      Rusa9a      Aga*c- gmecl                                     £ U5.00        0.00          ISM          coo           0.00          t5.9t
Aft" p                                                                                 to 0.0     315.93          1.70        314.23            0           4S         226.94
ot4t Prit                                                                                                                     62L?73
1.70
Tow min g                                                                             0.0                                      WA5.03
-d wtich RcpM                                                                       0.                                        16.10
Tea du  fthel by Bk    d WA)                                                         no                                      61063
T*Wl ua£sbue£d                                                                       0.0                                     22694
Cmdo tidd                                                                                                                    3375                tS
7--_       '837.57 VD
SrTAl 48P OF ML.C .tVE R1
thmber                      Oats        Saow Ber    Tan. Of bao ts                    la           Eqsh                                      Te<d
W3.w                        I97       S Oeuwe    Tc          s  in     a             0m3                                                     0.3
470.W                       2979      sow                                             023           0O                                       Q29
7644RW                      19S5      9o te                                          0.29                                                    0.29
Rlr              tSss3~~~i  Sk"t                                           cm4
102&W                       198       Somwu       Naai.mda
ToalS ge csmman                                                1.05          0.06                                      1.11
-l-t ae           uA=M.                                    0.00          0.20                                      0.2
TOW comwzno  bt  by WC                                        &0             0.00                                     0.00
TOW =O.C0.00                                                                  .OD                                    0QO



2130'                 2100r                   210'  j                 So'30'
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
RWANDA                                                                                     -
EMERGENCY RECOVERY                                       )            UGANDA
PROJECT                                                                                          TANZANiA
*  NAlONAL CAPrTAL.
@  PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                          A A,
-   MAIN OADS
i   -   PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES                    /                                                 PARK
I tNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
S > ( ~~GISENYI )5 
21w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
21V                                                      I TA                                    GO, UA*        2*~~~~~~~2w  1o'  1w(I
CA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
T  )     t ~IMA   B-  REAEp                                                                      
i s } \ 0 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BURUNDI                                           J* bwxmitc
X   k   M   |   Z  A  t  R E S i/ o,~~~~~~~~~~~~OXWM 0                      10   ,5 20  25  30      40  45  50  T 



