Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6483-RW
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
JANUARY 12 1995






RWANDESE REPUBLIC
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TABLE OF CONTENTS
A. The Emergency and The Government's Response ..............................................1
B. IDA's Response and Strategy ..............................................4
C. Emergency Recovery Program  Objectives and Description .........................................5
D. Technical Assistance .............................................                                       11
E. Institutional Arrangements and Program  Implementation ........................................... 11
F. Estimated Program  Costs and Financing Plan ....................                ......................... 14
G. Agreed Actions .............................................                                            15
ANNEX I Restructuring of IDA projects
ANNEX 2 Indicative Technical Assistance
ANNEX 3 Positive List of Imports
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which took place in November
14-30, 1994. The appraisal team consisted of Julio Gamba (Mission Leader), Esperanza Du.-an
(Task Manager), Abdelmoula Ghzala (Infrastructure), Richard Senou (Energy), Eileen Murray
(Social Sector), Francois Munyantwali (Health, Education), Bertrand Ah-Sue (Procurement), Claude
Heimo (Agriculture) and Gilbert Barreix (Consultant--Private Sector). Manorama Gotur provided
editorial support for the report. The Ad Hoc Advisory Group for the project consisted of: Michel
Pommier (OPRPG), Kishor Uprety (LEGAF), Alberto Harth (AFIIN), Sadiq Ahmed (SA3DR) and
Linda English (AF3C2). Michael Sarris and Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa are, respectively, managing
Division Chief and Department Director for the operation.






RWANDESE REPUBLIC
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROJECT
A. THE EMERGENCY AND THE GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE
The Emer2encv
1.    The Civil War. The Rwandan civil war was the culmination of continued and
widespread opposition to President Juvenal Habyarimana, who had seized power in a
coup in 1973. In late 1990, the rebel Rwanda Patriotic Front (RPF) -- composed
mainly of refugees living in neighboring Uganda -- invaded Rwanda, seeking to
militarily overthrow the regime. The Rwandan army fought the invading group to a
standstill, but fighting between the army and the RPF continued on and off through
early 1994. Meanwhile, the internal opposition to President Habyarimana organized
into a number of political parties.
2.    Beginning in 1992, neighboring Tanzania sought to defuse the growing
Rwandan crisis by sponsoring peace talks in Arusha between the Habyarimana regime
and the RPF. In August 1993, a peace agreement was signed in Arusha -- which
included a cease-fire, repatriation of refugees, and power-sharing arrangements -- but
implementation of the accord lagged. The situation was at an impasse as of April 6,
1994, when President Habyarimana's plane was mysteriously downed over the airport
at Kigali (Rwanda's capital) as he was returning from a further round of negotiations,
accompanied by the president of Burundi.  Both presidents were killed, and
immediately thereafter, the Rwandan blood bath began.
3.    Subsequent events are well known. Over several months of violence that
shocked the world, up to one million people (15 percent of Rwanda's population) were
killed. The victims were mainly Tutsis, but up to 200,000 opposition Hutus were also
killed by militiamen and some factions in the army. Fighting between the RPF and the
army also resumed. By mid-July, the RPF achieved military victory and a new
government was sworn in on July 19, 1994. The President, the Prime Minister and
most Cabinet members are Hutus, belonging mostly to parties that had been aligned
against the Habyarimana regime.
4.    The situation in Rwanda -- and, indeed, in the region -- is precarious. Some
two million refugees have fled to neighboring Zaire, Burundi and Tanzania, where they
have been living in large, squalid refugee camps. Another million have been displaced
within Rwanda and are also facing the grim conditions of camp life. The country has a
new government but virtually no administration. On average, only about a fifth of
public sector professionals are currently at work, as most officials have either been
killed or fled the country. The new government is nearly devoid of financial resources
and has barely been able to pay the army.



2
5.    Within this explosive framework, the new government is confronting the
complex task of consolidating peace and national reconciliation, seeking to reintegrate
into the country both old and new refugees while initiating efforts to rehabilitate the
economy and stimulate recovery. Should these efforts fail, conditions could once
again degenerate and throw the entire region into a renewed state of turmoil. In this
difficult situation, the donor community is looking to the Bank to take the lead in
mounting a rehabilitation-cum-recovery effort that would help reduce tensions in
Rwanda and get the country back on the road to recovery.
6.    Economic and Social Impact. Although relatively short, the Rwandan civil
war dealt a severe blow to the foundations of a narrow and fragile economy, badly
battered even before this latest crisis. As estimated by Bank staff, real GDP declined
by as much as 50 percent in 1994; this came on the heels of an 1 I percent contraction
in 1993. More than half the country's agricultural and industrial output has been lost,
while most Rwandan enterprises are not operating. The collapse of the banking
system is also impeding efforts to normalize economic activities. Bank notes have
virtually disappeared from circulation, foreign exchange reserves have vanished, coffee
stocks have been stolen and the government can barely generate revenue. Damage to
physical infrastructure such as roads and bridges has been relatively modest, but
human losses have been huge; as a result, the central administrative capacity has been
paralyzed. The country's institutional memory and project implementation capacity
have been all but wiped out by the killings and disappearance of personnel, destruction
of files, and theft of computers and equipment. Overall, the sharp decline in economic
activity has intensified poverty in Rwanda, which ranked among the poorest countries
in sub-Saharan Africa even before the crisis.
7.    Losses of agricultural output were particularly severe because of the
widespread dislocation of people; furthermore, the most violent phase of the war
coincided with the harvesting season. Although subsistence crops were not totally
lost, being harvested by passers-by, cash crops were badly affected: only about 700
tons of coffee were formally exported (the annual average had been around 30,000
tons). Tea was not exported at all in 1994 and almost all the tea plantations and
processing plants were destroyed. Estimates of industrial losses in the private sector
range between 60 and 80 percent of normal annual output. Although infrastructure
was mostly spared by the violence, public buildings, particularly in Kigali, were
significantly damaged. The state of many roads and bridges has deteriorated due to
both lack of maintenance and damage caused by the rainy season. In the areas of
energy, and water and sanitation, the war made it impossible to carry out normal
maintenance, thereby compounding an already precarious situation. Although water
supply has been almost normalized in Kigali, other cities and the countryside are facing
serious shortages.
8.    The crisis caused a sharp drop in the delivery of social services; particularly
hard hit were health and education. A sizable part of the services personnel in both
sectors was killed or fled. Medical supplies, essential medicines and vehicles were



3
stolen, medical centers were damaged and normal distribution channels broke down.
Equally, educational infrastructure and equipment were stolen or vandalized.
Nevertheless, some primary schools had restarted activities by mid-September 1994,
albeit with greatly reduced resources: student/teacher ratios, already high before the
crisis (57 primary pupils per teacher) have greatly deteriorated; school buildings have
been damaged and basic equipment and essential learning materials (textbooks,
notebooks, pencils, etc.) are lacking. Re-establishment of basic social services to
normal levels would facilitate the return of displaced persons and refugees to their
homes.
9.    Early Emergency Assistance. Beginning in the summer of 1994, external
assistance began to arrive in the region mainly to provide relief to Rwandan refugees in
neighboring countries. Total outlays since the onset of the crisis have been estimated
at over US$1.0 billion. Early on, the UN made a consolidated appeal to donors for
US$435 million to meet needs in July-December 1994 related to the provision of food
aid, health, nutrition, education, water supply and sanitation and the related logistics; a
similar appeal, for US$230 million, is to be launched in January 1995 to cover the
entire year. Donors have responded generously. In addition, NGOs have been
extremely active. The Bank has also participated in the relief effort: in August 1994,
the Executive Directors approved grants totaling US$20 million to four UN agencies
(UNICEF, UNHCR, FAO and WHO). The objective of these grants is to help lay the
foundations of a broad-based reconstruction and development program, filling
identified gaps in each of these agencies' programs for Rwanda, with particular
emphasis on the emergency needs of returnees. Agreements with the agencies on
indicative programs were completed; the first tranche (for a total of US$11 million)
has already been disbursed to all four agencies.  According to a progress report
prepared in December 1994 by the UN agencies and the Bank's resident mission in
Kigali, implementation of the grants is proceeding well; more than 60 percent of the
first tranche has already been spent and release of the second tranche is expected to
take place before the end of February 1995. The government of Rwanda was not a
party to the early relief efforts, as none of the early assistance was channeled through
it. With a firmer grip on the administration, the new government is now initiating
efforts to respond effectively to the current situation; however, lacking even basic
resources, it is anxious for international support.
10.   The Government's Response. The Government of Rwanda has embarked on
rebuilding the nation and the economy. To that end, it is taking steps to demonstrate
its commitment to peace based on national reconciliation. Important among these is
the agreement to appoint a high-level official to head the country's human rights
efforts. An essential condition for fostering national reconciliation is the resettlement
within Rwanda of both refugees and internally displaced persons; equally critical are
efforts towards the rehabilitation and development of infrastructure as well as socio-
economic recovery. The government has sought international support for getting on
with the urgent task of reconstruction and for taking up, once again, the economic
reform agenda. The total costs associated with reconstruction and resettlement are



4
estimated by the government at US$764 million, to be incurred over several years.
The government's Emergency Recovery Program (ERP) for 1995 represents a short-
term recovery program aimed at addressing the country's most immediate
reconstruction needs, including the re-establishment of the government's capacity to
rebuild the nation. The ERP has a total cost of US$200 million and was designed in
consultation with donors, on the basis of an IDA preparation mission in September
1994 followed by an appraisal mission in November 1994.
11.   The government recognizes that national reconciliation is essential for the
success of the recovery effort and for the sustainability of donor support. In this
regard, a multi-party National Assembly was sworn in on November 29, 1994.
Furthermore, the government issued in December 1994 a Declaration of Principles
spelling out its political, social and economic agenda for a "New Rwanda". On the
political side, the Declaration deals with political-cum-reconciliation issues such as
human rights and policy actions to stimulate the return of refugees. Specifically, the
government is allowing the deployment of human rights monitors and UN troops,
seeking support for establishing an impartial judicial system; and ensuring adherence to
property rights. Regarding social issues, the Declaration recognizes the sharp decline
in recurrent and investment expenditures for social services relative to pre-war levels,
and the resulting need to urgently rebuild and re-equip health and school
infrastructure. Shortage of qualified managerial and other staff is, however, identified
as a major constraint. The Declaration also promises special efforts to address the
needs of vulnerable groups, including women, children and surviving war victims.
12.   On the economic side, the Declaration addresses issues such as the size and
scope of government, the role of the private sector, the privatization of public
enterprises, the trade and exchange regimes, the appropriate level of military
expenditures and regulatory reform. The new government is committed to: a reduced
role for the state; as much as a 50 percent decrease in the number of civil servants
compared to the pre-crisis era; a private sector freed of unnecessary regulations to
enable recovery and growth in the productive sectors; a liberal trade and exchange rate
regime; and flexibility in labor and financial markets. The current economic team
includes the Minister of Finance and Director of the Ministry of Planning, who had
both shown commitment to liberalizing the economy while holding the same posts in
pre-crisis administrations. The Declaration's economic principles, and accompanying
actions, would serve as the basis for a medium-term macroeconomic framework to be
designed by the government in close consultation with the Fund and the Bank. A joint
Bank/Fund mission is scheduled to visit Rwanda in February 1995; these consultations
and the government's early actions would pave the way for a possible Fund ESAF
arrangement and a resumption of adjustment lending by the Bank.
B. IDA'S RESPONSE AND STRATEGY
13.   Rationale for IDA  Involvement.  The Country Assistance Strategy for
Rwanda presented to the Board in June 1992 was geared to the country's long-term



S
development needs. It focused on the goal of promoting private sector-led, export-
oriented economic growth, poverty alleviation, a reduced role for the state, and
protection of Rwanda's environment. These goals remain valid, but reconstruction is
the immediate order of business to get the country through the most critical survival
and recovery phase. IDA response has been two-fold, consisting of the proposed
Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) (US$50 million) and the restructuring of ongoing
credits (US$25 million). Beyond these actions, as the situation begins to return to
normal, preparations would commence for the resumption of IDA lending that was
suspended in April 1994, when Rwanda was placed in non-accrual status. At this
time, the proposed ERC would support the government's efforts in meeting urgent
post-war needs and pave the way for renewed implementation of economic reform, by
helping to restore institutional capacity and financial viability. This operation would
also serve as a catalyst for a coordinated global approach to the reconstruction of
Rwanda and encourage burden-sharing amongst donors; as such, it represents an
important part of a broad-based international rescue effort
14.   Donor Coordination. Donor coordination is an important element in the
preparation and implementation of Rwanda's recovery program. The Bank convened
two donor meetings in Paris, in September and October 1994. With growing world
confidence in the new government's commitment to national reconciliation, most
donors have declared their readiness to participate in the international effort to
rehabilitate the country. Belgium, Canada, the Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland and
the United States have already provided funds to settle Rwanda's arrears with the
Bank through June 30, 1995 (US$9.5 million). Donor mobilization to cover Rwanda's
reconstruction needs for 1995 is at an advanced stage, although not yet completed;
commitments will be more firmly established at the Round Table for Rwanda to be
held in January 1995. As of now, firm commitments amount to US$81 million from
the European Union (EU). Funding for reconstruction needs is also expected from the
African Develpoment Bank, Belgium, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands,
Switzerland, the United States, and other countries. Finally, balance-of-payments
support is likely the TMF, which is expected to make available in 1995, initially about
US$13 million under the Compensatory and Contingency Financing and Facility
(CCFF) and, subsequently, a larger amount under the CCFF and another facility to be
determined. Apart from these contributions, donors are expected to provide US$25
million through the restructuring of ongoing projects.
C. EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
AND DESCRIPTION
15.   Project Objectives. The ERC aims at helping Rwanda begin to overcome the
problems created by the events of the past months, and facilitate the return to normal
life and productive activities. Success in the pursuit of this objective is important for
both the ongoing process of national reconciliation and for creating conditions for
longer-term development. Towards that end, the operation is designed to: (i) help the
new government begin the restoration of key economic and social services, rebuild the



6
institutional capacity necessary for sustainable economic recovery, and design a
coherent economic policy framework; and (ii) provide the private sector with the
means to resume operations and create jobs.
16.   Project Description.  The proposed credit of US$50 million would help
support the government's ERP during 1995.  The project's components support
imports (by the government and the private sector) of high priority items on a broad
positive list, and technical assistance to help implement reconstruction and establish
basic government functions. Eligible imports would include spare parts, inputs and
capital equipment in priority sectors such as agriculture, industry, transportation,
energy, water and sanitation, education, and health. The project is part of a broader
support effort (para. 17) which also features the restructuring of the Bank's and other
donors' existing portfolios to make them more responsive to Rwanda's immediate
priority needs. These combined efforts should lay the groundwork for economic
activity to rebound in 1995. (See Section F, Estimated Program Costs and Financing
Plan and Annex 1, Restructuring of IDA Projects).
17.   The 1995 Emergency Recovery Program. Rwanda's overall funding needs
under the ERP for 1995 amount to US$200 million. The proposed ERC would
finance US$50 million of reconstruction-related import needs, including short-term
technical assistance.  Other donors are expected to fund the remaining US$100
mnillion; firm commitments to date amount to US$81 million (para. 42). This quick-
disbursing support by IDA and other donors would be complemented by the
restructuring -- amounting to US$50 million -- of ongoing donor-financed investment
projects, including IDA's, to respond more effectively to Rwanda's immediate priority
reconstruction needs. To facilitate private sector access to imports, special attention
would be paid to the quick reactivation of the financial system and availability of credit
to the private sector.  This objective would be achieved primarily through the
restructuring of the Bank-financed FY94 Private Sector Development Credit
(Cr.2541-RW), under which US$12.7 million is undisbursed.
18.   Indicative Sectoral Allocations.  Preliminary estimates of the sectoral
breakdown of the 1995 ERP, along with the respective contributions from IDA, are
shown in Table 1. The IDA allocations are based on an analysis of priority needs for
1995, but maximum flexibility will be maintained to ensure effective complementarity
with other donors and rapid project implementation. In all sectors, poor women,
widows, and female-headed household are likely to be among the principal
beneficiaries of the recovery program. Indicative components of the program in the
respective sectors are described below.



7
Table 1
IDA Contribution to Rwanda's Economic Recovery Program
(In millions of US dollars)
IDA Contribution
Sector          ERP        ERC            Project        Total (% of ERP)
restructuring
Private sector       40.0       25.9             3.2           29.1 (73%)
Agriculture          40.0        6.0             2.0            8.0 (20%)
Health               36.0        5.0             6.0           11.0 (31%)
Education            30.0        4.0             3.0            7.0 (23%)
Energy               21.0         -              1.0            1.0  ( 5%)
Infrastructure       18.0        4.9             5.5           10.4 (58%0i)
Instit. capacity      9.0        2.8             0.8            3.6 (40%)
Other                 6.0        1.4*            3.5 **         4.9 (82%)
TOTAL          200.0       50.0            25.0           75.0 (37.5%)
* Central Bank of Rwanda (US$0.9 million), Commerce and Industry sector (US$0.5
million)
** To be identified
19.   Private Sector
ERP: US$40. 0 million
ERC: US$25. 9 million (of which Technical Assistance: 0)
IDA Restructuring: US$3.2 million
The evaluation of the war's impact on the private sector is still preliminary, as
formal business activities have been slow to restart. Technical assistance needed to
help the private sector to fully appraise the extent of the damages will be funded from
the Sectoral and Pre-Investment Credit (CR-1796-RW). The ERC contribution will
focus on financing key imports to replace lost assets, encourage new private sector
activities and restore the sector's operational capacity -- particularly for small and
medium enterprises. IDA's assistance for the private sector needs of the ERP also
includes the reallocation of US$3 million under the Private Sector Development
Project (Cr. 2541-RW) to help reactivate the financial system and increase availability
of credit to Rwandese businesses, and US$0.2 million under the Sectoral Studies and
Preinvestment Project to finance a study to assess the current economic and financial
condition of the sector and make recommendations for an action plan to rehabilitate
industrial and trading activities.  Among other donors, the EU  has at present
contemplated assistance for private sector activities, with a program of financial
support for importing oil products, costing an equivalent of US$18.2 million.



8
20.   Africulture
ERP: US$ 40.0 million
ERC: US$ 6.0 million (of which Technical Assistance US$1.0 million)
IDA Restructuring: US$ 2.0 million
The massive dislocation of the rural population has had serious consequences
for Rwanda's agriculture and environment. Agricultural production and food security
have been seriously disrupted; at the same time, displaced person camps have
contributed to land degradation and severe deforestation (caused by uncontrolled
felling for fuel-wood), increasing the risk of massive land slides. The Ministry of
Agriculture has identified the most urgent needs for 1995 as follows: (a) distribution of
seeds and agricultural inputs to returnees (refugees and displaced persons); (b)
strengthening the ministry's capacity to coordinate and monitor the sector's emergency
program; (c) establishment of a system for food security monitoring and rapid
warning, during the emergency phase; (d) assistance for animal breeding, health and
disease control; and (e) assistance for the rehabilitation of land and forest plantations
damaged by displaced person camps.  Given the earlier participation in seed
distribution efforts by the Bank (through a USS$4 million grant to FAO as part of the
US$20 million grant in August 1994) and other donors (the EU, USAID and several
NGOs), the ERC will not finance this component of the program.  The ERC
contribution would instead finance imports of agricultural inputs (such as fertilizers,
insecticides and agricultural instruments) and live animals for breeding and disease
control supplies.  In addition, the restructuring of IDA's Agricultural Services II
project (Cr. 2026-RW) would help rehabilitate seed control laboratories, support the
seed multiplication program and contribute to plant protection activities.
21.   Health
ERP: US$ 36.0 million
ERC: US$ 5.0 million (of which Technical Assistance 1S$ 0.I million)
IDA Restructuring: US$ 6.0 million
Most of the country's health facilities were damaged in the war; stocks of
medicines, supplies and equipment were either looted or vandalized. The Ministry of
Health, as well as the country's hospitals and clinics, are operating with only 20 to 30
percent of their pre-war staff With assistance from WHO and UNICEF, the Ministry
of Health has estimated Rwanda's emergency requirements in that sector as follows:
US$11.6 million for a nutrition program; US$10.6 million to rehabilitate various health
facilities; US$7.0 million to supply hospital equipment; US$3.5 million for drugs and
medicines; US$1.5 million for technical assistance; US$1.4 million for vehicle
purchases; US$300,000 for the training of qualified health personnel; and US$100,000
for operating costs. The ERC's contribution would mainly target the rebuilding of
pharmaceutical stocks and health centers. IDA's contribution will also include the



9
reallocation of US$3 million under the Food Security and Social Action project (Cr.
2388-RW) to help provide nutritional supplements for vulnerable groups and
rehabilitate social infrastructure; and US$3 million under the Population project
(Cr.2272-RW) to meet reconstruction, training and equipment needs. Other agreed
donor contributions include: US$1.6 million and US$400,000 from UNICEF for
infrastructure rehabilitation and vehicle purchases, respectively; US$1.2 million from
UNICEF and WVO for the purchase of drugs; and US$9.7 million in budgetary
support from the EU to help rehabilitate the health and education sectors.
22.   Education
ERP: US$ 30. 0 million
ERC: US$ 4.0 million (of which Technical Assistance US$0. 1 million)
IDA Restructuring: US$ 3.0 million
A total of 1,536 primary schools and 112 secondary schools suffered varying
levels of damage from the war. A large number of staff in the Ministries of Primary
and Secondary Education as well as teachers have either been massacred or are in
exile. A remedial course has been organized for graduating high school students, to
enable them to obtain their diplomas and thereby qualify for recruitment as teachers by
the Ministry of Primary Education. Forty percent of the country's 17,000 teachers
lack any formal pedagogic training.  The Ministries of Primary and Secondary
Education have identified the sector's most urgent needs for 1995 as follows:
rehabilitation of school buildings (US$10.5 million); equipment and school supplies
(US$7.6 million); textbooks and other teaching materials (US$5.6 million); vehicles
(US$2.8 million); school feeding programs (US$2.4 million); short training programs
for teachers (US$800 million); technical assistance (US$200,000); and operating costs
(US$100,000). The ERC's contribution would primarily support the replenishment of
teaching material supplies and the repair of schools. These needs would also be met
by the restructuring of IDA's Education Sector credit (Cr. 2227-RW).
23.   Enerey
ERP: US$ 21.0 million
ERC: No funding envisaged
IDA Restructuring: US$ 1.0 million
The importance of electricity for the proper functioning of hospitals,
govemment offices and schools makes power restoration a critical element of efforts
to normalize activity in Rwanda. Moreover, rehabilitation of the power grid would
help restore water supply as well as telecommunications, in areas of interrupted
service. A preliminary assessment of urgent, power-related rehabilitation needs
indicates a total estimated cost of US$21 million for repairs or replacement of
transformer stations and transmitters, power lines and the purchase of damaged or
stolen generators. IDA will not contribute to the ERP's energy component under the



10
ERC but will restructure its Energy Sector Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2456-RW)
towards the financing of make-ready costs needed for Electrogaz to contract out
selected private sector operators. Commitments from other donors to help fund
urgent needs consist of US$5.4 million from GTZ, US$3 million of Canadian aid and
US$2 million of Australian aid managed by UNICEF.
24.   Infrastructure
ERP: US$ 18.0 million
ERC. US$ 4.9 million (of which Technical Assistance US$ 0.6 million)
IDA Restructuring: US$ 5.5 million
Although infrastructure was generally spared by the rampage, even the limited
destruction caused by the war has been magnified by a long-standing indifference to
proper maintenance and the effects of rain and normal wear-and-tear.
Roads and bridges; public infrastructure. The bridges destroyed by the war
and the poor state of the road network hamper transport related to both commerce
and the supply of food and medicine; repair and upkeep of roads and bridges is
therefore a high priority. The ERP has identified the following urgent needs: repair of
the Kazenze, Rwabusoro and Sake bridges as well as those in the prefectures of Kigali,
Byumba, Gitarama, Gikongoro and Butare-Cyangugu; and upkeep of national and
urban unpaved roads, including streets in Kigali. Damage to public buildings was also
considerable (although not structural), particularly in Kigali. The ERP envisages
urgent repairs, particularly of key ministry buildings, and the provision of office
equipment and vehicles needed for proper functioning of the administration.  The
combined cost of these components is estimated at US$13 million, including amounts
needed to make Kigali airport fully operational. The ERC would contribute US$2
million towards imports of building materials and machinery. IDA's reallocation of
US$5 million under its Transport Sector Credit (Cr. 2136-RW) would be used
towards the repair of secondary rural roads.
Water and sanitation The war affected water and sanitation facilities not only
through the physical impact of shells and mortars but also because warfare further
prevented timely repairs and maintenance, exacerbating the embedded effects of long-
term neglect. Although water supply has been almost normalized in Kigali, other cities
and the countryside are plagued by constant cuts due to both leakages and the lack of
power generators or fuel for pumping stations. The ERP estimates costs for this
subsector at US$5.0 million, to cover: technical assistance to the Ministry of Public
Works to assess the damage to water treatment and pumping stations and sanitation
and distribution networks, repairs to urban water plants, generators, water counters
and related gear; purchase of chemicals for water treatment for the next twelve
months, repairs in rural areas; and private company (twelve-month) contracts for
waste disposal in Kigali and other urban areas. The ERC contribution would be used
to finance imports of generators, meters and chemicals for water treatment. IDA's



additional contribution through the restructuring of the Water Supply II Credit (Cr.
1783-RW) would be used to support the repair of rural water systems.
25.   Institutional Capacity
ERP: US$ 9.0 million
ERC: US$ 2.8 million (all Technical Assistance)
IDA Restructuring: US$ 0.8 million
The severe human losses resulting from the war have created an enormous gap
in the country's institutional capacity, (para. 27). A sum of US$ 2.0 million, out of the
total ERC contribution, is to be used towards the establishment of a procurement
agency to ensure efficiency in the procurement and utilization of imports, as mentioned
earlier and as discussed in greater detail in para. 32 (Procurement Arrangements).
IDA will also help meet Rwanda's institutional capacity needs through the reallocation
of US$ 1.0 million under its Sectoral Studies and Preinvestment project (Cr. 1796-
RW), for preparation of studies related to land use and resettlement.
26.   Other
ERP: US$ 6.0 million
ERC: US$ 1.4 million (of which Technical Assistance US$0.4 million)
IDA Restructuring: US$ 3.5 million
Other ERP costs to be financed by the ERC include: the importation of
vehicles and equipment to meet the needs of Rwanda's commerce and industry
ministry as well as the central bank (BNR); and technical assistance to support the
resumption of normal operations at BNR.
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
27.   One of the war's most tragic consequences was the loss of more than 10
percent of Rwanda's population and the massive exodus of the country's human
resources.  The resulting collapse of administrative and project implementation
capacity has been catastrophic. Thus, the early provision of technical assistance for
the short-term recovery effort and to help restore pre-war human resource levels is
critical. The ERC proposes a total of US$5 million to help meet the technical
assistance needs identified under the ERP.   High priority will be given to
strengthening: (i) local project implementation capacity (for the proposed credit and
other projects) in procurement and project managment by providing short-term
technical support to key ministries and by contracting a private agency to perform
these functions temporarily, and (ii) capacity to carry out key government functions.
The latter will cover: strengthening the economic ministries in project-related areas,
such as preparation and monitoring of the budget and of the public investment and



12
expenditure programs in the Ministry of Finance; public investment and structural
adjustment planning in the Ministry of Planning; foreign exchange management in the
BNR; economic and financial programming in the office of the Prime Minister; and
administrative law in the Ministry of Justice.
28.   Technical assistance to help establish basic government functions and recovery
will also be funded by a number of donors. A detailed technical assistance program
would include the services of short-term foreign experts to carry out specific tasks and
provide training. The IMF, for instance, will assist the government in reconstituting its
revenue collection and tax administration efforts; it will also help in the re-
establishment of basic central bank functions, including accounting and bank
supervision as well as reconstituting the collection of key economic data for policy
making. A number of other donors/agencies are already providing technical assistance
in key ministries. UNICEF has provided technical services to the Ministry of Health
while the UNDP has already placed people and equipment, in the Prime Minister's
Office, the Ministries of Planning, Finance, Interior, Justice and Rehabilitation. Other
donors plan to support the re-establishment of the justice system. Annex 2 presents
indicative technical assistance to be provided by donors, including the Bank.
E. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS AND PROGRAM
IMPLEMENTATION
29.   ERP Management. Particular attention was paid to project implementation
arrangements, procurement and disbursement procedures and the special account. A
Project Coordination Committee (PCC), composed of the Ministers of Finance and
Planning and the Governor of BNR, will be responsible for overall project
coordination. A Project Manager will oversee the day-to-day project implementation
in close collaboration with a central procurement agency (see below).
30.   Procurement Arrangements. Given the government's limited capacity to
manage the implementation of the ERP, procurement execution and contract
management will be delegated to a general, centralized procurement agency. The
agency would meet all public sector procurement needs, and would also serve the
private sector if so requested (by private sector participants). The agency will be
recruited competitively from a short list of agencies specialized and qualified in general
procurement and contracting, in accordance with Bank guidelines. A consultant will
assist the Ministry of Finance in the preparation of the detailed terms of reference and
contractual documents, and in the selection of the procurement agency. As the key
contract signatory, the Ministry of Finance will ensure that the government delegate
management of procurement and contract administration to the agency. The agency
will be responsible for: (i) assistance to the different ministries in establishing their
needs; (ii) provision of the full range of procurement services for goods, works,
consultancy services and technical assistance including advertising, invitation to bid,
reception of bids and bid evaluation; (iii) training and local capacity-building in



13
procurement and international commercial practices, and (iv) preparation of a Country
Procurement Assessment Review as required by Bank policy, and recommendations
for setting up new procurement legislation, procedures and practices, including
reporting and monitoring activities. The agency will follow and apply the Bank's
procurement guidelines for the procurement services described above, act in a fully
transparent manner and be subject to periodic financial and technical auditing. It will
also be monitored by Bank supervision missions.
31.   Procurement of Goods. Import contracts for both the public and private
sectors above a US$2.0 million threshold would be procured under Simplified
International Competitive Bidding procedures in accordance with Bank guidelines.
This will involve: (a) advertising in a local newspaper and either in the Development
Forum or a newspaper/technical journal of wide international circulation or a notice to
embassies/representations located in Rwanda; (b) the use of  standard bidding
documents; and (c) preparation of an evaluation report based on a format acceptable
to IDA. Pre-shipment inspection for quality and quantity will be required.
32.   Import contracts for the public sector up to US$2.0 million (each) would be
procured under simplified International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The use of standard bidding documents would be
required, as would a pre-shipment inspection for quality and quantity. As far as
possible, imported goods for the public sector would be packaged into contracts
exceeding US$100,000. Goods contracts for the public sector for amounts up to
US$100,000 each, up to an aggregate of US$1.0 million, may be purchased through
international shopping, which would require, at a minimum, quotations from three
suppliers.
33.   Import contracts for the private sector up to US$2.0 million (each) would
follow established commercial practices, which appear compatible with competitive
purchasing methods and are thus acceptable based on discussions with some major
private importers. Pre-shipment inspection for quality, quantity and price would be
required.
34.   Consultancy  Services and  Technical Assistance.   All contracts for
consultancy services and technical assistance would be procured in accordance with
Bank guidelines. The use of a Model Letter of Invitation and the Bank's standard
consultant contract would be required.
35.   Procurement Review Procedures.  Since the government would delegate
responsibility for all procurement activities to the procurement agency, only contracts
above US$2.0 million would be subject to prior review by the Bank. All contracts for
goods up to US$2.0 million will be subject to review prior to contract award and
signature by the Bank's Resident Representative, who would be assisted by a
procurement officer. All consultancy (firms and individuals) contracts for amounts



14
above US$100,000 each, and individual consultant contracts above US$50,000, would
be subject to prior review by Bank Headquarters.
36.   Disbursement. The proposed credit would finance 100 percent of imported
goods for the private and other sectors including direct cost, insurance and freight of
goods imported from eligible sources based on a positive list (see Annex 3).
Expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount equivalent to US$10 million of
petroleum products shall not be financed under the credit. Imports financed under
other development assistance programs will not be eligible for financing under the
ERC. Disbursement for contracts would be made on the basis of the following
documentation: (i) brief description of advertising and procurement procedures; (ii)
evaluation report including comparative statement of prices; (iii) copy of contract; (iv)
copy of invoices; (v) proofs of payment; (vi) pre-shipment inspection certificate; (vii)
shipping documents; and (viii) withdrawal application. Consultancy services and
technical assistance would be eligible for 100 percent Bank financing excluding taxes.
Further, the government is to establish and maintain a special account, for an amount
of US$10 million, at BNER_. Disbursements against statements of expenditure would be
allowed for goods and consulting services under contracts not exceeding US$1
million. Replenishment applications would be submitted at monthly intervals.
37.   Withdrawal applications for amounts above US$2 million would be submitted
directly to the Bank by the Ministry of Finance assisted by the procurement agency.
Payments for amounts below US$2 million would be made from the government's
special account to be opened at BNR (para. 36). Checks would be signed by the
Minister of Finance or an authorized representative. Requests for replenishment of the
special account would be submitted by the Ministry of Finance, assisted by the
procurement agency, on the basis of statements of expenditures, including bank
reconciliation statements. Supporting documentation would be kept locally, to enable
supervision by Bank staff in the field and by auditors acceptable to the Bank. BNR
would provide quarLerly progress reports of procurement and disbursement activities
to the Bank.
38.   Retroactive financing. Retroactive financing up to an aggregate amount of
US$10 million would be acceptable for eligible imports paid for during the four-month
period preceding credit signing.  No contracts below  US$5,000 -- except for
consultancy services and technical assistance -- would be eligible for financing under
the proposed credit.
39.   Audits. Immediately after credit effectiveness, the government will select an
independent auditor to conduct a financial and technical audit of all transactions under
the project, with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The audit would be
carried out quarterly and at the time of project completion, i.e. twelve months after
credit effectiveness. Auditors' opinion and reports satisfactory to the Bank on such
statements would be required to be provided after each audit.



15
40.   Reporting and Monitoring. On the basis of monthly and quarterly reports to
be prepared by the procurement agency, the Ministry of Finance will prepare a
quarterly report on the execution of the ERP, which would be submitted to the Bank.
Essentially a status update, the report would cover procurement and disbursement,
arrival and distribution of supplies, and the progress of reconstruction activities. The
report would also identify any issues in need of resolution by the Minister of Finance,
the Bank or other donors. An Implementation Completion Report will be prepared by
the government with the assistance of the procurement agency, within three months of
credit closing.
41.   Supervision. Apart from ongoing monitoring by the Bank's resident mission
in Rwanda, supervision of the ERC will be conducted under the joint responsibility of
the task managers of the ERC and the relevant sectoral operations.  While the
procurement agency would provide procurement services required under the ongoing
IDA credits, supervision will remain the responsibility of the individual Bank task
managers. A start-up mission is planned for March 1995, to consist of the task
manager and specialists from the social sectors, infrastructure, agriculture,
procurement and private sector" participating donors would also be invited to take
part. A mid-term review would take place in August 1995.
F. ESTIMATED PROGRAM COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
42.   Financing plan. As seen in the table below, the total estimated cost of the
ERP in 1995 is US$200 million,' to be expended over a 12-month period beginning in
February / March 1995. Base costs are expressed in end-1994 prices; program costs
are shown net of taxes. The proposed ERC would finance US$50 million (25 percent)
of total cost. An additional US$25 million would be reallocated from ongoing IDA
projects, of which US$21.5 million (10.8 percent of total cost) has already been
identified. Another US$25 million is expected to be made available from ongoing
projects financed by other donors. Remaining financing needs of US$100 million
would be met by other donor contributions, including firm commitments of US$81
million from the EU and smaller amounts from the African Development Bank (ADB),
Belgium, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland, UNDP and the United
States. As mentioned earlier, donor commitments will be more firmly established
during the January 1995 Round Table for Rwanda (see para 14).
Its equivalent in Rwanda Francs would be R1`44 billion at the parallel market exchange rate or RF27 million at
the official rate.



16
Table 2
Emergency Recovery Program (ERP) Financing Plan for 1995
Amount                      Percent
(US$ millions)
IDA:
Emergency Recovery Credit                       50.0                       25.0
Project Restructuring                          25.0                         12.5
Subtotal                                         75.0                        37.5
Other donors 2:
Emergency support                             100.0                        50.0
Project restructuring                          25.0                         12.5
Subtotal                                        125.0                        62.5
TOTAL                                     200.0                        100.0
G. AGREED ACTIONS
43.    Management of procurement and contract administration will be delegated to a
procurement agency, to be recruited competitively based on a list of international
agencies specialized in general procurement and contracting (see para. 30).  The
recruitment of this agency will be a condition of credit effectiveness. Pre-shipment
inspection will be necessary for all imports under the credit. The Emergency Recovery
Program will be an integral part of the 1995 budget that is being prepared in close
consultation with the IMF, the Bank and other donors.
2   Other donors incltude the Africai l)evelopment 13ank, Belgium, Canada, the Eluropean Union, Germany, , the
Nethcrlands, Norvav, Switzerland, IJNI)P and the tJnitcd States  Othcr donor firm commitments to date
amounit to IJS 81 million, from the l.uropean tJnioii. the remainder are to be firmed up at a government/lJNl)P
rounld tablc meeting scheduled for January 18-1 9, 1995.



Annex 1
Page I of 7
Restructuring of IDA Projects
Introduction
1.     Under the overall emergency reconstruction effort for Rwanda, the Bank
will restructure its portfolio so that ongoing operations respond more effectively to
the changing needs of the country. The restructuring process began with a series
of missions to Rwanda in September, and November-December 1994, which
examined the relevance of projects to the new economic and social situation and
the current weakened local capacity to implement projects effectively.  These
missions prepared specific restructuring proposals for 50% of projects.
Subsequent missions beginning in January 1995 will complete this process. Project
restructuring, whose objectives are to support the resumption of private sector
activities and to re-establish basic services, will be designed in close
consultation/collaboration with the other donors who will also be restructuring
their own portfolio.
2.     IDA's portfolio in Rwanda consists of 11 active operations for a total
amount of $199.5 million of which $167.26 million remains undisbursed as of
November 30, 1994 (see Table 1).' Two projects (Water Supply Project Cr. 1783
and the Transport Sector Project Cr.2163) are co-financed with an undisbursed
amount of 14.7 million equivalent. In the restructuring of on-going projects, nine
projects have been identified in the agriculture, industry and energy, infrastructure,
social and economic management sectors to reallocate US$21.5 million to finance
activities under the emergency recovery program. Table 2 lists the projects and
summarizes how reallocated resources will be used.
3.     The procurement of goods and the management of consultant and technical
assistance contracts for all IDA projects would be undertaken by the Executing
Agency set up in the Ministry of Finance, in order to overcome the lack of project
implementation capacity in the country. As a result of the sharp reduction of
government revenue due to the civil war, the government will not have the
resources to ensure the local counterpart funding. IDA would, therefore, increase
its share of project financing to 100%.
The difference in project data included in Annex I Table I and Schedule C of the MOP is due to the fact that
Schedule C includes SAC I and Highways VI credit which close on December 31, 1994 and the Agriculture
Research II Credit which will be canceled in FY95.



Annex I
I'age 2 of 7
Proposed Project Restructuring
4.     Private sector. The Private Sector Development Project (Cr.-2541, not
yet effective, Closing Date 06.30.99; Undisbursed US$12.7 million) will be
instrumental in reactivating the private sector.  The project comprises three
components, (a) an APEX line of credit for productive investments; (b) a private
sector support fund; and (c) support for institutional strengthening to various
ministries and participating financial intermediaries.  Restructuring would entail
making the line of credit easier to use by: (a) developing a procedures manual for
demands for investment credits and working capital; and (b) establishing a
specialized unit in those participating financial institutions to help speed up the
private sector's access to credit.  A procedures manual for the Private Sector
Support Fund will be established and training needs of the private sector and
professionals in the Ministry of Commerce will be determined. If necessary, funds
will be reallocated among the three components. An amount of US$3.0 million
will be used to support the ERP under component (a) and (b).
5.    Social sector. The Food Security and Social Action Project (Cr.-2388,
Effective 08.05.93; Closing Date 12.31.97 Undisbursed $17.7 million) aims to: (a)
improve the food security and social welfare of the poorest population groups; (b)
improve the Government's ability to monitor the living standards of the population;
and (c) initiate a long-term poverty alleviation strategy. The project objectives will
remain the same. Given the current institutional situation, the household survey
and the food-for works components cannot be implemented. Project components
will be re-designed to finance accelerated actions targeted towards the country's
poorest population segments.
6.    The restructured project will have two components: The Food Aid and
Nutrition Component will aim to reduce food insecurity and malnutrition. It will
target children, pregnant and lactating mothers, AIDS-afflicted households and the
country's growing number of orphans. The Emergency Social Fund will finance
the rehabilitation of social infrastructure destroyed by the war (nutrition and health
centers, schools, communal water supply schemes). Proposals will be made mainly
by NGOs (in collaboration with the communities) and will be approved and
financed based on a set of defined criteria. It is anticipated that at least 50 per cent
of the costs of these works will be labor costs. A manual of procedures will be
finalized in February 1995 defining selection criteria for sub-projects, the role of all
concerned parties, the management structure of the Social Fund and the internal
control mechanisms. The financing of individual sub-projects will begin in March
1995. The restructured project will contribut about US$3 million to the ERP.
7.    The objective of the Education  Sector Project (Cr.-2227; Effective
06.24.92; Closing Date 09.30.96, Undisbursed $22.3 million) is to: (a) consolidate
and expand primary education; (b) improve the overall quality of education, and
(c) strengthen the sector's management capacity. Given the damage suffered by



Annex I
Page 3 of 7
the sector during the civil war, the project will focus on: (a) the rehabilitation,
equipping and purchase of textbooks for primary schools; (b) basic training of
school teachers; (c) elaboration of curricula; and (d) strengthening of key
directorates in the Ministry of Education. A project unit will be recruited to assist
in getting the project's components off the ground, since the Ministry is in dire
need of qualified staff. A programming mission will visit Rwanda in January 1995
to define and agree on the work program for the first year of the restructured
project's implementation. The project will reallocate US$3.0 million to the ERP to
finance activities under component (a).
8.    The First Population Project (Cr.-2272: Effective 06.04.92; Closing Date
06.30.98; Undisbursed $19.7 million) was restructured in 1993 and placed under
the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. The project's objectives, which are still
valid, comprise: (a) a reduction of the fecundity rate; (b) lower maternal and child
mortality due to short time spaces between births and other factors such as age of
the mother; and (c) integration of demographic issues and family planning into
socio-economic development. To attain these objectives, the restructured project
will: (a) rehabilitate and equip selected health centers which will implement family
planning programs; (b) train health workers and trainers in family planning; (c)
supply contraceptives and some essential drugs; (d) provide technical assistance;
and (e) support the development of an IEC campaign. An amount of $3.0 will be
reallocated from components (a), (b) and (c) to finance activities under the
emergency recovery program.
9.    A project implementation unit, reporting directly to the Minister of Health
will be set up with the responsibility to ensure all technical aspects of the project,
the budgeting and financial management of the project, coordination of the
different health regions' activities, and to monitor training activities. The project
unit will include a specialist in procurement to help in the purchase of drugs and
contraceptives and the repair of infrastructure.
10.   Macroeconomic management. The Sectoral and Pre-investment Studies
Project (Cr.-1796 Effective 08.18.88; Closing Date 12.31.96; Undisbursed $6.0
million) seeks to improve local capabilities for the preparation and appraisal of
investment projects and investment programming, through the provision of funds
for studies, training and technical assistance. The closing date of this credit will be
extended for one year. The project activities will focus on priority needs for
building capacity in the reconstruction effort. A total of $1.0 million will be made
available to the ERP to fund studies on resettlement and an assessment of the
current economic and financial situation which will make recommendations for an
action plan to rehabilitate industrial and trading activities.
11.   Agriculture.  The Agriculture Services Project (Cr.-2026 Effective
06.15.90; Closing Date 06.30.95 Undisbursed $13.7 million) was set up to
strengthen the country's research and extension services. In the current context,



Annex I
Page 4 of 7
with 90 percent of extension workers not in the field as well as the massive
displacement of farmers, the ability of the project to attain its objectives has been
compromised. The project will be restructured to focus on (a) the rehabilitation of
export crops; (b) strengthening seed production; (c) promoting the private
marketing of agricultural inputs and produce; and (d) rebuilding institutional
capacity to plan and coordinate activities in the sector and the framework for
extension services. A mission in January 1995 will recommend a specific action
plan. The project will contribute $2.0 million to the ERP to finance activities
related to seed production and capacity building. The project will be extended.
12.   The Agriculture Research II Project (Cr.-2547; Closing Date 03.31.99;
Undisbursed $15.9 million) aims to improve the relevance, quality and
accountability of the agricultural research program. Although the long-term
objectives of the project are valid, their achievement in the current situation is not
feasible. This project will be canceled.
13.   Energy.  The Energy Sector Project  (Cr.-2456, Effective  01.21.94;
Closing Date 12.31.98 Undisbursed $25.4 million) aims to promote rational energy
policies and to establish the basis for efficient utilization of Rwanda's energy
resources. Damage to the sector's assets, the loss of capable trained personnel
and the need to improve coordination among donors in rehabilitating the sector
call for a revision of project priorities. The restructuring of the project will be
done in close collaboration with participating co-financiers to ensure a well
coordinated reallocation of funds; to this end, the Bank organized a donors'
meeting in Paris in November 1994.  Approximately, $1.0 million will be
reallocated from the project to the ERP to finance make-ready costs needed for
Electrogaz to contract out selected private sector operators.
14.   Public Sector. The Public Enterprise Reform Project (Cr.-2113; Effective
02.28.91; Closing Date 12.31.95; Undisbursed $3.4 million) supports the
government's program to increase the efficiency of public enterprises through their
restructuring and privatization. The project was substantially restructured in 1993.
Given the impact of the war on state-owned enterprises, an action plan will be
developed to liquidate some of them and quickly privatize as many of the
remaining as possible. Technical assistance to support execution of the action plan
will be reassessed.
15.   The Second Communications Project (Cr.-2189; Effective 08.19.91;
Closing Date 12.31.95; Undisbursed $8.4 million) promotes efficient
communications through institutional reform and some modest investments. It
seeks to create autonomous, commercially-oriented operating entities for the
telecommunications and postal services.  The project will go ahead with the
planned privatization of telecommunications services as the private operator is
willing to go back to Rwanda. The implementation plans for the postal services
will have to be reexamined.



Annex I
Page 5 of 7
16.   Infrastructure. The objectives of the Transport Sector Project (Cr.-2136;
Effective 03.29.91; Closing Date 06.30.97; Undisbursed $34.0 million) are to: (a)
reform sector policies to promote competition and liberalize prices; (b) develop the
planning capacity of the government; (c) improve road maintenance ability; and
(d) promote private sector activity in road maintenance. The project supports
main road construction, improved road maintenance and promotion of communal
activities. Some of the roads originally selected to be built or repaired are no
longer a priority, while the capacity to implement the project has been seriously
undermined. The construction of docks on Lake Kivu and the boat construction
site as well as the vehicle inspection center will be canceled.
17.    The decision on how to restructure the project will depend to a large
extent on whether or not the construction of the route between Gitarama and
Kibuye, which is 25% completed, will be continued. Currently, the Ministry of
Public Works is studying the extent to which the project is economically justifiable,
given that the company building the road suffered large damages during the war
and is now  requesting compensation.  Before re-activating the project, the
Government of Rwanda, will formally agree not to purchase road maintenance
equipment for the Ministry of Public Works. The Ministry will limit its role to one
of planning, managing contracts and quality control of contracted-out services.
Existing equipment will be sold to the private sector which will be contracted for
road services. Funds of up to $5.0 million from the project will be reallocated to
finance priority repair of secondary rural roads under the ERP.
18.   The Water Supply Project (Cr.-1783; Effective 10.31.88; Closing Date
12.31.94; Undisbursed $3.8 million) objectives are to improve the quality and
quantity of portable water in rural areas, sensitize and make rural communities
responsible for the maintenance of water installations and help the Government put
in place the institutional and financial framework to coordinate the various
international donors. In collaboration with international donors the project will be
restructured to: (a) complete repairs to water supply systems identified under the
ERP; (b) repair the water source form the Yanze river (water supply for Kigali);
(c) finance an evaluation of the water needs in secondary cities; and (d) finance a
rehabilitation study for simple and complex rural water supply systems. Ida will
reallocate about US$0.5 million to the ERP from this credit to support activities
under (a) and (d). The closing date for this project will be extended for one year.



TABLE 1
IDA PROJECTS PORTFOLIO (FY95) FOR RWANDA
(AS OF DECEMBER 31,1994)
ORIGINAL    CUMULATIVE   UNDISBURSED
CREDIT                                     BOARD               EFFECTIVE-  AMOUNT   DISBURSEMENT    AMOUNT    CLOSING
NUMBER            PROJECT NAME               DATE      SIGNING NESS DATE  US$ MiHion       US$ Milion     USS Million     DATE
Country Operations
1796     Sectoral & Pre-investment Studies  05114/87    06/24/87   08V18/88  7.40           2.41           6.04      12/31/96 (R)
Aarkculture
2026     Agricultural Services II         5/30/89     9/13/89    6/15/90     19.90          8.49           13.71       6/30/95
Industry and Energy
2456     Energy Sector                    02/09/93    04/21/93   01/21/94    26.00          1.48           25.44       12/31/98
1890     Communications II                12V11/90    01/30/91   08/19/91    12.80          4.31           8.45       12/31/95
2113     Public Enterprise Reform         03/27/90    05/07/90   02/28/91    4.40           1.54           3.37      12/31/95 (R)
2541     Private Sector Development       09/09/93    11/18/93   11/18/94    12.00          0.00           12.70      06/30/99
Subtotal                                                                        55.20          7.33           49.96
Infrastructure
1783     Water Supply II                  04/28/87    08/14/87   10/31188    15.00         12.49           3.85        12/31/94
2136     Transport Sector                 05/22/90    08/31/90   03129/91    40.00         10.94           33.97       06/30/97
Subtotal                                                                        55.00          23.43          37.82
Population/Health
2272     Population                       06/19/91    07/03/91   06/04/92    19.60          1.42           19.70       06130198
2227     Education Sector                 04/09/91    06/27/91   06/24/92    23.30          1.26           22.34       09/30/96
2388     Food Sec. & Social Act.          06/17/92    08/12/92   08/W93      19.10          2.62           17.69       12/31/97
Subtotal                                                                        62.00          5.30           59.73
TOTAL                                                                        199.50         46.96          167.26
The difference in this table and Schedule C of the MOP is due to the fact that Schedule C includes SAL I and Higways VI
which closed on December 31, 1994 and the Agriculture Research II Credi which will be cancelled in FY95.
tD X
00



TABLE 2
RWANDA
EMERGENCY RECOVERY PROGRAM
REALLOCATION OF EXISTING IDA CREDITS
CREDIT      UNDISBURSED                                                                        REALLOCATED
CREDIT                                        AMOUNT         AMOUNT '   CLOSING                             PROPOSED                             AMOUNT
NUMBER               PROJECT NAME             USS Million     USS Million    DATE                               USE                              USS Million
Country Operations
1796       Sectoral and Pre-investment Studies  7.40          6.04       12131/96 (R) Studies related to land use and reseltlement; and to        1.00
Private Sector Assessment
Aarlculture
2026       Agricuhural Services II             19.9           13.71        6/30/95   Rehabilitation of seed control laboratories, support for seed  2.00
muliplication and plant protection activities
Industry and Enerav
2456       Energy Sector                       26.00          25.44       12/31/98   Rehabilitalion of supply centers                             1.00
2541       Private Sector                      12.00          12.70        6/30/09   Putting in place APEX line of credit                         3.00
Infrastructure
1783      Water Supply ll                      15.00          3.85        12/31/94   Repair of rural water systems                                0.50
2136       Transport Sector                    40.00          33.97       06/30/97   Repair of some secondary rural roads                         5.00
Population/Health
2272       Population                          19.60          19.70       06/30/98   Reconstructing selected health centers, training of health   3.00
workers and purchase of drugs, equipment and furniture
2227       Education Sector                    23.30          22.34       09/31196   Rehabilitation of selected primary schools and provision     3.00
of school supplies
2388       Food Sec. & Social Act.             19.10          17.69       12/31/97   Nutritional supplements for vulnerable groups and the rehabi-  3.00
Idtation of social infrastructure through an Emergency Social Fund.
TOTAL                                         182.30         155.44                                                                              21.50
LOA data of November 30, 1994 (undisbursed amounts may be less due to existing commitments)
lb 
rJQ 0
(D m
0






TABLE 1
RWANDA
INDICATIVE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 1/
Material and Logistic                       Indicative Starting
Area                           Type                        Support                Probable Donor        Date
I. Agriculture
1. Establishment of Food               One Resident Expert      Two 4 x 4 vehicles                FAO/USAID            Feb-95
Security Monitoring                    (6 months)            Three motorcycles
Two Local consultants   Office equipment
(6 months each)
2. Rehabilitation of                  One resident expert      One 4 x 4 vehicle                 World Bank/FAO        1995
MINAGRI and                         (four months)            Laboratory equipment
Seed control quality                                         Office equipment
laboratory
3. Rapid Multiplication of cassava    One Resident Expert      Two 4 x 4 vehicles,               World Bank/FAO       Feb-95
and sweet potato stump and             (9 months)            One computer
bean seeds
4. Assessment of phytosantory         One Resident Expert      One 4 x 4 vehicle                 FAO/USAID            Feb-95
conditions and disease diagnosis      (6 months)             Provision of chemicals            Switzerland
x
o -
co)



TABLE 1
RWANDA
INDICATIVE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 11
Material and Logistic                     Indicative Starting
Area                          Type                       Support               Probable Donor       Date
5. Assistance to breeding of livestock  Three Experts        Three 4 x 4 vehicles             FAO/USAID/          Feb-95
(2 months each)      Provision of vaccines and        Switzerland/
other prophylactic drugs        EU
6. Assistance to animal protection   Two Resident Experts    Two 4 x 4 vehicles               FAO/EU              Feb-95
and disease control                  (12 months each)      Laboratory equipment,
cold storage facilities,
vaccines and drugs
II. Environment
1. Evaluation of damage to fauna     One Resident Expert     Three 4 x 4 vehicles             World Bank/         Jan-95
and eco-systems                       (6 months)           One computer; Atlas software     Switzerland
Four local consultants
(3 months each)
2. Training for local population     Three local consultants    Office equipment, one computer  World Bank/       Feb-95
participation in environmental       (3 months each)       and three tape recorders        Switzerland
protection                                                                                  EU
3. Preparation of donors roundtable  Two consultants         Office equipment, one computer,    World Bank/       Jan-95
meeting to plan and fund emergency  (2 months each)       one fax machine                  Switzerland/
environmental damage control/     One secretary                                            USAID
rehabilitation program              (2 months)
OQ X
x
0



TABLE I
RWANDA
INDICATIVE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 1/
Material and Logistic                     Indicative Starting
Area                          Type                       Support               Probable Donor       Date
Ill. Health
1. Training program for medical and  Three experts           Medical equipment and supplies   WHO/UNICEF          Jan-95
paramedic personnel               (three months each)
2. Reorganization of health system   Three experts                                            UNESCO/              Jan-95
(three months each)                                      UNICEF
IV. Education
1. Short-term pedagogical training for  136 pedagogues       Five 4 x 4 vehicles, pedagogical  UNESCO/             Jan-95
primary school teachers            (three months each)     materials, audiovisual equipment    UNICEF
2. Training program for secondary school  Ten experts        One 4 x 4 vehicle, audiovisual   UNESCO/              Jan-95
teachers                           (three months each)     equipment, 10 computers          UNICEF
V. Infrastructure
1. Roads and Bridges-Evaluation      Five experts            Five 4 x 4 vehicles, topographical    EU (EDF)       Feb-95
of damages and supervision of works   (3 months each)      and mathematical instruments     UNDP
office equipment, 2 computers
2. Water and sanitation--Evaluation of    Three experts      Three 4 x 4 vehicles, technical  EU (EDF)            Feb-95
damages and supervision of works   (3 months each)         equipment, office equipment      UNDP
one computer
0t1
0
a',



TABLE 1
RWANDA
INDICATIVE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE 1/
Material and Logistic                      Indicative Starting
Area                          Type                         Support               Probable Donor        Date
3. Evaluation of damages to public    Three experts            One car, office and technical     EU (EDF)            Feb-95
buildings. Supervision of works     (3 months each)          equipment, one computer          Germany
UNDP
VI Private Sector
1. Financial and investment advise    Five experts             Two cars, audio visual            World Bank          Feb-95
(two weeks each)        equipment, one computer           (IFC)
2. Trade expansion and regional trade  Three experts
opportunities                      (two weeks each)         One car, two computers            GATT/UNCTAD         Mar-95
3. Export diversification opportunities  Two experts                                             GATT/UNCTAD         Mar-95
(two weeks each)
1/ Source: Bank appraisal mission
e >
XQ D
(D X
x
0
0"



Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
RWANDA
IMF Indicative
Macro-economic Management Technical Assistance Program'
Material and            Probable               Indicative
Area of TA           Type of TA                Logistic               Donor                Date of TA
Support2
1. Public
Finances
1. Customs        1. Resident expert      Car, computer,           UNDP               February 1955
Administration    (3-6 months)          accommodation,
2. Mission  (2 experts,  family visit           UNDS
2 weeks                                                         March 1995
2. Tax             1. Diagnostic  mission                          UNDP               Ongoing
Administration    (I expert, I month)
2. Diagnostic mission
(2 experts, 2 weeks)
IMF (FAD)          January 1995
3. Resident expert
(3-6 months)
Car, computer,          IM  (FAD)          February-March
accommodation,                              1995
famiily visit
3. Budget          1. Resident expert     Car, computer,           US AID,            February 1995
Directorate       (3 months)            accommodation            World Bank
2. Diagnostic mission                           US AID,            April-May, 1995
(I expert, 2 weeks)                           World Bank
4. Expenditure    1. Diagnostic mission                            IMF (FAD)          January 1995
control           (I expert, 2 weeks)
2. Resident expert
(3 months)
Car, computer,          IMF (FAD),         February-March
accommodation           World Bank         1995
5. Treasury/      1. Resident expert      Car, computer,           US AID,            February 1995
Accounting        (3 months)            accomnmodation           World Bank
6. Public         1. REsident expert      Car, computer,           World Bank         January 1995
Enterprises        (3 months)           accommodation
II. National
Bank of
Rwanda
(NBR)
'Source: Fund/Bank October 1994 mnission.
2Excluding salaries, it is assumed that these will be provided by the respective donors.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
1. Senior Advisor  1. Resident expert   Car, computer,          IMF/              January 1995
(3-6 months)        accommodation, family   Belgium
visit
2. Research       1. Diagnostic mission                         STA                January 1995
Department        (2 experts, 2 weeks)
2. Resident expert in  Car, computer,         IMF/               February 1995
statistics and      accommodation,          Belgium
research            family visit
(3-6 months
3. Foreign        Resident expert for    Car, computer,         IMF/               February 1995
Exchange       forex (3-6 months)     accommodation           Belgium
Operations                            family visit
4. Bank           Resident expert        Car, computer,          IMF/              February, 1995
Supervision    (3-6 months)           accommodation, family   Belgium
visit
5. Cash           Resident expert        Car, computer,         Belgium            February-March 1995
Management    (6 months)              accommodation, family
visit
III. Facilitating  Resident expert       Car, computer,         World Bank         February 1995
Disbursement     (6 months)              accommodation, family
of Donor                                 visit
Assistance
IV.               1. AFR mission                                 AFR               January-February, 1995
Macroeconomic       (3 experts, 2 weeks)
Programming
and Policy Advice  2. AFR mission                               AFR
(3 experts, 2 weeks)
V. Price          Expert (I month)       Computer,              UN Statistical     March-April 1995
Statistics                            accommodation           Office Germany
VI. National      Resident expert (6     Car, computer,         UN Statistical     March-April 1995
Accounts      months)                accommodation, family   Office Germany
visit                 I      _I
VII. Training                                                   Belgium            February-March, 1995



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
ANNEX 3
Positive List of Imports
to be financed under the Credit'
H.S. Code
01.02 - 01.06        Live animals for breeding
12.09 - 12.14        Seed grains and fruits and spores for planting
15.05 - 15.20        Oil and chemical oil products
17.01 - 17.02        Sugar and industrial glucoses
27.12 - 27.14        Petroleum coke, natural and other asphalts, industrial petroleum
jelly and paraffin
28.01 - 28.43        Inorganic chemical products
29.01 - 29.06        Hydrocarbons and derivatives
30.03 - 30.06        Pharmaceuticals, medicines
31.01 - 31.05        Fertilizers
32.15 -              Inks and toners
33.01 -              Basic oils
34.04 - 34.06        Artificial wax, powders and candles
38.01 - 38.08        Chemical products, insecticides, herbicides, fungicides
39.01 - 39.26        Plastic and cellulose products
40.01 - 40.17        Rubber products (including pipes and cables, tyres and surgical
products)
44.01 - 44.21        Wood and wood products
47.01 - 47.07        Wood pulp, cellulose fibres and paper and carton refuse
40.01 - 48.21        Paper and paper products
49.01 - 49.06        Books, textbooks, engineering and architectural drawing materials
52.01 - 53.08        Cotton and jute fibres and textiles
54.01 - 58. 11       Synthetic fibres and textiles
69.01 - 69.10        Ceramic products (including construction bricks, tiles, pipes,
etc.)
70.01 - 70.07        Glass and glass products
72.01 - 73.26        Iron and steel products
74.01 - 74.19        Copper and copper product
75.01 - 75.08        Nickel and nickel products
76.01 - 76.16        Aluminium and aluminium products
78.01 - 78.06        Lead and lead products
79.01 - 79.07        Zinc and zinc products
I   Description according to the Rwanda Harmonized System Customs Code. Products here described and those
contained under the four-digit category are considered eligible to be fimanced by the credit.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
82.01 - 82.15       Metal tools and instruments
84.05 - 84.85       Motors and electrical machinery (gas generators, turbines, pumps,
etc.)
85.01 - 85.05       Motors and electrical machinery (power generators, transformers,
bobbins, etc.)
85.17 - 85.27       Telephones and radiophone equipment
87.01 - 87.16       Motor cars, tractors, cycles, and other vehicles (including parts)
88.05 - 88.07       Aeronautical and meteorological equipment
90.01 - 90.09       Photocopiers, printers
90.15 - 90.17       Topographical, geodesical and mathematical instruments
90.18 - 90.26       Medical instruments
90.28 - 90.29       Gas, liquid or electrical meters
94.01 - 94.02       Medical and surgical furniture
94.06               Prefabricated contructions
96.01 - 96.13       Office equipment



