Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18116
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
SPECIAL EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE GRANT
(Board Resolution No. 495)
June 30, 1998
Macroeconomics 3
Economic Management and Social Policy
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           =     RwF (Rwanda Franc)
1990: US$1.00           =     RwF 83
1991: US$1.00           =     RwF 125
1992: US$1.00           =     RwF 132
1993: US$1.00           =     RwF 144
1994: US$1.00                 RwF 134
1995: US$1.00                 RwF 260
1996: US$1.00                 RwF 307
1997: US$1.00           =     RwF 300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
RWANDESE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ERC                      Emergency Recovery Credit
FAO                      Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
IDP                      Internally Displaced People
NGO                       Non-governmental Organization
ODA                      Overseas Development Assistance
OPHAR                    Ministry of Health Central Medical Drug Store
UNICEF                    United Nations Children's Fund
UNHCR                    United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
WHO                      World Health Organization
Vice President                  .            C. Madavo
Director                        :            N. Tcheyan
Sector Manager                               L. Barbone
Staff Member                    :            C Obidegwu, Sr. Economist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...............................................................i
PART I.   PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .1
A. RATIONALE FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT          .1
B. IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES: Objectives & Achievements.     2
C. SUPERVISION PERFORMANCE              .8
D. SUMMARY OF MAJOR ACHIEVEMENTS           .8
E. SUSTAINABILITY                 .9
F. AGENCY PERFORMANCE                 .9
G. RATING OF GRANT .10
H. LESSONS LEARNED .10
PART II:  STATISTICAL ANNEX .11
Table 1:  SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS .11
Table 2:  RELATED BANK GRANTS .13
Table 3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE .13
Table 4:    STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS .14
4(a) - UNICEF .14
4(b) - UNHCR .15
4(c) - FAO .16
4(d) - WHO .17
APPENDICES: ..............................................................  18
APPENDIX I: SUMMARY OF UNICEF'S IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE 18
APPENDIX II: SUMMARY OF UNHCR'S IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE.21
APPENDIX III SUMMARY OF FAO'S IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE ....... 25
APPENDIX IV: SUMMARY OF WHO'S IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE .... 27
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Special Emergency
Assistance Grant (SEAG) for which the Grant in the amount of US$20 million was
approved by the Board Resolution No. 495 on August 30, 1994 and made effective in
September 1994.
2.    The Grant was channeled through four U.N. organizations, namely: the United
Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR), the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the World Health
Organization (WHO). The Grant was closed on March 31, 1996, three months after the
original closing date of December 31, 1995. UNHCR completed its programs before the
original closing date. UNICEF and WHO experienced delays due to the extra time
required to complete training components of their programs. The closing date was
extended for FAO in order to coordinate seed imports with the agricultural season in
Rwanda. As of March 31,1996 the Grant was fully disbursed, and reached the targeted
population.
3.    The draft of the implementation completion report (ICR) was prepared by Mr.
Zafar P. Mawani in collaboration with Ms. Linda English and under the supervision of
Mr. Michael N. Sarris, Division Chief of Country Operations in the Central Africa and
Indian Ocean Department. The report was finalized by Mr. Yoseph Woldemichael
(Consultant) in collaboration with Mr. Chukwuma Obidegwu (AFTM3). Statistical
information is presented in Part II. Summaries of the completion reports submitted by the
four United Nations agencies are included in the Appendices.
4.    The preparation of this ICR was based on materials in the project files, Legal
Agreements, progress reports from implementing agencies and discussions with the Bank
staff. Because of the unique nature of the Grant operation, this ICR is not typical. The
design of the Grant was based on the Bank's shared objectives with UN agencies and
supervision was provided by the implementing agencies rather than through direct
involvement of the Bank.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
SPECIAL EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE GRANT
(Board Resolution No. 495)
Evaluation Summary
1.   In the aftermath of a large scale of human tragedy precipitated by the genocide in
Rwanda, an appeal for emergency assistance was made by the UN Secretary General to
the international community. The Bank responded to the appeal and approved a
US$20 million Special Emergency Assistance Grants for Rwanda (SEAG) on
August 30, 1994 for emergency assistance with special emphasis to the need of returnees.
The SEAG was channeled through four UN organizations, namely: the United Nations
Children's Fund (UNICEF) US$10.5 million, the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR) US$4 million, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
US$4 million, and the World Health Organization (WHO) US$1.5 million. The SEAG
became effective in September 1994, upon signing the Legal Agreements with the above
agencies.
2.    The main objectives were to support the provision of emergency health care; to
provide immediate emergency shelter and infrastructure needed for returning refugees; to
facilitate the recovery of agricultural production by providing seeds, planting materials
and basic agricultural implements and tools; and to provide medical services, supplies
equipment and logistical support for diagnosing, treatment and control of specific
diseases.
3.   In light of the objectives, the Bank reviewed and approved proposed programs
submitted by the UN implementing agencies on the basis of criteria that ensured
assistance: (i) is immediate and essential for survival; (ii) is disbursed quickly; (iii) would
give due priority to emergency activities that lay the basis for a rehabilitation and a
recovery effort; and (iv) would be channeled at field level through organizations best
positioned to foster rapid, efficient and transparent delivery.
4.    The Bank released the total Grant (US$20 million) in two tranches. The first
tranche of US$11 million was released in September and November 1994, and the second
tranche of US$9 million in June and August 1995. The amounts released correspond to
the expenditure plans submitted by the agencies. The Grant was closed on March 31,
1996, three months after the original closing date of December 31, 1995.
Implementation Performance
5.    The agencies demonstrated flexibility in the implementation of their programs,
and despite facing several constraints, UNICEF implemented its programs successfully.
Health clinics were rapidly rehabilitated, safe water systems were put in place and



possible widespread incidence of infectious diseases were prevented. UNHCR's program
was largely successful in meeting the needs for temporary shelters as well as some of the
permanent housing requirements. In health and education UJNHCR funded NGOs to
repair and rehabilitate medical facilities and schools, as well as to furnish them with
medical supplies and school equipment and supplies. FAO was successful in undertaking
low-cost and effective seed multiplication activities in five prefectures, and seeds and
tools were equitably distributed throughout the country. Communications and logistical
links among the Government, NGOs, international donors etc. were strengthened.
WHO's success was mixed but successfully implemented the epidemiological
surveillance system in early stages.
6.    The overall performance of the agencies was satisfactory, and so the Grant met its
objectives. It improved conditions within Rwanda for returnees and laid the basis for
broad-based reconstruction and development program. It helped restore basic health and
clean water services and agricultural production. It provided temporary shelter to
returnees, and helped resume educational activities when the new government could not
deliver these services. In conjunction with the assistance of other donors, the Grant
facilitated the return of an estimated 600,000 to 900,000 refugees. The Grant also had a
positive impact on rebuilding government capacity. Significant resources were either
directly or indirectly transferred to the Rwandan Government.
Sustainability
7.    Many of the programs' achievements are sustainable. Physical improvements to
health facilities, schools, and the Kigali water supply system should endure beyond the
closing date of the Grant. The coordination and information sharing mechanisms set up
under the FAO have remained operational by the Ministry of Agriculture even though
project operations have ended. Other Grant financed activities, such as the training of
health personnel, the seed multiplication program and food prices information system
will continue under bilateral donor programs. The greatest threat to sustainability,
however, is the fragility of the national reconciliation process, and the continuation of
conflict in parts of the country threatens sustainability of the achievements.
Key Lessons Learned
8.    The key lessons learned in the process of implementing this Special Emergency
Assistance Grant are as follows:
(i)   The Grant proved to be an effective mechanism for the Bank to intervene in a
situation where its normal tools would not have responded in time, and
Emergency Grant helped to lay the basis for Bank direct intervention.
(ii)   The use of the UN agencies, with field presence and operational experience in
emergency situations, made it possible to disburse the funds quickly, reach
target populations and galvanize the agencies and NGOs to work toward a
common goal. Thus underscores the need for all agencies to work closely in
ii



emergency/post-conflict situations and take advantage of the comparative
strengths of each one.
(iii)  It is important in these situations to appraise the Government of the nature of
the type of operation and have it involved where practicable to dispel possible
dissatisfaction by the Government in being by-passed.
(iv)  It would be essential, in Grant operations, to stipulate the procedures for the
disposal of all major equipment and vehicles purchased through the proceeds
of the Grant in the Legal Agreements to minimize misunderstandings.
111



SPECIAL EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE GRANT
PART ONE: PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   Introduction: Rationale for Bank Involvement
9.    Violent conflict between April and June 1994 in Rwanda devastated the country
socially and economically. Close to 800.000 Rwandese perished in the genocide and
subsequent civil war. At least 2 million Rwandese fled into the Democratic Republic of
the Congo (DRC), Tanzania and Burundi; another one million became internally
displaced; and about 800,000 Rwandese, who had fled the country during previous ethnic
upheavals returned to Rwanda. About 70 percent of the country's technical and
administrative labor force had either been killed or fled. The health system, already
strained by high infant and maternal mortality rates and by the AIDS epidemic, crumbled.
Access to safe drinking water and sanitation levels fell well below pre-conflict levels.
With damaged schools standing empty, the entire education system faced paralysis. And
the abandonment of farms led to massive food shortage and starvation.
10.  In response to the crisis that shocked the world, the UN Secretary General
launched a consolidated appeal to donors. On the basis of a UN inter-agency assessment
of needs in Rwanda, on July 12, 1994, the U.N. Secretary General requested $435 million
to cover the priority requirements from July to December 1994. This priority included
food aid, logistics, agriculture, health, nutrition, education, water and sanitation,
assistance to refugees, relief and survival items, assistance to vulnerable groups' needs,
transit of displaced persons, and multisectoral assistance to returnees. The appeal was
directed both at providing assistance to the displaced but also at facilitating their return
through providing some assurance that their basic needs could be met upon their return.
11.   Several donors responded to the Secretary General's appeal, but a significant
funding gap still remained. The Bank responded to the Secretary General's appeal
through a grant which would help to lay the foundations for a broad-based reconstruction
and development program. The emergency grant was justified by criteria that: (i) the
enormous human tragedy inflicted by the civil war, with major losses of human lives and
capital, and a long-term detrimental impact on Rwanda's development prospects; (ii) the
lack of adequate resources by on-going broad multilateral cooperative efforts to assist
Rwanda; (iii) the response to the appeal by the World Bank would give developmental
orientation to the broad multilateral cooperative efforts; (iv) the new government lacked a
functioning administrative base, and the World Bank was unable to provide development
assistance to the country on normal procedure basis; and (v) no other suitable Bank
funding mechanism was available to address the problem at the time.
12. A new Rwandan government, led by Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), was sworn
in on July 19, 1994. Its objectives were to make sustained effort in promoting national
reconciliation and to embark on a reconstruction and development program. Based on



these objectives the Board approved US$20 million Special Emergency Assistance Grant
(SEAG) for Rwanda on August 30, 1994. The SEAG was channeled under separate
arrangements through four UN agencies (UNICEF US$10.5 million, UNHCR US$4
million, FAO US$4 million, and WHO US$1.5 million). The amounts proposed were
expected to fill gaps in each agency's program with special emphasis on the needs of
returnees, and to complement the on-going relief efforts. The agencies were selected on
the basis of their: (i) monitorable administrative procedures; (ii) record of experience with
other humanitarian crises, e.g. as in Somalia; (iii) field-level presence; and (iv) ability to
respond flexibly to the changing needs of a crisis situation. In all cases, the Bank
expected a significant number of NGOs to participate in the program implementation.
B.   ImplementingAgencies: Objectives and Achievements
13.   The Bank reviewed and approved proposed programs submitted by the UN
implementing agencies on the basis of criteria that ensured assistance: (i) is immediate
and essential for survival; (ii) is disbursed quickly; (iii) would give due priority to
emergency activities that lay the basis for a rehabilitation and a recovery effort; and
(iv) would be channeled at field level through organizations best positioned to foster
rapid, efficient and transparent delivery. With respect to implementation, agency mid-
term and final reports would serve as benchmarks for supervising implementation
progress of the Grant. The following analysis is based on the information provided by
the implementing agencies reports. A more detailed summary of each Agency's
implementation performance is provided in Annexes I to IV.
UNICEF
14.   Objectives The objectives of UNICEF's programs were to support the provision
of emergency health care through regional hospitals, village health posts, and centers and
to improve access to safe water and to basic sanitation facilities. The Bank's contribution
to UNICEF would be used as follows: (i) $4.5 million for health care and disease control
program; (ii) $3.0 million for water supply and sanitation program; and (iii) $3.0 million
for supplementary nutrition program.
(i)   The health care and disease control program targeted reducing high infant,
child, and maternal mortality rates by providing vaccines, dehydration salts,
drugs and equipment, and treating medically preventable diseases such as
dysentery, malaria, respiratory infections, and measles. Emergency health
care, including the provision of essential health and disease prevention
services, would be provided through the regional hospitals, village health
posts and health centers. An HIV-prevention component was also added at a
later date.
(ii)   The water supply and sanitation program aimed at improving access to safe
water and sanitation services and envisaged laying the groundwork for a
comprehensive rehabilitation of the water system in both urban and rural
areas, with participation from local communities and NGOs.
2



(iii)  The supplementary nutrition program outlined therapeutic feeding
interventions for severely and moderately malnourished children as well as for
pregnant and lactating women.
15.   Evaluation of Objectives The national health infrastructure suffered a severe
damage from the civil war, and the program responded to the country's health priority
needs. The re-establishment of clean water and sanitation systems, the rapid
reconstruction of emergency health care facilities in rural areas, and the supplementary
nutrition program for vulnerable groups in transit were essential to saving lives and
preventing a widespread of epidemic diseases. The restoration of a modicum of health
services improved conditions within the country and encouraged the return of refugees
and internally displaced peoples (IDPs).
16.   Summary of Activities and Achievements  The Health Care and Disease
Control Program: (i) rehabilitated 46 rural health centers at final destination sites for
returning refugees; (ii) provided essential drugs and supplies to the Ministry of Health's
Central Medical Drug Store (OPHAR); (iii) trained health professionals; (iv) produced
educational materials; (v) re-launched the Ministry of Health's Extended Program of
Immunization; and (vi) provided vehicles and supplies for both the Ministries of Health
and Youth. US$4.5 million was disbursed for this program.
17.   The support provided by the Supplementary Nutrition Program included the
following: The bulk of food distribution was undertaken through the "Regions Sanitaires"
and the communes with some assistance from  international NGOs.  In total,
47,000 children benefited from the provision of nutritional supplements such as high
energy biscuits, powdered milk and UNIMIX. UNICEF pre-positioned and stocked
nutritional inputs in various sites along the Zairian border in preparation for a sudden
influx of refugees. The Ministry of Family and Women's Promotion was provided with
equipment, supplies, and spare parts to build its capacity. 330 government, local
administration, NGOs and civic association representatives were trained in design,
management, and administration of nutritional prograrns. US$1.3 million was disbursed
for this program.
18.   UNICEF's Water and Environmental Sanitation Program helped restore the Kigali
water supply by providing generators to pumping stations in the city, and constructed a
clean water system to service 250,000 residents in and around Kibeho camp in the
Southwest. Government agencies were provided with vehicles, heavy equipment, and
sanitation materials, and community was given training in hygiene and education in rural
areas and in the IDP camps. About 20% of activities funded by the Grant were
implemented by international NGOs. US$4.7 million was disbursed for this program.
19.  Implementation  Performance       Despite  facing  several  constraints,
implementation of UNICEF's programs were successful. Health clinics were rapidly
rehabilitated, safe water systems were put in place and possible widespread incidence of
infectious diseases were prevented. The revival of the health care system was severely
3



constrained by lack of capable medical personnel in the country; on the other hand,
training program was partially addressed. In hindsight, UNICEF may have under-
estimated the severe lack of capacity in the country despite its earlier assessments of the
situation. Only 46 out of 114 proposed health facilities were rehabilitated, and this is
because UNICEF undervalued the cost of the rehabilitation. In subsequent operations,
UNICEF factored these unanticipated cost overruns into its budget projections. In
addition, lack of inter-agency coordination resulted in some overlap between the activities
of UNICEF's in restocking pharmaceutical supplies for OPHAR and those pursued by the
World Health Organization as well as between UNICEF's health facility rehabilitation
program and that of UNHCR.
20.   During implementation, UNICEF identified, among others things, the following
bottlenecks:
(i)   transportation and communication difficulties slowed movement of goods and
personnel to sites.
(ii)  limited storage capacity in rural areas necessitated to continually bring in
supplies, and this drove up the logistic and transportation costs of the project.
(iii)  UNICEF's lack of sufficient capacity forced it to use greater input from
government officials, something that was not considered before.
UNHCR
21.   Objectives The objectives of the UNHCR's program were to provide immediate
emergency shelter and infrastructure needed for returning refugees. UNHCR proposed a
comprehensive program of multisectoral assistance to meet emergency shelter, health and
education needs of returnees.
(i)   The Shelter component aimed at providing the necessary implements to build
short and long-term housing for both "new" and "old caseload" (those who
fled Rwanda in the 1960s and 1970s) of returnees.
(ii)   The Health component aimed at designing, implementing and managing a
basic health care system for returnees and internally displaced persons (IDPs),
as well as rehabilitating and making functional several health clinics and
hospitals at specific transit and final destination sites. This included stocking
the centers with emergency medical supplies and pharmaceuticals.
(iii)  The Education component aimed at undertaking physical repair and
improvement of primary schools devastated by the civil war; providing
educational materials; and training of school inspectors and teachers.
4



22.   Evaluation of Objectives: The objectives of UNHCR's program  were to
facilitate the return of refugees and their re-integration into the economy and society by
meeting short-term shelter, health, and education needs of returnees.
23.   Summary of Activities and Achievements: With respect to shelter, UNHCR
successfully procured and distributed 88,277 plastic sheets to allow families returning
from camps to set up temporary shelters during the rainy season. To meet the need for
permanent housing, 20,000 iron sheets, 130,000 corrugated iron sheets, 88,200 wooden
poles and assorted other roofing materials were distributed to hundreds of homeless old
caseload returnee-families. UNHCR's health interventions funded the activities of six
NGOs that repaired and furnished medical supplies to six damaged hospitals and
23 health clinics/dispensaries, and paid salary supplements for local staff of these
facilities. In education, UNHCR supported NGOs involved in rehabilitating, repairing
and providing school equipment to 20 schools, as well as for training teachers and school
inspectors
24.   Implementation Performance: The program was largely successful in meeting
its objectives. The plastic sheets distributed for temporary shelters probably had the
largest visible impact on returnees, as demonstrated through the wide use of these sheets
throughout the country.
25.   During implementation of the program the following shortcomings were evident:
(i) lack of security in several prefectures drove up projected logistic and transport costs
and precluded operations in large part of the country; (ii) poor communication with the
new government sent mixed messages to NGOs executing projects at the field level;
(iii) UNHCR staff relied more heavily on NGO reports than on-site visits, sometimes
leading to inaccurate assessment of achievements; (iv) inadequate pay may have had
significant contribution to the continuing shortage of teachers in the operation of the
school facilities rehabilitated by the program, as a result resumption of educational
services lagged behind the physical repair of schools; and (v) the absence of clear sectoral
policy sometimes reduced the scope of execution of important items in the program. For
example, the original aim of the permanent housing construction campaign had to be
downsized in light of the fact that the government had not yet established clear policies
on land, water and grazing rights.
FAO
26.   Objectives The primary objective of the program was to facilitate the recovery of
agricultural production by providing seeds, planting materials and basic agricultural
implements and tools. Proceeds of the Grant were to finance activities of a Consortium
comprised of concerned NGOs and donor agencies with FAO playing the role of
executing agency. Consortium activities were aimed at procuring seeds of adapted
varieties for the principal food crops in Rwanda, and distributing them to needy farmers
through a network of NGOs. As a secondary objective, the program envisaged the
5



formulation and launching of a seed multiplication project within the country on the basis
of an action plan satisfactory to the FAO and the World Bank.
27.   Evaluation of Objectives The genocide and civil war significantly disrupted
local agriculture and depleted food stocks, because large portions of farmland went
unharvested or unplanted. Many of the seeds unique to Rwanda's diverse agro-climatic
zones had been consumed or stolen during the civil war. The intervention fulfilled a need
to resume the process of agricultural recovery throughout the country and this will
progressively reduce Rwanda's dependency on food inputs provided by donors.
28.   Summary of Activities and Achievements FAO procured and distributed seeds
and tools, through a network of over 43 NGOs to approximately 406,000 peasant
families. Approximately 35 percent of the population benefited from the program at least
one time. With the help of FAO and other related agencies, the number of Rwandese
engaged in agricultural production grew to 5.4 million from less than 4 million
immediately after the crisis. According to the FAO facilitator, estimated production in
1996 increased by 25 percent from that of 1995, and in terms of value the production is
estimated to be over US$10 million. This production revival was the result of FAO's
seed and tools distribution program. In partnership with international agencies (such as
CGIAR) and NGOs, FAO launched a domestic seeds multiplication program, which
would eventually be transferred to the government. The in-country seed multiplication
program stimulated a domestic market for seed production and distribution. FAO devoted
a substantial portion of the Grant to technical assistance and was able to set up a
coordination network with NGOs in order to prepare and distribute a monthly farm sector
data bulletin and produce a vulnerable groups survey.
29.  Implementation Performance The arrangement between the Bank and FAO has
been successful in meeting overall objectives. Low-cost and effective seed multiplication
activities took place principally in five prefectures: Kigali, Byumba, Gitarama, Ruhengeri
and Gikongoro, and seeds and tools were equitably distributed throughout the country.
The consortium strengthened communication and logistical links among all major actors
(NGOs, government, international donors etc.) in which it: (i) facilitated efficient and
rapid distribution of inputs throughout the country; (ii) prepared local NGOs to
participate in future agricultural projects; and (iii) set up a new farm data collection
system that provided essential information about agriculture, prices and socio-economic
conditions in the country.
30.   FAO was not able to satisfy all seed requirements in the first season of 1995,
because enough seeds adapted to Rwanda's unique agro-climatic conditions could not be
found in the international market immediately. This shortfall was reduced in subsequent
stages of the program. A high demand for food on the domestic market in early stages of
the program encouraged farmers to use seeds for food production rather than
multiplication.
6



WHO
31.   Objectives The objectives of the WHO's activities were to provide medical
services, supplies equipment and logistical support for diagnosing, treatment and control
of specific diseases. The US$1.5 million contribution to WHO aimed at supporting three
disease control activities: (i) re-establishment of a nation-wide epidemiological
surveillance system; (ii) resumption of distribution of essential drugs through the
Rwandan Central Pharmaceutical Office (OPHAR); and (iii) resumption of HIV
prevention through safe blood transfusion.
32.   Evaluation of Objectives In the aftermath of the genocide, Rwanda, which was
already experiencing high seroprevalance and malaria rates, faced a severe public health
crisis. The almost total breakdown of the epidemiological surveillance system, the
collapse of safe blood transfusion services throughout the country, and the looting of
medical supplies at OPHAR, increased the exposure of Rwandese citizens to diseases.
WHO's proposed interventions were vital to arrest the spread of infectious diseases
common in post-conflict countries.
33.   Summary of Activities and Achievements  WHO successfully organized a
national epidemiological surveillance system by training health care personnel in
collection, analysis and presentation of relevant data to the Epidemiology Department at
the Ministry of Health. In this Department, an international expert examined trends and
patterns and shared these with the health personnel and NGOs through a Newsletter
financed by the Grant. As a result of the program, reporting from 13 percent of sentinel
stations across the country increased to 78 percent. With the aid of consultants and
Pharmaciens sans Frontieres, WHO rehabilitated OPHAR's administrative and logistical
capacity, and trained many of its personnel. Pharmacists at several other hospitals were
also trained through Pharmaciens sans Frontieres. WHO procured items necessary for
collecting, testing and transfusion of blood, as well as trained 30 doctors, 30 laboratory
assistants and 20 laboratory technicians.
34.  Implementation Performance Achievements of WHO's program were mixed.
In the case of OPHAR, Pharmaciens sans Frontieres successfully designed and
established a computer system to track inventory and laid the basis for privatization of
pharmaceutical marketing.  The dearth of pharmacists within the country, weak
motivation among personnel due to low salaries, and a general lack of knowledge about
administrative procedures reduced the effectiveness of the initiative. Moreover, there
appears to have been some overlap with the activities pursued by UNICEF at OPHAR.
35.   WHO successfully implemented the epidemiological surveillance system in early
stages, however, the reporting system between the regions and the central
Epidemiological Department was weak, and could not function when phone lines were
down. Laboratories in regions could not acquire precise data on suspected pathologies
due to lack of capacity. Absence of proper transportation equipment also delayed the
delivery of samples to the central locations where they could be analyzed. The
7



international consultant who was the head of the Epidemiological Surveillance system
fell ill and a replacement could not be quickly found; jeopardizing the program's future.
C Supervision Performance
36.   Since the SEAG was channeled through four UN implementing agencies, the
Bank's supervisory role consisted of providing input on the agency programs and
monitoring the progress of implementation. Representatives of the executing agencies
provided regular feedback to World Bank staff by means of fax and telephone, or mail,
and submitted mid-term and final reports, and worked closely with the Resident Mission
which re-opened in Kigali during the month of January 1995. One supervision report was
required, and that was done and submitted by the Resident Representative.
37.   Responsibility for monitoring of contracts and quality of works was assumed by
the four UN executing agencies, which were familiar with delivering this type of
assistance. A government civil works monitoring committee comprised representatives
of the relevant ministries and the implementing agency verified completion of UNICEF
civil works projects.
D. Summary of Major Achievements and Bank Performance
38.   The Bank demonstrated flexibility in the crisis situation by responding to the
immediate needs identified by the Secretary General of the UN in his consolidated appeal
for Rwanda. The Bank effectively collaborated with the UN to develop an action plan
suited to the country's emergency priority needs, and imparted a developmental
perspective to relief interventions; at the same time, it permitted UN agencies to change
programs in mid-course to respond to the realities and also extended the closing date of
the Grant.
39.   The Grant met its objectives by improving conditions within Rwanda for
returnees and laying the basis for broad-based reconstruction and development program.
It helped restore basic health and clean water services and agricultural production. It
provided temporary shelter to returnees, and helped resume educational activities when
the new government could not deliver these services. In conjunction with the assistance
of other donors, the Grant facilitated the return of an estimated 600,000 to 900,000
refugees.
40.   The Grant also had a positive impact on rebuilding government capacity.
Significant resources -- through the provision of equipment, materials, vehicles,
pharmaceutical supplies -- were either directly or indirectly transferred to the Rwandan
Government. For example, over $2 million in vehicles, fuel and spare parts purchased
through various UN agencies helped replenish the Government's devastated fleet, and a
substantial portion of the Grant financed training for civil servants.
41.   The Grant provided support for the preparation of the Bank financed Emergency
Recovery Credit (ERC) and for the restructuring of on-going IDA-financed projects. The
8



FAO-coordinated seeds project not only helped initiate a working relationship between
the Bank and the Ministry of Agriculture, but also improved the technical expertise of
local NGOs and civic associations. These local organizations are now being used as
contractors for some agricultural extension services.
42.   UN agencies had engaged the government in the program  planning and
implementation process as early as possible. However, the Bank made insufficient efforts
to use the Grant to improve its dialogue with the new government and inadequately
communicated its role in the emergency effort, not only to the Rwandese but even to the
donor community.
E. Sustainability
43.   Many of the programs' achievements are sustainable. Physical improvements to
health facilities, schools, and the Kigali water supply system should endure beyond the
closing date of the Grant. The coordination and information sharing mechanisms set up
under the FAO have remained operational by the Ministry of Agriculture even though
project operations have ended. Other Grant financed activities, such as the training of
health personnel, the seed multiplication program and food prices information system
will continue under bilateral donor programs. The Belgian Cooperation, for example, is
supporting an on-going program to train health care providers who have had little
previous experience in the field and the Overseas Development Agency (ODA) of the
United Kingdom has agreed to provide support to ensure continuation of the
epidemiological surveillance component'. Some IDA-funded projects will continue to
finance several activities initiated by the Grant, including the procurement of
pharmaceutical supplies for OPHAR, repairs of schools, and imports of water treatment
facility generators, government vehicles and agricultural inputs. The severe lack of
capacity in the civil service and inadequate recurrent funding in the national budget for
rehabilitation activities may reduce the effectiveness of rehabilitation investments.
However, the greatest threat to sustainability, is the fragility of the national reconciliation
process, and the continuation of conflict in parts of the country. Should this conflict
intensify efforts will be diverted from reconstruction to waging war.
F. Agency Performance
44.   Overall, the performance of the four UN implementing agencies was satisfactory.
They demonstrated flexibility in the implementation of their programs, in which they
reached a large number of beneficiaries. An appropriate portion of each program was
oriented to building long-term government capacity without sacrificing emergency
priorities. Early on, overlapping programs were observed between the activities of
UNICEF and WHO as related to the restoration of OPHAR and also between UNICEF
and UNHCR as related to rehabilitation of health facilities; later these agencies
The Overseas Development Agency (ODA) is now known as the Departnent for Intemational
Development (DFID)
9



coordinated their activities to minimize duplication of efforts. UN agencies generally
made a successful transition from playing a leading role in the reconstruction effort to
assuming a more supportive role as the new government improved its ability to deliver
services. Even though NGOs working in Rwanda were many, the coordination between
NGOs and UN agencies can be considered satisfactory.
45.   The impact of the genocide on the capacity of the Government to reestablish
services was initially underestimated by all agencies. The personnel of these UN agencies
worked hard and were successful in helping the Government to rebuild its capacity. FAO
and UNICEF were flexible enough to increase expatriate technical assistance in order to
compensate for the initial underestimation of capacity.
G. Rating of Grant
46.   The Grant has been successful on four counts: (i) the Grant effectively utilized the
strengths of UN agencies to reach communities immediately for their urgent needs;
(ii) the presence and experience of the UN agencies in Rwanda played an important role
in helping the Bank restart its regular program in Rwanda. (iii) the Grant's impact on
building the society and government capacity has been positive as a result the objective of
laying the foundations for longer term recovery has been met. (iv) the design of the
programs fostered dialogue at several levels -- among different agencies in the
government, among local NGOs, and between the government, local NGOs and
Communes. These processes have contributed significantly to rebuild communities.
H. Key Lessons Learned
47.   The key lessons learned in the process of implementing this Special Emergency
Assstance Grant are as follows:
(i)   The Grant proved to be an effective mechanism for the Bank to intervene in a
situation where its normal tools would not have responded in time, and
Emergency Grant helped to lay the basis for Bank direct intervention.
(ii)   The use of the UN agencies, with field presence and operational experience in
emergency situations, made it possible to disburse the funds quickly, reach
target populations and galvanize the agencies and NGOs to work toward a
common goal. Thus underscores the need for all agencies to work closely in
emergency/post-conflict situations and take advantage of the comparative
strengths of each one.
(iii) It is important in these situations to appraise the Government of the nature of
the type of operation and have it involved where practicable to dispel possible
dissatisfaction by the Government in being by-passed.
10



(iv)  It would be essential, in Grant operations, to stipulate the procedures for the
disposal of all major equipment and vehicles purchased through the proceeds
of the Grant in the Legal Agreements to minimize misunderstandings.
11



PART TWO: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives Substantial    Partial     Negligible    N/A
Macro Policies               O            0               0           E
Sector Policies              O            0              O            El
Financial Objectives         El           O              O            O
Institutional Development    O            EZI            O       
Physical Objectives          E l          Ol O
Poverty Reduction            O            EEl O                  
Gender Issues                O            1EJ            Cl
Other Social Objectives      El       -       O          O
Environmental Objectives     O            O              21           O
Public Sector Management     0            i2             O            O
Private Sector Development    E           E1             0            E
Other (specify)              O            El             Ol          Ol
B. Project Sustainability   Likely        Unlikely      Uncertain     N/A
C. Bank Performance         Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient   N/A
Identification               E            El              El          E
Preparation Assistance       O            El              E            E
Appraisal                    El           E               E            El
Supervision                  E            El              El          El
D. Implementing Agencies
Performance              Highly
UNICEF                    Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient   N/A
Preparation                  E            2               E            O
Implementation               O            El              E            O
Covenant Compliance          E            el              E           El
Operation (if applicable)    E            E1              El           0
12



Highly
UNHCR                     Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient  N/A
Preparation                  O            0              O           0
Implementation               O            0              O           O
Covenant Compliance          0            0              O           0
Operation (if applicable)    0                           0           03
Highly
FAO                        Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient   N/A
Preparation                  0            0              0           0
Implementation               0            0I             0           0
Covenant Compliance          0            0              0           0
Operation (if applicable)    0            0              0           0
Highly
NHO                       Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient  N/A
(/)(/ /)                                (1/)
Preparation                  0            0              0           O
Implementation               0            0              0           0
Covenant Compliance          0            0              0           0
Operation (if applicable)    0            0              0           0
Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome    Satisfactory   Satisfactory   Deficient  N/A
0           (0)                         0
Note:
N/A indicates Not Applicable
13



Table 2: Related Bank Grants
Grant Title                      Purpose                  Year    Status
Approved
Preceding Operations
1. Drought Relief for Sub-    US$2.0 million to finance the delivery    Apr.- 1984  Closed
Saharan Africa             costs of WFP of emergency food
supplies in poor low income drought-
stricken areas.
2. World Food Program      US$3.0 million to facilitate receipt,  Jan-1985   Closed
storage and distribution of food relief by
WFP.
3. Somalia Emergency       US$20.0 million to finance emergency    Oct.-1992  Closed
Assistance Grant           food aid, ensuring survival of the most
vulnerable people, resettling displaced,
supply drugs, equipment, medical
supplies and provision of clean water
and basic sanitation
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle               Date Planned           Date Actual /Latest
l_____________________________________                      Estimate
Identification                       Jul.-1994             Jul.- 1994
Preparation                          Jul.- Aug.-1994        Jul.- Aug.- 1994
Board Presentation                   Aug. 30, 1994          Aug. 30, 1994
Plans Submitted (FAO)                Aug. 26, 1994          Aug. 26, 1994
Plans Submitted (UNICEF)             Sep. 6, 1994           Sep. 6, 1994
Plans Submitted (UNHCR)              Sep. 6, 1994           Sep. 6, 1994
Plans Submitted (WHO)                Sep. 6, 1994           Sep. 6, 1994
Signing/Effectiveness (FAO)          Sep. 13, 1994          Sep. 13, 1994
Signing/Effectiveness (UNICEF)       Sep. 22, 1994          Sep. 22, 1994
Signing/Effectiveness (UNHCR)        Sep. 23, 1994          Sep. 23, 1994
Signing/Effectiveness (WHO)          Sep. 21, 1994          Sep. 21, 1994
2nd Tranche released (FAO)           Jun. 1, 1995           Jun. 1, 1995
2nd Tranche released (UNICEF)        Aug. 3, 1995           Aug. 3, 1995
2nd Tranche released (UNHCR)         Jun. 1, 1995           Jun. 1, 1995
2nd Tranche released (WHO)           Jun. 1, 1995           Jun. 1, 1995
Closing Date (FAO)                   Dec. 31, 1995          Mar. 31, 1996
Closing Date (UNICEF)                Dec. 31, 1995          Mar. 31, 1996
Closing Date (UNHCR)                 Dec.31, 1995           Dec. 31, 1995
Closing Date (WHO)                   Dec. 31, 1995          Mar. 31, 1996
14



Table 4(a): Status of Legal Covenant
Rwanda: Special Emergency Assistance Grant
Agree-                                               Original    Revised
ment                    Covenant   Present    Fulfill-              Fulfill-        Description of
Section  Type               Status    ment               ment Date  Covenant                       Comments
Date
UNICEF    1.01          2              C             Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,       Finance reasonable cost
1995           1996           of goods and services
1.02        2              C             Dec. 31,        Mar. 3 1,      75% of first tranche to be
1995           1996           disbursed or committed
1.03        2              C             Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,       Refund to Bank unused    All funds were
1995           1996           portion                   used
1.04        2              C             Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,       Right to transfer funds to
1995           1996           NGOs engaged in
Program activities
1.05        2              C             Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,       Administer WB funds
1995           1996           with same care as own
2.01        1               C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Keep adequate records
1995           1996           for goods and services
from grant
2.02(a)     3               CP            Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Provide brief completion   Completion
1995           1996           report and financial      report received.
statements within three   Statement of
months of last            accounts
disbursement              received, but is
-_______  _________  ____________   ___________   ____________   ____________   _____________________  uncertified.
2.02(b)     I              NC             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Within 12 months of last   Not yet
1995           1996           disbursement, fumish       received.
extemal auditor's
opinion on use of funds
KEY:
I Accounts/Audit
2 Flow and utilization of project funds
3 Monitoring, review and reporting
4. Other
Present Status:
C = Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
CP  Complied with partially
NC = Not complied with
15



Table 4(b): Status of Legal Covenant
Rwanda: Special Emergency Assistance Grant
Agree-                                              Original    Revised
ment                   Covenant   Present    Fulfill-              Fulfill-        Description of
Section    Type            Status        ment           ment Date   Covenant                     Comments
Date
UNHCR    1.01          2               C            Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,        Finance reasonable cost
1995           1996           of goods and services
1.02        2              C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       75% of first tranche to be
1995           1996           disbursed or committed
1.03        2              C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Refund to Bank unused    All funds were
1995           1996           portion                   used
1.04        2              C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Right to transfer funds to
1995           1996           NGOs engaged in
Program activities
1.05        2              C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Administer WB funds
1995           1996           with same care as own
2.01        1              C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Keep adequate records
1995           1996           for goods and services
from grant
2.02        3              C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Financial transactions
1995           1996           and statements related to
the Grant should abide to
the Financial Rules of
UNHCR
2.03        1              CP            Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Within 12 months of last   Completion
1995           1996           disbursement, furnish     report and
completion report, and    uncertified
external auditors opinion   Statement of
on use of funds          Accounts
received, but
not audited
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   rep o rts.
KEY:
1 Accounts/Audit
2 Flow and utilization of project funds
3 Monitoring, review and reporting
4. Other
Present Status:
C = Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
CP  Complied with partially
NC = Not complied with
'16



Table 4(c): Status of Legal Covenant
Rwanda: Special Emergency Assistance Grant
Agree-                                              Original    Revised
ment                   Covenant   Present    Fulfill-              Fulfill-        Description of
Section    Type            Status        ment           ment Date   Covenant                     Comments
Date
FAO        1.01        2               C            Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,        Finance reasonable cost
1995           1996           of goods and services
1.02        2              C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       75%offirsttranchetobe
1995           1996           disbursed or committed
1.03        2              C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 3 1,      Refund to Bank unused    All funds were
1995           1996           portion                   used
1.04        2              C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Right to transfer funds to
1995           1996           NGOs engaged in
Program activities
1.05        2              C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Administer WB funds
1995           1996           with same care as own
2.01        1              C             Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Keep adequate records
1995           1996           for goods and services
I from grant
2.02(a)     3              CP            Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Provide brief completion   Completion
1995           1996           report and financial     report received,
statement within three   but not
months of last            Statement of
disbursement             Accounts.
2.02(b)     1              NC            Dec. 31,       Mar. 31,       Within 12 months of last   Not yet
1995           1996           disbursement, furnish     received.
final audit report on use
of funds
2.03        1              CDec.31,                     Mar. 31,       Accounts and statements
1995           1996           should be subject to
FAO's Financial
Regulations and Rules
KEY:
1 Accounts/Audit
2 Flow and utilization of project funds
3 Monitoring, review and reporting
4. Other
Present Status:
C = Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
CP  Complied with partially
NC = Not complied with
17



Table 4(d): Status of Legal Covenant
Rwanda: Special Emergency Assistance Grant
Agree-                                                Original        Revised
ment                    Covenant   Present            Fulfill-        Fulfill-       Description of
Section  Type               Status    ment                ment Date  Covenant                        Comments
Date
WHO         1.01        2               C             Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,        Finance reasonable cost
1995           1996            of goods and services
1.02        2               C             Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,        75% of first tranche to be
1995           1996            disbursed or committed
1.03        2               C             Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,       Refund to Bank unused    All funds were
1995           1996            portion                    used
1.04        2               C             Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,       Right to transfer funds to
1995           1996            NGOs engaged in
Program activities
1.05        2               C             Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,       Administer WB funds
1995           1996            with same care as own
2.01         1              C             Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,        Keep adequate records
1995           1996            for goods and services
from grant
2.02(a)     3               CP            Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,        Provide brief completion   Completion
1995           1996            report and financial       report received,
statements within three   but not
months of last            Statement of
disbursement              Accounts.
2.02(b)      1              NC            Dec. 31,        Mar. 31,        Within 12 months of last   Not yet
1995           1996            disbursement, furnish      received.
external auditors opinion
on use of funds
KEY:
1 Accounts/Audit
2 Flow and utilization of project funds
3 Monitoring, review and reporting
4. Other
Present Status:
C = Covenant complied with
CD = Complied with after delay
CP = Complied with partially
NC = Not complied with
18



APPENDICES
APPENDIX I:
SUMMARY OF UNICEF'S IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
Activities & Achievements
1) Health Care & Disease Program
UNICEF undertook an assessment of the health facilities throughout the country,
surveying the needs of approximately 114 facilities with intent to identify which ones had
the client population, health personnel, minimal physical damage, and functioning
infrastructure, to work with immediately. Specifically proceeds of the grant allowed
UNICEF to:
i) rehabilitate 46 rural Health Centers for a total of $1,595,102
ii) provide drugs and essential supplies to the Ministry of Health (MINISANTE) Central
Medical Drug Store (OPHAR).
iii) train health professionals; produce health promotional materials on clean hands,
immunization, and HIV/AIDS ($435,442) and purchase transport vehicles for both the
Ministry of Health (MINISANTE) and Ministry of Youth (MIJEUMA) at a total cost of
$413, 556. A related provision furnished essential office supplies to MINISANTE
($256,565).
iii) re-launch MINISANTE's Extended Program of Immunization (EPI) with the goal of
achieving 70 percent coverage for all EPI antigens in all regions of the country, and
restocked the Central Pharmacy Drug Store (OPHAR) with vaccines, vaccine cards and
cold chain equipment ($426,885).
2. Supplementary Nutrition Program
i) World Bank funds supported four programs supplementing the nutritional requirements
of vulnerable groups. In December 1994, 17,000 children in centers within the country
received nutritional supplements (high energy biscuits, high energy milk, and UNIMIX)
at a total cost of $266,639 (or $15.68 per individual). Under Operation Retour, UNICEF
-- in concert with other UN agencies and NGOs -- distributed nutritional supplements (44
MT enriched milk, 80 MT dried skim milk, and 80 MT high protein biscuits) to an
additional 30,000 children returning to their home communes from Southwest Rwanda
(IDPs) as well as to pregnant and lactating women at a total cost of $266,639 (or $22.35
per individual). UNICEF spent $195,501 to preposition and stock nutritional inputs in
19



various UNICEF sites along the border of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, in case
of a sudden influx of refugees into
Rwanda. Lastly, UNICEF disbursed $25,200 to endow the Ministry of Health with its
own stock of nutritional supplements, used for Ministry-organized programs.
ii) UNICEF channeled $56,970 worth of micro-nutrients (e.g. Vitamin A and ferrous
salts) through rural nutritional services and local NGOs.
iii) UNICEF administered $116,850 in World Bank grant funds to strengthen Rwandese
capacity in the health sector. Under this provision, the Ministry of Family and Women's
Promotion (MINAPROFE) received computer equipment, essential supplies, spare parts
and an alternator, and 330 government, local administration, NGO, and civic association
representatives were trained in project design, management and administration.
3. Water & Environmental Sanitation Program.
i) Rehabilitation of urban and rural water distribution schemes. In collaboration with
the British contingent of United Nations Assistance Mission to Rwanda (UNAMIR-
BRITCon), ICRC, ZOA, and GTZ, UNICEF helped to restore the Kigali water supply by
installing eight new generators to run water pumping stations in the city. In Rwanda's
secondary cities, UNICEF successfully rehabilitated 13 water treatment plants. The total
cost of this operation is $1,964,553.
ii) Construction of clean water system in Southwest camps. World Bank funding enabled
UNICEF to provide water to a large displaced population of about 250,000 in and around
Kibeho camp in Southwest Rwanda. Equipment for camp water supply was donated to
MINITRAPE after IDP camps were closed in April 1994.  Technical assistance and
salary costs for operations in Southwest and Kigali were included under this project
($1,010,253).
iii) Logistical support. UNICEF provided government counterparts with vehicles for
staff mobility and the transportation of water, sanitation materials, and heavy equipment,
in an effort to reinforce national capacity at the central, prefecture, and commune levels
($1,461,357).
iv) Social mobilization and advocacy for environmental sanitation and hygiene. In a bid
to improve the environmental sanitation conditions and prevent the occurrence and spread
of epidemic diseases, especially in rural areas and in the IDP camps, UNICEF supported
social mobilization and community training for hygiene education ($263,837).
20



FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Contribution                    Project & main activities                   Amount
US$ (*) (**
SM/94/0619-1  Health
  Re-equipment and re-supply of central structures           1,372,450
.  Re-launch of the Expanded Program of                         426,885
Immunization countrywide
.  Rehabilitation of peripheral and central health facilities  1,595,102
.  Rehabilitation of the national capacity for health promotion  435,442
.  Logistical support and transport                             413,556
.  Support institutional strengthening and maintenance          256,565
Subtotal:                                                     4,500,000
SM/94/0619-1  Nutrition
.  Supplementary feeding for vulnerable groups                1,126,180
.  Provision of micro nutrients                                  56,970
.  Capacity building for community nutrition and                116,350
logistical support
Subtotal:                                                     1,300,000
SM/94/0619-1   Water & Enviros nental Sanitation
. Support to the central level and rehabilitation of the urban
and rural water distribution schemes
. Operational support and technical assistance
. Logistical support
. Social mobilization & advocacy for environmental
sanitation and hygiene education
TOTAL:                                                       10,500,000
(*)   Indicative amount only: final financial statements will be issued by UNICEF
Division of Financial Management, New York.
(**)   Cost of imported supplies including an average of 35% freight charge.
21



APPENDIX II
SUMMARY OF UNHCR'S IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
Activities & Achievements
1) Shelter (Total allocation: $ 1 million)
i) As of May 1, 1995, UNHCR successfully distributed 88,273 plastic sheets purchased
on the international market to 88,273 returnee families. The plastic sheets allowed
families to set up temporary shelters during the rainy season while housing rehabilitation
programs were on-going. The cost of acquiring and transporting the sheets to Rwanda
was $700,000 (or $.7.93 per plastic sheet).
ii) During the spring of 1995, 20,000 iron sheets purchased in Nairobi at a cost of
$154,000 were distributed to "old caseload" returnees, e.g. those that had no homes in the
country. Along with roofing nails and other implements, the iron sheets allowed the old
case returnees to construct temporary shelters rather than moving into the dwellings of
those who had abandoned the country. Each family of 5 received 30 sheets, and
approximately 666 farnilies served.
iii) Roofing materials were purchased and delivered to UNHCR offices in Rwanda
(130,000 corrugated iron sheets, 88,200 wooden poles, and 12.6 metric tons of roofing
nails) to provide 4,200 returnee families with the implements necessary to construct
permanent shelters ($846,000).  However, housing construction has not been as
successful as intended.
2. Health. (Total allocation: $1,800,000) UNHCR funded 6 NGOs to make critical
repairs and furnish medical supplies to hospitals and health clinics. The NGOs included:
Norwegian People's Aid, ADRA, Medicos en Catastrophe, Africa Education Fund, and
the Belgian Red Cross. The major achievements of each NGO are listed below:
i) Norwegian People's Aid rehabilitated 7 buildings of the severely damaged Cyangugu
hospital, raising its capacity to 100 beds. (The first five buildings of Cyangugu Hospital
were made functional within 9 weeks of the start of the works.). Norwegian People's Aid
also rehabilitated Nyagata hospital -- only slightly damaged -- raising its capacity to 150
beds. (Partial operation of Nyagata hospital was achieved within 5 weeks of program
initiation). Drugs and equipment were provided to both hospitals through the second
half of the year ($1,060,414).
ii) ADRA made basic physical improvements to Kibuye prefecture hospital and 6 health
centers in other prefectures. Training and salaries were also provided to health care
workers ($182,602).
22



iii) Medicos en Catastrophe refurbished and rehabilitated the Mbuye hospital, as well as
constructed a helicopter landing pad for the hospital. Work was completed within 4
weeks. In November 1994, 2872 visits were recorded and the hospital currently serves an
average of 100-150 patients per day ($272,424).
iv) African Humanitarian Action. Funds allocated to African Humanitarian Action
allowed the NGO to deploy two teams of expatriate health care experts to recruit
Rwandese professionals and auxiliaries. Thus far a basic method of the operation has
been developed ($330,220).
v) Africa Education Fund Funds allocated to this NGO provided preventive health
services at six dispensaries in Eastern Kibungo Prefecture. The NGO worked to repair all
but one of these health centers to an operational level and staffed the dispensaries with
international medical personnel. Local staff primes are still being paid, since a mid-year
attempt to encourage the government to cover the costs proved unsuccessful ($264,659).
vi) Belgian Red Cross renovated 5 health facilities (4 health centers and 1 hospital in the
Ngarama district) and provided technical training and supervision to local medical staff.
In the Rwamagana district, a targeted rehabilitation of 1 hospital and 7 health centers
proceeded much more slowly ($292,325).
3. Education. (Total Allocation: $1,200,000)
UNHCR funded 3 NGOs (American Refugee Committee, AMURT, and COOPI) to
rehabilitate, make basic repairs, and provide school equipment to approximately 19
primary schools and one secondary school. World Bank funding provided, through
NGOs selected by UNHCR, trained teachers and inspectors, and purchased equipment
and supplies for the schools. In addition, UNICEF purchased $164,116 worth of office
equipment for MINAPROFE to strengthen the Ministry's capacity. The achievements of
each NGO are listed below:
i) American Refugee Committee successfully rehabilitated the Nyagatare ville school with
a capacity of 600 students. American Refugee Committee collaborated with HCR and the
parents association in this task ($ 10,000).
ii) AMURT  While the original program intended to rehabilitate 25 primary schools in
Kigale rurale, AMURT and UNHCR concentrated efforts on the Camp Kigali Primary
School (with 36 classrooms) and the Rwangana Secondary School (with 40 classrooms)
at the request of the Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education (MINIPRISEC).
Rehabilitation of these two schools will benefit 1,960 students. The 20,000 pupils from
the 25 schools originally identified for rehabilitation received educational packets
($212,500).
iii) World Bank funds allowed COOPI to make basic repairs and provide equipment to
17 primary schools serving 9,561 pupils in Gisenyi province. In addition, 12 temporary
structures have been put in place for returnees and are to be made permanent in 1996.
Training courses have been organized for 2,100 teachers and inspectors ($113, 284).
23



FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Total USD     1' Tranche (disbursed)    2d Tranche (disbursed)
Allocated
SHELTER          1,000,000   700,000 (p. sheeting)     846,000 (sheeting, poles-
154,000 (i. sheeting)             nails)
HEALTH           1,300,000    563,000 (NPA)           497,414 (NPA)
264,659 (AEF)           182,602 (ADRA)
292,325 (BRC)
EDUCATION        1,200.000    0                       10,000  (ARC)
212,500 (AMURT)
113,384 (COOPI)
___________  _____________   _____________164,116   (MIFAPROFE)
TOTALS:        4,000,000    1,973,984               2,026,016
24



APPENDIX III
SUMMARY OF FAO'S IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
Activities & Achievements
1. Establishment of a Consortium.
World Bank funds supported the establishment of a MINAGRI chaired consortium
consisting of aid agencies, NGOs, and the three principal international agencies involved
in the agricultural sector (FAO, PAM, and the EU.)
At its monthly meetings, the Consortium facilitated the achievement of the following
tasks:
* selection of target zones for intervention;
* an assessment of input needs according to prefectures and seasons;
 definition of the order of priority of the beneficiaries;
* coordination of distribution and logistics;
* quality control of inputs to be distributed; and
*  adjustment of actions.
2. Procurement & Distribution of Seeds and Tools.
In its capacity as the executing agency for the World Bank loan, FAO coordinated and
monitored the procurement and distribution of seeds acquired from neighboring countries
and on the international market, according to an assessment of agricultural input needs
carried out by the Consortium.
The distribution of agricultural inputs benefited over 440,000 households throughout
Rwanda. An estimated one-third (36.6 percent) of Rwanda's total population benefited
from the intervention at least one time. By 1995 B season, the surface area sown had
been estimated at 456,000 hectares and the revival of production at 1.4 mn tons. More
recent figures by an FAO-PAM mission to Rwanda at the beginning of December 1996
estimated production revival at 1,784,000 tons for the 1996 A season, or an improvement
of 25 percent over 1995 B season. In sum, productive output rendered possible due to the
seed and tool distribution program is estimated at more than $10 million at world market
prices.
Moreover, the number of Rwandese involved in agricultural production which, at the end
of the crisis, had fallen to less than 4 million -- as opposed to 7,130,000 before the crisis -
- is now estimated at 5,428,000 for a total population of 5,855,000 inhabitants.
25



3. Multiplication Activities.
Favorable conditions allowed FAO, in concert with the technical departments of the
Ministry of Agriculture and international agencies such as the Consultative Group on
Intemational Agriculture (CGIAR) Seeds for Hope, to launch a seeds multiplication
program aimed at the recuperation of genetic material appropriate for the country's unique
agro-climactic conditions. The project was conducted under the coordination and
management of MINAGRI. Cultures included in the program were: cassava, sweet
potato, and bean.
Over the course of the program, the govermment's Service Semences Selectionnees (SSS),
now known as Service Nationale de Semences (SNS) assumed central control of seed
imports, multiplication and distribution, supported by a $3.5 million grant over a four
year period by the Belgian Cooperation. Responsibility for the production of commercial
seeds was assigned to the private sector and particularly to groups of farmer multipliers
aided by various NGOs.
26



APPENDIX IV
SUMMARY OF WHO'S IMPLEMENTATION PERFORMANCE
Activities & Achievements.
(a) Re-establishment of a Nation-wide epidemiological surveillance system.
Bank funds were used to train: 265 health care workers in the collection, analysis and
presentation of data; 13 epidemiological doctors; ten focal points in the development of
epidemics and base information; and finally 56 health care workers in the sanitation
system.  WHO purchased equipment and mobile vehicles for the Epidemiology
Department, as well as administered training courses for health officers from the National
Direction of Epidemiological Surveillance, and for regional health officers. A laboratory
in Kigali Hospital was provided with reagents for testing as well as with equipment to
diagnose patterns of diseases.  WHO utilized the services of various NGOs in
implementing a regular epidemiological survey based on questionnaires. This allowed
WHO and the Epidemiology Department of the Ministry to collect data in different
regions of the country and feed this into a mapping program to track trends in epidemic
outbreaks. WHO produced a monthly News Bulletin on Epidemiological Surveillance to
disseminate information to provincial health offices, NGOs and international agencies.
Epidemiological reporting increased from 13 percent of sentinel stations throughout the
country to 78 percent by the end of the program.
(b) resumption of Central Pharmaceutical Office activities (OPHAR). ($589,000)
With the aid of consultants and Pharmaciens sans frontieres, WHO restructured OPHAR
and the Pharnacie du Centre Hospitalier de Kigali. A list of the pharmaceutical and
vaccination stock needs of OPHAR, based on a joint- assessment with the Direction de
l'Epidemiologie et Hygiene publique, was drawn up. WHO purchased equipment,
vehicles and other material to rehabilitate OPHAR's administrative and logistical capacity
and acquired vaccinations, reagents, medicines and antibiotics to restock the central
organization. In addition, pharmacists were trained in how to administer the new stock
and distribute it throughout the country.
Requisitions from health clinics and hospitals rose from an average of 54/month during
the November 1994 to April 1995 period to 90/month during the May through October
1995 period, to 123/month during the November 1995 to February 1996 period.
(c) the institution of a safe blood transfusion system. ($406,000). WHO organized a
strategy for the procurement of essential items for the collection, testing, and transfusion
of blood, including emergency kits, vehicles, and laboratory reagents. Training was also
provided to 30 doctors, 30 laboratory assistants in district hospitals, and 20 laboratory
technicians.
27



2E380'                                   2f00'                                    290'       |300oo                                                                  30 303
o~ ~                                                  ~                            1
)                    UUGANDA                                                        TANAN                         .
RWANDA                                                                             'T
DEM. REP                                                              ._                     "0          ,0'
    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                     OF  CONGO                          . . ....             ( ..OM .    0  0  ....
J                                                                                                                   130'  0    - -- COke  ' "  ,
- PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                                            -k/ ' RUhh ,.N , .;,t3W0 U   :  'M         . AN GE
'30'                                            C   _4"4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
- 9~~~~8O                                                        :      BJRUNGA is         Lokro ~~~~~~~~~~~~            9008000NG0 8RLI ,APARK
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                            /         ATIQNAL         Eg            .'''00 'Wi Byuba.
PARK,                         WAMUGAol       091 >()      003
ff~~~~~~~~~~~Mf /                                                                      6WE'  ,         AEK     Alslla AUAS      ROf UOG   , GITI  ' G  MKTUI  _
AI.AS\T  t 1<l '/ _    * VE '   RAME         @ ~~~GATNDE RI NK- \      UONN         ER                     ;             ,,       ,
MAIN ROADS          o-.' /lr-~        ero                 901000998G MWtNDO00N '9.
-. INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES               Gj',~,isey                     JjAAI~98 090
I                    NDUSU                                   R fRPtAC%LAM  ,, ME0SAKE       !            KUSUM080
0    N9,  FOREST' 4           /H-
REDpERk~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 TANZANI0 1                                                                                                            Lob I,(/
coNGwroraLanysVr ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~                                         0'n          0000 DEM85 REoz *  -J             -
RUTONGO  G6
- ?Oo          0,0                                                                                                 00AM1CUE  100    001  0 "00000  5310 01503               20,   25        3030ecrdakLrupayj3c9e
Kibuye  i ' g,,         03000                                 0)9009890                8004             _                "SL
~~  ~       7O                         000~~~00~~9l  >0000EKE4080&                                               / 000h-
5  11                                                                                    "''C,~MRO .     Kflll  TA  C
KKuK'M                                                                                                          KAARN
010990 0)/00              000G                       000030       ~ )          ''~00980       '1.       00M.
118UIA~~~~~~lj  -~~~~~MUS"B,M~ ~ ~ ~
8009010910                          9000811    89030/3 G1M1GIN
0100333M  00K9 10bu9n04                        030                00o
)/~~~~~~~~~~~1    <"s  009080    1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NZN                                           ESE 9,'f .              801013
BURUNDI               1                      'X                                                                                                     (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M"K  MIIGI ml
REF 0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    'N ~ ~ ~ ~~GTR
P",~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
URUNDI                                                                                            Butare                                                                                                          N
00                                                           \.~                                                                                                                    n    no endorsemet or occopANceBofUNDI
DE              TAN933803830'hN9ore



