Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 18118
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC
EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2678-RW)
June 30, 1998
Macroeconomics 3
Economic Management and Social Policy
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =     RwF (Rwanda Franc)
1990: US$1.00             =     RwF 83
1991: US$1.00            =      RwF 125
1992: US$1.00             -     RwF 132
1993: US$1.00             =     RwF 144
1994: US$1.00             =     RwF 134
1995: US$1.00             =     RwF 260
1996: US$1.00             =     RwF 307
1997: US$1.00             =     RwF 300
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
RWANDESE FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNR                Banque Nationale du Rwanda
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
DCA                Development Credit Agreement
ERC                Emergency Recovery Credit
ERP                Emergency Recovery Program
GDP                Gross Domestic Product
IDA                International Development Association
IMF                International Monetary Fund
NGOs               Non-Governmental Organizations
ODA                Overseas Development Agency of the UK
SDR                Special Drawing Rights
TA                 Technical Assistance
UN                 United Nations
UNDP               United Nations Development Program
USA                The United States of America
Vice President                          C. Madavo
Director                                N. Tcheyan
Sector Manager                          L. Barbone
Staff Member                            C. Obidegwu, Sr. Economist



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
Evaluation Summary
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction                                                               1
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives                                     2
C. Achievement of Objectives                                                  3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project                                        5
E. Project Sustainability                                                     6
F. Bank Perfornance                                                           7
G. Borrower Performance                                                       7
H. Assessment of Outcome                                                      8
I. Future Operations                                                          8
J. Key Lessons Learned                                                        9
PART II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION FROM
THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                                                   12
PART m. STATISTICAL ANNEX                                                    16
Table 1: Summary of Assessments                                              16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits                                          18
Table 3: Project Timetable                                                   19
Table 4: Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements                        20
Table 5: Project Costs                                                       21
Table 6: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements                       22
Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs                                        23
Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions                                            24
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.              -



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIIT 2678-RW)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Emergency Recovery Credit
(ERC) for which Credit 2678-RW in the amount of SDR 34.3 million (US$50.0 million
equivalent) was approved by the International Development Association (IDA) on January 31,
1995 and made effective on July 5, 1995.
2.    The Credit was closed on September :30, 1997, a year after the original closing date of
September 30, 1996. The Credit was modified (amended) on three occasions: twice, prior to
effectiveness, on March 27, 1995 and on June 28, 1995, and a third time on March 29, 1996;
however, there was no change in the objectives of the Credit. As of December 31, 1997, SDR
32.5 million (US$48.4 million equivalent), i.e'. 94.7 percent of the Credit, was disbursed. On
March 12, 1996 SDR 1.8 million -- from an original SDR 3.4 million allocated for technical
assistance -- was canceled due to misprocurement. The last disbursement was made on December
10, 1997 and the remaining balance of SDR 13,523 was canceled on January 31, 1998.
3.    The initial draft of this completion report was prepared by Mr. Zafar P. Mawani and Ms.
Linda English under the supervision of Mr. Mv[ichael N. Sarris. The report was subsequently
finalized by Mr. Chukwuma Obidegwu (AFTM3) and Mr. Yoseph Woldemichael (consultant).
4.    The preparation of this draft ICR was based on materials in the project files, the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA), and discussions with the Bank and IMF staff.
-iv-



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
EMERGENCY RECOVERY CREDIT
(CRE'DIT 2678-RW)
Evaluation summary
Project Objectives and Design
1.   In the aftermath of the genocide and civil war in Rwanda, the Board approved, on
January 31, 1995, an SDR 34.3 million (US$50 million equivalent) Emergency Recovery Credit
(ERC) to help the Government with the reconstruction and development of the country. The
Credit was formulated as part of a broad based donor funded program, to finance the Rwandese
Governments Economic Recovery Program (ERP), to restore key economic and social services
and rebuild the institutional capacity necessary for sustainable economic recovery. The Credit
was also intended to help lay the basis for an economic policy framework and to provide the
foreign exchange needed by the private secitor to resume operations and to create jobs.
2.    To support these objectives, the ERC provided finance for high priority public and
private sector imports specified in a broad positive list. Eligible imports included spare parts,
inputs and capital equipment in sectors such as: agriculture, industry, transportation, energy,
water and sanitation, education and health. The list was developed by the Bank and the
government in collaboration with UN agencies who were experienced in the field. Maximum
flexibility was maintained on the implementation of the Credit in order to ensure rapid project
implementation and effective complementarity with the interventions of other donors. The
private sector's access to credit was facilitated by giving special attention to reactivating the
financial system and availability of credit.
3.    The Emergency Recovery Credit (US$50 million equivalent) was designed to
complement the projected disbursement (to meet emergency import needs of Rwanda) of another
US$25 million to be generated from restructuring the existing IDA portfolio. In addition, the
Bank had provided a US $20 million Special Emergency Assistance Grant in 1994. Other donors
were expected to provide approximately more than US$100 million in support of the Emergency
Recovery Program (ERP).
Implementation Experience and Results
4.    The start of project implementation was delayed because the Government did not appoint
a procurement agency to manage public sector imports, which was a condition of effectiveness.
This caused a delay of over four months in credit effectiveness and eventually the Development
Credit Agreement (DCA) was modified to allow the project to be declared effective. The
inability to appoint a procurement agent led to the cancellation of SDR 1.8 million allocated for
employing a procurement agency under the technical assistance component of the project.
-v-



5.    Despite this initial delay, the project responded to Rwanda's needs quickly and was
successful in meeting the needs. A total of SDR 30.9 million in foreign exchange was provided
to the private sector to finance essential imports on a broad positive list. In addition, SDR 1.6
million was disbursed through the IMF and UNDP for short-term technical assistance and
equipment. The Credit greatly facilitated revival of the economy, and GDP grew by 35 percent in
1995 and by 12 percent and 13 percent in 1996 and 1997 respectively.
6.    The ERC, as well as the balance of payments contributions from other donors,
contributed significantly to Rwanda's macroeconomic stabilization. In the period of July/August
1995, following the exchange rate liberalization of March 1995, the infusion of US$15 million
into the economy from the ERC helped stabilize the Rwandese franc. Since then, the Rwandese
franc has remained stable, fluctuating between 300 and 310 to the dollar. Reserves firmed up
over the duration of the Credit, rising to US$ 100 million, or three months of imports in March
1996, and subsequently to four months of imports in 1997. Inflation steadily declined to 9
percent in 1996, down from 64 percent in 1994 and 22 percent in 1995.
Sustairiability
7.    The sustainability of the achievements under the .Credit depended on the Government's
ability to stay on track on its economic reforms and consolidate the economic recovery and
stability, continue to have the donors actively engaged in Rwanda's development process,
improve resource mobilization, build its institutional capacity, and reinforce efforts on national
integration and reconciliation.
8.    The donors have been providing development assistance in addition to needed
humanitarian assistance. The economy has continued to grow rapidly with an estimated 13
percent growth of real GDP in 1997. Inflation remains under control although as a result of the
steep rise in food prices in 1997 due to drought and the massive return of refugees, the inflation
rate was 17 percent compared to the 9 percent in 1996. The Government has liberalized the trade
and exchange regime, revised the tax code and reduced the constraints on the private sector.
Domestic resource mobilization has improved and the reform of the budget process is underway.
Government revenues have risen to 10.3 percent of GDP in 1997 compared to 7.1 percent in
1995. An autonomous revenue authority has been established to improve revenue
administration. The Government has initiated a program of public sector reforms, including the
privatization of public enterprises and the reform of the civil service and the strengthening its
capacity. In 1997, the Government entered into dialogue with the Bretton Woods institutions for
support for the reform program. A Fund supported ESAF is expected in 1998.
9.   In 1996, the majority of the Rwandan refugees outside the country returned, and
significant progress has been made in reintegrating them as most of them have been successfully
absorbed by their original communities. The return of these refugees provided the foundation for
rebuilding the economy and for accelerating efforts toward national reconciliation and political
reform. However, this positive opening has been clouded by the continuation of armed attacks
by elements of the interahamwe militia and soldiers of the pre-war army, resulting in killings of
civilians, countermeasures by the army, and an atmosphere of insecurity in the northwestern
-vi-



prefectures where the terrorism is concentrated. This insecurity has set back the efforts at
national reconciliation and disrupted econornic activities in the affected regions. Nevertheless,
the efforts to permanently resettle all refugees and displaced persons, demobilize and resettle
soldiers and other ex-combatants, and assist victims of genocide, are continuing. The
Government plans to set up a Commission on National Reconciliation, to promote broad
dialogue in the country on rebuilding the society and facilitate the coexistence of all Rwandans.
Key Lessons Learned and Recommendatlions
10.   The key lessons learned in the process of implementing this emergency program are as
follows:
i. The design of emergency operations should be kept simple, and particularly avoid
operational conditions for effectiveness. Conditions that are essential for the operation of
the credit should be conditions for Board presentation;
ii. The need to be flexible in dealing with assistance in post-conflict situations. The
amendments made to the DCA to facilitate disbursements reflected the Bank's flexibility
in responding to the emergency and to the broader objectives of the project;
iii. The ERC served as a catalyst for providing funding for the reconstruction of Rwanda
and encouraged burden-sharing among donors. As such, it represented an important part
of a broad-based international rescue effort, however, there was a lack of coordinated
efort to raise the additional resources required for an effective recovery program;
iv. It is important to gauge the government's capacity and commitment, in order to design an
operation that responds effectively 1:0 the realities in the country;
v. The establishment of an early and continuing presence in a country and attention to
national capacity building at an early stage, to deal with the procurement and
disbursement issues, are important when implementing an emergency operation in post-
conflict situations; and
vi. Deep understanding of politically sensitive issues by the Bank, and IDA and donor
procedures by the Borrower, are important for the Bank and the Borrower to understand
each other and work well together.
-vii-



Rwanda: Emergency Recovery Credit                Implementation Completion
Report
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
EMERGENCYN RECOVERY CREDIT
(CREDIT 2678-RW)
PART I: PROJECT IMF'LEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
Country Background
1.    Rwanda is a small (26,000 square ki'lometers), landlocked and resource-poor country in
central Africa. Between 1959 and 1973, the country experienced repeated ethnic conflict which
forced a significant part of the population into exile in neighboring countries. A civil war,
triggered in 1990 by exiles seeking to return to Rwanda, gave way in March 1991 to a cease-fire
and a fragile power-sharing agreement brokered by international mediators. This was to be
underpinned by political reforms aimed at democratization and national reconciliation.
However, implementation of the accords lagged, and the political transition was irremediably
derailed in April 1994 by renewed violence, culminating in genocide and the death of up to
800,000 people, the exodus of two million refugees to neighboring countries, and the internal
displacement of another one million people. The Rwandan genocide and civil war devastated the
economy. The country's agricultural and incdustrial output fell by 50 percent as most farming,
industrial production, trade and commerce grounded to a halt.
The New Government
2.    A Government of National Unity took power in July 1994 and appealed to the
international community for support in dealing with the country's urgent task of reconstruction
and development. Recognizing that national reconciliation was essential to the success of the
overall recovery effort and for sustained donor support, the Government swore in a multi-party
National Assembly on November 29, 1994 and in December 1994 it prepared and issued a
Declaration of Principles which spelled out its political, social and economic agenda for a "New
Rwanda". The Declaration included the Government's intentions to: (i) allow a deployment of
human rights monitors and UN troops; (ii) accept external support for establishing an impartial
judiciary-system; (iii) respect the property rights of new refugees; and (iv) substantially reduce
the size of the army as soon as the security situation permitted.
3.    On the economy, the Declaration emphasized the Government's commitment to a limited
role for the government, a market-based economy and the key role of the private sector, the
privatization of public enterprises, the liberalization of the trade and exchange rate regime and
the reduction of the level of military expenditures. This agenda served as the basis for discussion
-1-



Rwvanda: Emergency Recovery Credit               Implementation Completion
Report
between the Government, the World Bank and IMF on a program to revitalize and stabilize the
economy and lead to a resumption of multilateral adjustment lending in the future.
The International Recovery Effort
4.    On the basis of the Government's commitment in the Declaration of Principles, the
international community turned to the Bank to take a lead role in mounting an effort to assist the
country to get back on the road to recovery. The Bank had earlier participated in the relief effort
by approving the Special Emergency Assistance Grant of US$20 million in August 1994.
Following the Grant, the Bank led a preparation mission to Rwanda in September and an
appraisal mission in November 1994, to identify the country's priority needs for rehabilitation
and recovery. The mission estimated the external financing needs for the recovery program for
the period 1995-96 to be US$200 million. This estimate became the basis for the Government's
Economic Recovery Program (ERP). By January 13, 1995, bilateral donors had contributed
US$9.54 million (Belgium, Canada, Switzerland, Sweden, Norway, USA) to clear Rwanda's
arrears and to make debt service current for the period January 1995 to mid-July 1995. These
events paved the way for subsequent approval of the Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) by the
Board on January 31, 1995.
5.    At the January 1995 Round Table Conference for the Reconstruction of Rwanda, the
international community pledged about US$700 million for humanitarian and development
assistance to Rwanda. By December 1995, pledges reached US$1.2 million. About US$400
million vas disbursed in 1995. However, quick disbursing import/budget support, such as ERC,
which was very essential for the rapid restoration of public services and private production, was
limited to contributions from the multilateral agencies, the European Union and a few bilaterals.
In October 1995, the IMF Board approved a purchase of SDR8.9 million under the
Compensatory and Contingency Financing Facility (CCFF). The African Development Bank
restruchtred its existing project portfolio to generate about US$35 millons for budget/import
support. The European Union revived its existing pre-war import support operations to provide
immediate foreign exchange for imports, particularly of petroleum.
B. Statement and Evaluation of Objectives
6.    The objective of the Emergency Recovery Credit (ERC) was to assist the Government to
restore key economic and social services and rebuild its institutional capacity, and provide the
private sector with foreign exchange to resume operations and create jobs. The Credit was
therefore to finance: (i) imports for the public and private sectors; and (ii) consultants' services
for technical assistance to the Government. Of the total Credit of SDR 34.3 million, SDR 30.9
million was allocated (Category 1 of Schedule 1) to provide finance for high priority imports for
the Government and the private sector specified in a broad positive list. The list was developed
by the Blank and the Government in collaboration with UN agencies experienced in the field and
included spare parts, inputs and capital equipment in sectors such as: agriculture, industry,
-2-



Rwanda: Emergency Recovery Credit                Implementation Completion
Report
transportation, energy, water and sanitation, education and health. The criteria that guided the
identification of the eligible imports included: (i) critical relevance to the emergency; (ii)
contribution to the restoration of key economic and social activities; and (iii) importance for
reconstruction and development.
7.    The Credit's technical assistance component of SDR 3.4 million was part of a broader
based program sponsored by bilateral donor;s, the UNDP, the Overseas Development Agency of
the United Kingdom (ODA) and the IMF, to restore the operational capacity of the Government'.
This component was to finance urgently needed Consultants' Services (Category 2 of Schedule
1) for the ministries of planning and finance, and the central bank, the Banque National du
Rwanda (BNR). It would also pay for the services of the consultants that would manage the
procurement of the public sector imports financed by the Credit and build the Government's
capacity for procurement.
8.    This Emergency Recovery Credit (US$50 million equivalent) provided by the World
Bank was designed to complement the projected disbursement (emergency import needs of
Rwanda) of another US$25 million to be generated from restructuring the existing IDA's
portfolio.
C. Achievement of the Project Objectives
9.    The primary measure of performance for the ERC was the timely provision of essential
imports, counterpart funds to the budget, and technical assistance to help to restore and resume
operations of key economic and social sectors and rebuild the institutional capacity necessary for
sustainable economic recovery. The appraisal estimate for disbursement in FY95 was SDR
13.72 million (US$20.0 million equivalent), but as the credit effectiveness was delayed until July
5, 1995, no disbursement was made in FY95. However, the cumulative estimate for FY96 was
SDR 34.3 million (US$50.0 million equivalent) and the actual disbursed was SDR 29.31 million
(US$43.88 million equivalent) which is 85.5 percent of the estimate. Thus in FY96, a substantial
catching-up took place.
10.   The private sector rebounded in FY96 and its original allocation of SDR 17.2 million
(US$27.5 million equivalent) was fully disbursed by February 1996. Following the reallocation
of the public sector component to the private sector, a further SDR 10.7 million was disbursed in
FY96 and only SDR 3.02 million (US$4.36 rnillion equivalent) was disbursed in FY97. Thus,
the total allocation for private sector imports (SDR 30.9 million) was fully disbursed before the
original closing date of September 30, 1996. However, because of difficulties in finding suitable
consultatnts willing to go to rwanda in those days, the disbursements for the technical assistance
component was delayed and the closing date had to be extended to September 30, 1997.
The Overseas Development Agency (ODA) is now known as the Department for International Development
(DFID).
-3-



Rwanda: Emergency Recovery Credit                Implementation Completion
Report
11.   Toc ensure that the credit disbursements were not delayed, following Board approval, the
Bank dispatched a staff-member from the Burundi mission to the Banque Nationale du Rwanda
(BNR) to help it prepare retroactive import financing applications and establish a Special
Account for the receipt of the Credit's first disbursement. The Bank staff-member also helped to
train officials of BNR on evaluating applications for foreign exchange, manage the disbursement
system and compile information such as statement of expenditures, shipping documents,
contract/bid invoices, and independent proofs of payments in a manner consistent with Bank
disbursement guidelines. To expedite disbursement, on March 27, 1995, after the signing of the
Credit agreement, an amendment was made to the DCA to limit the Bank's review to only import
contracts valued at the equivalent of US$2.0 million or more.
12.   The rapid disbursement of the ERC in FY96, along with balance of payments
contributions from other donors, contributed significantly to Rwanda's economic recovery and
stabilization. The ERC provided substantial budget support (equivalent to 19 percent of
government expenditures in 1995) through the counterpart funds which helped the Government
to restore social and economic services. Following the exchange regime liberalization of March
1995, the dollar/RWF exchange rate depreciated from RWF233 per dollar in March 1995 to
RWF312 in October 1995. The infusion of US$15.0 million from ERC into the economy in
July/August 1995 helped stabilize the rate which subsequently has been fluctuating between 300
and 310 to the dollar. The level of reserves firmed up over the duration of the Credit, rising to
US$100 million, or three months of import cover, as of March 1996, and subsequently to 4
months of imports in 1997. Inflation steadily declined from 64 percent in 1994 to 22 percent in
1995 and 9 percent in 1996.
13.   ALs a result of the restoration of peace in the country, the provision of budget support by
the Bank, through ERC, and by other partners, and the economic reforms undertaken by the
Government in March 1995, the economy rebounded rapidly. After declining by 50 percent in
1994, real GDP grew by 35.4 percent in 1995, and by 12 and 13 percent in 1996 and 1997
respectively. The private sector rebounded, evidenced by the growth of the industry sector by 20
percent and 16 percent in 1995 and 1996 respectively. Overall, the Credit made a significant
contribuition to rapid economic recovery and stability of Rwanda.
14.   With the technical assistance sub-category implemented by the IMF, the project financed
advisors in different fields such as: macroeconomics (30 months) for the Ministry of Planning;
and monetary statistics (3 months), balance of payment (BOP) statistics (5.5 months), bank
supervision (12 months) for the central bank, the Banque Nationale du Rwanda (BNR). For the
Ministry of Finance, the project provided advisors for the treasury (16 months); debt
management (3 months); customs (5 months); and computerization (12 months); and a national
fiscal advisor for 24 months who is functioning as the director of the budget. The project also
provided in-service training for the staff of the ministries of planning and finance and the BNR.
These training programs were designed by the staff of these agencies and delivered in local
training institutions. Staff from finance and planning also benefitted from training programs on
-4-



Rwanda: Emergency Recovery Credlit               Implementation Completion
Report
the the management of projects, the budget anid the public investment program delivered locally
and financed by the Bank's Pre-investment and Sectoral Studies Project.2 The project also
financed vehicles and office equipment for the Ministries of Finance and Planning with the
component managed by the UNDP.
15.   The technical assistance component has helped to strengthen the economic management
capacity at the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the BNR. As a result, the
Ministry was able to prepare a budget and a public investment program, manage and monitor the
release and use of budget funds, and prepare and implement economic reform programs in
collaboration with the BNR. The BNR's capacity to collect economic and financial statistics,
manage money and interest rates, and supervise the commercial banks has been enhanced.
However, delays were encountered in some departments because of difficulties in identifying
high caliber technical experts willing to go to Rwanda.
16.  In addition to the ERC, the Bank supported rehabilitation and socio-economic recovery
by restructuring and implementing the pre-war IDA portfolio of investment projects to meet high
priority needs such as health immunization, rehabilitation of rural schools and health centers,
provision of water and sanitation services, capacity and institution building, and economic
reform. As a result, the undisbursed portion of the investment portfolio declined from US$188.6
million at the end of 1994 to US$116 million in March 1997.
17.   Overall, the operation was successful. It made valuable contributions to economic and
social recovery and stability, to the restoration of Government capacity, and the revival of the
private sector. Total disbursement came to 94.7 percent of the Credit, and the credit was closed
on September 30, 1997, one year after the original closing date. The delay in closing the project
was due primarily to the delay in disbursing the TA component.
18.   The start of the implementation of the Credit was however delayed by the the non-
implementation by the Government of the condition for effectiveness. During the preparation of
the project, it was determined that the Govermment lacked the capacity for procurement. The
Government and the Bank agreed that to enswue the effective implementation of the project,
consultants should be recruited to assist the Government in the procurement of goods to be
financed by the project and and to build capacity for public sector procurement. The recruitment
of the procurement agency was therefore made a condition of the Credit effectiveness. However,
protracted negotiations for recruitment of such agency delayed credit effectiveness. The DCA
was therefore amended on June 28, 1995, to create two disbursement sub-categories of Category
one: SDR 17.2 million (US$27.5 million equivalent) for private sector imports, which did not
require a procurement agency, and, SDR 13.7 million (US$22.0 million equivalent) for public
2  In March 1997, the ministries of finance and planning were merged into the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning.
-5-



Rwanda: Emergency Recovery Credit                Implementation Completion
Report
sector imports. The employment of a procurement agency remained a condition of disbursement
for the public imports only.
19.   Following the amendment, the private sector imports sub-category was drawn down
before the credit's original closing date. The negotiations for the consultants for the
procurement agency however were not coming to closure and it was unlikely that these
negotiations would be concluded before the closing date. Therefore, the Government requested
IDA to reallocate funds from the public sector to the private sector, noting that the private sector
would be able to utilize the funds over the following twelve months. The Bank agreed, and on
March 29, 1996, the Board approved the reallocation of funds and the transfer of the allocation
for public sector imports to the private sector sub-category. While it was not normally necessary
to seek Board approval for the reallocation of resources between two sub-categories of a Credit,
in the case of the ERC it was considered prudent to do so because of: (i) the significant interest
of numerous Board members in the country and in the post-conflict/emergency nature of the
project; and (ii) the condition of effectiveness as per the Board documents was not realized, and
the proposed amendment, would, in effect, dispense with it.
20.  ]Earlier on February 5, 1996, the allocation for employment of a procurement agency in
the consultants' services component (Category 2 of Schedule 1 of the DCA) was suspended by
IDA for lack of due diligence in the implementation of the public sector component on the part
of the Government. The allocation of SDR 1.8 million for this sub-component was eventually
canceled on March 12, 1996. The changes above showed the Bank's flexibility to get the project
moving, so that the emergency needs would be met as planned, while paying attention to aspects
of due diligence.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
21.   The factors that positively impacted the implementation and achievement of project
objective were:
i. The rapid disbursement of the private sector component significantly contributed to the
stabilization of the exchange rate, particularly when Rwanda's net foreign exchange
position was negative, and to provide substantial budget support through the counterpart
funds;
ii. Capacity building at the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Planning and the Central Bank
of Rwanda helped to improve macroeconomic management, restart the budgetary
process, and initiate economic reform; and
iii. The Bank showed the flexibility needed in the volatile situation. The DCA was amended
three times in order to ensure the flow of disbursement. The Bank assigned the
-6-



Rwanda: Emergency Recovery Credlit               Implementation Completion
Report
implementation of the technical assistance to the UNDP and the IMF, who were in a
better position than the Bank to implement it effectively at that time.
22.   The major factors that adversely affected the project were:
i. The lack of capacity in the Government affected both the design and implementation of
the project, and was ultimately a source of delay of disbursements. Most of the officials
involved were new to their jobs, did not have much previous civil service experience,
and were not familiar with Bank procedures;
ii. The Government's inability to recruit a suitable procurement agency -- a condition of
credit effectiveness -- due to what was perceived as the high the cost of the contract, and
the political sensitivities affecting hiring the first-ranked procurement agency,
significantly delayed implementation;
iii. The Bank played a leading role in assessing Rwanda's external financing needs for the
period 1995-96 to be approximately US$200 million, and this became the basis for the
Government's ERP. However, there was limited coordinated effort in assuring that this
funding would be raised;
iv. The Bank responded quickly to the emnergency situation in Rwanda with the ERC.
However, the condition of effectiveness requiring the Government recruit a procurement
agency to manage public sector procurement, although intended to permit the smooth
and rapid execution of the project, was not, in retrospect, consistent with the emergency
nature of the operation;
v. Implementation of short-term technical assistance was slow because of difficulties in
identifying high caliber technical experts willing to go to Rwanda; and
vi. The training provided by the Bank to ]BNR officials on managing the procurement and
disbursements, in a manner consistent with the Bank's guidelines, was useful, but given
the inexperience of the staff involved, it was not sufficient for them to effectively
manage the operations of the credit.
E. Project Sustainability
23.   The sustainability of the achievements under the Credit depended on the Government's
ability to stay on track on its economic reforms and consolidate the economic recovery and
stability, continue to have the donors actively engaged in Rwanda's development process,
improve resource mobilization, build its institutional capacity, and reinforce efforts on national
integration and reconciliation.
- 7-



Rwanda: Emergency Recovery Credit                Implementation Completion
Report
24.   The donors have been providing development assistance in addition to needed
humanitarian assistance. The economy continues to grow rapidly with an estimated 13 percent
growth of real GDP in 1997. Inflation remains under control although as a result of the steep rise
in food prices in 1997 due to drought and the massive return of refugees, the inflation rate was 17
percent compared to the 9 percent in 1996. The Government is taking action to bring down
inflation in 1998 and beyond, with a target of 5 percent in the year 2000. The Government has
liberalized the trade and exchange regime, revised the tax code and reduced the constraints on the
private sector. Domestic resource mobilization has improved and the reform of the budget
process is underway. Government revenues have risen to 10.3 percent of GDP in 1997 compared
to 7.1 percent in 1995. An autonomous revenue authority has been established to improve
revenue administration. The Government has initiated a program of public sector reforms,
including the privatization of public enterprises, the reform of the civil service, and the
strengthening of public sector capacity. In 1997, the Government entered into dialogue with the
Bretton Woods institutions for support for the reform program. A Fund supported ESAF is
expected in 1998.
25.  In 1996, the majority of the Rwandan refugees outside the country returned, and
significant progress has been made in reintegrating them as most of them have been successfully
absorbed by their original communities. The return of these refugees provided the foundation for
rebuilding the economy and for accelerating efforts toward national reconciliation and political
reform. However, this positive opening has been clouded by the continuation of armed attacks
by elerments of the interahamwe militia and soldiers of the army of the pre-war government,
resulting in killings of civilians, countermeasures by the army, and an atmosphere of insecurity
in the northwestern prefectures where the terrorism is concentrated. This insecurity has set back
the efforts at national reconciliation and disrupted economic activities in the affected regions.
Nevertheless, the efforts to permanently resettle all refugees and displaced persons, demobilize
and resettle soldiers and other ex-combatants, and assist victims of genocide victims of genocide,
are continuing. The Government plans to set up a Commission on National Reconciliation, to
promote broad dialogue in the country on rebuilding the society and facilitate the coexistence of
all Rwandans.
F. Bank Performance
26.   The Bank's performance at appraisal and during implementation is rated satisfactory.
Preparation and appraisal missions, conducted in late 1994 in very difficult circumstances,
deternmined the critical needs of the country on the basis of specific developmental criteria. The
formulation of a broad positive import list helped to restrict the use of proceeds of the Credit in a
manner consistent with reconstruction and development of the coun.try, while maintaining
maximum flexibility. Moreover, the Bank allocated a portion of the Credit for technical
assistance necessary to improve capacity at key ministries, and allowed the use of Simplified
Procurement Procedures to expedite implementation.
-8-



Rwanda: Emergency Recovery Credit                Implementation Completion
Report
27.   The Bank promptly processed withdrawal applications and replenished the Special
Account, and it frequently communicatecl with the government to appraise itself on the reasons
for delays. It was actively involved in advising the government on how best to surmount the
problems associated with implementation. The Bank demonstrated flexibility in meeting the
broader objectives of the project by amnending disbursement mechanisms when they proved
problematic.
28.   The Bank could have been more sensitive to the challenges of working with a fragile,
new, coalition, post-conflict government, distrustful of international organizations and
consultants. The new officials lacked experience in government service and in dealing with the
procedures of the international organizations and decision-making was slow. In that
environment, the selection of consultants for the procurement agency would be a sensitive
matter, given the high costs, and especially in view of the clear distrust by sections of the
government of particular foreign powers and the international community. The selection needed
more time and wider consultations and should have been initiated at the project identification or
appraisal stage, and the appointment should have been secured prior to Board approval. In
addition, the Bank might have foreseen the need to provide technical assistance to the central
bank for disbursing the private sector conmponent of the Credit, assurances by the BNR that it had
the capacity notwitstanding.
G. Borrower Performance
29.   Protracted negotiations for the consultants for the procurement agency stalled the
disbursement of the emergency funds, and the government therefore lost critical time in utilizing
the Credit, and eventually failed to take advantage of the funds aimed at financing public sector
imports. Nevertheless, the Borrower's performance was satisfactory. Once the outstanding
issues were resolved, the procurement (oi eligible imports) was accomplished 100 percent. The
Borrower submitted its audit reports and followed up on the legal covenants satisfactorily.
H. Assessment of Outcome
30.   The overall outcome of the ERC project was generally satisfactory. The original intent of
the Credit was to finance both public and private sector imports, but the operation eventually
supported only the private sector imports (90% of the disbursements). The rapid disbursement of
the private sector component contributed to the Bank's agreement to reallocate resources from
the public to the private sector component. Neither the constraints imposed by the financial
sector nor the exchange rate liberalization--which raised the cost of foreign exchange in domestic
currency-- appeared to inhibit the private sector's buoyancy in import activity. As a result, the
Credit greatly facilitated the revival of commerce over the course of the FY96 and FY97 by
providing nearly SDR 30.9 million (US$46.09 million equivalent) in foreign exchange to finance
imports on a broad positive list.
-9-



Rwanda: Emergency Recovery Credit                  Implementation Completion
Report
31.   The achievements of the technical assistance component of the ERC (5% of the
disbursements) were also satisfactory. As a result of the ERC's contributions, the capacity at the
ministries of planning and finance, and the BNR improved significantly. The Credit provided
short-term consultants and equipment by disbursing SDR 1.6 million (US$2.35 million
equivalent) in FY96, FY97 and FY98.
I. Future Operations
32.   The immediate priorities of Rwanda were to maintain peace, foster the return of refugees
and continue the process of national reconciliation. These objectives could be facilitated by the
restoration of basic education, health, and public infrastructure, as well as by government
initiatives to assist the most vulnerable groups, especially single parent families and orphans (an
estimated 32 percent of households in Rwanda are headed by women). The Bank was financing
projects in the Transport, Water, Health, Agriculture, Energy, Communications, and Education
sectors, as well as a Social Action Fund at the same time as the ERC. These projects
complemented the ERC in raising national productive and institutional capacities.
33.   Following the massive return of refugees at the end of 1996, the Bank, the Government
and the United Nations carried out an asessment of the needs of the returned refugees and how
the Government could be assisted to cope with the emergency. The assessment determined that
substantial budget support would be needed to provide basic social and economic services to
returning refugees as well as the existing population, and to consolidate the economic recovery
and stability already underway. In June 1997, the Board approved the Emergency Reintegration
and Recovery Credit (ERRC) to provide budget support to the Government. The ERRC, which
became effective in August 1997, is financing eligible imports by the private sector based on a
broad positive list. The design and implementation of ERRC has benefitted from the experience
of the ERC. The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by September 1998.
34.   Future operations will include policy-based quick disbursing credits to support reforms in
the coffee and tea sectors, the privatization of public enterprises, reforms of the public sector, and
promotion of private investments. Continued technical assistance would be crucial to rebuilding
capacity, especially at the key ministries such as finance and economic planning, agriculture,
education and health. This would be done through operations in those sectors as well as the use
of trust funds.
J. Key Lessons Learned and Recommendations
35.   The key lessons learned in the process of implementing this emergency program are as
follows:
-10-



Rwanda: Emergency Recovery (Credit               Implementation Completion
Report
i. The design of emergency operatilons should be kept simple, and particularly avoid
operational conditions for effectiveness. Conditions that are essential for the operation of
the credit should be conditions for Board presentation.
ii. The need to be flexible in dealing with assistance in post-conflict situations. The
amendments made to the DCA to facilitate disbursements reflected the Bank's flexibility
in responding to the emergency and to the broader objectives of the project;
iii. The ERC served as a catalyst for providing funding for the reconstruction of Rwanda
and encouraged burden-sharing among donors. As such, it represented an important part
of a broad-based international rescue effort, however, there was a lack of coordinated
efort to raise the additional resouirces required for an effective recovery program;
iv. It is important to gauge the government's capacity and commitment, in order to design an
operation that responds effectively to the realities in the country;
v. The establishment of an early and continuing presence in a country and attention to
national capacity building at an early stage, to deal with the procurement and
disbursement issues, are important when implementing an emergency operation in post-
conflict situations; and
Deep understanding of politically sensitive issues by the Bank, and IDA and donor procedures by
the Borrower, are important for the Bankc and the Borrower to understand each other and work
well together.
-11-



Part II
111. PARTIE 1: EVALUATION DU PROJET SELON LE
GOUVERNEMENT
A. Introduction
Ce projet, d'un credit de 34.3 millions de DTS 6quivalent
6 environ 50 millions de dollars US, fut sign6 le 15
f6vrier 1995. II avait pour objectif d'appuyer le
GoLivernement dans son programme de reconstruction
du pays en apportant notamment un appui sous forme
de devises pour les importations et une assistance
technique n6cessaire pour le renforcement des
capacit6s de l'administration.
B.  Origine du Projet
Aveic la fin du g6nocide en juillet 1997, I'economie
rwandaise traversait une crise caracterisee par une
baisse importante de la production nationale et une
chute des exportations du pays qui rapportaient des
devises pour le pays. En 1994, la production vivri6re
avait chute a 51% du niveau de 1990; la production du
cafe, principale culture d'exportation, avait chute de
rnoiti6 (15.000 T), celle du the se situait a 4000 Tonnes
contre 12000 Tonnes avant. Ainsi, pour permettre de
remedier a la deterioration de la situation 6conomique,
le Gouvernement a present6  ) la Communaut6
Internationale, en janvier 1995, son Programme de
R6conciliation Nationale et de Developpement qui avait
pour objectif de permettre le retour a une situation
normale. Ce programme comprenait une composante
12



BRNOVE-MONDIRLE-KGL  TEL:00-250-76385   25 JUN'98  15:50 No.006 P.09
1 (/t(
destinee a appuyer la balanc3 des paiements du pays
pour faire face aux besoins d'importations. C'est dans ce
contexte que la Banque Mlondiale a d6cid6 d'apporter un
appui a ce programme.
C,  Objectif du projet
Le Projet de Recouvrement d'Urgence avait pour objectif
d'assister le Gouvernement dans la restauration des
activites   economiques   et  sociales,   dans   la
reconstruction des capacit6s institutionnelles du pays et
d'aider le secteur prive a avoir des devises necessaires
pour leurs importations. ILe projet devait donc appuyer
deux composantes:
* Programme d'importations du secteur public et
prive;
* Renforcement des capacit6s par des experts b
court-terme;
11 avait ete identifie un certain nombres de criteres pour
l'identification des prodUits 6ligibles aux importations
tandis  I'assistance  technique  devait  appuye  les
Ministeres ayant les finances et le Plan dans leurs
attributions ainsi que la Banque Nationale du Rwanda.
D. Evaluation de l'execution du projet
Le Gouvernement concluit i une execution satisfaisante
des objectifs de ce projet. Les decaissements ont 6t6
13



BRNQVE-MONDIRLE-KGL  TEL:00-250-76385  25 JUN'98  15:50 No.006 P.10
effectues a plus de 99%, les fonds de contrepartie
g4n6r6s ont apporte un appui substantiel au budget de
I'Etat et l'assistance technique fournie pour renforcer les
capacites de l'administration a 6te satisfaisant. Sur un
credit de 34.3 millions de DTS, un montant de 30.9
millions de DTS a 6t decaisse pour financer les
importations du secteur prive et un montant additionnel
de 1.6 millions de DTS a ete utilise pour payer des
experts (A.T) a court-terme et l'achat des equipements.
La coordination de cette assistance technique 6tait
assuree par le FMI et le PNUD. Le groupe de la Banque
Africaine  de  D6veloppement a  contribue   t ce
programme pour un montant de 25,2 millions d'UC en
septembre 1995. II faut souligner que ces types de
credit d'urgence d'appui a la balance des paiements,
ax&s sur un nombre reduit de crit6res de performance,
sont tros souhaitables pour le Gouvernement car a
dcboursement rapide et permet de stabiliser le taux de
change.
B. R6suItats du Projet
Ce projet a eu un impact macro-economique favorable.
L'objectif de croissance de la production a te atteint. Le
niveau de production est passee de 51% A 85% de son
niveau de 1990; le taux d'inflation a 6t6 ma-itris&, le
d6ficit de la balance des paiements a M6 r6duit et le
niveau des recettes est passe de 7% en 1995 a 10,7%
en 1997; la mobilisation accrue des ressources
exterieures a permis de stabiliser provisoirement
['6conomie rwandaise
14



BRNQUE-MONDIRLE-KGL   TEL:00-250-76335      25 JUN'98  15:51 No.006 P.11
Au niveau social, les fonds de contrepartie generes par
les devises accord6es pour les importations du secteur
public ont servi a financeir les depenses publiques du
budget  ordinaires   notamment  celles   visant  la
r6int6gration des r6fugi6si et des groupes vulnerables
dans les secteurs sociaux, la necessitX de leur
dispenser des soins.
15



PART III: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial    Partial      Negligible   Not applicable
(/)      ~~~(V)         (V)            (VO
Macro Policies                 Ol            0              0             a
Sector Policies                O             0             Ol             0
Financial Objectives           0             0             0              0
Institational Development      O0                           El o    
Physical Objectives            O0                          O0
Poverty Reduction              00 el                        O       
Gender Issues                  O             E              0             0
Other Social Objectives                                                0
Environmental Objectives       O             O              a             0
Public Sector Management       O             0              O             O
Private Sector                 0                           E             E
Development
Other (specify)                E             O             E              E
B. Project Sustainability        Likely             Unlikely              Uncertain
0               El~~~~~~ 0
C. Bank Performance              Highly
satisfactory     Satisfactory           Deficient
(1)                  (/)                   (V')
Ideuitification               E                     0                     El
Preparation Assistance        E                     0                     El
Appraisal                     O                     0                     El
Supervision                   E                     0 EO
-16-



D. Borrower Performance              satisfactory   Satisfactory    Deficient
(/)         (1)          (/)
Preparation                          O             l           O
Implementation                       Cl           El           O
Covenant Compliance                  O            El
Operation (if applicable)            E            E            E
Highly                                  Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome       satisfactcry Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
-17-



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                  Purpose                  Year of    Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Sectoral & Pre-investment   Assist Government to strengthen its  1987    Closed
Studies                    planning and investment capabilities
2. Energy Sector           Promote rational energy policies and    1993     On-going
establish basis for efficient utilization of
Rwanda's energy resources.
3. Communications II       Promote efficient communications through  1990    On-going
institutional reform.
4. Private Sector Development  Promote expansion of the private sector,  1993    On-going
establish APEX line of credit and support
fund, and support for institutional
strengthening.
5. Walter Supply II        To improve the quality and quantity of  1987    On-going
drinking water in rural areas.
6. Transport Sector        Develop planning capacity of the        1990    On-going
government, improve road maintenance
ability, promote private sector and
liberalize price.
7. Health and Population   Support implementation of the National  1991     On-going
Health Strategy, and strengthen the
government's capacity to formulate and
carry out population policy.
8. Education Sector        Consolidate and expand primary          1991     On-going
education, improve overall quality of
education, and strengthen sector's
management capacity.
9. Foo,d Security and Social    Rehabilitate social and economic   1992    On-going
Activities                 infrastructure, promote public participation
in small-scale productive activities, and
improve the nutrition of poor and
vulnerable groups.
Following Operations
1. Emergency Reintegration    Provide basic services to returning  1997    On-going
and Recovery Credit        refugees and the existing population and
assist in reconstruction of Rwanda
-18-



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle   Date Planned              Date Actual/Latest
Estimate
Identification
Preparation              September 1994            September 1994.
Appraisal                November/December 1994   November/December 1994
Negotiations             December 28 29, 1994      December 28 - 29, 1994
Board presentation       January 31, 1995         January 31, 1995
Signing                  February 15, 1995         February 15, 1995
Effectiveness            July 5, 1995              July 5, 1995
Project completion       June 30, 19974 a)         June 30, 1997
Loan closing              September 30, 1997(b)    September 30, 1997
(a) The original project completion date was June 30, 1996 (three months before the closing date).
(b) The original closing date was September 30, 1996.
-19-



Table 4: Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements
(SDR millions)*
Bank Fiscal    FY95           FY96           FY97            FY98
Year
Appraisal      13.72          20.58
estimate
Cumulative     13.72          34.30
Actual (i)     0.00           29.31          3.02            0.15
Cumulative     0.00           29.31          32.33           32.48
Actual as % of  -             85.5           94.3            94.7
estimate
(i) The Credit's closing date was extended by one year to September 30, 1997.
* The above data is as of January 25, 1998.
-20-



Table 5: Project Costs
Categories     Appraisal Estimate   Estimate during     Actual/Latest
(SDR M)        effectiveness Date     Estimate
(SDR M)(a)         (SDR M)
1. Eligible Imports       30.9
(a) Public Sector                          13.7
(b) Private Sector                         17.2               30.9(b)
2. Consultants             3.4
Services
(a) Short-term TA                           1.6                1.6
(b) Procurement                             1.8                -(c)
agency
Total                  34.3                34.3               32.5
(a) On June 28, 1995 the DCA (Schedule 1) was amended to create two disbursement sub-
categories: public sector imports and private sector imports, and sub-categories were established
for consultants services.
(b) The March 29, 1996 amendment to the DCA (Schedule 1) by the Board allowed reallocation
of funds from the public sector imports to the private sector imports.
(c) The Government was not able to employ aL procurement agency, and the Bank, on the basis of
its policy, first suspended (on Feb. 5, 1996) and later canceled (on March 12, 1996) the SDR 1.8
million allocated for recruiting a procurement agency.
-21-



Table 6: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
The Project complied with all applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
-22-



Table 7: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stages of Produce Cycle           Actual                   Actual
Staffveeks               US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal           37'.8                    147.2
Appraisal                          18.3                     47.9
Negotiations through Board         8.2                      19.2
approval
Supervision                        77.2                     219.8
Completion                         5.5                       9.3
Other lending costs                3.3                      17.7
Total                             150.3                     461.1
-23-



Table 8: Bank Resources: Missions
Rwanda: ERC
Stage of Project    Month/   Number  Specialized   Per. Rating       Per. Rating      Types of Problems
Cycle               Year       of       Staff Skills  Implementation  Development
Persons  Represented   Status         Objectives
Through Appraisal    8/94 -    22       a,b,c,f,ij,k,l
10/94
Appraisal through    11/94 -    15      a,b,c,d,e,f,g,
Board Approval      01/95               i,j,k,1
Board through       02/95 -   4         b,d,e,f,g,k,l
effectiveness       07/95
Supervision 1       03/95      1        f            Not yet         S
effective
Supervision 2       10/95      5        b,f,g,l      U               S                Failure to comply
with disbursement
condition.
Supervision 3        10/96     5        b,f,h,l      S               S                Need to strengthen
the
macroeconomic.
management
Supervision 4       6/97       3        b,l          S               S                Need to strengthen
inter-ministerial
coordination.
Completion          6/97       3        b,l                                           Evaluation for ICR
preparation
Key to Staff Skills
a = Agriculturist                    e = Manager and Res. Rep.     i = Rural Development
b = Economist and Principal Economist    f = Country Officer..     j= Social Scientist
c = Private Sector Development Spslt.  g = Procurement Specialist  k = Energy Specialist
d = Division Chief                   h= Public Sector Mgt. Spslt   I = Operations/Analyst
Note: Number of Persons refers to persons participated in the different missions; therefore, if one participates in
three missions during preparation to appraisal that is considered as three persons.
-24-



Chukwuma Obidegwu
P:\RWANDA\MACRO\ERC\ICR\ERCICR.DOC
June 29, 1998
Africa Region
C:\ERCICR.DOC
06/26/98 4:44 PM
-25-



MAP SECTION



:                    2E.30'                                        2900Y                                        29230'       f                                 3foo                                          3830'
)                      UUGANDA                                  /
RWANDA                                                          $   4                                         -/ *0 l wX- X/ TANZAN IA
RWANDAS                                                                                                                                              7
DEM. REP                                     K ;I0M10 BU      Afl%         .O
*   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                            OF CONGO C,'0                                                                                 0                      A                  /> 
3o0'                      PREFECTU RE    CAPITALS                                                          M./ R u nerGE 4,                    BoIo,y,                              0    _
COMMUNE BOUNDARIES                                                   /         NATIQNA4rO,10IL 60 ry006            ,                                                             PARKS;y uV
R~,ARK'(60                                                                               /
MAIN ROADS                                           >          oreo 0                ''T000030.0060
0,,.  t,,  00060                                                                                 9)~~... ....  IOA  IN"
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                  GO . I  t        N    ^'\-, I    ,  TUM'A
uoenyt 6001.60            $X  ANM   GICE,. .,;RIS+/AS .TIRv  ''  '>                       e        . OUA,9, 6 (0660;                                              0  00010  f
_fa   >   4   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ > 1 0000/6'
Ec"k0                                             0 GATAKE                                            666t60 L',MMS
g *S<X:   a~~ ~~~~~~ ~     ~~                         ~           ~ ~~~~~~~~ , 6166(6 'Wg l  % 66(6 (00i>n 61.              006 ,,030                                                 640300
900'     clly k                                                                            <6IA  6D M  REP060 N0                                     '" 60  0 '/Ioie  ';i  600003   
D  lZAMBAAWI  A   5  OF CONsO R                                                          .N5H; r <'ILOtAETEi    0 5 u0e15 20K  30on                                         35 40 45 50 joo060 /}EEni9tX
_    <   /  lMLOZAMIQUE 00                                -\ i/                                                                                  9ILE 0666  5600     10    15mlC   20    25qj~    M 3n0     KIbunorl3tnGsofr   eri           N
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  _,                                                                                                                                                        <s6G:0.00 
>    N600            '                000           .003073'1                                                               06E
S                       0(0010     060000        0000030 '     600606' '  06000'                           9   v. <. N,EISHASH
RMNGO     G~~~Tf
I                                                                              'K                                                      I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'86
GASEKE                                                21                        9'
 )                                            oloooo4                                                   0106                          6360.660~~~~~~
/  corD    0363006 ''00000                                                 006(00   "       'A0(K600KF     """""'*""NG
3  00606                                             3006(6'    TN~~~~~~~WNZ
9030'  .~~~~~~~~',,,,/'                                             63100,30                                                                   to],~~~~~~~~~~~~~~me
<JANDA                                                                                          '0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OUIG  UNA ~ OB
REP oY  TANZANIA  60063(6    '0                                               '                         "<''<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KMUf  VTtW,
~~iI                     W  L I V I.t N  &  L I./                                      N"            30,0'   0 3l2 "'~~'-f.e~~'   KILOMETERS   0  0  10   15   20   25   90   35   40   45   50      UnitVAKofGitaerWorld    Book.
LAWI             I-.                                                         ,Io0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   I!                                                                            colors, denoodootiono~~~~~~~~~MIKNG  NENF"  IKI
ZAMBIA  -                ~~                                                               -''Th~                                   I                                                nod any other of ormobon shown ooND
C  I                                     .~~                            \r"'                                                                                                            this mop do not on9y on the oort of ~~~AMNG
Loho                                                                                                                                                           The World Book D'oop, any judgment~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NOGW
MOZAMBIQUE                                                                                                MILES  0      3     10    15    20    25    30           on the logol status of any terr.to.y, orGG
K  ,)  2000                                   3~~~~~~~~~~ 90                                 3000                                           O9Q~~~~~~~~~  ooy codorseomol or ocooptooce of ouch I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,RNG
MtIKD  MUSANGF ~~~~~~~~vu~~~~    NGENDA           G           ~           20      bondrio



