Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2678 RW
                        Development Credit Agreement
                        (Emergency Recovery Project)
                                   between
                              RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated February 15, 1995
                                                      CREDIT NUMBER 2678 RW
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 15, 1995, between RWANDESE
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS (B) the Association has agreed on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                       General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
Page  2
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "BNR" means the Banque Nationale du Rwanda, the
Central Bank of the Borrower;
      (b)   "Central Procurement Agency" or "CPA" means the
central procurement agency referred to in paragraph 2 of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
      (c)   "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
      (d)   "Project Coordination Committee" or "PCC" means the
project coordination committee referred to in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 6 to this Agreement and;
      (e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                 The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to thirty four million three hundred
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 34,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank of Rwanda on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1996
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
Page  3
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each May 15 and November
15, commencing May 15, 2005 and ending November 15, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
November 15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE III
                          Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, management, engineering
and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
Page  4
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and, except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program
set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation to or restriction upon
its reporting requirements under Section 9.06 of the General
Conditions and this Agreement, the Borrower shall, with effect
from the quarter ending June 30, 1995, submit, quarterly, to
the Association for review, progress reports on the
implementation of the Project giving details, inter alia, of:
(i) status of disbursements and procurement, (ii) volume of
imports, their transportation to Kigali and other centers,
(iii) effectiveness of internal distribution of goods to
beneficiaries, (iv) status of rehabilitation activities, (v)
amount of counterpart funds generated through the sale of goods
imported and financed under this Credit and the purposes to
which they have been applied, and (vi) any Project
implementation policy issues and proposed solutions.
      Section 3.03. For the purpose of the financial and
technical audit of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later
than one month after the Effective Date, appoint an independent
auditor, whose qualifications, experience and terms of
reference shall be satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.04. (a) Without limitation or restriction to the
provision of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the
Borrower shall, in conjunction with the Association, undertake,
not later than November 30, 1995, a review of the progress of
the Project, based on performance indicators satisfactory to
the Association.
      (b)   Prior to such review, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its review and comments, a report on the
progress achieved in carrying out the Project, as well as
identified deficiencies and proposed solutions, in such detail
as the Association shall reasonably request.
      (c)   Following such review, the Borrower shall promptly
undertake or cause PCC to promptly undertake such corrective
actions as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the
Association, or such other action as shall be necessary, in the
Association's opinion, as a result of the review referred to in
paragraph (a) above, for the achievement of the objectives of
the Project.
      Section 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.06. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare on the basis of guidelines, acceptable to the
Association, and furnish, not later than three (3) months after
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for
the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
                                 ARTICLE IV
Page  5
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Account for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than 6
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                   to examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Effectiveness; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following event is specified as
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has employed an
Page  6
agency specialized in procurement matters, in accordance with
the provisions of Part II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                 Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O.Box 158
            Kigali
            Rwandese Republic
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                   MINIFIN-RWANDA            22687 MINIFIN-RW
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                         RWANDESE REPUBLIC
                         By /s/ Joseph Mutaboba
                                                  Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
                                             Acting Regional Vice President
                                                                     Africa
                                 SCHEDULE 1
Page  7
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated          % of
                              (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Eligible Imports         30,900,000         100% of foreign
    required for the                            expenditures
    Project as specified
    in Schedule 4 to
    this Agreement
(2) Consultants' Services     3,400,000         100%
                               __________
      TOTAL                    34,300,000
                               ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 6,800,000 may be made on
account of payments made for expenditures before that date but
after November 28, 1994;
      (b)   expenditures in excess of an aggregate amount
equivalent to SDR 6,800,000 for petroleum products; and
      (c)   expenditures made for goods under contracts below and
aggregate amount equivalent to $5,000.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures for goods and services under contracts not
exceeding $1,000,000 equivalent, under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                         Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
rehabilitating, maintaining and operating priority sectors of
its economy damaged by civil war.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
      Carrying out of a program designed to assist in the
rehabilitation of the agriculture, education, infrastructure,
health, commerce and industry, and finance sectors.
Part B:
Page  8
      Carrying out of a program designed to assist in the
rehabilitation of the private sector within the territory of
the Borrower.
Part C:
      Strengthening of the Borrower's institutions through: (i)
the provision of technical assistance and support to the
Borrower's ministries and departments in the implementation,
logistics and institutional surveillance; (ii) provision of
office supplies, equipment and vehicles; and (iii) provision of
technical assistance for the preparation of designs and
specifications for the rehabilitation of roads, buildings and
other infrastructure.
                                  *   *   *
      The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1996.
                                 SCHEDULE 3
                    Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more for the private
sector, and all goods for the public sector shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), subject to
the following modifications and additions:
      (a)   Paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines is deleted and the
following is substituted therefor:
      "2.8 Notification and Advertising
            The international community should be notified in a
      timely manner of the opportunity to bid. This will be done
      by advertising invitations to apply for inclusion in a
      bidder's invitation list, to apply for prequalification,
      or to bid; such advertisements should be placed in at
      least one newspaper of general circulation in the
      Borrower's country and, in addition, in at least one of
      the following forms:
            (i)    a notice in the United Nations publication,
                   Development Forum, Business Edition; or
            (ii)   an advertisement in a newspaper, periodical or
                   technical journal of wide international
                   circulation; or
            (iii)  a notice to local representatives of
                   countries and territories referred to in the
                   Guidelines, that are potential suppliers of the
                   goods required."
      (b)   The following is added at the end of paragraph 2.21
of the Guidelines:
            "As a further alternative, bidding documents may
      require the bidder to state the bid price in a single
      currency widely used in international trade and specified
      in the bidding documents."
      (c)   Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines are
deleted.
Page  9
      (d)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original
bid validity period, such period may be extended once, subject
to and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of
the Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to
complete the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and
clearances and award the contract. The bid validity period may
be extended a second time only if the bidding documents or the
request for extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment
of the bid price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for
the contract over the period of extension. Such an increase in
the bid price shall not be taken into account in the bid
evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's prior review in accordance with the provisions of
Part C.1 of this Schedule, the Association's prior approval
will be required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity
period if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and
(ii) any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
      (e)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto
as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.    All goods procured in accordance with procedures set forth
in this Part A shall be subjected to pre-shipment inspection
for quality and quantity.
3.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more.
Part B:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Subject to prior approval of the Association, commonly
traded commodities may be procured through organized
international commodity markets or other channels of
competitive procurement acceptable to the Association, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
2.    Contracts for goods for the public sector estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $100,000 each up to an
aggregate of $1,000,000 may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from
a list of at least three suppliers eligible under the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
3.    Contracts for goods for the private sector, estimated to
cost the equivalent of less than $2,000,000, may be procured in
accordance with established commercial practices, satisfactory
to the Association.
4.    All goods procured in accordance with this Part B shall be
subjected to pre-shipment inspection for quality, quantity and
price.
Part C:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
      With respect to all contracts for goods, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Page  10
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
2.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the
Project, the Borrower shall employ experts and consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such
consultants shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the
Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex,
time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such
consultants under contracts using the standard form of contract
for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with such
modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.
Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed
with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                   List of Eligible Imports to be Financed
                              under the Credit
Live animals for breeding
Seed grains and fruits and spores for planting
Petroleum coke, natural and other asphalts, industrial
petroleum
      jelly and paraffin
Oil and chemical oil products
Sugar and industrial glucoses
Inorganic chemical products
Hydrocarbons and derivatives
Pharmaceutical, medicines
Fertilizer
Inks and toners
Page  11
Chemical products, insecticides, herbicides, fungicides
Basic oil/artificial wax, powders and candles
Plastic and cellulose products
Rubber products (including pipes and cables, tires and surgical
      products)
Wood and wood products
Wood pulp, cellulose fibre and paper and carton refuse
Paper and paper products
Books, textbooks, engineering and architectural drawing
materials
Cotton and jute fibre and textiles
Synthetic fibre and textiles
Ceramic products (including construction bricks, tiles, pipes)
Glass and glass products
Iron and steel products
Copper and copper products
Nickel and nickel products
Aluminum and aluminum products
Lead and lead products
Zinc and zinc products
Metal tools and instruments
Motors and electrical machinery (gas generators, turbines,
pumps)
Motors and electrical machinery (power generators,
transformers, bobbins)
Motor cars, tractors, cycles, and other vehicles (including
parts)
Telephones and radiophone equipment
Aeronautical and meteorological equipment
Photocopiers, printers
Topographical, geodesical and mathematical instruments
Medical instruments
Gas, liquid or electrical meters
Medical and surgical furniture
Prefabricated Constructions
                                 SCHEDULE 5
                               Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
Page  12
and (2) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $10,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $7
million until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the
equivalent of SDR 10,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
Page  13
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
Page  14
                                 SCHEDULE 6
                           Implementation Schedule
1.    (a)   The Borrower shall establish and maintain, until the
completion of the Project, an interministerial project
coordination committee (PCC) chaired and coordinated by the
Minister of Finance of the Borrower. The PCC shall be located
at MOF and shall include inter alia, as members, the Minister
of Plan and the Governor of BNR. The PCC may call upon, as and
when necessary, ministers or representatives involved in the
Project execution, as well as a representative from the private
sector.
      (b)   The PCC shall be responsible for: (i) monitoring the
implementation of the Project; (ii) advising implementing
ministries and agencies on Project issues; and (iii) preparing
the quarterly progress reports referred to in Section 3.02 of
this Agreement.
      (c)   The PCC shall appoint a Project manager for the
purpose of carrying out day-to-day implementation activities
and to liaise with the Borrower's ministries and departments as
well as the private sector and the CPA.
2.    Until the completion of the Project, the Borrower shall
maintain a central procurement agency (CPA) which shall
undertake the overall procurement execution and contract
management under the Project, except for goods for the private
sector. The CPA shall be responsible, inter alia, for: (a)
assisting the different ministries of the Borrower in
establishing their needs; (b) executing full range of
procurement services for goods, consultancy service and
technical assistance including advertizing, invitation to bid,
reception of bids, and bid evaluation; (c) training and local
capacity building in procurement and international commercial
practices; and (d) reviewing the Borrower's procurement
procedures and making recommendation for the formulation of
procurement legislation, procedures and practices.\1a
