Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
c#A7 /6&?2-4C
Report No. 5315-MLI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
June 28, 1985
West Africa Projects Department
Transportation 1
This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.0 = CFAF 490
US$ 1.0 - SDR 1.042
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m)        2               3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (  )         =    10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m )          -    35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 kilometer (km)        2  =      0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km }           0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)            =      2,205 pounds (lb)
E        1i~ND Aanv
~~~gUsh ~~~~~French
adt     aerre daily trafic                       tr5ffic journaier moyn
AfDF    African Developinent Fd-                 Fond Africain de Dveloppenent
CEM     Mali RaTlxay Company                     Clendn de Fer du Mali
CEflP    Public Works Traini  Center             Cente de-                des
Travaz Publics
DHP      General Studies & Programnig Divisin    Division des Etbies Girales et
des Progrmmes
MT       Technical Studies and Works Divisiom    Divsimn des Etudes TechAques et
des TravaLtc
DNBP     Natioal Directorate of Public Works     Directin Naticnale des Travaux
PubLics
EKR      EcoKdc Rate of Retun                    Taux de rentilite &:ocique
FAC      French Bilateral Aid Agency             Fonds d'Aide et de Coopiratis
ICB     tnteriata Czetive Bidding                Appel 5 la concurrence
internatLonae
ICBL     Toa Coipetitive Biddilg                 Appel . la  nurrence locale
lMflTP   Ministry of Transport & Pubic Works     Mirdst6re des Tramspors et des
Travawc Publics
CNr     Natinal Transport ffice                  Office Nationl des Transports
PCS      Postal .aeking Service                  Service des dciques postauX
SDC      Sviss Develoepnt Cooperationc                      Suisse pour le
D&eloppemeait
9DP Public Works Fqiipant Service                Service du Matkriel des Traan
Publics
SER     Road Stregffining Service                Service de Renforcement des Roures
SIN     Rgrelinzg Maintenance Unit               Service des Travanux Neufs



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE .............................  .     i
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ........      ...... .... . s   .... .    ii
I. INTRODUCTION ..............1.*...... 
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ............................ ......       I
The Transport System ................................          1
The Road Transport Subsector ...........................       3
IDA Involvement in the Road Subsector ..................      8
Road Traffic and Road Transport Industry       .....           9
III. THE PROJECT ............................................      11
Project History and Objectives .........................   11
Project Description ....... ......       .......................    12
The Road 4aintenance and Rehabilitation Program ........    12
The Institution Strengthening Program ..................    13
Reconstruction of Bamako-Bougouni ......................   15
Project Cost and Financing .............................   16
Implementation ............................. ........   17
Procurement .. ... .... . . .   .. .**.***a*s******. a .  a ..a.. .a.a..a   17
Disbursements .............    .............................    18
Reporting and Auditing               ...................   19
VT. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ................................    19
Benefits and Risks       ...........     ................    19
V. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ...........    21
The project and this report were prepared on the basis of an appraisal
mission in May 1984 by Mr. Jaffar Bentchikou (mission leader, Highway
Engineer), Mrs. Brigitta Mitchell (Economist) and Mr. Roger Le Bussy
(Mechanical Engineer). Mr. Jean-Michel Verdier (Training Specialist)
appraised the training component in July 1984. Secretarial work was
done by Ms. F. Felah and Ms. T. McMahon.
I Tbis docwmet has a restricted distbution and may be uswd by recipients only in the performance of
the ocial duties. Its cntents may not otherwie be discbsed without World Bank autorin   |



ANNEXES
2-1  Distribution of Traffic by Transport Mode for Selected Years,
1966-1983
2-2 Merchandise Imports and Exports by Itinerary for Selected Years,
1966-1983
2-3  The Priority Network:  Present Status and Proposed Project Works -
Paved, Gravel and Earth Roads
2-4  Road Fund Revenues and Expenditures: Past Performance and Forecasts,
1985-1990
2-5  Summary Data on Road Transport
3-1  Details on Routine Road Maintenance Operations
3-2  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to STN and SRR
3-3  Periodic Maintenance and Rehabilitation - Detailed Cost Table
3-4  The Public Works Equipment Service
3-5  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to the National Transport
Office (ONT)
3-6 Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to the National
Directorate of Public Works (DNTP)
3-7  Reorganisation and Technical Assistance - Detailed Cost Table
3-8  Training of Public Works Personnel
3-9  Reconstruction of Bamako-Bougouni - Detailed Cost Table
3-10 Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
3-11 Implementation Schedule
4    Economic Evaluation
MAP: IBRD 18705



- i -
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
Reference                                                         WAIC
Number                          Document                         Code
1.          Divers Plannings du CinquQame Projet Routier        221.196 (E)
2.          Cinqulame Projet Routier - Planning                 221.196 (A-C)
3.          Etude Bamako - Bougouni, BCEOM, 1978                121.648 (A-H)
(Mali-Cr 1104)
4.          Route Bamako - Bougouni: R6vision des Etudes        121.648 (I)
Techniques et Actualisation du Rapport           (Mali-Cr 1104)
Economique, BCEOM, 1983
5.          Influence du Second Pont de Bamako our Is           221.301
Rentabilite de la Route Bamako - Bougouni,
BCEOM, September 1984
6.          L'Evaluation du Troncon Urbain, Bamako - Faladie  221.054
7.          Dossiers d'Appel d'Offres. Bamako - Bougouni        121.648
8.          Termes de Reference / Avis de Consultation          221.785 -789
9.          Arretes et decrets concernant is R6glementation   220.803(A-E)
Mali LEAP General
10.          Training: The Present Situation of Personnel        221.100(C-E)
Management and Training in NTTP
11.          Documents on Road Fund Revenue and Expenditures,  221.792(11)
and Alternative Strategies for Inc;easing
Revenues
12.          Estimation sur les Couts des Travaux                221.792(12)
13.          Work Incentives: Proposals and Programs             221.792(13)
14.          Le Reseau: Les Statistiques et lea Tableaux         221.792(14)
15.          Feasibility Study of the Kayes - Nioro du Sahel   221.793(1-3)
Road, TANS, September 1980
16.          Details of Calculations of Economic Rates of
Return                                           221.792(16a)
17.          Various other working papers concerning the         221.792(17)
Fifth Highway Project
WAPTI
April 1985



- ii -
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWA. PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Republic of Mali
Credit Amount: SDR 50.7 million (US$48.6 million equivalent)
Terms:         Standard
Project        The project would support:  (i) preservation of the priority
Description:   road network; (ii) a growing involvement of the local private
construction and mechanical industries in road maintenance
operations; (iii) development of a reduced but more efficient
capacity of force account works; (iv) the introduction of
measures ensuring full financing of recurrent road mainte-
nance costs from local sources; (v) a balanced allocation of
resources to road investments and maintenance and continued
and expanded institutional development of the road transport
subsector; and (vi) increased efficiency of the country's
transport industry. The project would provide funding for
spare parts, fuel, construction materials and labor, as well
as for new equipment, consultants services and civil works,
to carry out a road maintenance and rehabilitation program,
an institution strengthening program, and reconstruction of
the Bamako-Bougouni road (160 'km).
ProJect        The project would improve the efficiency of road maintenance
Benefits and   and rehabilitation activities and, by reducing the cost of
Risk:          vehicle operation, would benefit road users and reduce the
price of road transported goods.   The project would also
bring about institutional benefits which would have the
effect of maintaining other benefits after project completion.
The main risks stem from a decreased maintenance effort as a
result of insufficient or illiquid local funds.  However,
since the Government has agreed on a timetable for revenue
raising measures for the Road Fund during negotiations, and
implementation of these measures would be closely monitored,
project risks are considered reasonably small.



- lli -
Summary Proaect Coat Eetimate
(US* Million)
Estimated Costs a/                             Local     Foreign   Total
(USS Milion) -
1. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Program
(a) Routine Road Maintenance                 5.2        4.6       9.8
(b) Periodic Maintenance & Rehab.            4.1       14.0      18.1
(c) Overhaul & Renewal of equipment          0.6        3.5       4.1
2. Institution Strengthening and
Technical Assistance
(a) Reorganization & Tech. Assistance        0.8        3.6       4.4
(b) Training                                 0.3        1.1       1.4
3. Reconstruction of Baeako-Bougouni             4.0      16.1       20.1
Base Coat                                    15.0      42.9      57.9
Physical Contingencies                        0.8       3.2       4.0
Price Contingencies                           2.9       8.6       11.5
Total Project Cost                           18.7      54.7       73.4
Financing Plan                                 Local     Foreign  Total
-    (USs Million)--
Organization
IDA                                              7.1      41.5      48.6
African Development Fund                         1.0       9.8       10.8
Sviss Development Cooperation                    1.0       3.0        4.0
French Bilateral Ald Agency (FAC)                0.!       0.4        0.5
Govermnent                                       9.5       -          9.5
TOTAL                                           18.7      54.7       73.4
aI   not all taxes and duties are exempt under the project; a total of
USS5.5 million equivalent In taxes will be financed by Government and
are included in local costs (US$18.7 million equivalent).
Estimated IDA Disbursements                      IDA Fiscal Year
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90  FY91
-  -    (US$ million)   -     -
Annual                    3.3     8.1   11.3  12.2    9.4    4. 
Cumulative                3.3    11.4   22.7  34.9   44.3   48.6
Economic Rate of Return
ERR exceeds 12% for any individual road and overall exceeds 50% for the
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitacion Program portion of the project. The
overall ERR for Reconstruction of the Bamako-Bougouni road is 282.
MEp: IBRD 18705
VAPTI
June, 1985



MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Mali has requested IDA's assistance  in
financing a follow-up project to the ongoing Fourth Highway Project
(Cr 1104 - MLI). The proposed project would support (a) preservation of
the country's essential road infrastructure through maintenance,
rehabilitatiou and reconstruction; (b) growing involvement of the local
construction industry in the execution of periodic maintenance works,
and of local private mechanical workshops in the repair and maintenance
of equipment; (c) development of a reduced but more efficient force
account maintenance organization focussed mainly on routine maintenance
operations; and (d) introduction of measures ensuring full financing of
recurrent maintenance costs from local sources, and a balanced
allocation  of resources  to road investments  and maintenance.  The
estimated cost of the project is US$73.4 million equivalent. Of these,
Government will contribute US$9.5 million equiralent in local funds
(13X), US$ 5.5 million of which are taxes.  The remainder will be
financed by IDA, the African Development Fund (AfDF), the Swiss
Development Cooperation (SDC) and the French Cooperation (FAC).
1.02      While other donors have been involved in the road sector, IDA
has been instrumental in gradually reducing over-ambitious investment
programs and in bringing about improvements in the planning and
execution of maintenance works. IDA's strategy of involving the private
sector where feasible, and of improving the quality of force account
work through training, improved management procedures and incentives to
local personnel, initiated under the ongoing Road Maintenance Project
has begun to show results. IDA's support of the proposed project is
therefore crucial to consolidate this strategy and intensify the policy
dialogue on road maintenance financing and investment planning for the
sector.
II. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
2.01      In a vast (1.24 million km 2), landlocked country with a widely
dispersed population like Mali, the transport sector is of vital
importance. Despite the sector's share of 15-25% of public investments
over the past decade, the country's internal commmmications remain
difficult. Also the long distances between Bamako and the ports of
Dakar (1,000 km by rail) and Abidjan (1,250 km by road) have been a
constraint on the country's economic development.



2.02      Road transport, the dominant mode, accounts f or some 55Z of
total freight (in ton-kilometers), while rail and water transport move
the remaining 36Z and 9% respectively. Road transport also accounts for
close to 90% of all passenger-kilometers. The road network adequately
covers the sovch and south-east of the country where population is
concentrated.  By contrast, the regions west of Bamako, the capital,
which are supposed to be served by the railway, are only very poorly
equipped with feeder road access to the railheads and lack main road
access - a situation which significantly curtails the flows of
agricultural products from potential surplus areas to the main market in
Bamako (Annex 2-1, Distribution of Traffic by Transport Mode for
Selected Years and Map IBRD 18705).
2.03      The Mali Railway (Chemin de Fer du Mali, CFM), runs a single
line (642 km) from Bamako to Kidira on the border with Senegal. CFM's
share of the country's foreign trade handled has been declining steadily
from two thirds of the total (460-580,000 tpy) merchandise imports and
exports in the sixties and early seventies to no more than two-fifths of
the total today. Despite the railway's comparative economic advantage,
until 1983 an increasing portion of international traffic had been using
the  Abidjan  road  route.   This  shift  reflected  a  decline  in  the
reliability and speed of rail services due to poor maintenance of track
and rolling stock, and to poor cooperation between the Senegalese and
Malian Railways. IDA has been supporting both railway systems and has
just completed its Third Railway Project in Mali (Credit 713-MLI, 1977,
US$10.5 million), which financed a time slice of the railway's
investment program and provided training and consulting services.
Measures to improve operating efficiency and to strengthen CMF's budget
and procedures have been successful only in the last two years. Since
December 1983, both Mali and Senegal railways have simultaneously
improved motive power availability and coordination of operations, and
as a result Malian import traffic through Dakar has increased by almost
50X in the first half of 1984.  (Annex 2-2, Merchandise Imports and
Exports by Itinerary for Selected Years).
2.04      Water transport is important for the vast inland delta area of
the Niger northeast of Mopti. The river connection will become less
important when the paved road from Sevare (Mopti) to Gao is completed in
1986. The Senegal river is also presently navigable from St. Louis
(Senegal) to Kayes (Mali), the trans-shipment place to the railways,
from August to October; it will be navigable all year round on
completion of the Manantali dam southeast of Kayes. Traditional canoes
carry all Senegal river traffic and about half that on the river Niger.
The state-owned Compagnie Malienne de Navigation dominates traffic on
the Niger with more modern vessels.
2.05      In a large and sparsely inhabited country like Mali, air
transport plays a significant role.  Mali has two international airports
at Bamako and Gao, and some 30 small airfields for domestic traffic, of
which only seven have regularly scheduled commercial services. In recent
years, international air transport has shown a stagnating trend for
passengers and a declining trend for freight, while local traffic has
remained  at  15-18,000  passengers  annually,  limited  by  available



- 3 -
capacity. International freight traffic is almost exclusively handled
by UTA (70%) and Air Afrique (20%). Air Mali, a state-owned coupany
created in 1961, carried all domestic and about a third of the
international passenger traffic in 1982, down from two-thirds in 1973.
Heavily overstaffed, plagued by deficits, and with accuuulated
short-term debts of about CFAF 2.5 billion at end 1983, Air Mali is
bankrupt. Liquidation of the company is expected in the near future.
Meanwhile, a private local air charter company (Societe de Transport
Aerien du Mali) with experienced management will reportedly provide
essential domestic and regional services.
The Road Transport Subsector
2.06      The Network:  Mali'c road network consists of about 13,460 km
of national, regional and local roads, of which 2,460 km are paved,
6,320 km are gravel and improved feeder roads, and the remaining 4,680
km are unimproved earthroads and tracks.  Paved roads now link the
capital Bamako to the border with the Ivory Coast (Basako-Bougouni-
Zegoua, 460 km), as well as to the eastern regions (Bamako-Segou-Mopti
axis). A direct link from the Ivory Coast to Mopti is also fully paved
(Zegous-Sikasso-Koutiala- San-Mopti axis) and has in part served as an
alternative road to Bamako which, although about 130 km longer than the
direct road, allows truckers to avoid the narrow and severely degraded
Bamako-Bougouni section that is to be rehabilitated under the proposed
project. Paving of the Sevare (Mopti)-Gao road (556 km), although not
of high economic prlority, began with the financial support of several
financing agencies in 1980 and is expected to be completed in 1986. For
thb country as a vhole, road density averages no more than 1.1 kml1OO
km . Even in Mali's southern regions, thl most heavily populated in the
country, road density aj 8.5 kmtlOO km is well below the average
density  of  14 km/100 km   for neighbouring  Ivory  Coast.   Annex  2-3
contains the Priority Network:   Present Status and Proposed Project
Works.
2.07      Road Administration:  The National Directorate of Public Works
(Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics, DNTP) within the Ministry of
Transport and Public Works (Ministere des Transports et Travaux Publics,
MTTP) plans, designs, constructs and maintains roads, and supervises
technical studies  for railways, river  ports  and  airports.   DNTP's
organization, with two dlvisions and three technical services, is
satisfactory. The General Studies and Programing Division (Directlon
des Etudes Generales et des Programmes, DEGP) prepares investment and
maintenance programs and budgets, and controls expenditures; the
Technical Studies and Works Di-ision (Division des Etudes Techniques or
des Travaux, DETT) handles project studies and supervision of works; the
New Works Service (Service des Travaux Neuf8, STN) carries out gravel
road construction and improvement; the Road Strengthenlng Service
(Service de Renforcoment des Routes, SRR), deals with periodlc mainte-
nance of paved roads; and the Public Works Equipment Service (Service du
Materiel des Travaux Publics, SMTP) purchases and repairs road
equipment. DNIP's eight Regional Directorates of Public Works carry out
maintenance and other public works activities through 19 subdivisions.
An Accounting Office. supervised by an Administrative and Financill



Unit, performs accounting work. The organization chart for MTTP and
DNTP is shown below.
,   _
I        111' ,                1    ,1  1,
2.08      DNTP's all-Nalian professional staff has increased from about
20 engineers and 60 technicians In 1979 to about 68 engineers (adequate)
and 53 technicians ia 1984 (not sufficient for the tasks on hand). In
additlon, DNTP employs about 1,100 permanent workers and between 300-500
seasonal laborers, depending on requirements and available budgetary
allocations.   Generally, engineers are  adequately  trained  but many
lower-echelon technicians are not. Training, especially of technicians.
has been increasingly stressed in the four previous highway projects.
More structured training courses and a better coordination between
training results and career development for DNTP employees will be
supported under the proposed project.
2.09      Construction:    Engineering   and   supervision   of   road
construction projects are the responsibility of DNTP's Technical Studies
and Works Division (DETT). DETT has been taking on supervision of
increasingly important projects with only a small advisory staff of
foreign consultants. but for major engineering studies of foreign aid
financed projects DETT still uses foreign consultants, assisted by its
own engineers.  DETT  Is  supported  by  the  Surveying  Institute  for
topographical surveys *and the Public Works Research and Experimentation
Center for laboratory tests. The center vhich has received assistance
under a FAC project (building, equipment, technical assistance), is now
well equipped and can perform all regular soil and construction material
tests  requlred  for  road  design  and  constructlon.   A  state-owned
consulting firm, the Societe d'Etudes du Mali. has also carried out



- 5 -
feasibility studies and detailed engineering, often in association with
foreign consultants.   Road construction has until recently been the
domaine of foreign contractors, but local contractors are becoming
competitive in executing all but the largest construction and
rehabilitation  projects.   STN  has  acquired  skills  in  feeder  road
construction under IDA and other foreign-financed projects.
2.10      Maintenance:  DNTP, through its 8 Regional Directorates and 19
subdivisions, is theoretically responsible for maintaining over 901
(12,300 km) of the road network.  Some para-public entities maintain
local roads in their areas of operation.  Under the Fourth Highway
Project, periodic maintenance has been carried out partly by
contractors, with satisfactory results. Periodic maintenance outputs by
force  account  are  lower  but  improving.   Overall,  however,  Mali's
capacity to maintain existing road infrastructure is still far from
adequate. Routine maintenance is regularly carried out on only about
5,000 km of the most trafficked roads.  Effective execution of road
maintenance has been hamstrung since the mid-seventies by two major
problems, one technical and one financial. The technical problem has
been the inability of the Public Works Equipment Service to keep a
minimum of equipment in acceptable running condition. Lax management,
inadequately trained and poorly motivated personnel, and lack of funds,
all contributed to create a backlog of equipment repairs that has slowed
down periodic maintenance and paralyzed the work in the subdivisions.
Although some improvements occurred with the provision of technical
assistance and funds for equipment renewal and maintenance under the
Fourth Highway Project, which will continue under the present project
with no gap in continuity, major changes - including both involvement
of the private sector and a re-orientation of technical assistance -
will also be required under the present project to eliminate equipment
bottlenecks and thereby improve all maintenance operations (paras. 3.08
and  3.12  below).   The  financial problems resulted  from  inadequate
allocation of revenues to the Road Fund, discussed in more detail below
(paras.  2.12  ff  and  Road  Fund  Revenues  and  Expenditures:   Past
Performance and Forecasts, Annex 2-4).
2.11      Choice of Construction Technology:  Except for a small number
of feeder roads In the Dogon country near Mopti, which are being built
by labor-intensive methods under an agriculture project, all road
construction in Mali uses equipment Intensive technology as population
in most of the country is too scattered to effectively allow for
labor-intensive methods. A reasonable balance in the use of labor and
equipment in road maintenance operations has been introduced under the
ongoing Fourth Highway Project. Manual labor is used in operations such
as filling potholes, cutting grass, clearing ditches and culverts and
loading small-capacity trucks chosen for this purpose ("cantonnage"). A
mix of labor and equipment is used for patching,  spot and emergency
repairs, and regravelling of shoulders. Heavy maintenance operations
such as grading, coupacting and brush dragging are carried out with
equipment.
2.12      Road Financing:  Road Investment and maintenance expenditures
over the period 1979-83 averaged CFAF 8.3 billion (US$20.5 aillion) per



year, a figure two and a half times higher than that for the previous
five year period. The increase was due mainly to the high investment
outlays on the Sevare-Gao project (over 60% of total expenditure), but
it  reflects  high  4nflation  rates  as  well.   Annual  maintenance
expenditures have doubled over the last ten years (from CFAF 0.9 billion
in 1974 to CFAF 1.7 billion in 1983): they have thus grown at just over
7% annually in nominal terms, compared to an average annual inflation
rate  over  that  same  period  of  10%.   Consequently,  maintenance
expenditures have declined both in real terms and as a proportion of
total road expenditure (from about 24% between 1974-78 to around 18%
during 1979-83). This decline would have been much sharper had it not
been for the Association's intervention in the sector through the Third
and Fourth Highway Projects, both of which have focussed on periodic and
routine maintenance. They were instrumental in securing allocation of
some additional local funds to the maintenance budget through increased
earmarking of fuel taxes for the Road Fund . However, in view of Mali's
difficult economic situation and the competing demands for scarce
resources - including some non high priority investments - the
provision of adequate funds for road maintenance remains an issue which
is addressed under the present project. Annual Road Construction and
Maintenance Expenditures and their financing for the 1971-1983 period
are shown in Annex 2-4, Table 1.
2.13      Recovery of recurrent cost of roads through taxation of road
users in Mali has been sufficient to cover the cost of adequate
maintenance of the country's road network. However, all revenues raised
from duties on vehicles and spare parts imports, from taxes on vehicle
insurance and from vehicle registration, as well as 55% of the taxes on
transport fuel (gasoline, diesel) go to the Treasury for general
budgetary purposes, leaving the Road Fund with no more than 45Z of the
taxes levied on transport fuel.  From these insufficient revenues, the
Road Fund is supposed to finance road maintenance including equipment
renewal, local counterpart funds for road studies and investments, the
debt servicing of loans for roads, and some urban street improvements.
Government last increased the pump price of fuel by almost 50% in 1981.
This major  increase reflected both rising  refinery prices and the
introduction of additional taxes including a small proportion for the
Road Fund. It resulted, however, in a sharp drop in fuel consumption.
In addition, for a limited period, some local merchants took advantage
of loopholes in the taxation system to import Nigerian fuel and market
it  untaxed.   However,  in  the  beginning  of  1985,  Government  took
satisfactory measures to ensure that Nqigerian fuel imports are subject
to the same taxation as other imported fuels.
2.14      Despite a covenant under the Third Highway Project stipulating
that all road maintenance expenses were to be met before any Road Fund
proceeds were allocated to investment, existing contractual obligations
on foreign-financed road projects compelled Government to continue using
a large part of Road Fund revenues for road investments. This, combined
with a steep rise in debt service requirements since 1981, has kept
funds available for maintenance at a static level of around CFAF 1.6
billion annually. Forecasts of Road Fund revenues and expenditures over
the 1985-90 horizon show that, following the expiration of the grace



period on a number of earlier road investments, expected revenues are
insufficient from 1985 onwards to cover even Government's debt service
obligations,  and  would  therefore  preclude  any  local  counterpart
financing for ongoing road investments, any expenditures for maintenance
and, a fortiori, any new investment well into the 1990s (Annex 2-4,
Table 5 and graph).
2.15      The shortfall in Road Fund revenues is compounded by the fact
that most of the revenues received are illiquid in the form of postal
checks. Mali's Postal Checking Service (PCS) has not been liquid for
many years, that is to say, post offices do not have cash to honor
postal mandates or checks. Since they cannot be cashed, postal che_ks
are usually refused by banks and merchants although they remain legal
tender. This problem resulted from Government's mixing of PCS funds
with other funds and using them to settle its liabilities.   Since
Government has, among others, also been paying a major portion of its
fuel bill with postal checks, it has had to accept, in turn, that
suppliers use them to settle their tax bills, thus spreading the
liquidity problem to the Road Fund.   The Government has engaged a
consultant under Credit 1200-MLI (Second Telecommunications Project) to
recommend an action plan for putting the postal service on a sound
financial footing, including measures to liquify the PCS.  Measures
being   considered   include   separation   of   the   accounts   of
telecommunication, postal services and the PCS; restriction of Treasury
access to PCS funds; strengthening of financial staff of the postal
service; and use of counterpart funds generated under the Public
Enterprise Project for, inter alia, payment to the PCS of funds borrowed
from it by Treasury. At negotiaticns, Government has agreed to make the
adoption of a plan of action satisfactory to the Association, a
condition of effectiveness for the present project.
2.16      During negotiations, Government has agreed to increase tax
revenues  directly  and  automatically  available  to  the  Road  Fund
sufficiently to ensure that the Road Fund's revenues cover debt service
and maintenance requirements in the highway sector (i.e. CFAF 28,950
million over the period January 1985 to December 1990 - Annex 2-4). The
following are already allocated to the Road Fund:  (i) the revenues of
the existing fuel tax (estimated at CFAF 13,500 million over the same
period); (ii) CFAF 700 million transferred to the Road Fund on May 8,
1985; and (iii) CFAF 500 million scheduled to be transferred by project
effectiveness. In addition to the foregoing, Government has decided to
allocate directly to the Road Fund:  (a)  revenues collected from the
Droit de Traversee Routiere net of collection cost (corresponding
revenue estimated at CFAF 1,500 million between January 1986 and
December 1990, or CFAF 300 million annually); and (b) increased fuel
taxes to be collected from road users from January 1986 onwards to
generate additional revenues of CFAF 12,750 million over the same
period; that is, CFAF 2,550 million annually. Government has appointed
an Interministerial Committee to determine, inter alia, whether the
increase in the fuel taxes earmarked to the Road Fund would be more
appropriately combined with:   (i) savings  in  the fuel  import bill
through renegotiation of supply contracts; (ii) reallocation to the Road
Fund of fuel taxes now allocated to other sectors of the economy; (iii)



- 8 -
an increase in the pump price of gasoline and diesel fuel; or (iv) some
combination of the above. The Committee has been asked to conclude its
study by June 1985. Its recommendations will be incorporated in a plan
of action. Deposit in the Road Fund of monies required for 1985 and
adoption by Government of an IDA approved plan of action for covering
the shortfall in Road Fund revenues through 1990 are conditions of
credit effectiveness.
IDA Involvement in the Road Subsector
2.17      IDA first became involved in the road subsector in Mali in
1967-68 as executing agency for a country-wide transport survey financed
by UNDP. The survey concluded that the sector mainly needed improved
highway maintenance and construction of agricultural feeder roads. The
four highway projects implemented since 1970 have responded to these
needs.
2.18      The first three projects financed by Credits in 1970, 1975 and
1976, included construction and improvement of workshops, procurement of
road maintenance equipment and spare parts, studies and later on
rehabilitation of one paved road (Faladie-Segou, 222 km), and lmited
technical  assistance  to  DNTP.   Feasibility  studies  and  detailed
engineering of the Bamako-Bougouni road, a trucking industry study, a
national transport plan study, as well as construction of a training
center and of feeder roads, have also been financed under these
projects.
2.19      All three highway projects have been satisfactorily completed.
The Project Performance Audit Report of the first one, (February 1978).
as well as the Project Completion Reports for the second and third
proj ects (July 1983), concluded that the initial institution building
objectives (reorganization of DNTP and reactivation of the Road Fund)
were mostly achieved, although training outputs under the third project
were only about half of those estimated at appraisal, due to delays in
the training of trainers and the delivery of office and teaching
equipment; limit--i training is continuing satisfactorily under the
Fourth Highway Project.   Technical assistance was somewhat narrowly
focussed on a few units within DNTP and, in some instances, was less
effective than expected because of poor receptivity on the part of the
agencies and units, and poor integration into their activities. In all
these projects, road maintenance results fell considerably short of
expectations, mainly because of a shortage of local funds due to drought
and inflation (first project), insufficient liquidity of funds due to
the use of postal checks (second project), and repeated breakdown of
equipment coupled with intermittent and late intervention of technical
assistance (third project).  The lessons learned under these projects,
particularly regarding the problems facing road maintenance, have been
incorporated into the design of the proposed project.
2.20      The ongoing Fourth kighway Project (Credit 1104-NLI, SDR 13.4
million, co-financed by Switzerland with a grant of SF18 million,
September 1981) covers periodic maintenance of 680 km of paved roads and



220 km of gravel roads by force account and by contract; a
two-and-a-half  (now  extended  to  three-and-a-half)  year  program  of
routine maintenance of 6,600 km of national, regional and feeder roads;
technical assistance and training; and equipment for vehicle axle load
control.   After a slow start and an  increase  in  the very modest
technical assistance envisaged by the project, implementation is now
satisfactory: periodic maintenance of paved roads by contractors is on
schedule,  and has been  extended  to gravel roads.   The quality of
periodic maintenance by force account has been Improving and outputs are
above target for the days when equipment is working. However, equipment
down-time remains a problem, traceable mainly to the continuing poor
performance of the Equipment Service which, even with technical
assistance inputs in advisory functions, has improved only marginally.
To ensure acceptable efficiency of force-account operations, better
institutional arrangements for equipment maintenance involving the
contracting out of certain tasks are being introduced under the proposed
project.   Training at the Public Works Training Center  (CPTP)  has
continued with satisfactory results, but needs to be better integrated
with career development prospects of trainees for productivity gains to
be realized.
Road Traffic and Road Transport Industry
2.21      Vehicle fleet estimates for Mali are based on annual vehicle
registrations. In a major effort over the past two years, the National
Transport Office (ONT) has brought up to date and consolidated all
documentation on road transport (vehicle registrations, driver licences,
freight documents, etc.) in preparation for the computerisation of its
data bank, expected to be carried out starting in 1986 under the
proposed  project.   From  the  available  figures  which  are  probably
underestimated, Mali's vehicle fleet has grown only moderately (at just
over 4% p.a.) over the past decade, from a total of about 19,100
vehicles in 1974 to 27,900 vehicles in 1983. The adequacy of overall
transport capacity is difficult to judge: there is an excess of supply,
especially of large semi-trailers, for several months of the year, but
supply is not sufficient to handle peak demand.   Also, small truck
capacity is not sufficient to handle the demand of the harvest season
mainly  because,   in  response  to  a  tariff  structure  based  on
ton-kilometers handled and therefore favoring the operation of large
vehicles, the number of small and medium size trucks (which are needed
to operate on earth and gravel roads) has declined significantly.
Construction of storage facilities in key locations could do much to
spread transport demand over a longer period and allow better fleet
utilization. Moreover, a reform of the tariff structure (para 2.26)
will reinstate a balanced incentive for purchasing of trucks of
different types and sizes. (Details on vehicle fleet and traffic
development are in Annex 2-5, Summary Data on Road Transport).
2.22      Fuel consumption, which had risen at an annual rate of 9.5%
between  1974-1980,  declined  sharply  following  substantial  price
increases in 1981, and in 1983 reverted to 1977 levels, both for
gasoline and diesel (Annex 2-4). March 1985 retail prices of gasoline
and diesel in Mali, at CFAF 260/liter and CFAF 183/liter (equivalent to



- 10 -
US$2.01/gal and US$1.41/gal) respectively, were well above those in
Benin, about equal to those in Senegal, and well below those in Ivory
Coast, the three countries from which Mali imports respectively 3Z, 34%
and 63Z of its total fuel. Fuel prices were well above border prices of
internationally traded fuels; in Mali, they include about 21% of taxes
plus an additional 10% on average for gasoline and 3% for diesel to
compensate for regional differences between the countrywide retail price
and the officially determined cost of fuel in different locations, thus
equalizing the differential cost of distribution.
2.23      Traffic count data also indicate that vehicle traffic has
declined sharply between 1979 and 1983. The drop in vehicle traffic was
particularly marked on the paved road network (-47%, Annex 2-5,
Table 3), where heavy trucks and tractor-trailer combinations have
replaced a larger number of small and medium size trucks during recent
years. Due to the poor state of repair of feeder roads and tracks,
traffic on these has consistently been limited to essential services and
has varied very little over the years. Given the country's difficult
economic situation, it is unlikely that traffic will quickly return to
the 1978/79 peak, but there are indications that the downward trend is
being reversed in 1983/84, mainly due to increased grain imports
necessitated by persistent drought.
2.24      Mali's  road  transport  industry  is  dominated  by  private
operators that handle all passenger transport and own over three
quarters of freight vehicles.  Some 25 large operators (owning 10-20
vehicles each) are independent, while some 850 small operators (owning
five vehicles  each or less)  are  grouped in regional  cooperatives.
These, in turn, are affiliated to a loosely organized National Union of
Road Transport Cooperatives, a lobby and mutual aid organization for
transporters.   A number of para-public entities, with some  15Z of
freight vehicles, transport goods such as cotton and grains on own
account.   Only  one  of  three  state-owned  transport  firms  remains
operative with a small fleet accounting for less than 5% of freight
capacity. State-owned trucking companies have consistently operated at
a loss. Government has agreed at negotiations not to undertake any new
investment nor provide any credit guarantee for any new investment in
trucking firms unless, on the basis of economic and financial criteria,
the Government and the Association have agreed such investment is
justified.
2.25      The National Transport Office (ONT) is responsible for the
coordination and management of all transport activities. Its main role
in road transport is that of freight allocation: through its regional
and international (port) offices, it centralizes transport demand and
allocates freight between cooperatives, independent truckers and state
trucking companies in proportion -o their share in overall transport
capacity; within these groups, distribution is on a first come-first
served basis. Unattractive transport runs of essential goods to the
outlying regions are allocated to transporters in turn. Transport from
the port of Abidjan is by law allocated in two-third/one-third shares to
Malian and Ivorian operators.  The official  tariff applies to all
ONT-allocated transport, whether by public or private carrier.



- 11 -
2.26      In its efforts to improve road transport efficiency, ONT has
carried out a number of surveys to establish transports costs, transport
demand by region, available transport supply, and transport bottlenecks
(which exist mainly for crop collection in the regions and are due to
unremunerative  tariffs).   While  these  studies  resulted  in  some
realignments of the tariff structure in the late seventies, adjustments
proposed by ONT since 1981 have not been approved. Tariffs are now
estimated t- average about 20% below the costs of vehicle operation,
making it difficult for transporters to allow for equipment maintenance
and renewal.   Generally,  transporters  compensate for low tariffs by
heavily overloading their vehicles, thus damaging their own equipment,
and  the  country's  road  infrastructure.   During  negotiations,  the
Government agreed to prepare and furnish to the Association within a
year of credit effectiveness, (i) a schedule of road tariffs structured
to take into account the economic cost of different types of road
transport and (ii) a system of vehicle weight control measures; it will
thereafter adopt such measures as agreed with the Association (para
3.09).
2.27      A major impediment to road transport efficiency in Mali, as in
most West African countries, has been the numerous semi-official road
checks carried out along all major routes. In 1984, ONT eliminated some
of them and established in their place a small number of official ones
for the collection of an agreed toll (droit de traversee), the proceeds
of which currently amount to CFAF 250 million annually but with the
coverage scheduled to be extended to the whole paved network by December
1985, they are expected to amount to about CFAF 300 million annually.
The proceeds accrue in a special fund administered by the Party. At
negotiations, Government has agreed that the proceeds net of collection
costs will be allocated to the Road Fund.
III. THE PROJECT
Project History and Objectives
3.01      The project was identified in April 1983, and prepared by DNTP
with the assistance of consultants. Appraisal was carried out in May
1984.  Credit negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. from March
11-16, 1985, with the Malian delegation led by H.E. Mamadou Haidara,
Minister of Transport and Public Works and followed by post negotiations
discussions in Bamako in May 1985. The main objectives of the proposed
project are to protect the priority road network and strengthen the
institutions concerned with road infrastructure and transport through
(i) a growing involvement of the local private construction and
mechanical industries in road maintenance operations; (ii) development
of a reduced but more efficient capacity of force account works; (iii)
strengthening of personnel management and development, including
training; (iv) introduction of measures ensuring full financing of
recurrent road maintenance costs from local sources and a balanced
allocation of resources to road investments and maintenance; and (v)
continued and expanded institutional development of the road transport
subsector.



- 12 -
Project Description
3.02      To achieve these objectives, the project would finance nev
equipment,, spare parts, fuel, construction materials, labor, civil works
and consultants services to carry out the following three components:
first, a Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program starting July 1985
on an 8,200 km network of high priority roads and including (a)
three-and-a-half years of routine road maintenance operations; (b)
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of 492 km of paved roads and 535
km of unpaved roads; and (c) overhaul and .enewal of road equipment;
second,   an   Institution   Strengthening   Program   including:    (a)
reorganization and technical assistance to (i) the National Transport
Office (ONT) for transport sector planning; (ii) the General Studies and
Programming Division (DEGP) for project coordination, implementation of
planning and financing mechanisms and feasibility studies; (iii) the
Technical Studies and Works Division (DETT) for engineering studies,
supervision of civil works and improvements in force account works; and
(iv) the Equipment Service (SMTP) for improving equipment maintenance
and overhaul efficiency; and (b) a training program for public works
personnel; and third, the Reconstruction of the Bamako-Bougouni Road
(160 km).
The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
3.03      Routine Road Maintenance Operations: Routine road maintenance
will continue to be carried out by the regional directorates of DNTP.
It will be implemented by force account using civil servants paid under
Government's recurrent budget and locally hired laborers, as well as
materials, fuel, lubricants and spare parts paid under the Road Fund.
The 19 subdivisions will carry out standardized routine road maintenance
tasks on the priority road network. The budget for routine maintenance
has been cut back from that agreed under the previous project by about
1OZ to stay within available resources. Consultants estimates of unit
costs per task have been used for both the project and forecast of Road
Fund budgets. DNTP has agreed to streamline the regional directorates'
staff and equipment fleet and to improve their internal discipline
concerning the work program, the technical definition of tasks, and the
cost accounting categories. These measures will improve the efficiency
of routine road maintenance operations and its management through a
better knowledge of actual costs. This streamlining together with a
slight reduction in maintenance tasks will also reduce Road Fund
budgets, in line with critically limited local funds in the near future.
As the financial and fiscal situation of Government improves, additional
roads will be added to the priority network (The strategy for routine
road maintenance is described in Annex 3-1, Details on Routine Road
Maintenance Operations').
3.04      Periodic Maintenance  and Rehabilitation:   As  there  is an
important backlog of periodic maintenance, a major component of the
project is periodic maintenance and rehabilitation on 492 km of paved
roads and 535 km of gravel roads. 382 of the works on paved roads and
26% on gravel roads will be carried out by force account and the
remainder by contract. Efficiency of force account works should improve



- 13 -
following renewal and rehabilitation of equipment, the use of
96 man-months (m-a) of technical assistance at the brigade level and the
use of limited engineering studies.   Outline terms of reference for
technical assistance to SRR and STN, are in Annex 3-2.
3.05      Most   of   the   incremental   periodic   maintenance   and
rehabilitation will be carried out by contractor, in line with a
long-term strategy to gradually reduce force account works from these
tasks.   The  local  construction  industry  is  starting  with  small
entrepreneurs and one major private joint venture (Malian-French).
International contractors are also active on the Malian market.
Contractor and force account works will be supervised by DETT
(para 3.11).
3.06      Experience under the Fourth Highway Project has shown tl-at ICB
brings several competitive bids and that works by contractor are of
better quality and completed faster than works by force account.
However, the preparation and bid processes have been rather slow and
time  consuming.   In  addition,  new procurement  rules have  recently
instituted a National Committee on Procurement (Commission Nationale des
Marches). To minimize the delays that the introduction of a new circuit
of clearances before contract signature is likely to produce, DNTP will
strengthen its procurement unit to expedite processing within MTTP and
provide close follow-up throughout the subsequent admin'strative
circuits. Technical assistance will also support DNTP in supervision of
road maintenance works both by force account and by contractor. A
detailed cost table for Periodic Maintenance and Rehabilitation Works is
in Annex 3-3.
3.07      Overhaul and Renewal of Road Equipment:  Road works by force
account will be carried out mainly with existing DNTP equipment. Some
renewals and some purchases of complementary equipment will also be
necessary.   A major portion of existing DNTP equipment is in poor
condition but has a large residual life and can be overhauled
economically. These revisions and overhauls will be carried out by the
local Caterpillar dealer under SMTP supervision for the Caterpillar
pieces (60% of the fleet) and directly by SMTP with technical assistance
for the rest of the equipment and the transport vehicle fleet.  A
description of the current and proposed organisation of SMTP, terms of
reference for technical assistance to SMPT, and details on equipment to
be overhauled and procured, are in Annex 3-4.
The Institution Strengthening Prog_am
3.08      Reorganization  and  Technical  Assistance:   Under  previous
projects technical assistance was not sufficiently integrated into road
maintenance institutions and activities. Limited in scope, size and
duration, it was often poorly timed with the availability of other
resources, and unbalanced between divisions and services. Generally, it
consisted of individuals in advisory roles or responsible for carrying
out specific tasks (e.g. transport plan). There was no overall plan to
improve management tools and skills of the Malian staff or to provide a
work environment in which all resources including organization,



- 14 -
operating procedures and training were adequately developed and used.
As a result, those services receiving adequate technical assistance did
not improve as much as expected, while others with little or no
technical assistance became weak links in the organisation that hampered
the effective operation of the system. During the ongoing project it
has become increasingly clear that it is necessary to set up a
comprehensive program of technical assistance to improve all elements of
the structure in a coordinated manner.  The Malian authorities have
understood this and have requested increased technical assistance from
both IDA and FAC to support the various divisions and services of DNTP
and ONT.  Accordingly, in addition to 150 m-m of consulting services for
supervision of works or studies, the proposed project will provide 404
m-m of technical assistance (48 of these cofinanced by a grant from FAC,
para. 3.04 and Annex 3-3, p. 1) to work within the structure of DNTP and
ONT, to furnish new management tools or improve existing ones, to
coordinate or actively participate in carrying out project tasks and to
train local staff. The experts financed under the program will form
teams with qualified local counterparts. In the production units, these
teams will occupy in-line positions within the unit, most of the time
under a Malian supervisor. The team members will be jointly accountable
for the work  of  their  respective  units.   They  will also  control
incentives for local personnel to be financed under the project. The
Incentives will be linked to better productivity and outputs in
accordance with agreed performance standards for each unit. Moreover,
the plan incorporates a monitoring and feedback system and foresees the
gradual phasing out of expatriate personnel as local expertise becomes
strong enough to handle the respective tasks. It is expected that the
program will positively influence both the quality and sustainability of
project outputs. The tasks to be undertaken by the different units are
summarized below; detailed terms of reference for the technical
assistants to the different services are provided in separate annexes as
indicated in subsequent paragraphs.
3.09      The project will integrate the transport data collection cell
established under the Fourth Highway Project into ONT's Study Division.
The project will also provide for computing equipment and 60 n--m of
technical assistance to enable ONT to carry out the review or execution
of transport planning studies, intermodal feasibility studies, and the
establishment of an action plan to improve the efficiency of the road
transport industry (para. 2.26). Government has agreed at negotiations
to prepare multi-annual programs of road transport investments which it
would review annually with the Association; such programs will follow
economic criteria and take into account the road maintenance capacity
and the country debt servicing capacity. Under the first one, covering
the period 1986-1988, Government will not initiate any new major road
investment (i.e. exceeding US$1 million equivalent), except for the
present project, resurfacing of the Ouan-Sevare road, and construction
of a second bridge over the Niger river in Bamako, investments which are
of high priority and for which financing is available on acceptable
terms (Outline terms of reference for technical assistance to ONT are in
Annex 3-5).
3.10      With computing equipment and 34 m-m of technical assistance,
DEGP will be strengthened in its role of preparing annual programs and



- 15 -
budgets for road maintenance and rehabilitation, analyzing cost
accounting results, preparing or reviewing feasibility studies for new
road investments, coordinating implementation of the present project and
preparing a follow-up project. DEGP will also prepare, and follow up
on, Government's actions to increase Road Fund revenues so as to arrive
at full financing of recurrent costs of road maintenance by 1989.
3.11      With another 34 m-m of technical assistance, DETT will be
strengthened in its role of preparing or reviewing technical studies and
supervising works by contractor.   DETT will also supervise periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation works by force account. Outline terms of
reference for technical assistance to DNTP for support of DEGP and DETT
are in Annex 3-6.
3.12      As deficient and late repair or overhaul of equipment have
been key reasons for inefficiency of the force account operations. the
equipment fleet maintenance will be reorganized in order to reduce
delays in procurement, payments and financing, increase SMTP efficiency,
accelerate equipment maintenance and make it cheaper, and increase
equipment availability.  To these ends:  (i) the revolving fund to be
set up in DNTP (para. 3.21 below) will ensure inter alia availability of
timely financing for spare parts. These will be purchased by a
procurement agent with the exception of urgently needed spare parts
available locally (terms of reference for the procurement agent are in
Annex 3-4, Attachment 2); (ii) complementary tools and tooling will be
provided for SMTP's and selected regional workshops;  (iii) 140 m-m of
technical assistance will be provided by an experienced mechanic firm.
They will review SMTP's management structure, and methods and tools for
equipment maintenance, and assist SMTP to implement the agreed
improvements.  Terms of reference for technical assistance to SMTP are
in Annex 3-4, Attachment 3. A detailed cost table for Reorganization
and Technical Assistance is provided in Annex 3-7.
3.13      The Training Program:  With 68 m-m of technical assistance,
training and transport equipment, per diem fees to trainees and
honoraria to teachers, and an additional room to be used as a cafeteria,
CPTP will  carry out  the  training program for DNTP personnel.   It
includes short courses in Bamako and the use of two mobile training
teams visiting the regions, as well as fellowships abroad. In addition,
CPTP will develop an improved personnel management system and will be
responsible for evaluating, on a regular basis, the work performance of
personnel that have returned to their units after training.   These
evaluations will be part of the basis for incentive payments.
A description of the proposed training program for public works
personnel and outline terms of reference for consultant trainers are in
Annex 3-8.
Reconstruction of Bamako-Bougouni
3.14      The 30-year old Bamako-Bougouni road (160 km) is the worst
paved section on the essential Bamako-Abidjan route which carries more
than 60% of Mali's external trade. The project will: (i) on the rural
section (152.2 km), where traffic varies between 260 and 530 vpd,



- 16 -
reconstruct the road by using as much as possible existing pavement
materials to raise the present road level, improve drainage, and
strengthen and widen the pavement to 7 m to better adapt it to the large
semitrailers now using the road; (ii) on the urban section (7.3 km),
where traffic varies between 7,000 and 24,000 vpd (not including between
3,000 and 18,000 two-wheelers) upgrade i; to a 2x2 lane standard with
cycle  tracks.   A  detailed  cost  table  for  the  reconstruction  of
Bamako-Bougouni is provided in Annex 3-9.
3.15      An Urban Investment Plan is being developped as part of the
preparation of a Second Urban Project. The urban section Bamako-Faladie
has been designed to reflect its function as an urban interchange
system. However, its connection to a proposed second bridge on the
Niger river and the insertion of both bridges in the urban road network
will require a study to ensure optimum benefit from both investments as
well as postponement of the need for an eventual third bridge.
Government has agreed to undertake such a study, under terms of
reference acceptable to the Association, by December 31, 1985, which
should make it possible to adhere to the current implementation
schedule. Adoption of a solution agreed to by IDA and effectiveness of
the  AfDF  Credit  will  be  conditions  of  disbursement  on  the
Bamako-Bougouni component.
Project Cost and Financing
3.16      Total cost is estimated at US$73.4 million equivalent of which
75% is foreign exchange, 25% local costs (including 7% taxes).  Cost
estimates are in January 1985 prices and include physical contingencies
of 102 as appropriate (with the exception of 25% for ONT computing
equipment), as well as price contingencies of 5% for 1985, 7.5% for 1986
and 82 thereafter. The project will be financed by IDA (US$48.6 million
equivalent); SDC (US$4 million equivalent, joint financing of routine
road maintenance and training); AfDF (US$10.8 million equivalent,
parallel or joint financing of Bamako-Bougouni, depending upon the
eligibility of the prequalified contractors); FAC (US$0.5 million
equivalent, parallel financing of technical assistance to SRR); and the
Government (US$9.5 million equivalent). The IDA credit will cover 71%
of project costs (net of tax) while external financing in total covers
95% of the (net of tax) costs. For Bamako-Bougouni, the Government will
finance US$1.08 million of local costs  in addition to taxes.   For
routine road maintenance, IDA and SDC will finance 64% on average but on
a declining basis (90% in 1985, 76% in 1986, 61% in 1987 and 462
thereafter) in order to ease the balancing of the Road Fund budget the
first year and thereafter to foster Government progress towards full
financing of recurrent costs with local funds. Also, IDA and SDC will
retroactively  finance  up  to  US$400,000  for  routine  maintenance
expenditures from July 1, 1985, to enable routine maintenance operations
to continue uninterrupted following exhaustion of Fourth Highway Project
funds. Effectiveness of the Swiss Contribution is a condition of credit
effectiveness. Detailed cost estimates and financing plan are shown in
Annex 3-10.



- 17 -
Implementation
3.17      The project will be implemented by DNTP and ONT.  In addition
to the supervision of routine road maintenance by the Regional
Directorates, DETT will be responsible for supervising works by
contractors, and periodic maintenance and rehabilitation force account
works  by  STN  and  SR.   DEGP,  meanwhile,  will  prepare,  plan  and
coordinate all project activities. CPTP will implement and coordinate
all project training as in the ongoing project. ONT will implement the
new transport planning component.
3.18      The ongoing Fourth Highway  Project  finances studies,  the
preparation for the road maintenance program and the training program as
well as the continuation of technical assistance to DEGP, DETT and SMTP
until new contracts are awarded under  the proposed project.  The
proposed credit is expected to be effective by November 1985 and the
project is expected to be completed by December 1990. The implementation
schedule is shown in Annex 3-11.
Procurement
3.19      Reconstruction  of  the  Bamako-Bougouni  road  will  be  by
contract, awarded to prequalified contractors after ICB in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA and AfDF.  If some prequalified
contractors are not eligible under AfDF procedures, the work will be
divided into two contracts. The portion of periodic maintenance not
done by force account will also be carried out under contracts awarded
after ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local contractors will
have a 7.5Z preference for civil works contracts awarded under ICB
although Government has indicated at negotiations that this clause will
not apply to the Bamako-Bougouni civil works. Most equipment will be
avarded after ICB, in accordance vith Bank guidelines. Goods manufac-
tured locally will be given a preference margin of up to 15 or the
applicable custom's duty, whichever is less. Spare parts for equipment
rehabilitation will be procured either under contracts negotiated
directly with the supplier of such equipment or under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding on the basis of Bank guidelines.
Contracts for a small training center, training equipment, road building
materials, fuel and lubricants will be procured after LCB. The local
procurement procedures which will be used under the project will be
reviewed on a case by case basis to establish that they are acceptable
to IDA. Technical assistance will be procured In accordance with the
Bank's guidelines. All procurement decisions, the estimated costs of
which exceed $200,000, would be subject to IDA's prior review resulting
in a coverage  of 85Z of  the  total estimated value.  Procurement
arrangements are summarized in the table on the folloving page.



- 18 -
Amz6mt   M hdx-d' of ProFhur t
(US$ sul114)
It.  __C_ory                    Pieot r     iothd a/          Total
Project
ICB    LCB    OdCer   N b/ COt
1 Equpmnt cS                    2.2    0.1                   2.3
(2.1)   (-(2.1)
2 RdbUilt tion of EqpuiXmmt                    2.6d/         2.6
(2.2Y       (2.2)
3 Civill bWs by Camtrector     32.1    0.1                  32.2
(20.8)   (-)                (720.8)
4 Civil Wsfk by Fbro Accxnit           7.2e/   4.5f/  2.6&f 14.6
(4.2T   (2.63Y  (1.8)  (8.6)
5 Texdmcal Auistane, FeU3z1hps                 5.7   O..b/  6.2
*nd Trakrdog                               (4.4)  (-)  (4.4)
6  Ullnaocated                 11.3    1.2      2.3   0.7  15.5
(7.7)  (0.7)   (1.7)  (0.4) (10.5)
Total Project        45.6    8.6    15.4   3.8  73.4
(30.6)   (9    (10.9) (2.2) (48.6)
a/   Amounts financed by IDA are in parentheses
b/ Not Applicable
Including heavy equipment, vehicles, tools, initial stock of parts,
training equipment and computer hardware and software.
d/   Of which US$0.4 million is limited international bidding (LIB) for
nou proprietary parts and US$2.2 million is direct procurement for
proprietary parts and rehabilitation of Caterpillar equipment
e/   For materials, fuel and lubricants
f/   Of Which US$3.2 million is LIB for non proprietary parts and US$1.6
million is direct procurement for proprietary parts
zi   Salaries
h/  Fellowships; honoraria and per diem for trainers/trainees.
Disbursements
3.20      In line with the disbursement profile for IDA highway projects
in West Africa, the credit is expected to be disbursed by December 1990.
The IDA credit would be disbursed on the basis of the table on the
following page, and on the basis of an estimated disbursement schedule
shown in page 6 of Annex 3-10.
3.21      Disbursement  for  routine  road  maintenance  and  periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation force account expenditures will be made
against statements of expenditure (SOE's) using unit costs for each
task. Estimated unit costs for 1985 are shown in Annex 3-1. They will
be reviewed after each annual audit. No reimbursement of less than
US$20,000 will be made by IDA. A Special Account for IDA/SDC participa-
tion will be established in a commercial bank. Administered by DNTP, it
will provide up to four months of project operations to SMIP (US$50,000
for locally procured spare parts), STN (US$320,000 for operations) and
SRR (US$430,000 for operations), and to regional directorates for



- 19 -
routine maintenance operations (US$500,000 for operations). An initial
deposit of US1.1 million will be disbursed from the IDA credit at
credit effectiveness upon receipt of a withdrawal request.
Allocation and Disbursement of IDA Credit
Category              Description                   Amount         z
l.a  Ciil Woks  /  (US$ million)
l a  Civil Works by Contractor a                 14.4          93
l.b  Civil Works: Bamako-Bougouni b/             10.7          47
2   Civil Works by Force-Account -                3.5          91
3   Routine Maintenance Operations                4.5   Declining 1
d2                                       percentage
4    Equipment -                 e/               2.1         100
5   Rehabilitation of Equipment -                 2.4         100
6   Technical Assistance                          5.1         100
7   Training and Fellowship                        -
8    Special Account                              1.1
9   Unallocated                                   4.8
Total                                          48.6
a/   Other than Bamako-Bougouni
t/  Other than Routine Maintenance Operation
'e   Including Swiss financing:
90o of disbursements up to US$0.9 million
76% of disbursements from US$0.9 million to US$2.4 million
61% of disbursements from US$2.4 million to US$3.7 million
and 46% of disbursements thereafter
d/   Including heavy equipment, vehicles, tools, initial stock of spare
parts, training equipment, computer hardware and software
e/   Including spare parts
Reporting and Auditing
3.22      A cost accounting system exists in DNTP.  An independent
auditor firm will review the system, help DNTP implement necessary
changes  and  detailed  payment  and  disbursement  procedures  and,
thereafter, annually audit the project including the revolving fund with
a mid-year review.  DNTP  and ONT will prepare  quarterly progress
reports.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Benefits and Risks
4.01       The expected benefits of this highway rehabilitation and
maintenance project can be divided into the tangible and quantifiable
reductions in the cost of vehicle operation and of maintenance of the
portion of the road network included under the project, and into equally



- 20 -
important, but less tangible and non-quantified institutional benefits.
The latter would result from (a) improved operational efficiency in
DNTM's road maintenance activities and (b) phased introduction of
legislative measures to allocate revenues from road user charges to the
Road Fund in sufficient volume and in sufficiently liquid form to ensure
financing  for adequate  routine  and periodic  maintenance  of Mali's
existirig road infrastructure in future years. Some efforts towards the
realization of these "institutional" benefits have been made under
earlier projects; these are gradually showing results and are reflected
in the professed willingness of the Malian authorities to introduce the
difficult managerial and revenue-raising measures now required. The
project will facilitate this process by providing a significant
contribution to the financing of recurrent costs on a decreasing basis,
thus permitting a gradual adjustment of local revenues to the requisite
level of project implementation.
4.02      The Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (HDM III)
was used for the economic evaluation. On gravel road sections being
rehabilitated, incremental net agricultural value added, attributable to
year-round road access, has been taken into account. Vehicle operating
cost parameters were provided by ONT; DNTP provided data on the current
maintenance status of the road network; data on agricultural production
and costs are based on agriculture project estimates and consultants
feasibility reports. All costs and benefits in the economic evaluation
of the maintenance program are in January 1985 prices net of taxes and
duties. An economic evaluation of the Bamako-Bougouni reconstruction by
means of the HDM II model was undertaken by consultants in 1984 using
1983 prices: this has been up-dated to 1985 levels, to reflect new
construction characteristics for the 7.3 km urban section which was
changed to include a number of traffic interchanges not foreseen in the
orgiinal urban expressway design, as well as a number of cost revisions
for an update of the 153 km rural section of the road. (Details on cost
parameters and maintenance strategies are in Annex 4, Economic
Evaluation).
4.03      Economic rates of return (ERRs) were established separately
for the reconstruction of the Bamako-Bougouni road, for the maintenance
program of the paved road network, and for the maintenance of the
priority unpaved  road  sections  included  in  the project.   For the
Bamako-Bougouni road, the high-traffic urban section and the rural
highway section were also examined separately.  The former has an
estimated ERR of 65%; this is a conservative estimate since no benefits
for  congestion  relief  are  included.   The  highway  section  has  an
estimated ERR of 15%, also conservative, since the costs of increasing
diversion of international traffic to Bamako onto an alternative route
that is 130 kim longer than the present one were not included in the
analysis. The combined ERR for the Bsmako-Bougouni road component which
accounts  for 39%  of  total project cost  is  28%.  The  paved  road
maintenance program includes pericdic maintenance of 492 km and routine
maintenance of 1730 km. It accounts for 31% of project costs and has an
overall ERR of 34%, assuming that traffic grows by 4% annually for the
ten year analysis period starting 1986. The ratio of benefits to cost



- 21 -
for the total package is 2.55:1 at a discount rate of 1OZ. Link-by-
link details of the analysis are summarized in Table 4a of Annex 4.
4.04      The unpaved roads package includes rehabilitation of 535 km of
gravel roads mostly serving areas with ongoing rural development
projects, and routine maintenance of a priority network of about 3,330
km of gravel and 2,990 km of earth roads.  It accounts for 30% of
project costs and has an overall ERR of over lOOZ, assuming traffic
grows by 3.5% annually on gravel roads and by 2% on earth roads during
the 10 year analysis period.  The benefit/cost ratio for the total
package at a 10% discount rate is 1.99:1. Link-by-link details of the
analysis are summarized in Table 5 of Annex 4.
4.05      Based on the experience under the ongoing Fourth Highway
Project, and given the arrangements made to ensure timely execution of
equipment overhauls at project start-up, there would be no major risks
concerning periodic maintenance: force account operations have been
improving and performance by contractors has been satisfactory. If the
Government and the Association are unable to agree on the connection of
the Bamako-Bougouni road to the proposed second bridge on the Niger
river in Bamako, the Bamako-Faladie section wili be excluded from the
project; no other problems are anticipated on the reconstruction of
Bamako-Bougouni  by  contract.   The  reorganisation  of  the  crucial
Equipment Service, combined with intensified training and an improved
incentive structure for Malian project personnel, should assure that the
expected gains in operational efficiency will, in fact, be realized.
The main risks stem from a decreased maintenance effort as a result of
insufficient or illiquid local funds. However, since the Government has
agreed on a timetable for revenue raising measures for the Road Fund
during negotiations, and implementation of these measures would be
closely monitored, project risks are considered reasonably small.
V . AGREMEETS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01       During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
points:
(a) Government has agreed to increase tax revenues directly and
automatically available to the Road Fund sufficiently to ensure
that the Road Fund revenues cover debt service and maintenance
requirements in the highway sector (i.e. CFAE 28,950 million over
the period January 1985 to December 1990 - para. 2.16).
(b) Government has agreed not to undertake any new investment nor
provide any credit guarantee for any new investment in trucking
firms, unless, on the basis of an economic and financial
justification, the Government and the Association have agreed such
investment is justified (para 2.24);
(c) Government has agreed to prepare and furnish to the Association
within a year of Credit effectiveness, (i) a schedule of road
tariffs structured to take into account the economic cost of



- 22 -
different types of road transports, and (ii), a system of vehicle
weight control measures; and thereafter to adopt such measures as
agreed with the Association (para 2.26);
(d) Government has agreed that the proceeds net of collection cost from
the road toll will be applied to the Road Fund (para 2.27);
(e) Government has agreed to prepare multi-annual programs of road
transport investments which it would review annually with the
Association, such programs will follow economic criteria and take
into account the road maintenance capacity and the country debt
servicing capacity (para 3.09).
5.02      The  following  actions  by  Government  are  conditions  for
effectiveness:
(a) adoption of a plan of action for solving the liquidity problems of
the postal checking system (para. 2.15);
(b)  deposit in the Road Fund of monies required for 1985 and adoption
of an IDA approved plan of action for the increase of CFAF 12,750
million in the fuel taxes to be collected from road users over the
January 1985-December 1990 period and earmarked for the Road Fund
(para. 2.16);
(c) effectiveness of Swiss Contribution (para. 3.16).
5.03      Government has agreed to  undertake a study on the  connection
of the Bamako-Bougouni road to a proposed second bridge on the Niger
River in Bamako and the insertion of both bridges in the urban road
network, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, by
December  31,  1985.  Adoption  of  a  solution  agreed  by  IDA and
effectiveness of the AfDF Credit will be conditions of disbursement on
the Bamako-Bougouni component (para. 3.15).
5.04      The proposed project is technically feasible, economically
sound and suitable for a Credit of SDR 50.7 million (US$48.6 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms.
WAPT1
June 1985



- 23 -
Ahmex 2-1
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Distribution of Traffic by Transport Mode for Selected Years, 1966-1983
Distribution du Traffic par Mode, Annees 1966-1983
Average-
Moyenne
1966   1973   1977    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983  1979-1983
Freight/Fret (t-km millions)
Road/route            113    310    247      228      246     203      179     256         222
Rail/rail             116    156    149      143      131     138      151     174         147
Waterways/fluvial      41     30      22      45       40      35       38      35          38
Air/air               n/a      16    n/a     n/a      n/a     n/a      n/a     n/a          -
Passenger/Passagers (pass-km millions)
Road/route            400    720    992   1,200   1,320   1,450   1,595   1,755          1,464
Rail/rail              68     95    129      150      151     156      160     165         156
Waterways/fluvial      31     20      28      30       26      25       28      26          27
Air/air               n/a     65    n/a      n/a      n/a     n/a      n/a     n/a          -
Source:  1966-1977, Mali Transport Plan Study, SEDES, 1980
1979-1983, National Transport Office (ONT), Bamako, May 1984
WAPTI
December 1984



-24-
Annex 2-2
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Merchandise Imports and Exports by Itinerary for Selected Years, 1966-1983
Commerce Exterieur par Itineraire, Annees 1966-1983
(in thousand tons; en milliers de tonnes)
1966    1973    1977    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983
Imports/Importations         259     370      349     460      451     447     398      501
Dakar: Rail/tail             179     206      152     153      165.    187      167     192
Abidjan: Road/route           80      164     197     307      286     260     231      309
Exports/Ex ortations          74      94      189     107      129      98      68       79
Dakar: Rail/rail              29      53       92      48       43      42      25       29
Abidjan: Road/route           45      41       97      59       86      56      43       50
TOTAL/TOTAL                  333     464      538     567      580     545     466      580
DAkAr: Rail/rail             208     259      244     201      208     229      192     221
Abidjan: Road/route          125     205      294     366      372     316     274      359
Domestic Freight/            n.a     n.a      n.a     141      182     174      186     196
Fret Interieur
Rail/rail                    n.a     n.a      n.a       7       10       9       10      11
Road/route                   n.a     n.a      n.a     134      172     165      176     185
Source:  1966-1977, Mali Road Maintenance Project SAR No. 2597a-NLI
1979-1983, National Transport Office (ONT) Bamako, May 1984
WAPTI
December 1984



- 25 -
AmE 2-3
ELI
FIFTN NIMh       PD T
TIX P3I1,11  IETU
Table I - Prnut Status al Prapud Projct  bks - Pomin Ilu
Al      aJ  Piriudic
Refruce Traffic  Lgtb  Itatn   Nuirt.  Ndat./
Itinerry                SKtim   (1933                    Catuogor blab.
(IT)    (km)                       (khm      CoUmm
Iudo-ku                       1071    17035      16       2    ll          16
lmkooKiti                     1631     1312      is       2    3*                a/ Paved  odsl
Saau-NOPU                     1064     1154      13       3    3
Suou-Kukdt                    ion       4U0     133       3    3*         133       Status
auakuiult d                  1041       371      31        1   3*          31
kpinds-Foo                    1062      371       9 nI                      9     I bnd
u -Kuo-ulkwo                 2141       269      52       2    PA                 2  Avrae
Kuokile-hpi                   1on       20       11        3    RA         11     3  Pow
Soa-Pouit A                   23        223      4.        2    R*         35
Subtotal.                                    412     2.1               325          lnthce CAtqory
Touubctou4s1abr              3641       193       9        2    3                 3  * Ilt Ila   (OF ) 2201
Ouam-vw                       103       14      II 1       3    RI I              1  a Arage    cun  100-2201
Funa-Oankorp                  1063      16      in         2    13         21      IC   La hmI    (AT )  401
Ssvar-anodipui                1141      15t                I    I                  I a-iUhdr costructim
Ouvanbro-Ou                   1063      14      I19        2    1A
Dla-Rob.gm                    1121      133      73        2    is                I  Priodic ealntuaco   vith FED fincirg.
hIma-Zqo.a                    1074      130     in         3    1a       1i
Timnfala-lim                  1073      105      50        3    11         SO
ogouoi-Tiafala                1on       105s     9         3    U 
Suttotal.                                    94       2.4              I2
s3luuu-Zanlgu                 11t1       94     106          ItC
agasso-stial                  1111       94      32        1    IC
lauko-Lide                    1031       69       0        3    IC
Olohougu-orDklua             1122       b3     112        2    IC
pint A-Mimsu                  2232       63      a         1    IC
Sadigut-bnt:a                 1161       56     11         I    11
KaIUola-Siuou                 1131       55       1        2    IC
Kutiala-sswrola               1131       55       4        2    IC
ahko-hbuikwo                  1050       36       J        3    IC
Kinparmaubory                 1141       23      71        1    IC
Damtwa-ui                     1162       n      23!        1   3
Susi-Dj]1db                   1163       12     171        1   3
talodabu- uimn                1021        0       6        3    RC
kcn a  iling.u                o.c.     B.a.      60        1 I
Sbtotal                                     3117      1.3                0
Total, Pavu  Roa                            2469      1.3               52
Of theme                 Of tho:
- ulitaind widw  projKt.   1834  auakr.hgui:              160
-       under contructios      579       Mw  rodes       492



- 26 -
The Pisrity       I                                 N11M1 2.3
Table 2 - Allot Kato Mi Popos   Protjtt Orhk  - Oar l bao
hp 2
"erodic
bhfsrc  Traffic  Lugth          Al      a*   NaItt.I
Itinrwry                 9  tim   E19331            Statu   Nuit.   HdA.
fADl    (klm            Cater       kId       COSIM
huka      gao ba-lauauln      2151       144     135        1    A                  a/ gawl Ibait
Isuaa urg-Dnisr               go.e        4       42        1    A
Farada-Tioribulg              lOU         42      77        1    A                        Stat.
Lidi-Frw                      IOU3        42      11        3    A                          -
Fana-DioiIl                   2131        4       40        1    A                       L kW
Sututall                                      305     1.1                             2  Avaru
3 Pow
ThInm-hu,mna                  2251         7      4u        3    g                       4  WYpo
Ievare     dam                1151        37      17        2    B
hakeoSUboikers                10o        34       3       3    3                       elitmc   CatGrM
Sikusluhrkin                  1101       3        44       3    3
Shb ikwoCWtreSue              1051        34     113        3    O                  IA  N1bileh[ l (AN  ) 44
Fan -iNw   a                  3231         0      a         4    *                     Avwag       (SiT 20"
U    ing ii                   1061        29      13       2    3           16      C  Luulewl  (AIT( 02
Acen  a u lJ                  R.c.        22      42             *           35
Kgalikwro-3ai                 2142        22      B7        I    I
Narkala-Tneks                 2241        21     170        3    O
Sandare-Viore                 1013        21     134       3    3          134
Kayes-vers Smulu              1013        21     103        3    3          103
*rso-*erdru                   1014                 5        3    3
So       rleh.kau             22U1       20       79       3    C
hstutal.                                      902     2.3               20
.*n go-lllgr                  1172        19     105.       3    C
sgWuui-iia-lulru              1091        11     123        3    C         123
Zatidoieg-Kludis              2211        17      U         3    C
KoarlKritze                   2291        17      a         3    C
life-GOB""                    2311        15      35        2    C
Iu-Amuee                      1171        15     t0o        3    C
KwalseleCayes                 1012        15       5        i    C
Ang.l@                        1171        15       7        3    C
Dloila-anmigpi                2162        14     100        3    C
Kuludieba-cto 3'Ilvre         2212        13      59        3    C
Kignu-hlikao                  2201        13      5         3    C
3io1la-Iogla-Kign.            2201        13     147        3    C
Kayvs-Ndies                   2041        15      12        4    C
Rediss4ise                    2042        13      U3        4    C
beMW                          lit         11      95        3    C
huwdaToebuttm                 2312         U      97        4    C
Tubsuctesula-rIe u gra        2321         3     145        4    C
Iudaka-landslaara-Ku          1152         3     137        3    C
Mibia-Ieia-latsdagu           1022         7     173        4    C
Kati-S dkwo                   2131         &     107        4    C
Kayslt  alafars               2011               1 159      4    C
sallbm-Kita                   2131         &       3        4    C
Dialafuar-UjUiwou             2012         A      37        4    C
hdqou-lua                     2221         3      U         3    C           a3
Nudiua-Iai.g.-hlue.            1032        5      97        4    C           9
Acc  IbNrtali                 *.c.      R.a.      40        2    C
Stotala                                      2123      3.4               247
twal,  tawl hwlt                             U2          3               53
Sewag  etats eitb priject                              2.7



-  27 -
The Priuity Nutvwkt                                Palo 3
table 3 - Prnot Status and Propod Project lhks - Earth Roads
a/      1/ Priodic
Ref.rMce Traffic  Length  Statue  Raint.   Neia.t.I
Itinirwy                sectium   (193)                   Cateory  Ihla.
IADTI    (km)                      (km)      CifENT9
Tiaribougwa-Didinl            1034       37      64             D                 aI Euth Rods
& Trackit
64
Statue
Kita-Ijidiam                 2121        17      14       5    E                    -
DJidian-Korakoto             2121        17      %        5    E                  3 Fair
Rl-Uf ha                     3561         0      25       3    E                  4  Por
IidieniDiua                  1034        16     327       4    a                  5  Very Poo
Dim-liorO                    1034        16       9       4    E
llhrK-Kakole                 1011       1i       93       4    E                      balitMunce Catqory
Kuubore4oKkoata              2091        12      70       5    E
Kinisba-Koshorma             2091        12      55       5    E
ankhos-Iukwo                 2271        11      s0       4    E                  I  High levOl (AIT ) 20)
akUe-SOdwe                   202         10      46       4    E                  E  LO Intl  (4    ( 201
afOuIabe-le O                2081        10     112       4    E
namba-3Doron                 2143         8      49       4    E
SOea-rhrme-hUrin             2322         8     184       4    E
Koro-Dirkima                  1153        0      32       3    E
wour"-&fis                    1192        7     195       4    E
Kitb-ToukOto-Sefito          2111         5     160       4    E
Klta-Froutier, Iiin          2101         0      76       4    E
Ansefi-Kidl                   1193        4     150       4    E
K1dal-TiaztNt                 1194        0     202       4    E
Sadare-im                    2071         3     135       4    E
Nie-IOpal                    223       nas.    195        4    E
ampala-Niafouke              2234      n.a.     223       4    E
Taal-d nara                  2302      na..     106       4    E
Doutza-Taal                  2301      n.a.      52       4    E
Smunda-iafaU ke              2235      na.       a        4    E
h ara-uuru-hrOUS             2303      n.a.     15        4    E
9abtatal:                                   2925
Total  Erth bade                            299        4                 0
TTIL PRIORIT        I m                     g90                       117
Sm    t    ,   164
WTI
April 19



- 28 -
Annex 2-4
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Fund Revenues and Expenditures
Past Performance and Forecasts, 1985-1990
Purpose of the Road Fund
1.        Since 1971, road expenditures in Mali have been financed from
a Road Fund (RE). Clearly separated from the general budget, the RF is
administered by the National Directorate of Public Works, and receive
its revenues from an earmarked portion of taxes on transport fuels
(gasoline and diesel). The RF is surposed to cover ti) road maintenance
expenditures including equipment renewal; (ii) minor urban street
improvements; (iii) local counterpart funds for road studies and
investments; and (iv) the debt service on loans for roads.
Level of Financing and Allocation of Resources
2.        Nominally, annual  RF  revenues  have  been  increasing  from
CFAF 0.7 billion in 1971 to CFAF 2.7 billion in 1983 or at about 71 p.a.
But with annual inflation rates averaging about 10X over the same
period, revenues have in fact declined in real terms. Road maintenance
expenditures as a portion of RF revenues have fluctuated between 35Z and
55Z, with the highest shares in the 1978-1980 period.   Since 1981,
counterpart funding needs for new investments (Sevare-Gao road) have
risen sharply; but for the support of routine maintenance activities
under the Association's ongoing Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project,
road maintenance would have had to be reduced to unacceptable levels.
Even with this project, maintenance expenditures as a portion of total
road expenditure have declined from about 24% in the five year period
1974-78, to around 18X for the 1979-83 period (Table 1, Road
Construction and Maintenance Expenditures and their Financing,
1971-1983).
3.        From 1971 to 1982, local counterpart funding for investments
and road maintenance have accounted for some 90Z of RE expenditures,
while debt service requirements were negligible. The situation began to
change in 1983, when debt service requirements increased by 76% over
1982, from about CFAF 290 million to CFAF 515 million. Even steeper
increases will arise in the next three years, until debt service
payments stabilize at around CFAF 2,700 million annually from 1987
onward.  Unless additional sources of re-enue are found, RF receipts
will thus be barely sufficient to cover the debt service on past
investments, leaving no funds for maintenance, let alone new



- 29 -
Annex 2-4
Page 2
investments.   (Table 2, Development of Debt Service Payments  to be
Covered from Road Fund Revenues, 1982-1990).
4.        To correct the situation and ensure that at least essential
maintenance operations for safeguarding the most important links of the
existing road network continue to be carried out, several alternative
courses of action suggest themselves. One would be to free the RF from
its debt service obligations on past road investments and integrate them
into the overall public debt service. This could be 4ustified in view
of the fact that well over 70% of total taxes (import duties on vehicles
and spares, licenses, taxes on freight vehicles and on insurance, fuel
taxes) levied on road users accrue to the general budget, while only
about 45% of the taxes on gasoline and diesel fuel accrue to the RF.
However, the general budget itself is deficitary and the country has
experienced severe problems on its general debt service, which have
already resulted in the temporary suspension of disbursements on a
number of ongoing credits and postponement of new ones. No relief could
thus be expected from shifting responsibility for the debt service to
the general budget. (Table 3, Revenues from Road User Charges by Source
and Fuel Consumption (Total and Taxed, 1974-1983).
Revenue Requirements and Potential Sources
5.        Since additional revenues must be found, and since there are
few or no alternatives to raising them except from road users, 4t would
seem preferable to have the additional revenues accrue directly to the
RF, where they will be (and seen to be) used to pay for past upgrading
and present maintenance of the priority network. Given the relatively
high sensitivity to transport costs of the prices of basic staples and
essential imports in a vast and landlocked country like Mali, it will be
important that the additional taxes be limited to the strict minimum
required to cover unavoidable road outlays. To do this, a series of
coordinated actions by Government and foreign donors will be required.
First, to avoid the recurrence of large revenue shortfalls in the
future, it is important that investment planning procedures in the
transport sector are improved to achieve a proper balance between
investment and maintenance and to avoid uneconomic investments.
Development of Mali's transport investment planning capability will be
supported under the proposed project with technical assistance to ONT,
and Government has agreed to prepare annually and adopt a multi-annual
program of road transport investments satisfactory to the Association,
which follows economic criteria and takes into account the road
maintenance capacity and the country debt servicing capacity. Given the
Road Fund's precarious financial situation, it is imperative that Mali
in the near future not accept any financing for roads or road transport
on non-concessionary terms and with short repayment periods.  It may
even be worthwhile to explore if obligations for debt servicing could be
attenuated by rescheduling debts on past road investments, notably
Sevare-Gao, so that the amount of revenue to be raised through
additional taxes may be reduced somewhat.



- 30 -
Annex 2-4
Page 3
6.        Second, to help compensate the adverse financial situation in
the short term, it is necessary that maintenance expenses be reduced to
the minimum required to facilitate essential traffic flows. This would
be achieved by (a) concentrating maintenance on a priority network; (b)
reducing maintenance on unimproved tracks and on non-essential earth
roads; and (c) implementing rigorous measures to raise equipment
availability and improve overall efficiency of maintenance operations;
all of these actions are being pursued under the project.
7.        Third, revenues will need to be raised to the point where they
will at least cover the debt service, essential routine and periodic
maintenance expenditures, as well as counterpart funds to ongoing
investments. Given the size of the revenue gap, this may be done over a
four year period.  The overall increase required is from a current
revenue level of CFAF 2.3 billion to more than CFAF 5 billion annually.
8.        During negotiations, Government has agreed to increase tax
revenues directly and automatically available to the Road Fund (i.e.
without recourse to special budgetary transfers) sufficiently to ensure
that the Road Fund's revenues cover debt service and maintenance
requirements in the highway sector (i.e. CFAF 28,950 million over the
period January 1985 to December 1990 corresponding (in rounded figures)
to CFAF 28,059 million of expenses over the period plus CFAF 920 million
of Road Fund deficit as of December 31, 1984.  Table 5, Local Cost
Implications of Proposed Road Sector Investment and Maintenance
Strategy:  Road Fund Expenditures and Alternative Revenue Scenarios,
1984-1990,  and  corresponding  graph).   The  following  are  already
allocated to the Road Fund: (i) the revenues of the existing fuel tax
(estimated at CFAF 13,500 million over the same period); (ii) CFAF 700
million transferred to the Road Fund on May 8, 1985; and (iii) CFAF 500
million  scheduled  to be  transferred  by project  effectiveness.   In
addition to the foregoing, Government has decided to allocate directly
to the Road Fund:  (a) revenues collected from the Droit de Travers6e
Routiare net of collection cost.  These currently amount to CFAF 250
million annually but its coverage will be extended to the whole paved
network by December 1985 and thereafter, they are expected to amount to
CFAF 300 million annually (corresponding revenue estimated at CFAF 1,500
million over the same period); and (b) increased fuel taxes to be
collected from road users from August 1985 or January 1986 onwards to
generate additional revenues of CFAF 12,750 million over the same
period.  Government has appointed an  Interministerial Committee  to
determine, inter alia, the exact timing of the increase in the fuel
taxes earmarked to the Road Fund and whether this increase would be more
appropriately combined with:
(i) savings in the fuel import bill through renegotiation of
supply contracts. By simply changing the source of supply
for some 25,500 t of gasoline and 8,750 t of diesel oil
to take advantage of ex-refinery price differentials -
between Abidjan and Dakar - savings of the order of CFAF
1.7 billion on a total ex-refinery import bill of around



- 31 -
Annex 2-4
Page 4
CFAF 17 billion for these two products might have been
realized in 1982 (Table 6, Fuel Price Structure for
Different Origins of Supply and Destinations of End Use,
and Table 7, Potential ravings on Fuel Imports by
Switching Supply Sources).
(ii) reallocation to the Road Fund of fuel taxes now allocated
to other sectors of the economy;
(iii) an increase in the pump price of gasoline and diesel
fuel; or
(iv) some combination of the above.
The  Committee  is  considering  the  following  options,  which  are
satisfactory, for the increase of CFAF 12,750 million in the fuel taxes
to be collected from road users over the January 1985-December 1990
period and earmarked for the Road Fund:
(a) a single increase which should provide CFAF 2,430 million
of additional annual revenues if implemented by August
1985 or CFAF 2,550 million of additional annual revenues
if implemented by January 1986 (Table 5, hypothesis B;
this increase in fuel taxe of CFAF 28.4/liter of gasoline
and CFAF 20.0/liter of diesel corresponds to 10.9% of the
April 1985 pump price);
(b) three increases to be implemented by January 1986,
January  1987  and  January  1988,  respectively.   Each
increase should provide CFAF 1,060 million of additional
annual revenue (Table 5, hypothesis C; each increase in
fuel taxe of CFAF 11.81liter of gasoline and CFAF
8.3/liter of diesel corresponds to 4.5% of the April 1985
pump price);
The Committee has been asked to conclude its study by June 1985.  Its
recommendations will be incorporated in a plan of action. The adoption
by Government of an IDA approved plan of action is a condition of credit
effectiveness.
9.        The project would cover RF revenue shortfalls in the early
years by disbursing its contribution to routine road maintenance costs
at a higher rate in the beginning, and by financing 100X of essential
periodic maintenance. A year by year breakdown of routine maintenance
expenditures over the project period and by source of financing is in
Annex 3-1. para. 4.
Liquidity of Funds
10.       Assuming that the volume of RF revenues can be raised over the
period of project implementation to a level sufficient to cover



- 32 -
Annex 2-4
Page 5
essential maintenance and debt service on past investments, there
remains a second problem to be resolved: that of the liquidity of Road
Fund revenues. Over the past ten years, a rising share of RF revenues
(42% in 1974 and 92% in 1981; in 1982-83, RF liquidity improved due to
IDA's contribution to routine maintenance expenditures;) has been in the
form of checks drawn on Mali's Postal Checking Service (PCS) which has
not  been  liquid  for  many  years.   This  has  affected  spare  parts
acquisition for road maintenance equipment and contributed further to
the already considerable technical problems in equipment repairs. IDA's
contribution of 40% to the routine maintenance budget under the ongoing
Fourth Highway Project has provided the liquidity for covering a major
part of the foreign exchange costs of routine maintenance, but this is
only a temporary palliative and Government action is required to correct
the problem at its source.
11.       In fact, the problems of PCS, which affect the majority of
public sector operations, have been the subject of repeated discussions
between the Government and Bank/IMF missions over the past five years.
Their solution is an important part of the ongoing efforts to promote
comprehensive economic reforms. Injection of some CFAF 3 billion into
the CPS from an IMF Standby Credit in 1983, in conjunction with the
freezing of a similar amount in CPS funds held by various public
institutions (CFAF 0.75 billion by the Road Fund alone) was expected to
make the system solvent, but managed to do so only partially (for small
private investors who were able to withdraw amounts up to CFAF 250,000).
It did not, however, suffice to restore enough confidence in the system
to promote significant volumes of new deposits.  The Government has
engaged a consultant under Credit 1200-MLI (Second Telecommunications
Project) to recommend an action plan for putting the postal service on a
sound financial footing, including measures to liquify the PCS.
Measures being considered include separation of the accounts of
telecomunication, postal services and the PCS; restriction of Treasury
access to PCS funds; strengthening of financial staff of the postal
service; and use of counterpart funds generated under the Public
Enterprise Project for, inter alia, payment to the PCS of funds borrowed
from it by Treasury. At negotiations, Government has agreed to make the
adnption of a plan of action satisfactory to the Association, a
condition of effectiveness for  the  present  project.   The substantial
contribution of the project to costs for routine maintenance under the
Fifth Highway Project would ensure that PCS problems will not jeopardize
the realization of project objectives in the early years of project
execution.
WAPTI
June 1985



EM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ET
LE mLE    LEEm)M                                                                              ilu
19f        19                                   3*1                    3jm           1                     112
Ji*ii                                  its 2                                                                           146 3s   37 2    1114
|t  b t             157                      ISO          ale9       75 36                   1223         -.                                                      71.873
151                                     125 *                    3          3 1 13                             27          1 m  1N .                3,,o"
____"t"                       .;           ;. *il       ;, I7I *.i            ul         11*         tl          la  ;;       1*          tl'        a12.          ::.    s11
3. gIJ.                                                                                                                                                                                         w
OS Shims rot ImyosimeS           (340)      41,1)        (1,0)9)           ) VA .)           (1.136)    J1.145)    (2119)        (1.6Th)    (1,4A)       (,243)      (2.,25)     (2,1,),
nElk                             ii         1.32 t23                  4,M         *,3*        1.6         L3 m 9.- 3                                       144       II-     21.11
fee last. slue attest.)             3.6         30.6         41.          11.4        3.0         21.     S                 .6       11.4        11.11        1.6        46.6        3.1
NIaltbtaea   bpalteri    8                                                                             U.111 18.7 10.5
S of total bpadIAtur.a              3.13         14.9         35.1        35.          ..4          4         2.6         22.3       111.2        21.1        3.           611.
total    e                          Go. .         *41                     46.8        11.9        11.6         1.2        82.1        12.2       fN.3        87.1        82.8  U       .
*  Iml"t   Iratnb EI   y( amos e) Pnsjet_t eapnibroa
ng NaSi jolmad th Uset AftIti            e baste zim to J   136I . 111tibt , t4he I 'ili    "-CI  NO ths 331i   rfm  ow). I n   6.5 02r7.
kimses  5lp,   uhss,  ril J96                                                                                                                                                           go
UA    1F                                                                                                                                                                                m
oefr1964



- 34 -
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ (i  N                                      2LI
.m       1m7          197           376         1377         1373        137        360       3.1       1982       193
2w._
ZWosNWses .                                                                                ,
vehicle. * Spates      1,623      3.061        2.23        2.540        2,26        1.975      2.Loo       a1a        u/a        u/a
_.u6s vehIcles       1,45/        I60I~ /      L.760"     1.340           ale       203"' R   2.315 a   2.470 a   2.600 a/  2.860 /
Vehiler *egiesgaules   134          222          263         2U           53           347        403       379        43         475
Tams _ fuel 
Te m    f cle        2.30         2.066        _1_2a         .93A       3.26         I 3.mV 554            6-.352   -3.8s       4.521
2DEA           5.775        6.949        7.313        ?."I1al                 10.719     11.136       old       MIS        Isa
-~ ~ -                -"    -                   -        -                                 -
ba   dUCi-~          -1
2.3         _ 2,0_                   2.M3.        3.296       3. 2       LOU        4*320      6.013     6.2_5
Petnl dho. go          978        1.026       1,110        1.507        2.730        2.787      4.573      3.96     ** 4.129 at
b_  depet"           1.330         .040        1.315       1.604          566          513        495       354      1.527      2,11V
Z of eeip. I IC         42           30                       32           U3            4         *0        92         75         6
Flamm reflect _sutuihtim of 10' Poeub 3isby    Ocet  etol ed  O(Z of testn  Teed_ o.Lumsn   epoudicue )
Fuel   metal  d tamed  f~ Road tocles. 1974-198
.  r3s3.3                          96.6          2s IS.3                126.2        140.9      146.0     130.2      122.2      126.0
31 s       _ 314y                                -7           ,rS    -vr. 71:v    -:11   -
41.04     32.0         37.7         40.3        43.6         47.2         53.3      5M.2       51.4       48.2       47.0
.erlI l110ruoo(Ii  4.0          16.0         9.2          3.3          9.5         11.6        3.6     -10.3       -7.7         1.4
3. tousd           a, 62.8         69.1                     99.2        11.S         103.7      134.6     105.7       92.3       93 1
dieu3     21.9         25.3         36.7        34.2         30.3         35.2       S1.S       30.3      33.3       26.6
yearly iacroeo.   -9.0          10.0         40.9          1.3        12.2         -6.5       31.7     -2.6       -12.7        7.3
a *prct of A         76           72          87           as           IU                      94        3I         76         e
a/ N   .t3 vvicleo   d _ta L.t2. asv of psuli eawisee are eumuted St   fuel tmo.
Ceolo               110          110          165         I30         10           200        315       430
120                                                            230        350        520       520        520
Dhgool               30          110          110         130          130          130        250       325        365        365
90
lEM s  ault 1.     tIle 11s AfriEs oinaww Wei.to Jaw 1384.  ue thou. the cmtly'e cud.oay -  the Natias IWaac (HQ). I HF K   0.5 CrFA.
S_erct Uuleual Twassc  Office  (COW. Wv  1s"
bwAebw 1384



- 35 -
14U40W _  .....,-  ,3W,
Tols   vs11        fD.  saft  VW   -      "~Ii I nI.-   ft    a" rod.-lm
CndtdW           S-           .a" to 6                                     mm         un    aM                am          No            NW           1111         AM
41ASILOIll  OJS             I~~~           2.17        3.4        25.9?7       3A.         35~           35.33        am3          34            .
3.            am 3  0.1t5                                 3.6                  mm           U.0          3*A          35M *l                                 W
Ow_#|_ ^ 1|~~~~~~~~IWl                                                                        6T          ufs          ex            IQ           am           am  I_E  *1
_,~31                       1     U          *                                                                           5.3          52s .45       51.3         5337        3.              3
mr*  sam.e                                                 0           Amt:             .-        a."        V"           3.0          731           37            9m         13           29A
OE                    gam            0X .73                     1~.             MX  X.0    &W    D JIn                          M.X     7      X           "A          2
9.3141o        0.1            -0          A.3                                                                           13.'         40.3   411               40 .3
__43. aunt                  17.A0.          0.7s 1                       lu.            0.4        L9        231.         42.52       SIlS          s53.          S3A4        51.3         53.
LSO 133                             333.        34*       23.3         23.3        SL1             3*         3.            3.9
a    lll_-X -                 Va.=            n m3 .                                    o.*          .         A.          Om           0.13          o..s         .eM         0.3          am
J34e 7%4. *r                    e           L              3            mm.            1J         I1.5        34.77       3?.7.   1                   4.7  t1437  3G.4          .7         PU.T
1_1b-                         L.            0.13                        low.            3.37       L21       ZI.A           .          3117          24.3s        24.          236           4.3
___tci                             L.W3            00 .75      3 .               -          92        3  13        .          27.15                       5u3
*     m iud"                   El           3.10           3           m .                -             _    -- -            _            ____
23111                                       3.m                                           - -W                                         1
3*34        43              344        N.75       13 n          .11         "3.2          71.7J        17.23       34u2.2       130
Low
*"o 1 "de. _tdpm      2.23.           2 ad                       bo.            2312        a         a.      m 33  3           3.3           3.           331          33.n         29)
me           3              40          AMn.                   *      -         -            -    --.32    '           . _3.22                   .3           x1
-m.~  7.                     1.33a  .  IA0.5                a           hMW.            2.4        GM         I3AM        34.91         9.34         37.13        3.1          33.3         I 32.
21 a7%4919                     of.                                                                   -       *-W         I3.n 7       113.11        1.1111       1N101        own          33.1
3mwd  4W                                                       m           JEW    mm    EN                                     mm -
mi;ws"               ~~4.mk.0        2 d            am          law.            32.4       1231       73.311       3.17        311.32        305.2         3.2         93357         77.73
1344234430                         5        S                     n       t.              -                     -        13.41        13.42         232a45       1.4          13.3   u      92.n2
sa             i3    I                   N    1                  N            W          U            WIN    mm    INN1
nEd3Is                                                        hU.             43.4       3.3        OA          334          3N11.3         49.172      145.A       I332         32.3wn
'_   D3.3.IXI3 to                                                      AM.              1.     -                -        34.          139.9          7.57        32          3J1.1        20.219
AW OVAin                                                              lMK                        3           N         UN            U            E               N          t
3313.93-3gma                  33zMI                                    mm                                       -            -           -          211.31       213.33      211.3b       213.35
__s33         D      - . -                   2             D           L.               L42    wig    3.12    1"M                      A1.17         IaIJ   4.2               45s J A
M3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E                                          .          lW           mm            mm    _       D   17                 Y? -2 72A7 2
11__M111bild                147J33.73        2              35         1m.              4.          15         .16        2.03         19t3          37.         3.L           12          3A
W     1314 -3m              S. ML                                        a '-                                               -          4.1.3       1311.57       111          333         33.3
_I 3 I                      12.45  37.33  9.13    1LA2        421              .31       491.45       411.14      ;.".1I
Ilm4                         .4                                       tm.             43.1J    *    21      Am           74.37        13.0           m.  1o.05               12.31        54.30
I 3      .                 41                                      3m.               -          _          -         319.311      139.73        339.23 111.3              13..3       119.13
_1161101)    15. ad           33            m.            LO         3*         ;.l3         4.3          54S           4.3          1.3          2.3         3.97
__-ME                          K             3D 3 .                                       - _                 7.1         min          210           23.0         24.4         2.          33
W               33                                  212 13JL 11 55.27    71.2        1.13.1      31,47.19      2.J1         274LA        29.7        27433
.1  _,s _19                                         110  , 111.  233.5    42          312*,        13.12        3.1.3        L.94         1.411        1 3
_~ :W                                                     4 e                    15           77            79           79           79    7r
me. _.  1_ M



-36 -                                                       24
nFrm    lfAT "Oen"c
TsI. *: Frecs  D _t Isrm t e Usilese-.. leer..: 1545-100
Letbetie   s CeOt Eu Frve _  , Esu sr 13595  (Iltisesmes   et Estreti.,)
(current CrAr .auw  crar WIlIs. cmavtet)
iss       uI'S      19s?      isis       159       1-90
L. dmieterecies,           240       246       230        237       262       213     Adminterretim
UM "  ms5e              -U             m               BY        3e!       To       bEget Dan1 esi
2. Dbet Srve             1         2220       2           60 2*70  2 7W     2.70      Sarvet   i fleic
'  -             ~~T:71     U:Na       !i3W      1.1Wi     tin       Lin1R     nag  tece
. le  reS   Heintesinte     2           917     1434    1L0      11W        Ml 2a0i7 *        -er
-',   s    :     01 10                       2 7       lore tis  aest
IN   t                  t1         -                    _         _         , -      1I
IDA                     421       751        52        53         -         -      IDA V
Swee  .'. Cp.           22         371       329       270        -         -      Coepireti. Sets
4. Relu    t iosme*
*          rd           295_    1 5g2        404       173       34        250     Reem llemest Neifriel
IM" FdW                   tAT          I          X        21!15etstes
A                        93     1.477       341        139        75        -      IDA
isis.                   La        400         -         -         -         -      J.spe
S. TechuIce Aegis rae
mm 5tulsl               354       547        157       722        42       n.s     Age.tfc  Tch, l        t Etdes
am land                 -T         1Y       *N          N          -                   e   senet-
IDA                     39        410       49         442        12                IDA
Odtr                     20        30          0        30        20                AMire(s)
C.    s                    151       285       321        i34       n.e *      .e     rrmtls,
T       -T 1                                             F .-a  -ntsr
Swiss DOs. Ceeperel_ IXO          276        214       130             _           Coepralm Sulem
7. r rtdxl ltru_eeft  of                                                              tntr t;n 15rt & M
7.Fevio lb. tLtassses at
r_-5   5  5  4.                                                                  _ &_ __ __ _ __
ROM   FU"1                                 t_                                      F .  rte   ster
155 <Ss_S              -5-3(Stes-S rl 1.250          1.250                        rv
:0z_ZsD                   ~    ~~- -..L1    D'3                            5ceat-les
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. uns  ito  er
DA                                         1.09      1.05                          KMI
145      39SkseZmus
547        24
r                  tests Su~~atcier
IDt                                         400         24                         ID
FMc                                         0ol         -                          rAC
223       9i4        -         -                             t_Sscu
M*_ -19we                LT   87                                              Fee Rutser
Ia                      1 to      781                                              Tm
vAC                     3a         96                                              tAC
Other Pewd utown
adt 5_sawa 1_" .        77       in         21i       1OS       331       300    Aurre tt.               *ctsgse   t contrOt
El _tla                  -T        IT         T          Is      Ng        so      tOa.
MM                       72       169       1"         L.0s       31        -      tie
9. PertSte Keiutses                                                                  inrerten PvrldW
-D                                          315        173                         ID
*ei hz                           51        4           *^               re_336      i72  62
aD                                          Soo      1.090  S"                IDA
De_r | s.sti- kore5      -        -         495        620                         5emsgu.slS
ns@t Fiat                -        -           H                                    ts rs butter
IDa                                         461        577                         ID
132       4*         -         -
DOS  r-s -              fiT         W        -          -                          ra   lU-
IDA 119                          "9          -DA
-              3         -t rat  butler
7A                                 50       17          -                          TD
Oter Crl let                       -                              00       *00     Autrps   bL te ! MOJtk  oe
h                                            ;~~~~~~~iRi  Ri    rO  buts 
s>r_^                 6.105     bE!7          _                                     Sewsr
20                        ~                          rFos buRtle
earvies Donart         .25       1.150                                              Fl_tuers Dstlure t. fv.a
an F 2             1              O^ und  LM
us5                               961      2.499     2 764                          TM
AlDfW                              3 20    2.230     2.3!6                          rAD
ko -          "so12D                       5545      4 25      3 070    s3 0}0      gkwuih  Font
a~~~~~ ti    2'1                                         3                toss uniter
Smtl                               1o0    5.075      5.725     2.410     2.400      TaS. Sostdl
CIUI  TOTAL   11.535    13.977    21.326    23.114   i0.a5       9.         MM CUS TAl.
*  D  otrector                                                                           A  lenrepvise
D fotrme scet                                                                          ** en risle
ApSiL 1995



- 37 -
4Z24
m1a 5: TL1. Cae malimd    of U. ptand B    smew binut  _ 1b m
S   qr  -amd  md Bmflzomm   *d A1t1=tu Roms SeAd. = 964-19M
omm lacm d a P   p   Imut.r, 195-1990 p m   S1_aa            du
Dep.mm. at PAc     dR  P* F a ,     18d4-1990
19B4  195  196  18P   19W   199   10   1935-0
I. zRomms                   3190  3118 3343  4641  5140  SW29  59          .29       D     m
1.1 Dat SVI                   0   170          200   2670  27    27        14690     Svm de    doCm
1.2  0           o                                                                   Fu   da cam        .
(a) 3Anm ")                 850   33D   368   632   938  13   270          GM       CXma
(b) P-a.le (P)                0    36   154   254   2B8   839   70D        2Z70     B=otum Iha85upm
'C) Bodp       NON            0    14   114    64    35   269   250         745     RMx.L*A M.1.
(d) C. s.tAp     3Iy        530    SD     0      0     0      0     0        SD     Pxt 4uPzoJsmw
1.3        mtP ,                                                                     Pods de C      w.e.
_                                                                               Iamt
() C    _t 5th RV             0     8   257   611   669       1     0      1546     Pit 5. PmJet krt
(b) NukwaUm         {       12      0     0      0     0      0     0        -      NN*Kbo*[_
C.) S    _ua-Cm,            E0   9       220     0     0      0     0      112D     S.m.n-c
Yd) s1oo-6Aa                 10    10      0     0     0      0     0        10     Si_u-satm
(ta) mA.pu4                   0     0      0    10    10    10    10         40       1
(f) Sw    k S        D        0     0    10   470   530   260   260        L530     2u P     _o
U. SaftmmeciWtm
2.1 qMq!_^                                                                           Pgpod4--A
2        9B4 184 1. of fiLl                                                      / G _    o          t at
_m dm m om)                                                                      ism.         1984)
b,m, M.tf tMm_            2640  2950   W0  2Z50  2250  2W0  225        14200         Re.Tmn adm
*1     Daficit         -550  -168 -109  -2391 -2890 -3578 -3740   -13899        Dift Iirl
Omf1ietiv Dfht          42  -108 21B1 -47  -7462 -119 -14779             rA    Dofide Oxnl
2.2  B 
Q1904 siE     a fuel ,m     tlc                                                                CM cmd  _
a sgli I=zumm In Fe  a.i                                                             1981; M M1_
urfui  by _miuy L911C                                                               aud    dw ri     du
Java  1986
Pmmn.  EScSz o          2640  2950  2250  20        o   2250   220     14200    Rins,T;        odtA=
Phin. &wL Towl           -    500  285D  2115D   50 2    80 250  2B50    147UW    Dae        . Thu= S_ wL
Aumi Ddklt              -560   332  1756   459   -40  -728  -90         891      D.fft _-l
OmgnIave Defkcit        920    8    1169  162   158   861   -29                  De t M
2.3     F        C                                                                    Rnx C
(1%94 imi Of fuel axpUm,
dUs l_rmam Iu AMd 9a                                                                 1964; truls aumit
=w4a. in Jiw m  1996, 87 ad 88)                                                      di  nvaa 6z FAs        -
tler am Jaimn 196. 87
et fl)
Pm.   1d1tg Tun   26'0  2950  ZW   2250  2Z    2250                    14250        eUS T PdsttmU
AMM.  WIL. Ms            -    500  L360  2420  3480  3480  380           43        P Tons,    r  9L
Jhnl DefIit             -550   332   266    29   590   -8  -260          861     Difit Aml
CQultlim DaIcLt        -0  -588  -321  -292   298  231   -59             TA      Defict onds
Bi



- 38 -
Annex 2-4
Page 1 1
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Fund
Graphical Representation of Three Hypotheses of Revenues (see Table 5)
Hypothseh A
- Duw_me.
Hypotheso B
HpteSC
Hypothese C
-  o_mI.             mn.



- 39 -
TAle 6:   9ml       Sgumam   o Athut 1133 fw DOfltrl
odwiu aS1I mA Dn-d of Ul
-   3h11[ FrmwWUmr - Trn M. w    -                                        -UWt_ _
.ulwt/Pmdd                                 -01inalAg. et -                                             v
Oc%sa  n=    -*            B        Gm         *             G_ cu.   od      S           -    se       D
of Sam
OVaM at Mm       -   Uk     Ibdi. Cat=m   -*   OdJ. Com - a               W  wnbQ. Cdz   r           w adld
da VM
h.-mflinw          213.10 32.O        -    xaO   292.          -    210.A      170.0     -    22.26 25.0
b        d         p1A.53 3125    211.37 20D.9   2.0    2011   2LX2   1 9   211.91    3.137 MOA4
I * A              23.) 2.6                U."    3.64 )            2919    23.   )           41.911  33.6D 3
I    a                       )'acnqr  560             )  sG^                    )   5
1b  E  in %X1    12,92  170   )            144    17.33             13U      1.3 )             17.) 1  20,.74
_T          tD   _   1.39   1.39      -      1.39    1.39      -      1.39     1.9       -      1.6A5   1.635
l* *         ,11    42 9   47.36     564   ".39   47.36    56.   450          47.36    546^  3DA7  56.32
mtw tadio           255   2.5         -      2.55    2.55      -      2.5      2.55      -      3.O    3.00,
-_ dqo
in U       b        5.87   7.3        3.20   4.5    68        2.96    4.74     4.10     284  5,.0    5.263
a        wpI.m, i.  10.36  10.36     10.3    7.26    7.26     7.26    9.15     9.15     9.15    7.5    7.552
anum g,CO           900   90          9O   7.00    7.0  7,C0   0    8,.0       8.        .00      -       -
dm me of t         292.2  390.6    290.47 274.9   367.19   275,07  2335   265.73   2B7.94  322.306 30LII
lila mm t~
am ad dlauB        102.,  106.3  712.51  73.U    7.41  31.62   31.60    310    3.9   33.97D 31393
Prim  cutx =       115.02  12.06    127.02  16.95  -73.60    1631   29.99    67.75    25.37  -5a.3   -36,53
DWfatial de
sma1 t_            227.71 1.56    229.53  3006   -2.19    89.93   61.6s    99.25    57.06  -2X6  -2.141
SmomaL Cm
w pr              53      532.10  520.C0    Yoo00 365.Q0  365.00   365.00  365.D   3X5.00   3651  .(W  30 e D
Priz7
aM  diffwa bamm-raflmr ad aa.dqpt pr   cindim of                   and  o        ma  (camar to doot.
m. VWt- t.  ml= -  stiad vo2m win 6.. to hid pmailig t a_umEi.
if L'- c     1. pdx di rMpdm  M rsffl=da  tc IJ dCx              fr dfao de frde Mdo *c dc de
Cpm     oPo. wnta. cm, porar ), dJ O-ma d'u   r           m tim. do pn dui  ma pm Um prnd_ 
M1  lama don lit MCI= IcSay Thim in Js  19W.. Well &a  .o .coutx    aam_   -  do rIbI
Fc0m ). I W- 0.5 am.
:I MU fait  I   de l'ndM  maim di 1'Afclqm de 1r)c dwni Is  b de Mu 1934.   ,                       .
Is  wa      o      Aflt l =  IbLtr  (NO. 1 m -0.5 CQF.
S, 193



- 40 -
Annex 2-4
Page 13
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 7: Potential Savings on Fuel Imports
by Svitching SupPly Sources
EconoRiia potentielles sur lea importations carburants par
chiangement des sources de rSvtaillement
(Fuel imports in tons - average 1980-82)
(Importations de carburants en tonnes - moyennes 1980-82)
ex Abidjan           ex Dakar         ex Parakou
Product     Optimal   Actual  Optimal   Actual   Optimal   Actual   Produit
Super          -          -        667        667       -         -      Super
Gasoline    10391      37369     41893      15283       637       269   Essence
Diesel      11965      19195     23765      17013      3408      2930   Gas oil
Kerosene    11049       8714        939      3151       -         123   Petrole
Heavy Fuel  13439       6162       1697      8974       -         -     Diesel oil
Heavy Fuel   2490       2490        385       385       -         -      Fuel oil
Jet Fuel    10748      10316         -         -        -         431   Carbu-
reacteur
TOTAL       60082      84246     69346      45473      4045      3753   TOTAUX
mmUinWinmm.nmW inuinminmininmin..nw mm
= of total   45         63,1      52         34,1        3        2.8   Z du besoin
requirements                                                            total
In order to achieve potential savings of the order of CFAF 1,770 million.
imports:
Bamako Region:  20,000 t gasoline ex Dakar instead ex Abidjan  1.300
2,400 t Kerosene ex Abidjan instead ex Dakar       60
7,200 t heavy fuel ex Abidjan instead ex Dakar   72   "
Seaou/Mopti Regions:
5,000 t gasoline ex Dakar instead of Abidjan    175
6,000 t diesel ex Dakar instead of Abidjan         120
Tombouctou/Gao:    850 t gasoline and diesel ex Parakou instead   43
of Abidjan
(No additional storage facilities required in any of the locations)
a/ Note that statistics on actual sources of supply diverge considerably
between suppliers' data and ONT data; they would need more careful
scrutinizing before actions can be based on them.
Source:  Trans. Energy: Plaaification de l'Energie. Rapport Final.
Annex II, 1984
WAPT1, December 1984



- 41 -
Annex 2-5
Page 1
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary Data on Road Transport
1.        Road transport is by far the dominant mode in Mali accounting
for 90% of total passenger movements (estimated at 1,950 million
passengers-kilometers) and 55% of total freight movements (estimated at
465 million ton-kilometers) in 1983. The road transport industry is
dominated by private operators who handle all passenger transport and
own over three quarters of the country's freight vehicle fleet.  About
25 of the larger operators owning between 10-20 vehicles each are
independent, while some 850 small freight operators and 600-700
operators providing passenger transport, who mostly own up to five
vehicles, are grouped in regional cooperatives. These are affiliated in
a national union (Union Nationale des Cooperatives des Transporteurs
Routier du Mali, UNCTM) which functions as a lobby for transporters'
interests, as their representative in negotiations with Government, and
as a mutual aid organization.
2.        Sizeable truck fleets are operated by a number of state
enterprises for their aon account: the Compagnie Malienne pour le
Developpement des Textil2s (CMDT) transports cotton (200 vehicles), the
Office du Niger (ON) transports grains (100 vehicles), SOMIEX, the
import-export monopoly, has 45 vehicles; OPAM (Office des Produits
Agricoles du Mali) operates about 40 trucks.
3.        With the recent liquidation of the Societe Africaine des
Transports Routier (SAT), state-owned trucking companies have declined
from three in 1975 to one.  SAT was first established as a company
jointly owned by Mali (51%) and Algeria (492) in 1978, but became an
all-Malian company in 1981. Initially established to serve the desert
areas in the northern and eastern part of the country (6th and 7th
Regions) vith imports from the port of Abidjan, it never was equipped
with appropriate vehicles for this trajectory and operated at a deficit
throughout  its existence.   The  fleet of the  remaining  state-owned
trucking company (Compagnie Malienne des Transports Routier, CMTR) has
contracted steadily from some 250 vehicles in 1972 to about 50 in 1978
and no more than 30 vehicles in 1983. As with SAT, its operation has
been deficitary since 1973.
4.        Since late 1983, discussions have been underway with several
potential foreign partners to replace CMTR by a joint venture company,
CITRANS, whose capital would be provided partly by the Government (36%),
partly by foreign and local private sources, who would also provide
management expertise.  A new vehicle fleet (50 tractor-trailers, 15
tanker-trucks of 40,000 liters and 10 large buses) would be acquired on



- 42 -
Annex 2-5
Page 2
suppliers' credits, guaranteed by the state. The Association reviewed
the terms of the proposed venture during pre-appraisal of the Public
Enterprise  Rehabilitition  Project.   It  concluded  that,  given  the
extremely stringent debt service problems of the transport sector, and
given the strenuous financing conditions proposed, the Government could
ill afford to participate in the venture, and IDA has suggested
withdrawal from a project which, if its financial prospects are indeed
as good as shown in the evaluation, should readily find private backers.
5.        Government intervenes in the road transport sector through the
National Transport Office (ONT) which, inter alia, administers road
transport.  ONT handles vehicle registrations and licenses, regulates
vehicle imports (for vehicles of 15 tons and over) to avoid excess
capacity, administers tariffs and establishes road transport statistics.
Above all, it coordinates inter-regional and international traffic
flows: through its regional and international (port) offices (Dakar,
Abidjan, Lome) it centralizes transport demand and allocates it between
cooperatives, independent truckers and state trucking companies in
proportion to their share in total transport capacity.  ONT sees its
role very much as that of a facilitating and service agency to the
industry and has been working closely with transporters to help them
operate more efficiently.
6.        The development of Mali's vehicle fleet in the past decade is
summarized in Table 1.  The statistics are based on annual vehicle
licenses and new registrations and probably underestimate the size of
the fleet somewhat: as vehicle license fees have been increased over
recent years, non-payment of renewal fees has become a problem. From
available figures, it would seem that Mali's fleet has grown at a
moderate 4X p.a., from a total of 19,075 vehicles in 1974 to 27,937
vehicles in 1983. However, significant changes have occurred in the
overall composition of the fleet. While passenger cars, with 62Z and
60% in 1974 and 1983 respectively have retained an essentially similar
share, vans and pick-ups -- mostly for passenger transport - more than
doubled in number and increased their share from 21% to 29%. The number
of trucks, by contrast, actually decreased sharply from about 2,600 in
1974 to 1,800 in 1983. But this reflects a shift to larger vehicles and
an  actual  increase  in  carrying  capacity.   The  same  is  true  for
tractor-trailers, which show both an increase in numbers and a shift to
higher carrying capacity (32 t rather than 24 t tractor-trailers).
Especially during the past two years, a steep increase in the number of
buses can be observed: their number almost quadrupled compared to 1974.
They have been acquired by some private transporters and mostly serve
commuter traffic in the capital. The average age of the vehicle fleet
is estimated at six years.
7.        Overall freight transport capacity of goods vehicles below 15t
was estimated at 6,515t in 1980, that of semi-trailer combinations3 et
10,260t. Over 95% of total fuel transport capacity of about 4,000 m is
provided by  large  tractor-tanker combinations.  Available  transport
capacity thus seems ample to handle inter-regional and international
flows (Table 2, Inter-regional and International Road Traffic Flows,



- 43 -
Annex 2-5
Page 3
1980), especially since one-third of Mali's imports through the port of
Abidjan are by law allocated to Ivorian truckers. However, vehicle
availability is mediocre, and turn-around times on international trips
are very slow; also demand for transports peaks steeply in certain
months of the year, and small truck capacity at present does not seem
sufficient  to handle peak demands of the harvest season.  However,
construction of storage facilities in key locations that would allow
spreading transport demand over a longer period and better utilization
of the existing fleet would be preferable to excess growth of the
vehicle fleet to meet peak demand.
8.        Fleet development reflects a rational response by transporters
to the existing tariff-structure which, being fixed per passenger/km -
or ton/km, favors operation of larger vehicles. Present tariffs are:
CFAF 20/t/km on paved roads, CFAF 30/t/km on improved gravel roads, and
CFAF 40/t/km on earth roads on tracks. This is intended to reflect the
higher cost of vehicle operation on poorer roads, as well as the higher
per ton-kilometer cost of smaller trucks that operate on them. However,
tariffs have not been revised since 1981 and are estimated to be about
2OZ below the cost of vehicle operation even for large trucks on paved
roads. It is becoming increasingly difficult to find operators willing
to undertake the unremunerative crop collection runs in the back
country, where operators have been known to dismantle their engines so
as to avoid being allocated runs on difficult trajectories by ONT.
9.        As  in other countries  in the region, Maliau transporters
compensate for low tariffs by overloading their vehicles, doing severe
damage not only to their own equipment, but even more to the country's
road infrastructure. The question of vehicle weight control is all the
more crucial in view of the fact that about two-thirds of Mali's
semi-trailer fleet has tractors with only 2 axles and already exceed the
legal limit of a maximum 13 ton axle load when carrying a "normal" load
of 30 tons. To avoid severe damage to the road, (which can be 20 times
that of a normally loaded axle), freight should be limited to 24 tons
for such tractors which would make their operation even less economic at
prevailing tariffs. Introduction of effective vehicle weight control
should be urgently pursued to protect the country's (and the project's)
substantial investment in road improvements and road maintenance. But
control can be effective only if accompanied by revisions of the tariff
structure that would provide truckers with sufficient income to cover
repairs and depreciation on their vehicles and gain an adequate
livelihood operating their vehicles with normal loads.
9.        Traffic data are established by the 19 subdivisions of DNTP
through manual traffic counts carried out during two week periods in
January (harvest season) and June (end of dry season) each year. These
surveys also assess the quantities of goods and passengers transported
and establish trip origins and destinations. Analysis of the data is
the responsibility of DNTP, but because of a lack of qualified staff,
data had remained untreated since 1976. A major effort by DNTP and
consultants has permitted to establish sumimary traffic statistics for
the past five years and detailed (section-by-section) results for 1983.



- 44 -
Annex 2-5
Page 4
Traffic counts confirm the picture emerging from fuel consumption
statistics ( Annex 2-4, Table 3). As fuel prices were increased steeply
and economic activity stagnated, traffic has declined from 1979/80 peaks
to a low point in 1982 (volume of imports/exports on Abidjan route by
over one-third (Annex 2-2) and average daily traffic on paved roads by
almost  half   (Table   3  below).    The  more  pronounced  drop   in  vehicle
traffic reflects the increasing share of larger tractor-trailer
combinations in the vehicle park (Table 1 below). The upturn in traffic
volume in 1983, which continues in 1984, is mainly due to higher tonnage
of grain imports caused by two consecutive years of drought.
WAPT1
April 1985
nP7  KhOfDT 9ne03r
Table It f.epom_t of M  Vehicle F1t. 1174n-1983
In   a
*eb1ale Twa           1974        1973      1976      1977      1978     to"       3960     los1     196        1983    2 of 1974
p     Tr Can      a2  l.670   12.l10    13.123    13.933    14.2"    12393    14.207    14.610   16,167   16U6" 60    142
Cm. au Pik-       21  3.         4.360     5.073     4. 99     3.6"     S.3no    6.336    6.687      6.941    6.113 29    206
I.WbA             14  2.620    2.337       2.610     2.623     2.410    1.702     2.401    1.302    1.650    1.797  6      *
Raw ad,ctara       2    406       32        327        461       S04       77      414       422       "       495 2      122
BONeS            0.3    113       170       184       28        171      I4"      214       201      287      41 1.3    36
.S""  vahao.s   0.3       9 e                          126       148      I50 U5              40      130   .j0            33
TOM -          It 073   29,69        21.107    22.410    23.303    m2l2    22.937      -5 27   5 21   27.947 % D00    34
TraLlewi and
Semlera                  419      55316                434       406      30        341      457      753          674   141
*/ Rludm unitary vmhleda.
UaMM*e  1adamal lnrAmpmr 1111M (OUT). Np 1934
rATI
Dech_r 1964



lImT  *1Qm49 PSOJC?
takla 2I l3ter.raeal l  almtearmgtiosal E..d nTffa  Fle .. 1900
(is to"s aud t      . and cm/km.   )NW  3                                           1t/ Ckm
DeaUSALtO1            waitv             uab.,             sih,Aa.          Sageo              Hbggl toosaaCw laver  Coast                                             Other         IsterrosImal    Iatrtatlosal            Total
Olaima               t    elks         t    tl           t    a/tl         t    t4           I    t/l-a        r     t/                 rs         t    tlkm         :    *hla         I    tl           t      la        t    tlrn
0NO     oe       goo    eoN        Noo     N          o oo              eee    ee0        NO    NO         ome      ame      eDe    Noe         Neo    oNe        NO    00o         eeo    No         000    000
I Keyes           11 7  2,313                                                                                                                                                        11.7   2.213      -       -        11.7    2.213
2' limal            0.3    169        6.6    639       14.3  S. 34       9.3  2.115         6.9  4.395        0.2    216        0.1        3    20.7  23.410       0.1    440        43.7  13.1 3    21.3  23.630       13.0   39.043
I  SlMteo          --    --          IS.)  1721         4.      92       3.2    764         *.1  3.046        -      -          --      -        34.4  29.307      0.2    [so        25.2  30.231    34.0  29.481       42.6   3,144
Stso          e0.2    III         9.6  4.646        3.4  2.263       --      -          3.5    Ig5        -      -          0.3      19    3S.7  I.065        0.6    493        15.3   7.428    16.3  IB.S e       33.6   26.004
SKti                -.4  316                            3.6  2.034       0.I    2l2         0,3     30        -      -          --      -        0.9   l,6         0.3    163         6.0   2.97e      1.2   3.32        3.?    4,24
6 Tinbuta           --     --         0.      46        -  U         -       --             0.3     34        0.3               0.4    3I"        --      -         -      -          0.7      275     --       -        0.7       275
1 C.                3.0     3         0.)    --        --           -            --         2.0  1.014        -      -          0.3       26     -        -         3.7  1,229        3.6   1.552      3.7       2*9     3.3    2.161
subtotal        33.2  3,033       11.3 13,362      23.9  9.3*1       33.4  3.201         6.0  61.61I      0.3      23        0.9     242     11.1  73.96         3.. 1,07        101.2  31.1094   71.1  74.494   132.3  3 14.9 0
llrpll.                                                                                                                                           9.1    ,623       -      -          -9.6   9.62-                       9.6    9,623       .
Various -  eo fail at Ouaogel    ItC)                                                                                                                                                                                                      Ul
Various - tetaErn  to I3K)                                                                                                                        4.6   2341                                           C -   24--  4.    4.6    2.1
9.0   9.00             -            -       -        9.0   9.0         9.0    9.000
lIvor Coast                       163.2 202.36_                                                                                                                                                      163.2 202.365   135.2  202.34S
Total Coodo       _33 1 2     13    210.7 I.S1S7      23.9  9.L71        13 4  3.201        .0    !.!1        e -.  221         0.9       42 9I     9 9I33          3.4  2"la7      30.2  3.9              I26   .13000 20.7  33 2
eo  ew        aeeo         e4e   eoo    eo An        e    eDe        eoo /b e          eeo    eeim  a3   Ms /km            eo e3o1o  03               eDeDOe                     eco *eih.  *m   wlila  .1   mih  *  alkee
NO   NO          No  0N0           0oo  NO0    nO  NO                   NO  ON             NO-  NO          NO   NO    NO   nO                  NO   ON0    NO   000  00  ONO    ON    ON
Ahidjo              -       --      1.6 94.5           32.3 10.2111      34.0 39.933       34.6 39.,37        -                 - -- _39.5 3.413    339.3  364,473
ratal..                    --                           -                 --    _-                           _     _ _ -        17.7   0.022       -      -         -    _                   _ -        .   10.022       2.1   10.022
teLal 1.01      __.        -.          .57S 2  5175    12.1 10.2U        34.6 39.-33       3 14   3 9.3?      -       -         7.1   002         -      -          -       --        --             347.2             312^  31
rSawita.  EC  ItessellateU   Im Foaga        sot 3Umean 61in3 *0 58  3962. nma,   aa 9.310
WAMi
Dacaget 1964                                                                                                                                                                                                     7 
u(0



- 46 -
Annex 2-5
Page 6
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 3: Average Daily Traffic by Class of Road, 1976, 1979-83
(N vehicles)
Paved       Major           Feeder Roads and Tracks
Year         Roads       Gravel Roads       Improved    Seasonal
1976          151             32               17           10
1979          313             35               16            7
1980          194             38               18           10
1981          186             34              24            11
1982          164             28               18            9
1983          165             25               14            9
Source: DNTP
WAPT1
December 1984



- 47 -
Annex 3-1
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details on Routine Road Maintenance Operations
1.        Table 1 (Strategie Annuelle d'Entretien Courant) summarizes the
annual strategy for routine maintenance. Each road of the 8205 km priority
network is classified into one of the following 10 maintenance categories:
Type of Road      Level of Maintenance          1983 Traffic   Total Length
Description      Code            (adt)          (km)
Paved                High            RA             220<T          412
Average        RB           100<T<220        876
Low            RC             T<100           596
Gravel               High             A              40<T          305
Average         B            20<T<40          823
Low             C              T<20          2204
Earth                Low              D              20CT          381
Low             E              T<20          2598
NA              F               NA          (4672)
Under Construction   NA               G               NA           (579)
8205
Maintenance operations are broken down into 14 tasks. Annual quantities of
each task as a function of the adopted maintenance strategy, unit costs per
task and total annual cost of routine maiutenance are also detailed in the
table.
2.        Table 1  shows  unit  costs  per  task  (DNTP  and  consultants
estimates) at May 1984 prices while Table 2 shows them updated to January
1985. The tasks will be carried out by the force account crews of the
regional directorates.    DEGP will review  and consolidate the regional
directorates' monthly reports and submit corresponding disbursement
applications to IDA and SDC applying agreed unit costs to actual
quantities. At the end of each year expenses for routine maintenance will
be audited. The audit vill compare actual to estimated unit costs and
estimate unit costs for the following year. The audit report vill be used
to retroactively adjust disbursements made for the corresponding year.
3.        The regional directorates will use the Road Fund budget and
existing procurement and disbursement procedures to pay for inputs for
routine maintenance operations. The inputs consist of fuel (29Z of annual
cost), materials and lubricants (20x), all procured by Local Competitive
Bidding procedures (LCB); non proprietary spare parts (342) procured by the



- 48 -
Annex 3-1
Page 2
procurement agent following Limited International Bidding procedures;
proprietary spare parts (12%) procured by the procurement agent following
direct procurement procedures and salaries (15%) for casual labor
(excluding civil servant salaries which are covered by the Covernment
recurrent budget).
4.        DNTP equipment will be redistributed according to each region's
programed routine maintenance tasks on the priority network, each piece of
equipment being used ideally about 160 days per year. However, due to
logistic reasons for large and outlying regions, the average usage per
piece of equipment will be much less than this ideal ratio.
5.        Table 3   shows  base   costs   and  annual   totals   including
contingencies while Table 6 shows the financing.  IDA and SDC will finance
90% of the routine road maintenance costs (corresponding to 100% of the
costs net of taxes)  for July-December 1985.  Thereafter, the share of
routine road maintenance costs externally financed will decrease (76Z in
1986, 612 in 1987 and 46% in 1988) as illustrated in the following graph:
Routine Road Maintenance
2.                             Financing
1.9 S
1.8 
1.7-
1.6
1.5
1.4-
1.3 
a    1.2-
C
I0.9 
0.8
0.7
0.6
0.5
0.4.
0.3
0.2
0.1
0-
1985             1986              1987              1988
IDA     JMS DC         00Govnt



- 4,9                                 ~                      Annex 3-1
Page 3
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Annual Strategy for Routine Maintenance (in Units per km)
Table-1:   Rratqi* bAstll 3Emtrett   wt-- _
In uwitsu par kt
(afmtsu E"msn-) (  s-a-*ltut N. bwmtmvPu- >u
Clam  u.     )    R NA            IC                 a      C       0       E       F        I     Wat.   frixl tal TaI
LumpiE  _w)         412     176     596     305      123   2204      31    259       467Z     57t          Ubit.  IlIllons FCFI
TKl  Uit  -V--t
11  km           0       0       0       2     1.5        I       I       I        0       0    7033 1740   123.0 urmlag  a . c
12km             0       0       0        I    0.5        0       0       0        0       0     717 137437   9O. S insfliU e -cWct4
13    3          0       0       0      30        0       0 e D           0        0       0e    15029 1        27.3 IhIwpm ts partids
14    3          o       0       o      40       0       20      15      10        0       0  121045    25    313.0 ofW*--tespo
21   .2         90      60      30       0        0       0       0       0        0.      O  1052      2132  231.  Iltol   wtil a Idtun
31    km       !.2     1.1       1    0.3       0.2     0.1       0        0       0       0    2531   19062   4U.2 Crp  fnuu t   raps
32   km        0.      0.6     0.4       0        0       0 *             0        0       0    1094   505   6i.9 ItrKt1m lwr in sa              lmts
33   km         .2    0.16    .L12       0        0       0       0       0                0     294  41430   142.5I *hwpmt di  accotNet
34  gotta      0.2     0.1     0.1     0.1    0.05    L02    0.02    0.01          0       0     37   250000    94.3 Ertin sd  maw n
31  pnuts        0       0       0    0.02   0.02    0.02    0.01   0.009          0       0       4   90712      *.5 Omrirsr im plt.
36  pst      0.04    0.*046   0.04    0.034   0.034   0.034    0.02    0.02        0   0.042     214   17401    24.8 Comptass ratiws
n ite         0.0e    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.o5    0.05   0.023   L.OU                  0     30   3345    12.3 hsig       uti
L.2      0.31    0.31    0.31     0.3      0.3     0.3    0.05       0        0       0    1603      25    40.1  Irodunaillsmt
.3         0       0       9     7.2     7.2      7.2     L.      6.9        0       0   4979      2       13.b Mablqp
-- - a kt    d mo rsts lsillims FCF AI--
m.9041ke            *15     23      1"      405      22S      e5      a7      51        0       4 Lrim  Tutut t     1240.4 pu  km    305 s ttlb         151
bqsstL   m  Par Sddliusiom
(-- -iu aImuuvw  Par Mlan d 'wtrtirrums--                                                 ( --m stitn  w tsOr d'satrotiou--- )
1ms5   NA        RI      R       A       I        c       a       E       F        6                 11       12      13      14      21      31      32       33
laya         I1       0       0       0       0      134     297       0       93     311       0             591       67       0 1s3o          0    S.5         0       0
lita         1?       0       0       0       0        0     l07       0      471       0       0              51        0       0o    50        0    10.7        0       0
1imr.                 0       0       0       0      I1        0     327     256    7I"                     749.5    55.5        0   1195            22.2         0       0
Wish&                 0       0       6       O 0             USl      0       46      55       0             224        0       0402e          180   23.1    2.4    0.72
Kliunsre     21     34        0      14    146       20m      s        0       40     307       0           702.5   247.5    4310   15600   3150   519.   232.4  70.
blok.l       22       0       0       0      77        0       0      64        0     764       0             21        77  2310  4040           0    23.1        0       0
iCila        23       0       0       0      40       0      267       0      195     112       0              52       if    I20 Iona           004.1            0       0
sikuo        31       0     202      166       0      44      5        0        0       0       0              124      22       0    2920  1710   402.s 117.1  52.2
loatlala     32       0      73     216        0       0       0       0        0       1       0                0       0       0       0 129o       3036.3 5SL2        46
hqmi         33     1i        9       0        0      16     393        0       0      49       0              422       I       0o    009 3016 5.1             8.2  1.0O
USw.         41      42      15       43      42     170       0        0     221     121       0              567      27    1      10760   16770   363.5   169.1  45.51
Su           42       0      197      61       0      46       o                0     120       0                       23       0    to  140 365  62U.  14L2.6 3.1
Solareo       1      13      III      0        0      59     212        0     137     12       51            37.5    29.5        0    7970   7330   170.7        77  20.36
mza          52       0        0       0       0       0      t5        0     315     13      350              311       0       0o40             0 e    5        0       0
6u           61       0        0       0       0       0     195        e     537     73      171              72        0       0    97o         0  19.5         0       0
hlmus        62       0        0       0       0       0     112        0       0     395       0              112       0       0    2240       0    11.2        0       0
Tuuhc t      71       0        9       0       0       0     242        0     i4      IN        0              426       0       0           540 4 3.1          5.6   1.44
air          72       0        0       0       0       t      35        0      u      125       0              123       0       0    130         0      .3       0       0
otui->              412      176     5n      305     023    220      391    293    4612       579           7057.5   7I5    9150  121045  1om    2530.5  19i  294.00
Totlitp-)           (<-    1i                (we    332   -          -       291    I-       52l
Grad * l *        13456-
WAPT1
April 1985



MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 2: ROUTINE ROAD MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS
Detailed Cost Table
tlel dl    Cnt                          ....................Patter .
......   ........................  -       .   Unit Cost  ........................................ C  t. For.    Gro ss             w
U115 tll5  gas        tuu          163    nn    total         WartFI     tU51   slag        I   1141 f legal    Itato  lth. loe   late  -cousl
21%821222   Rosette*   massanRanges ges  2          3332 sa. 33313  RI13.3V3222  3           U
1. 11WCURNOT  MIS
............... 
1110-ky   dI-                                        2. 3 .51    7.033       7.038      1.034    -       24.633      16.316      43    303    321    313    -   1. 12         0  0.41       0.1    rslA
1   e0 ScediqCmst1iq                               31t.           1 7r       17          711    -    2.750g.5    '51 .25       114    143    16      261    -       1        0  0.45       6.1    1181
1I3@-spot Ssgcaio rv t            e*I  latw          4.175       91,10      1,150       1.s       *     31,625        . 3303     3   137        71      7            241       0  0.4s       0.1    Hi
1140*tat.cllt  PuIc g             eihl motr   so. .22. s    121.041    121.045    121.045    -  423.n. 1..55  233                       171    S31    my    -   1.56           e 0  0.45     0.I    1131
1110-S Ite n Peteltnpq            e1re eter    13.760    101.S20    101.120    101.520    -    315,320               2.384      2U      570    614    M8       -    . 15       e 6  0.45     o.I    1131
Hmmraien.t  Clu                         I. km       155.5  5     2.31       2,531       2.531    -    15.           21.111       se    its    128    ts3       -     441       0  0.e        0.9   61*1
tI?0-Shouldsc bifitreal1                               547       t.094       1.094       1.014            3.329     SI. 714      It      53    154    1le      -     VYA       0  0.45       0.1    mrII
1150-3tIlord. blgrasllfq                in             f47         24          214        214    -        1.01    136, 7        1I    3S1     231    400    -   I.62          0  0.4S       0.1    KM4
IlS.-rldp  NslWf ta, e                 unit           10          380         380         310            1.330    27110         110    13o    s21    III    -        I1       0  0 4        0. I    KIll
IE00*Iuln laurIe.                      poet             45          92          n2 n9             -         321    100.102        10     21      22     24    -       16       0  0.41       0.1    vial
1l10-fralfIeCowtg                     out              142          64         234         234    -         64      se5.3s       2f       1     66      it    -      227       0  0.45       0.1    slag
224-load,  tIe                         uit             Its         330         330         330             . * 155  43.0 0        ts    32       34      1    -      It?       0  0.45       0.o I   Ola
I23::Verlstf1otCleP{rfr           "Wee aer,  WI.150  1. 603.100  1.5603.00  I.o02* 00                s.6136so            25      45       o    106    its    -       367          0.45       0.I o.ll
124  Samd Clearing                e4lfe vater       is.000      50.0G0 o     0.000      o.0 e O         15e,000         30n      Ie      34     if      n      -     is        0  0. 45      0.6 t   ira
Total ateustful COSTS                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... ...... ...... .... .......
*etel NCllPltUtU  00115                                                                                                           1.423b  J      2.09J  2.5J 5    *   11.34
Toalst   221133  s32t2e 223322    llat33 s
Total                                                                                                                               .43 5 2.616  3.1  2156    -  11.343
..................................................................................... ................................................. 0*.....................................k...
April 3. HIS113                                                                                                                               3  32              33
em



MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 3: ROUTINE ROAD MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS
Detailed Cost Table
Irgahia gF ol. lohuIrl. C.1
bin Costs                        Teotl  I"l3di,il Co"1          ltrte"p 1               Irgl..elwudI,Cru tirel                                 -- -------.
terI^F rnilirnl                             tcarl 71I uIon                                   p eis     Itoes I
;ga5 is;e gag    ;  ;u 88 igee    total   igs   t2e    toio    it"   lios  total         1o8s    lis6    ily?   i8ii Is"  Vtot          For. Ewch. 1last ls ints   Totalu
.      .      
"I0-Dry SCading                       8      13      136     136    -    417    1        148      IN     113    -    551       13    302    317    213 -m. nn                         1    484        11t2    1. 1
l1I2O-Ungrrr e      tIno               51     10t      109       0U38 5U                    III    121    13     *    441       114    243    262        lo     -      Is            413    388         lo       "I
3*Se" het           Ilng                S      3I      30      30   1*        6    IS       33     31 U8    -    I1I              22      ST      12      i8            244           III    107         21      14!
lt4O-1 re   tct                       11h3    247    34?    341          1. 214   17      316    407    440    -  1.402          263    I1    II3t    81r             2. M2         1.344   1.232      1261    .862
1150-51t PathI                        122    116    2156    g6                    131 -1          301 271         -  1,021       268      1,0    @14    la       *   1.11 ts         I       II        tl2   2.11
IIU  0r.Iezwg  CleanIg                 27      13      53      U      *    Is?    21       58      13      t      -    21e        16    fi1      120    II$    -        441           207     Igo        44      441
I1?0-lheIiallrf Palnlantesa            34      *t      so      *      -    240   32    1is         oI      A      *    211        12    153    I64       ITS   5-                     166    244         ST      58
II O-Shaqld., lagr r wltlng          7t    In        IU       5s5    *    55U     *       IIm    ISS    200    *    5           151    35U      311    408      -   1.302            oi1     561       130   1. SW
l1to 0Iidp  Muintenance                52     101     @1O    01       -    38    54       II    124    133             42       110    1234    21         2    IN -    an            406   324          IT      so
tI2O-1iI n r erl                        S       I               5     -      32     1       10      11      12    -       7       to      21      n2      24    -        is            35      33         0        is
1210-r^affIe Ceimo                     14      is      28     2ii    *       6      14     20      22      25           III       is      SI      48      It    -       217           107      so        21      127
1220*.d sign,                           1      14      14      14    -      50       1      II     17      1s            5I       1i      31      34      3?    *       Iof            5s      50         It      oil
Il2OTe0:   etaiIn ClarIeg              22      44      44      44    -    155    23        45       1      550   1*       0       4*      I2     106     III    *     361             ll      IUs       327      26
1240I Ird ClIa..rt                      a      I       Is      is           52      a       Is     Is       15 It                 Is      34      36      31    -       In             55      54         12      In2
aOtsl  tfCUltElT COSTS                   ur I 1374  1.34  1,.74          -  4.811    104  1.461  1.514  1,142            5.118    1.48  3.0"6  3 .3  3,516    -  t11.43                S. 32S  4.823    1. 134  1.43
got .T....a,sesa 0.0... --,l                                           :                                            ... S.f ..:sx*s stags ssasost *ssseaias 8.2, S.  *; *..... *so :;Ise""  
*I8 U6    .314  1. 314  1.314                                           -  4.*11   104  t,4?  1.614  1, 143    -  1.551   1,438  3 056  3,193  3. 54    -  11.343                     5.325  4.883       1. 134   1.343
*t 3. 181s :1e6                          s      s assail gave.. ..wX.U goes   's*   *g            m a   &*note ||        ss                                                             'ws
. .. ......................... ............................................... ................................................................. .............................................. ........................................ .........
".l 3. a 1269 11: w



MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 4: ROUTINE ROAD MAINTENANCE OPERATIONS
Detailed Cost Table
.pqi.dtw.g  by UlMiclefs
n1S I meol
Totls ml       dfn 1nti1pofs                 ............................................................................
.................................. ......  ............................................... ..... ..... 2.............................. ......................................................... ......  .................... .................
lS5 ife    Itol      Ill"   lst total         t   li esI    IIII?    It"    1lUs  Ttatl    115lis    stay Ilea le Ss total    IMe  Ims   1SOo                Islse  2u  Ttal 
*..  s..,      essE  m ii: 2::::: 22212 ts22:2  atgs agates  lasshll  *Ias masst: %laES  ..hS as E- So lE sa                  l!  Begoel  mevill Esil           Saigon Seel *     1s $*1 1s
I. liwulult costs
..............
111e-Ity giadlg                            143      241     322      353      -    1.121      6       15 1532          108     -     41       42    11    57   55            241      14    IS      I1e ISO          *     407
1I266cadlngC ec11ng                        114      242     252      263      -      501      58      122     too       51     -     353      24   II .3   44           -    ASS       I    6      14 3  52 2I            326
its  3SpIt Iiwl3                                              12      Ts I           241      It      34       21       24     -        e     to 1  I    1512 o                5        32  1         26      41      -      10
1140-t t3cI  te        l1 FU 2                        1                       -31    all  -   2,56t211i 361   335      215     -  1.2115   Is e SS              113     -     III      31   Ile    326       483          1034
iI1@-Uit        Ficln                      2        51 4 14          563      -    . .115    10      256      248      204     -     NO       *1   44   12S   103       -     413      21   14      241      35S      -     1s5
IINI-IrlNa% Cln5                                    lot      128     via      -      441      33      a0       52       42     -      fly     IT   30    25    of    -         64       I    St     S1        74            I Ise
1170-St u uuc  Intu                          12     IM       164     tis      -      se6   a  43       is      of       5.    -    240        2t   31    33   17        -     III       I   2a       I        Is            I "
1 o1-Sluld.  Inyravillfng                 169      I1    378        406      -    1.302      65      III     153      12S           553      50   Al         1   3 2         112      1             14      220      -     411
I      rldoo Rhinteetme                    ItS      234     252      212      -      869      I6      III     102       84     -    362       33   53    SI    42       -      If     1i    so        IS     147      -     314
1200-Rin kr1en..                             If      it       22      24      -        16      5       10       I  *                   32      3          5       4     -       Is      I    s                 13           2i
ellI*TrgffieCgi                             II        1       Is      To    *        22?      17      31       2?       22     -      is       I    1 5 1311            -      4           1s         26      36      -      62
12@-Usgd s$fnm                               1       n        34      3?      -       III      I       Is       14      Il    -        s0      4     6      7           -      ff       I     a       13      20             42
I1263OVeretat.  Cnl"erwq                    41       n       16      lis      -.36?           26      50       43       35            155     14   25   22          18   -     i1  24                 42      62            133
124    land Claarin                          is      34       35      35      -       125      2       It      15       17     -      53       5     6      7     5     -      21       I     8       14      21             4 5Pi
.;:;   ;~ ....                 .....         ...        .....           ......           ........   ....  ....  ....  ....  ....  ......   ....  ....  ......  ...... ...   ....
fatal KtOUUtIut  CtSoS                       1.41 a     es6  3,193   3.551        -  11.341    50   1.532   1.331   1.023          -  4.611   433  712  6I  SW              -  1.41       144  nt         1 II   1g91        * 4 IN
Total                                      1841311~~~~~~~~~~w|s   nov"e lss  wse*s 2.2.8  totot   *sts  goggle msses contat *gas 4   meete * ses s ea  EgS gs       los sles  *sel   lass                                              a"ssss* agates    *sels
Total                                         1,438   2.08 S 1.263   3.55          -  11.343    84   1.5322   1.331   1.041         -  4.117    432   II2  III  550e              .416    144  1I2   1.111   1.313             4.1                   w
................................................. ....................................................................................................................................................................................... -
Oprf1 8. loss 17:2



- 53 -
Annex 3-2
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Termes de Reference Sommaires pour  .'Assistance
Technique aux Services STN et SRR de la DNTP
1.        Pour assister le Service des Travaux Neufs (STN) et le Service
de Renforcement des Routes (SRR) dans la mise en oeuvre du progravme de
remise  en  etat  et  d'entretien  periodique  en  regie  des  routes
prioritaires, la Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics (DNTP) souhaite
faire appel a l'assistance technique de quatre experts. Chaque expert
formera equipe avec un homologue malien qualifie qui recevra ainsi une
formation sur le tas et sera le r6cepteur privilegie du transfert de
savoir-faire dans le domaine de la pratique des chantiers de travaux
publics qui est un objectif essentiel de cette assistance technique.
Chaque equipe expert-homologue occupera une position hierarchique au
sein des STN et SRR et sera responsable du travail de leur unite. En
particulier li'quipe proposera au superieur hierarchique 1'embauche, le
licenciement ou le transfert du personnel de l'unite, l'attribution de
primes mensuelles de production et controlera le remboursement des frais
et primes de deplacement.
2.        Le personnel de l'assistance technique comprendra les experts
suivants (24 houmes-mois par expert):
(a)  Un chef de brigade de rechargement qui sera un technicien
des travaux publics avec une formation de base equivalente au minimum au
baccalaureat technique et aura un minimum de 10 ans d'experience en
qualite de chef de ebantier ou responsable d'atelier de terrassement
d'une eutreprise de travaux publics.
L'equipe  expert-homologue  aura  la  responsabilitf  de  la
direction  de  la  brigade  du  STN  chargee  d'executer  en  regie  le
rechargement et 'a remise en etat des routes non-rev^Etues et devra en
particulier:
-  programmer et estimer l1'xecution des taches techniques
elementaires;
-  programer et estimer l'utilisation correspondante du
personnel,  du  matgriel  et  des  approvisionnements
necessaires ainsi que la maintenance du materiel;



- 54 -
Annex 3-2
Page 2
-  organiser le chantier de la maniare la plus efficace
ainsi que les campements, magasins et atelier;
-  tenir la comptabilite de la brigade en ce qui concerne en
particulier l'utilisation des materiels, materiaux et
approvisionnements;
-  tenir la comptabilite des travaux executes et preparer un
rapport mensuel d'avancement.
(b)  Un chef de brigade d'enduisage qui sera un technicien des
travaux publics avec une formation de base equivalente au minimum au
baccalaureat technique et aura un minimum de 10 ans d'experience en
qualite de chef de chantier ou responsable d'atelier dtenduisage d'une
entreprise de travaux publics.
L'equipe  expert-homologue  aura  la  reponsabilite  de  la
direction de la brigade du SRR chargee d'executer en regie la remise en
etat et l'enduisage des routes rev^tues et de l'usine de production
d'mulsion et devra en particulier:
-  programmer et estimer l'execution des tsches techniques
elementaires;
- programmer et estimer l'utilisation correspondante du
personnel,   du  materiel   et  des  approvisionnements
necessaires ainsi que l'entretien du materiel;
-  organiser l'usine de production et le chantier de la
maniare la plus efficace ainsi que les campements,
tuagasins et ateliers;
-  tenir la comptabilite ele la brigade et de l'usine en ce
qui concerue en particulier l'utilisation des materiels,
-materiaux et approvisionnements;
-  tenir la comptabilite des travaux executes et preparer un
rapport mensuel d'avancement.
(c)  Deux mecaniciens de chantier qui auront une formation de
base  minimum  equivalente  au  Brevet  Superieur  et  une  experience
professionnelle minimum de 15 ans sur la maintenance et reparation des
materiels et vehicules de travaux publics.
Chaque equipe expert-homologue aura la responsabilite de la
maintenance du materiel d'une brigade et devra en particulier:
-  programmer  et estimer  les besoins en  pieces d'usure et
lubrifiants;
-  passer commande des pieces detachees necessaires;
-  organiser les magasins et ateliers de chantier;
-  effectuer ou  faire effectuer les  op$rations  m6caniques
necessaires y compris les contrBles preventifs quotidiens
et les reparations qu'il est raisonnable d'effectuer sur
chantier;
- mettre a jour les fiches  des  operations  effectuees sur
les engins et vehicules et la comptabilit& matiare des
pieces detachees et lubrifiants.



- 55 -
Annex 3-2
Page 3
3.       Le rapport mensuel d'avancement des chefs de brigade comportera
en particulier:
-  le detail des travaux executes
- le compte rendu d'utilisation des engins
-  le  compte  rendu des carburants et ingredients consomm6s
rapporte a la production correspondante
- le programme des travaux du mois suivant
-  les difficultes rencontres
- les suggestions ou commentaires.
WAPT1
October 1984



MALI
FIFT32 HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 16 PERIODIC HAINTENANCE AND REHABTILTTATION
Detaile,d Coat Table
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                                                                                                        ...
.  .-...         s       s.       t.  .......t ".. vnit 0ss t|e ...................................    1.fr          Iso
1.~~~UiI ICaiua                                                                                                 MI 60
................i                                               wowa  iii             cal .           ... bG   1.                                           .       6'
6%                                loss       ~~~~it"wa     I"     sloss    gag9  fata   lbie  took. lam lbikem
.............
Inewu aupi
t. Ii mc  accam
*i2I6                                                         I I4   *  - 2   -   I6 .31 1.  It       tH4 I.I        4         -             13 in        0.I too    0. I    1U
24  -Ii    nIVsl  1p ie                                .1     I i        I    *   3.   t  3061.140    26       43     41      S              In        0     0         6    51152
sub-1gIgI 6? 14lUAtm                                                                                     4 1.1    413           1411         116
u. an Catanois
..............
2510jidww    spw                                           -      22   It    -    31  11.414.12         - I          662    2          -   1.M        .1  016       6T.0     II
220-  'm-UI...                              km                    16  IIs It    S    22?   1.041.64%                 " A.  2.312  1.261      1t1    sI   uTO        san      Iw4I
2320Akiluni emaftf                                       -        11   16          123   6.1*0.146      -       -  1.513  1.31         -   2.1I    0.1  0.51       6t.       lnia
WTotal eV CONIUCIG* ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~310  4.04 1.1 163
-letial GR*1 leS                                                                                            26 .1    . 3            4.011  1.261  1I6,
............
1. ST rell aIccUE
.................
1416-Sailaw-Norks14                                               34                31 -.621..10                     S 60              -       t      1  6.66        S.1     fpl
2431-taladiet Sepum                                    26  fit    . .       .      151    . 62? 2.26   162  1.111                          3154    I.I  4661         0.  1  m2
24SIrnAivs                               w       "P    0.S    I    I    t   .    2.    1St1.340    It          41     44      46             g I5      0     5         *    Sfl2l
IAb-fetal StIO l FU mm                                                                                   402M  1.113    11       4             .
..............
n1alS  umi.siltals                                            *        131    -   214  10.1223. 56              -  2.324  3.161            L 164    0.I  0.1n      6.0       leaS
2llp0iIkaumal.p                                                         It 6 -      62  1622             . 3,-               3 9   2.110   2.013 L.1    .t          5.61    loIS
$*-fatal of COU?15CIn                                                                                                 21324  4.3w  1.310   L.I0T
............................ .......
M-16141 FAO fu@tlFtlSt                                                                                       402  1.13  2. 21S  4.311  2.110  12.110
.....................
2ol  inshleal   Ist~  to STI                  "a-vih        I   3    2                 46   4.601.160    1?    10    221                         590      0  6.1       6.66    01t3
2630-neSmIAs silttami loiS               No-menth       I   3  0 3*           -    45   610Ml. ye     11   326    32 I                .     us        0  0.61      6.66    6or"
US0-swprisf eb                                              -n-tu     S   10 It    S    30  .4.122.384            12    113    In        t        S4      0  6.31      0.66    stop
16440-1,16M thi llI                            unit              I    .                 I   5.311.105       .      4       *      .               14      *      I        *      1194
0161-tot lt lm      I4                         wit          I    .       ,              I  4.05.60         of                                     IT      6      I         6    51                       x
26 Pb1&ip 1trc  4.4                            mlI                        I -     -     -     -  * 1.112.64  t             -                       66    IC4E                                            L
Swb-Total I emIOIL                                                                                                                          se IS   I.
1t1t1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6  416  111U  I.  Us3   n1.41
..... ......   || "9.  .. l ...... ......  ......  .......... "l.
faala  Il6611DI MSII                                                                                          6"I 2.400  P.64  6.61  401   24.610
Igo; "ilv eggs.. sees .. ienem   s as  *ago
etal                                                                                                             I     340  1.6l46.253  4.601  20.611
alii 311115 EligaE 51233e *alsog giinegu



MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 2: PERIODIC HAINTENANCE AND REHABILITATION
Detailed Cost Table
Ic'., militeil  91666 hIllel     ~        ~        ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      oi  #O
ees lv..   tel   Inset                                                                  tot,als s.   .s.se..ssl  *ee   ......   .es tw......  e.n.   eee..........m. its:;......s....e.e.....
I. SI  CR11ICS N
N26~M te g                               i      it        -                     j     j       g               .       .       j      i.                             . g              62      19         2     6hu
111426v-pl*6ataeuw                         I        ?ll             -     ~       g 133                rn -4    M1    i it                          Ut                      94.          as2   10         I2    1.22
1130:1odop-ROISM.                        ii    IS                     lei6   69      Is    I"       24               1      0    Its      46      1               Iii          -    61          -      61
lsb.tgl IT low1  *1162?61                            462    614      Is            of    lot        sit 11   2 2  I              I"1   in 16 I. Ill    692     141           .66         .11        2       Ill 1.6
o.  co 6ital"                                                                                                                                                                                                                            U'
lot**j. I     p                                            6)     6?31                                 ii     lt                2              -     2 1  62          -    .M1          WI    14t         is   1.661
1110:6"o6a O'e*te                                         itl    640#   ii   1.114                    Sze2  1.11      vs 2.   .1 -             -  1se  .69  11.32  1.1161   ill0     1.1 oil      in     34   4.619                     6
*   1166.q.uinfftt.w4e,                                      _Ni    4i 4i                                 41      90              .1                  6.61                    I'M6 1..16  tI"                 To0tIL vis
"-htotal BY MIC6Tb6h                                        .6      it        l    .6                    .1   1.381       III..$4          -           .161  4.04?   1 261t   IL 13.     S M4  6.01,         S WI    .130
...........a
11  44                                        444       .             444      *         9 7          .              2                            of 61 I  up6
124                       Ill    Us~~40            .      .   6.0"12 3 212  tlt                 . ;.16                 t. 49     444       11    1.61
2              I      13      .      6 IS   I              fto12 is                is   II       di     o6.                     ill          .    S"2         *      li
14-Total IT 1row   ?C                         ITI    143    11         1                   "1,162                 1 111 W  .9 2   51f       416.613  3n6        48            1.6  .114            16it 2i  SW            .164
2. 6v    1166662
19t0U.~~~~it46tns             .       .    662~~~U    1.19 M    2.112                 1 .139  1.141            .1               *  2 .M2   2.69             5.L364     L.6I    iii         440   L16M
1126-ltlu..e-tqus                ..  .... ....  ....6          W ...        ..                   ...i  .....  ......... .           -36                  ...I ....... .......  ..91. .....           2.62
M-Totalg IV CInwCwsm                                         in. 68 ' 1416    go1  1.12      ..1111 1.69  1.3211  4.221                   -         . 12   4.2121  2.210   9.211        1. 631  1.26        Ut .a
Selo        692666661t NMits                             li 1.14            .....11  6   6.6 t611    "66  6...9M    .151 2 6...13     it 6 . ..1 442  lUll& 1...M  '4.'3111  -1-160   ...O " 16.11  9.3. 6......9"?  62.6 Is'
C. I1ICMIC "$I13666
1626-elb.6eIk.I~w..gtom It              1      91       2              .    11I 6          I" 66   66               .     14      11    66       1 no                   W4         I"~    is                 14 
1662'Iqpwvigt                                         14      4?      41     24    1621      .     19      n1     6       M1       1             U      Ili6   InI      62     lId        121      Is        Mo
294510.1  Iewe Now".                                                          .       66                                                  *      6                               Ii         4       -                 I
1616-3teltei~~~~~uus4ui                ...  .      .......   ......             ..  ....  ...6...  ... .         ......       ...... ...  ...   .... ......? ........  .....  .....
1.-elgt tI WIMA  1313?g                         of    III    in2       i       14     n      131    214    Ill       4     n2      696   I"      416    I"    In1        U    till        1. S"     14 a2     U      .416
lets, 669211619  ants916.6   1.16113 .66M  6.112  6.512   412  6.6M9L1411  4. IN   1. 36   16.1M                                                096  1.46   Pn11  4LIJI 4.69?  16.616    66.914   .6316    1.16   14.65
eagese. , teStes ss...e  gsere meetals  2191 1118*21 iles. Rts,.. ease,  ... msese  sew. Vsessel sewage asees.  lesses                            anesssess    se,gleese.,. ues..
total1M                                                    1.440  1.112  2.6419  6.212  LOS1  613  1.1169  3.671  4.62  6.96   II.M1   696  2.466  1l11   LIST 4."I  24.661    I& 114  L.631    6.2191   Kees6
aes ..  .... ...... .e.g.. esseet SSISS*  usel  stase. ISM1.6 .untie e1ites 0t2,,,8  920t *0UOUS sestis Ceig*0 e.iesi  s555*555 eaveiss  segess.. e.g....



- 58 -
Annex 3-4
MALI
CINQUIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Le Service du Materiel des Travaux Publics
A. SITUATION ACTUELLE
1.  Mission du SNTP
Le SMTP (Service du Materiel des Travaux Publics) est un
service public place sous l'autorite du Ministare des Transports et des
Travaux Publics et rattache a la Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics
(DNTP). Sa mission essentielle est de:
-  approvisionuer lea Services Techniques de la DNTP en mat6riels
de travaux publics et en piaces de rechange;
-  effectuer ou faire effectuer sous sa responsabilitf toutes les
r-parations de l'ensemble du materiel de la DNTP;
-  controler l'utilisation des engius et vehicules de la DNTP.
2. Structure du SMTP
Le SMTP est dirig& par un directeur assiste d'un directeur
adjoint et comprend:
2.1       La  Division Approvisionnemeut  chargee  des  achats;  de  la
gestion du magasin central, et de la fourniture des pieces aux
utilisateurs (atelier central et services regionaux).
2.2       La Division Atelier chargee de la revision genirale et des
reparations majeures sur les equipements qui lui sont envoyes par leg
utilisateurs.
2.3       La Division Technique chargee en principe de:
-  controler l'utilisation et 1'entretien du materiel par les
utilisateurs ainsi que la qualite des reparations effectuees
par l'atelier central;
-  controler les deiandes de pieces de rechanges faites par les
utilisateurs;
-  constituer et tenir a jour la documentation permettant de
suivre l'utilisation du materiel (fiches individuelles du
matfriel, rapports regionaux, etc.);
- fournir a la comptabilite analytique les doneges permettant
d'etablir les cou1ts d'exploitation du materiel.



- 59 -
Annex 3-4
Page 2
Outre le personnel du service central, la Division Technique
dispose de 10 Inspecteurs Techniques places aupras des Directeurs
Regionaux des T.P. et des Services Centraux, charges en principe de
contro^ler l'utilisation du materiel et les reparations effectuees
localement et d'approvisionner les pieces de rechanges necessaires a ces
reparations.
2.4  La Division Comptabilite - Personnel - Affaires Gfn6rales qui eat
chargee de:
- la tenue de la comptabilite administrative,
- la gestion du personnel,
-  l'etablissement et du suivi des marches,
-  affaires generales.
3. Affectation, Utilisation et Entretien du Materiel
Chaque service utilisateur est detenteur du materiel qui lui
est affecte, et l'utilise selon sea besoins, en fonction des credits qui
lui sont alloues. Le controle de la maintenance et de l'utilisation est
en principe assuree par l'inspecteur technique du SMTP base dans chaque
region.
Les op6rations de maintenance comprennent 5 niveaux differents
dont le contenu est le suivant:
niveau 1: entretien periodique - lubrification
niveau 2: reparations mineures
niveau 3: reparations intermediaires
= niveau 4 et 5: reparations majeures et revisions generales.
En ce qui concerne la maintenance du materiel, il existe deux
procedures differentes selon qu'il s'agit (a) des unites relevant
directement de la DNTP (Directions Regionales); ou (b) des Services
Centraux (STN - SRR).
Pour lea Direction Regionales, les interventions faites par les unites
sont limitees au 3 premiers echelons d'intervention, les piaces de
rechange necessaires etant a la charge du SMTP. Les interventions des
4eme et 5eme echelons de reparation sont effectuees par le SXTP et
facturees a l'unite.  Le materiel est loue A l'unite utilisatrice selon
un bareme de location approuve par la Direction Nationale des T.P., et
le cout des reparations faites par le SMTP est deduit des credits de
l'unite concernee, et est credite au SMTP.
Pour les Services Centraux, la DNTP, par le canal du SNTP met A la
disposition du Service, le personnel Mecanicien pour assurer les
reparations jusqu'au 3eme Echelon de reparation, les piaces de rechange
et piaces d'usure necessaires, et execute les interventions relevant des
4eme et 5eme Echelons de reparations.  Le materiel loue au Service est
facture selon un tarif de location de materiel tenant compte des



- 60 -
Annex 3-4
Page 3
prestations fournies.  Comue precedemment le montant de la  facture eat
deduit des credits du Service et credite au SMTP.
4. Flotte du Materiel de Genie Civil
Engins et
Vehicules   Quautitg  Bon Etat  Etat Moyen  Hors Service  Age Moyen
z  z             z       ~~~~~~(aunfies)
Bulldozer      30         10        50              40         11
Niveleuse      48         19        43              38         12,5
Chargeuse      31         22        17              61          8,5
Tracteur       15         65         -              35          4,3
Agricole
Compacteur      6          -        35              65          6,9
Camion Benue  146         25        35              40          8,9
Camion         57          2        54              44         10
Citerne
VJhicule      142         11        24              65          7
L_ger
Le tableau ci-dessus montre la composition, de la flotte du
materiel de la DNTP ainsi que l'age et la disponibilite moyenne des
principales categories d'eugins.  Cette flotte presente en outre lee
caractfristiques suivantes:
(a)  L'homogeneitg est relativement satisfaisante (60% environ
des engins de terrassement sont de marque Caterpillar et
55 2 des camions sont de marque Berliet).
(b)  Bien que l'age moyen du materiel de terrassement soit
relativement eleve, le taux d'usure des engins eat
satisfaisant   du   fait  de  leur   tres  faible   taux
d'utilisation.  Faute de moyens de paiement les engins
restent en effet de longues periodes a l'arret en attente
de lubrifiant, de carburant et de piaces de rechanges.
5. Installations de Maintenance
D'une maniare generale les installations de maintenance sont
pauvrement 6quip$es. Dans 1'interieur du pays la plupart des machines
et equipements d'atelier sont hors d'usage et les batliments en tras
mauvais etat (installation ilictrique, etc.).  La situation de l'atelier
central est meilleure au point de vue batiment, mais la plupart des
machines sont anciennes et plusieurs d'entre elles devront etre
remplacees ou reparees (banc d'injection, rectifieuse de vilebrequins,
banc d'essais moteurs,  etc.)   Certains amsnagements mineurs doivent
egalement e^tre apportis aux bt iments.



- 61 -
Annex 3-4
Page 4
6. Le Personnel
D'une maniare genErale la productivite du personnel eat tris
faible.  Ceci provient moins de ses capacitis techniques que de son
manque de motivation, de son attitude et de l'absence quasi totale de
supervision, surtout a l'intErieur du pays.  Cotte situation out due
essentiellement au trhs faible niveau de r6munEration du personnel qui
pour les plus defavorises, ne permet pas de faire vivre une famille et a
l'irregularit6 du paiement des salaires (retards pouvant atteindre
plusieurs mois). I1 en resulte que le personnel cherche I augmenter sea
revenus en faisant des travaux parall4les parfois ueme A l'intlrieur des
installations et avec l'outillage du SMTP, et quo les responsables ont
une attitude qui conduit a considerer les absences et larcins comme des
"avantages" destines a compenser le faible niveau des rEmunErations.
(par ex: la revente de deux litres d'essence par jour permet de doubler
un salaire de chauffeur; la revente d'un demarreur de camion equivaut A
deux mois de salair^).
L'Assistance Technique
L'assistance technique mise en place au SMTP au cours du
Troisieme Projet Routier se composait d'une equipe de 4 personnes en
position de "conseillers" techniques occupant ie positions suivantes:
- conseiller aupras du Directeur Technique (chef de mission);
-  conseiller    aupres    du    responsable    "magasins    -
approvisionnements";
-  conseiller aupres du chef de section moteur-machines outils;
- conseiller aupras du Chef de section "Reparation engins
lourds".
Ce dernier poste de conseiller a ete supprlme de l'equipe au
cours du Quatriame  Projet Routier.   Compte  tenu  de  l'organisation
actuelle de la maintenance a la DNTP, I'activltE de cette assistance
technique est essentiellement concentree a Bamako.
B. LES CARENCES PRINCIPALES
1. Le Syst4me
En rEalite, le r6le du SMTP se limite aux prestations
suivantes:
- fournir les pieces de rechange aux utilisateurs de matEriels
et le personnel mecanicien aux services centraux;
-  effectuer les reparations majeures et lea rEvisions gEnerales.
Le SMTP a virtuellement perdu son rBle de controleur de
l'utilisation et de la maintenance du materiel pour lea raisons
suivantes: les inspecteurs techniques regionaux qui reprEsentent en
principe le SMTP au niveau de l'utilisateur, dependent en realitE des
Directeurs regionaux des TP  pour les  questions aduinistratives  et



- 62 -
Annex 3-4
Page 5
materielles (notamment le logement, telephone, etc.).  De ce fait, ils
ont ete absorbes par les Directions Regionales et agissent bien plus
comme agents de ces directions que comme representants ou contr^oleurs du
SMTP.   En realite,  les utilisateurs  exploitent  et entretiennent  le
materiel i leur guise et parfois a des fins privies, sans intervention
notable des Inspecteurs. Ce phenomnae est encore agrave par le fait que
(a) vu les distances et l'eloignement de certaines regions, les
communications sont souvent tres difficiles et tres lentes; (b) faute de
vehicules, de carburants et d'indemnites de deplacement suffisantes lea
agents de la Direction Technique du SMIP ne se deplacent pas hors de
BAMAKO et laissent les inspecteurs techniques, sans supervision, sans
soutien et livres a eux memes;  et (c) les inspecteurs restent trop
longtemps affectes a un meme poste.
2. Approvisionnement
Les    principales    carences    ou   lacunes   du    systeme
d'approvisionnement en piaces de rechange sont externes au SMTP et
proviennent essentiellement de:
- la longueur de la procedure administrative de passation des
commandes ou des march&s;
- du manque de moyens de paiement pour honorer les factures des
fouruisseurs de pieces ou de services, en temps opportun;
-  des deficiences de certains fournisseurs locaux.
Les carences internes au SMTP peuvent se rsuinmer comme suit:
-  absence de controle sur les magasins exterieurs a BAMAKO;
-  ignorance des consommations locales reelles, des ressources
disponibles en magasins regionaux ainsi que des stocks morts;
-  mauvaise identificatton des piaces a commander et mauvaises
previsions de conso nations;
-  difficulte  de  constituer  des  stocks  faute  de  moyens
financiers;
-  lenteurs d'approvisionnement des utilisateuTs par le magasin
central, dues aux difficultes de transport et communication.
I1 faut cependant ajouter a ces contraintes le "delai
technique" pour importer une piace qui varie de 10 jours a 3,5 mois hors
dedouanement suivant le mode d'acheminement (air ou mer).
3. Le Personnel
Outre le manque de motivation et l'attitude mentale du
personnel tacitement acceptees par les responsables, il existe des
lacunes au niveau de l'expertise et de la qualification du personnel.
Cet aspect des choses est traite dans l'annexe relative ci 1a formation
du personnel.



- 63 -
Annex 3-4
Page 6
4. L'Assistance Technique
L'assistance technique au SNCP mise en place au cours du 4eme
projet routier s'est averee relativement inefficace pour les raisons
suivantes.
-  elle etait placee en position de "conseiller" sans autorite
sur le personnel et sans responsabilite sur la fonctionnement
des services;
-  elle etait concentree a BAMAKO et virtuellement limi tee aux
services centraux du SMTP;
-  certaines membres de l1'quipe avaient une qualification ou une
adaptation insuffisante aux conditions locales;
-  le choix des firmes selectionnees est probablement inadequat
pour ce type d'assistance technique;
- enfin le manque de pieces de rechange n'a pas permis a
l'assistance technique, surtout au debut du projet, d'avoir
l'impact attendu en tenmes de volume de mat&riel repare.
C.  LES REMEDES PROPOSES
Pour remedier aux principales carences, il est propose dans le
cadre du present projet routier de prendre les mesures suivantes:
(i) mise en place un systeme d'incitants susceptible d'ameliorer
la  motivation  et  l'attitude  inentale  du  personnel.   Le
personnel d'assistance technique sera associe a l'&valuation
des merites du personnel local. La mise en place de primes de
deplacement raisonnables devraient en outre inciter la
direction technique de SNTP et le personnel de supervision a
se deplacer regulierement a l'interieur du pays;
(ii) mise en place un programme d'assistance technique de 140 h-m
avec 5 agents expatries places a des positions cles dans la
hierarchie du SN1P et dotes d'une autorite reelle. I1 faut
noter qu'un accent particulier est mis sur le controle et la
supervision des centres regionaux de maintenance, puisque le
chef de mission sera responsable de la division technique et
qu'un expert sera charge de missions de supervision dans
l'interieur du pays, ainsi que de la formation d'equipes
itinerante de maintenance. Cette assistance technique sera
fournie par une firme ayant une activite effective et
permanente dans l'execution, l'organisation et les methodes de
maintenance et de reparation du materiel d- genie civil et/ou
de transport;
(iii) execution par le representant local de Caterpillar des
reparations majeures et des revisions du materiel Caterpillar
qu'il  represente  .  Cette mesure  dechargera  l'atelier de
Bamako de 60% environ de la flotte des engins de terrassement,
il pourra ainsi mieux se consacrer au materiel d'autres



- 64 -
Annex 3-4
Page 7
marques et aux camions, tandis que la revision de la totalite
de la flotte Caterpillar s'effectuera dans un dtlai de 18 mois
environ;
(iv) recours probable aux services d'une centrale d'achats avec
mise en place d'un fond de roulement permettant d'eliminer la
majeure partie des contraintes et procedures actuelles de
passation des marches et de dtdouanement;
(v) rehabilitation/amelioration   des   installations   et   des
equipements de l'atelier central de Bamako et des centres de
maintenance repartis dans le pays.
II est estime que l'ensemble de ces mesures devrait permettre
de retablir vers le milieu du projet une disponibilite de l'ordre de 65%
du materiel exploitable.
WAPT1
December 1984



MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 1: OVERHAUL AND RENEWAL OF ROAD EQUIPMENT
Detailed Cost Table
---a-- It    -          Unit Cst          a   Including Cent I . 0 -  -.                .     ..-.*--Cw r..
................................ . ent. for.   Gross _   smlr
Unit    19s1  IIiS too? loss loss laBel        (Cliii      1961  1915  t2e1 III. 12HI Total   Rate  tacki lag Rate  kcAccu
I.INV[IUTNEI costs
N lEW 1am0 EOUIIENT
.. ................
3114- Eredgi                                     unit         -    1    -    -             1 7 U4,121.510       *  ,ee7            -    -1.007          40                    Ci o I%
3140- Pneimtic-tirgd CWctor                      unit         -                            3 *    *   3   23. 11.146  154    -                154       0      I        0    ICEI          LI
3245- Chip Spreader attactms                     unit              J 3         -    -      3    1.849.340       -      It    -                 1 1?     0      I        O    fCEt
3250- Comrste eilser                             unit         -   13                -      3    2.  g53         -      84       -       -      t4              I        0    ICEI           I
326@- Veler pmp                                  unit         -                            I '    '133.15' 35                                  5       a     I         a    lci
3261- Cemepr  a                                  unit         -    3    -    -             3    1.133.75        -. 12                          12       0      I        a    EcUi
3300:- Li.t I veimle                             unit         -    I                -      I    6,3151. lS             1 4                     1 4      O      I        0    EICt
330- S tlon  agon 4 x 4                          unit         -    4                -      4    8,020.ll              -la          -    -      12       0      I        0    ICti
3310- Picki p truck ti  4                        unit               I    *    .            I    1,12.43        - 3i               -           11       0      I        0    ICEI
3320-1.S el tools                                unit         -    4    -                  4    1, 5I131               1 ,    -                to      o0               0    ler
3330- lRad signs                               IwoP sun       -    I                           1155.313               i 2                      23       0      I        a    ICEi
Sub-Total lEii 14O EQEIPENI                                                                                            1.442                     42-    -  1.
S. INITIAl  S1TOC  of FliS
3404- Spare Parts 10  off U                                                                                           144                     1 -  -  44  * o           a    IUI
Smb-lotel INIIIAt STOCK OF PAlRS                                                                                         144    .                 44
C. OWEIIIUL Of EIISTIIC EQUIIEUT
..............................
350- Catorpillar                               lum P su     . I 0.1  0.7 02                I 659. 44.33611   2I1   1,40   40            -  2 124    0. I 0.7         0. 13    0051
3504- Other Rak* -proprietary porets            Imp own       -  0.3  0.3  0.2  0.1   I       20U.414.10            -112  1I4 III   64    ss         0.1I   0.3a      0.2      00P2
3104-OtherlNalus -ncn propietary patrs   lump sun             -  0.2  0.3  0.3  0.2        I  2041 14.U O             lOt  164  tII  121    156      0.1   0.J        0.2    0161
Sub-total OVEIHAUt or EXISTIIG EQUIEINT                                                                          216  1.661  *21  313  191  3.248
Tatal IMVESTNENT COSTS                                                                                              216  3.248  121  353  M9  4,83315i
lelgl IIIYE5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~111EII3o7 3332,    . i33  3332 322 331382                                                                      "                       OQ 
Total25  2,243  321  313 ,5 I,II ,4.83                                                                                                                                                              p  t o
.  .......I................................................ ............... ..........................---..--------............. -- ---.-........ -...................................... 3 X
'pril 3, 1II  11:21                                                               
I



MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 2: OVERHAUL AND RENEWAL OF ROAD EQUIPMENT
Detailed Cost Table
Ereabta of ltotls mncl. Cent
UisC I004l
Base tests           t~otals Including Contrigsuocfss        Totals Including Canttneeicles         .................
(CFA  NIil1                             (CF Nllle)                                Piss IGO)                               Local
----- ---- ---- --------------    . ............ ......... ....  ... ........ ........ .......l.   tilesuiesI
tis1s       siiusu6          ea     11557usIUus1isa  ii  Tot l liii 15 liii  114 lt"   O     total   fer. (Eck. taissi  tase                       Total
so:-Its: s22t sass. gu.s lssmam    Bass2 222232 B332 Isi2 222e 222222  2382  222212 1.222 22s2 2222 122222  222231222 122222 ,2222.2,2 222222
I. INVISTREIT costs
A. NEW 6050 E@iJIPfNt
3120- guader                                          -     4S3     -                452      -    414            -     -    414      -1.00 "I-                    1.007         1.600        -         -  1.07 
2140- Ineusatic-tlred Cooacter                               6 S    -          -      L       -      16    -                   6       -    154    -      -     -     154          114        -134
3249- Chip Spreader aittacvwt                                 I                        5              I     -a                                 12    -1 I                           I!        -                I
3250- Cenreleusluer                                   -      38                       38             41                 -     41      -       4           -             4           54                         1   4
326@- Kster pip                                       -      1                        16-1I                                                  is                        Ss - 3       31                         35
32115- Coreasor                                       -                                S              a                        S       -      I     -- I         12   1- itII
3300- Lfht vehicle                                    -       I           -                                          I          I             14    -     -'           14            14                 -       4
J335- Stationasgon 4sx4                               -      32    -                   2             35    --                 35             12    -it-                1            12                  -       2
331O- PIct-tiptruck 4 a4                                      a                        a      -                                4              II                -      I      IT              -         -      II
332@-lSetef.tools                                     -             -                         -       5     -     -     -      S       -      Id,                      le 1          10                 .      to
3320- lisd signs                                             1 S    -                  Is            13    -      -     -      13      -     is                        to - 2       26                         is 2
Sib-total NEW ROAD EQUJIPMENT-    641                                                    645            lo10                     lo - 1?  -  1. 442     -     -    -  1. 442         1.442-  1.442
B. INITIAL STOCK Of PARIS
3400- Spare Parts (10U of Al                          -      65    -           -      S       -       i     -                  11      -     144          -144                      144                       144
Sib-Tetal INITIAl STOCK Of PARIS                                6 5    -    -      -      65             it1            -         11      -     144    -    -    -    144              144       --              144
C. OVEIMAUL Of SlIStIlO COU11IlISN
3500- Caterpillar                                    II    515  181       -    .     L9   tO?    10  244    -          -1,041   215  1.408  41                -  2. 124        1.611      171       276  2.124
3500- Other flakes - proprietary parts                -      2   2   2   I1    301         -      14   50   6?   21    312          -    15   164  17?   64    51              444        -       III    $55
3100-Other flakes -ron proprietary parts              -      41   62   a2   dl    2,1                so 50    41 8162    215          -      VO   154  If?  Ill    563             455        -       114    561
Sib-Total OVEMNAUI, OF EXItIING IIJIP1INT               ii    Sf1  313  124   53  1.212   lOT    14  404  173   63  1. 512   21  1. 661  625  352  III  3.246                     2.1510     if?       SOt  3.241
Total INVCStN(Nt COSTS                                      IS   1.3,3  313  124   62  1.36    lOT 1    1. 511  464  113   32  2. 3K    21  3.246  625  353  III  4.115                4. 157    III       501  4.6835       i     
2222 22332. 2222 2222 2222 222222  2222 222222 2222 2222 2222  221222  1221 222222 2222  2222 2222 222222   2.22222222   222222 2223222..  Sf0822                   itg
Total                                                        15  13.9J  J32   134   O2  1.111   tO?  1.511  404  113   1i  2363    211  3.34 8625  3152  III  4.835                      4.151Y    III        SO1  4,5315       *      l
2222222 22222  2222s     2 22  222222*sog   2222 3282222 2222 2222 2222 222222  2222 222222 2223 2222 2222 222222212   2221221    222                               f 
Aprtl  3. lii, of: 21 



MALI
FIFTH IIIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 3: OVERHAUL AND RENEWAL OF ROAD EQUIPMENT
Detailed Cost Table
Eupeoitures by Finlanciers
lust  000l
Totals Including Cantinga nscle----------------------------------
lull  000I                 INTEEATIONAL IIEVELOPNENT ASSOCIATION               GOVEMMNTIN  OP NALI
119859lo5  lilT  liii liii Total    1955    1985    11i?   1918 IBID  Total   1935 193  167 1968 t     1989 Total
333asjz  _   Ism  saga l 3fl2  nn  f            22 3333S333 3:33   2333  met. 2332 232323  3222 ..22 San. S2a3 22*3 22*23
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. MEN ROAD EQUIPMENTI
3120- Gradar                                               1.00?                    1.00?        -   1.007                        1.00?-    -                  -    -      -                           _
3140- Pnataatlc-tired Cwpactar                         -     154     -     -154                  -      154      -      -     -     154---               -     -    -      -
320-Chip Spreader attaciwunt                       -       12     -    -     -      12        -       12                          12- -             -
35-Concrete mimer                                   -     84      -    -     -      84        -      34       -                   4-
325@-Naterpiap                         -     ~~~     ~~~~~             ~~~~~~35  -      5  -  35  -     -     -      35-
32AS- Cwpresscr-                                              12     -12-               I        -        2      -      -     -      12-
3300- Light vehicle                                    -      14     -     -     -      14       -       14      -      -     -      14.
3l0S- Station wagon 4m                                 - 472         -           -       2               72      -      -     -      72-
3310    -upcktruckh4ux4                                -      IT     -           -      I        -       1I      -                   I-
3320Set a.tools                                               10    -     -     -      10       -        to      -      -    -      1-
3330- Roadasigns                                              25                        26       -       2            25-26
Sub-lolel HEWN MAD EQUIPMENT                              -1.442         -    -    -  1.442         - 1.442          -      -    -1.442-- 
B. INITIAL STOCK OF PARIS
3400- Spare Parts 1101 of A)                                 144     -    -    -    144          -      144      -      -     -     144-- 
Sth-lotal INITIAL STOCK OF PARTS                           -     144     -    -     -     144       -       144      -      -    -     144-
C. OVERHAUL OF EXISTING EQUIPMENT
3500- Caterpillar                                    21  1.408  491                2. 124     18I   1. 22S   423       -    -1.14         23  183   55    -2-1l
3600- Other Makes - proprietary parts                  -     152  114  III   54    555           -      I2l   131   141   5I        444      -   30   23   35   1I   IllIIi.
3700-Other Makes -non proprietary parts                -    lO   164  III  127    569            -       A    131   141  102    455         -   20   33   35   25   114                       i 
5th-Total OVERHAUL OF EXISTING EQUIPMENT                218  1.111  825  353  ill  3.248          III   1.428   695   233  152  2.74?    2I  224  130   T1   36   501
total INVESTMENT COSTS                                      21  3.248  825  312  191  4.835          589   3.014   695   283  153  4,334    26  224  1SO   71   33   501
lotal                                                        211;  3.24; 25;a; 32;; I    4.93        139;  3.;0*142  *695 "2683 61563  4.3*3'4  *2  234, -13,0 "I 714312   101iOI
April 3. 1985 17:30



- 68 -
Annex 3-4
Page 11
Attachment 2
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Termes de Reference pour l'Utilisation d'une Centrale
d'Achat pour les Besoins en Pieces D&tachees
1. Objectifs
La mission du Service Materiel des T.P. (SMTP) est d'assurer
la revision et la grosse reparation du materiel de genie civil utilise
pour les services d'entretien des routes de la Direction Nationale des
T.P. (DNTP). Le SMTP est en outre charge d'assurer l'approvisionnement
en pieces de rechange de ses propres ateliers situes A Bamako, ainsi que
des services utilisateurs qui disposent d'un certain nombre de centres
de maintenance repartis sur l'ensemble du territoire malien.
Le    SHTP    utilise    presentement    plusieurs    sources
d'approvisionnement dont les principales sont:
-  achat sur place pour les pieces disponibles en stock chez
certains representants locaux,
-  piaces importees par lea representants locaux des marques,
-  importation  directes de  piaces commarzdes a l'6tranger,
- utilisation sporadique d'intermiediaires locaux dont les
services  d'approvisionnement  sont  variables  et  parfois
uncertaines.
L'experience a montre que cette facon de faire conduit
gen6ralement a des ruptures de stock et & des delais ou des couts
d'approvisionnement  relativement  eleves.   Cette  situation  decoule
essentiellement des raisons suivantes:
-  delais administratifs tras longs entre la manifestation d'un
besoin en pieces de rechange et la notification des commandes
aux fournisseurs,
- msnque de moyens financiers,
- lacunes dans l'identification des besoins et danm l'tablisse-
ment de previsions de consommation A moyen ou long terme,
- delais importants dans les operations de dedouanement.
Pour tenter de reduire ces inconvenients, le SMTP souhaite -
dans le cadre du Cinquieme Projet Routier de la Banque Mondiale - mener
deux actions paralla'es:
(1) Mettre en place dans ses propres services un syst&me de
re.approvisionnement  previsionnel susceptible d'assurer pour
certaines categories de pieces une alimentation continue et



- 69 -
Annex 3-4
Page 12
Attachment 2
systematique des services utilisateurs. Cette action serait
menee avec l'aide d'un consultant specialise.
(2)  Recourir   aux   services   d'une   centrale   d'achat   pour
1'approvisionnement de toutes les pieces a importer de
1'etranger.
Les presents termes de references concernent exclusivement
l'utilisation d'une centrale d'achat dont les services seralent loues
pour la duree du cinquieme projet.  A titre indicatif, le budget en
piaces de rechange du SMTP pour la duree du projet a ete estimi  a
3 milliards de francs CFA.
2. Principes d'utilisation de la Centrale d'Achat
Apres appel a la concurrence, le SMTP selectionera une
centrale dlachat et passera avec elle un contrat cadre a durie
determinee.   Les  termes de ce  contrat devraient permettre au SITP
dteviter  a  l'avenir  la  procedure  administrative  d'approbation  des
marches pour chacune des commandes qui serait notifiee a la centrale
d'achat.
La centrale d'achat assurera elle-meume la reception des pieces
ditachees et la verification des factures et le paiement des
fournisseurs, la centrale d'achat ouvrira un compte bancaire producteur
d'interets exclusivement reserve a cet usage, qui servira de fonds de
roulement et sera approvisionne par DNIP de la maniare suivante:
Ci) en debut de projet, par une avance d'un montant equivalent a 4
mois de besoins du SMTP;
(ii) en cours de projet, mensuellement sur la base d'etats des
d6penses effectuees au cours du mois considere. Ce compte
sera revise annuellement ("Audit") asinsi que 1'ensemble des
depenses du present contrat, par ia firme d'experts comptables
chargee de la revision des comptes du projet.  Ce compte ne
sera pas utilise pour payer les honoraires de la centrale
d'achat.
Certains gros paiements (commandes importantes de pleces
detachees ou eventuellement materiel, outillage, etc.) pourront ne pas
transiter par ce compte mais etre directement effectues par la DNTP.
3. Procedures d'Achat
3.1       Programation des achats
En debut de projet et ensuite annuellement, la Centrale
dt'Achat examinera les besoins du SMIP en piaces detachees et etablira
avec ce service (et l'assistance technique aupres du SHTP) un programme
previsionnel d'achat de pices detachees decompose selon les categories
suivantes:



- 70 -
Annex 3-4
Page 13
Attachment 2
(a) pieces d'usure et autres elements pour lesquels il existe
plus d'un fabricant et fournisseur
(b) pieces d'origine pour lesquels il n'existe qu'un seul
fabricant et fournisseur. 1/
3.2       Procedure de passation des marches et cou-andes
Toutes les procedures de passation des marches et les achats
se feront en conformite avec les "Directives concernant la Passation des
Marches Financ4s par les Pr^ets de la Banque Mondiale et les Credits de
l'IDA", (Aout 1984).
1)  Pour les pieces de la categorie (a) qui peuvent ^etre, a ce
stage du programme,  definies avec suffisamment de prevision et qul
peuvent ^etre groupies en (i) lots de valeur superieure a $500,000, la
centrale d'achat preparera les dossiers d'appel d'offres international
correspondants, lancera la consultation, recevra les offres, soumettra
son evaluation des offres a la DNTP et a la Banque Mondiale et apres
approbation passera les commandes en fonction des besoins du SMTP;
(ii) pour les lots de valeur comprise entre $50,000 et $500,000, la
centrale d'achat preparera une liste de fournisseurs qualifies et lea
dossiers d'appel d'offre restreint correspondants et suivra une
procedure semblable a (i) ci-dessus.
2) Pour les autres pieces de la categorie (a), la centrale
d' achat consultera les fournisseurs potentiels qualifies, evaluera et
choisira la meilleure offre et passera la commande en fonction des
besoins du SMTP.  La  procedure  de  consultation-evaluation pourra etre
evitee si la centrale d'achat possede suffisament d"el-ments recents
d'information provenant soit d'une consultation precedente soit de ses
contacts professionnels en dehors du present contrat, pour connattre
A priori les meilleures conditions d'achat (prix, fournisseur, delais).
Toutes les piAces justifiant ces choix doivent ^etre gardes pendant la
p6riode  d'execution  du  present contrat  et verifies l ors  de l'audit.
3)  Pour les piaces de la categorie (b), la centrale d'achat
passera la commande au fournisseur unique en fonction des besoins du
SMTP.
3.3       Services a fournir par la centrale d'achat
Au long de la procedure de programmation et de passation des
commandes, la centrale d'achat fournira les services suivants:
- analyse des demandes d'achat du SMTP et verification des
references et specifications.
- consultations et/ou reduction des dossiers d'appel d'offre en
vue d'obtenir le meilleur rapport qualite/prix.
1/   Les  pieces  d'origine  qui peuvent  etre  fournies  par plus d'un
fournisseur ou representant de la marque ne rentrent pas dans cette
categorie.



- 71 -
Annex 3-4
Page 14
Attachment 2
-  selection des fournisseurs ou recommandations eventuelles sur
le choix du fournisseur.
-  redaction  et  notification   des  marches   ou  commandes.
etablissement des documents commerciaux, administratifs ou
financiers necessaires au bon deroulement des marches.
-  suivi du bon deroulement des marches, controle des delais
d'expedition, relance aupras des fournisseurs; eventuellement
reception en usine et/ou controle des emballages.
- information du SMTP concernant l'etat d'avancement des marches
(date de reception, date, mode et references d'exp6dition),
envoi des documents d'expedition.
-  suivi des litiges et cortentieux eventuels.
- paiement des avances, acomptes et factures fournisseurs.
-  controle    eventuel   des   operations   d'expedition   et
d'acheminement.
La  centrale  d'achat  remettra  son  offre  de  service  en
envisageant deux variantes possibles. La premiare variante sera etablie
dans le cas out le materiel sera expedie CIF Bamako ou frontiere
malienne, les operations de dedouanement etant a charge du SMTP. La
deuxiame variante sera etablie dans le cas out le materiel sera livre
dldouane 8 Bamako; les operations de dedouanement etant assurees par la
centrale d'achat ou son representant dument mandate a Bamako. Dans le
cas de la variante II, le repr6sentant de la centrale d'achat a Bamako
serait considere comme le correspondant du SMTP et serait charge en
autres choses d'assurer, le raglement des litiges pour fournitures
non-conformes et les relations avec les transitaires et les assurances.
4. Rapports et etats mensuels
La centrale d'achat fournira mensuellement avec un decalage
maximum d'un mois lee rapports et etats suivants:
(a)  situation du compte provisionne aupres de la centrale d'achat
et des autres depenses du contrat avec:
- decompte et justification des paiements aux fournisseurs
(avances, accomptes, factures soldees, etc.)
- decompte des sommes percues par la centrale d'achat en
remuneration de ses prestations
-  inter^ets bancaires eventuels.
(b)  Situation des demandes d'achat du SMTP en mentionnant au
minimum les elements  suivants:  demande de prix,  commande
ferme,  prevision  de  livraison  ex-usine,  ou  prevision
d'embarquement, date d'embarquement, references des documents
et du moyen d'expedition,  date d'arrivee prevue a Dakar,
Abidjan (bateau) ou Bamako (avion).
(c) Un rapport succint rendant compte des retards de fournitures
et de leur raison, des anomalies eventuellement rencontrees



- 72 -
Annex 3-4
Page 15
Attachment 2
dans lee demandes d'achat du SMTP, des changements eventuels
de references, constructeur, etc.
Renseignments et Instructions Complementaires
I. PRESENTATION DE L'OFFRE
L'offre sera presentee en langue francaise et comprendra deux
parties distinctes qui seront expediees dans deux enveloppes separees.
1.1       La partie technique de l'offre comprendra:
-  les  ref6rences  de  la  firme  dans  le  domaine  d'activites
concerne; ainsi que toute documentation permettant d'apprecier
l'exp$rience professionnelle de la centrale d'achat,
-  des suggestions et/ou commentaires eventuels concernant le
contenu des termes de references,
-  un expose detaille des differentes sources que la firme peut
offrir au SKTP,
- un expose sur l'approche que la firme compte utiliser pour
mener A bien sa mission. Ceci comprendra essentiellement (a)
la definition du contenu et du deroulement des differentes
operations I executer dans le processus d'approvisionnement du
SMTP, depuis la reception d'une demande d'achat jusqu'a la
livraison du materiel a Bamako, (b) la definition des
attributions et responsabilites respectives de la centrale
d'achat et du SMTP dans le deroulement de ce processus
d'approvisionnement, (c) un projet de contrat sans quotation
chiffr6e qui servira de taxe a l'Elaboration du contrat final
d passer avec  la  firme dont la proposition aura ete retenue.
- pour la variante II un expose detaille des prestations qui
seront effectuees  au Mali par  la centrale d'achat ou un
representant,
-  un releve des moyens logistiques et du personnel permanent
dont la Centrale d'achat dispose dans son pays d'origine ainsi
qu'un releve des moyens qui seraient mis en place a Bamako au
cas oui la variante II serait reteaue par le S1rTP.
1.2       La partie financiere de l'offre comprendra:
Le montant des remunerations . percevoir par la centrale
d'achat en fonction des differentes prestations ou combinaisons de
prestations qui seraient assurees.
Pour les prestations courantes et systgmatiques, ces montants
seront exprimes en pourcentage des commandes qui seront pass6es par le
SMIT.  La d6gressivite eventuelle des taux en fonction de la valeur des
commandes sera clairement exprimee. Pour les autre types de prestations
les remurefrations payables a la centrale d'achat seront de preference
exprmfimes sur base forfaitaire. Les couts supplementaires inherents a
la variante II seront mis en evidence de maniere a pouvoir apprecier
l'iimpact supplhmsntaire de ces prestations sur le cout de la fonction
approvisionnement du SMTP.



- 73 -                    Annex 3-4
Page 16
Attachment 2
2. VALIDITE DE L'OPFRE:
La validite de l'offre presentee par le consultant sera au
minimum 20 jours a partir de la date de la remise d'offre.
3. PREPARATION DE L'OFFRE
Au cours de la preparation de l'offre, il eat sugg6re que le
consultant effectue une visite au Mali afin de rencontrer les principaux
responsables du SMTP et de se familiariser avec les conditions locales
de vie et de travail.
Les frais directs ou indirects de preparation de l'offre ne
seront pas pris en charge par le SMTP.
4. OUVERTURE DES PLIS, EVALUATION DES OFFEUS
L'ouverture des plis et l'evaluation des offres s'effectueront
en quatre etapes:
(a)  ouverture  en  seance  publique des offres techniques uniquement,
(b)  evaluation  a  la  DNTP  des offres techniques selon les critares
suivants:
(1) r6ferences et experience de la firme dans le
domaine considere                                     10 points
(2) experience de la firme dans les pays en voie
de developpement                                      10 points
(3) qualite et importance du personnel et des
moyens logistiques disponibles au siege               20 points
(4) qualite de l'offre pour la variante considerfe
en termes d'adequation de l'approche et de
methodes propos6es aux besoins specifiques du
SMTP                                                  20 points
Sous-total    60 points
(c) Ouverture en seance publique des offres financiares correspondant
aux offres techniques jugEes acceptables.
(d) Evaluation finale par DNTP en ajoutant A l'evaluation technique
le critare suivant:
(5) Prix:  L'integralite des points sera accorde a       40 points
la proposition d'un montant P la moins disante
jugge acceptable. Les autres offres d'un
montant Pi seront affectees d'un nombre de
points i calculi sur la base suivant:
i - 40P/Pi
TOTAL    100 points
WAPT1
October 1984



- 74 -
ANDM 3-4
Page 17
Attachment 3
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Mission d'Expertise et d'Assistance Technlque
Auprgs du Service du Mat6riel des Travaux Publics
Termes de Reffrence
1. Objectifs
Dans le cadre du CinquiAme Projet RoutiSr de la Banque
Mondiale au Mali, il a ete pr&vu d'exCcuter en r6gie par la Direction
Nationale des Travaux Publics (DNTP) des travaux d'entretisn at de
rehabilitation des routes du reseeu prioritaire.
Le uat6riel utilis sera soit le materiel existant, r6vimG et
remis en Etat en ce qui concerne lea  lel&ents ayant Une vie rEisduells
importante et qui peuvent etre Economiquesent ripares soit du mat6riel
neuf en renouvellement ou complement du matEriel existant.
Les remises en Itat et reparations de matEriel Caterpillar
(60S  de  la  flotte)  seront  effectuies  par  le  reprisentant  local
Caterpillar sous le controle du Service du MatEriel des Travaux Publics
(SMTP). Le SMTP exicutera le rests des resises en etat et grosses
rEparations alnsi que l'approvisionnement en piaces de rechauge du
materiel de gEnie civil et de terrassement utilis par lee services de
sa DNTP.
Les opirattions de maintenance prEventive et systimatique sont
suppoees ^etre exlcuties par le personnel des subdivisions des TP qui
disposent pour ces tiches d'un certain nombre d'installations reparties
dans le pays.  Les opErations  de maintenance  preventives  sont  en
principe supervisE.s par U8 Inspecteur Technique dEpendant du Sifi et
dEleguE par ce dernier dane les differents centres de maintenance.
Pour diverses raisons 1/ - qu'il appartiendra au Consultant
d'identifier et d'&valuer - la disponibiliti du matEriel de gEnle civil
et de terrassement est insuffisante et entrave sErisusement le bon
dEroulement des travaux.
Pour ameliorer cette disponibilitf et pour rdduirs les delas.
d'achate, de payements et de financemnt, accrottre 1'efficaciti du SKTP
et accilErer et riduire le coGt de l'entretien du materiel, la DUTP se
propose de reorganiser 1' entretien du materiel come suit:
(a)  Une Regie d'avance rigullrement r6approvisionie sera
mise en place au SMTP pour le financement esclusif des
piaces ditachies qul seront fournies par une centrale
1/   A titre indicatif on peut citer:
- retards dans is disponibiliti des places ditachies
- age mayen important de la flotte
- cloisonnement excessif entre services et unitEs
- personnel quelquefols sous-qualifii et peu motivE matfriellement
- abus



- 75 -
ANM  3-4
Page 18
Attachment 3
(a) Una R6gie d'avance rlguliErement r6approvislorase Para
uise en place au SMIP pour le flnancement exc ualf des
places dttach6es qul seront fournies par une centrale
d'achat I l'exception des plices urgentes disponibls
i 6diatement aur place.
(b) Las ateliers du SMTP et de certainas r6gions seront
re6quip6s an outillage et iquipement fixe.
(c) Dana 1 cadre du pr6sent contrat, une assistance
technique qui sera fournie par une firm. exparimnnte
dans le domains dte I'ntretien m6canique d'engins de
g6nie civil rlvisera la structure, lea a6thodes at outils
de gastion pour l'entretien du matGriel at assister. ie
SHTP dans la mise en vigueur des aa6liorations agrl&e at
l'exzcution du projet.
2. Programs d'Intervention ot Composition de 1'Equlpe du Consultant
L'intervention du Consultant pour amllorer le fonctionemaet
des activit6s de maintenance du matfiriel, as dEroulera en deux phases
distinctes, qui devront u'enchalner sans qu'll y ait de discontinuit6
notable entre celles-cl. La premlAre phase de prise do connaisance et
d'1laboratlon d'un plan d'action durera environ trois aols. La deuzlcme
phase d'implantation s'6fandra our une p6riode d'environ trols as.
Chaque expert du consultant formera iquipe avec un booologue qualifi6
Mallen.   Chaque  tandem   expert-homologue  occupera  un  poate  do
responsabilitc d6flnl dan. l'org nlgrau_  et sera responsable du travail
effectul dans son unit&. Cependant dans le tandem hoaologue-experts
evnt l'bomologue =allen aul occupera la position hi6rarchique que lul
attribue l'organigrine, lVexpert na pouvant en aucun cas occuper cotte
position. Des relations haramonieuses et une rEelle collaboration seront
recherchbes afin quo l'expert puise r6*1iser sa t2che en s'appuyant our
les pouvoirs de son hoaologue mallen. En particulier, le tandem sora
charge de repartir les primes de rendenent et frala de dEplac_ment qul
seront payle au personnel mallen dans le cadre du present contrat.
Afin d'^tre a mmse d'accoaplir toutes cea ttcbes, le consul-
tant proposera A l'administration, au fur et A aesure que le bosolm *'en
fera sentir, toutes leas sesures indispensables y compris les decisions
concernant le personnel et la gestion quotidlenne que devrait prendre
l'Administration en vue de lever leas obstacles rencontres au bon
fonctionnement et 1 l'efficacitE  du SKTP en g6nEral at des unites om
particuler.
En principe, leas experts et leurs bomologues, qui pendant la
prediere phase auront elaborE le prograime de aesures a    prendre pour
anEliorer le fonctionnement de 1'ensemble des activites de uaintenance
du matEriel, devront faire partle du personnel qui sera charge de la
supervision et/ou de la mise en application de ces mesures au cours de
la deuxiame phase du projet.
I east estlu en pred 6re approxisatiou que l'Elaboration du
plan d'action et sa mise en application nEcEssitera le concours d'un
support en assistance technique de ltordre de 120 homesa-mois a rEpartir
sur  une  periode  d'environ  trois  ans.   Ce  personnel  d'aaaistance
technique devrait comprendre:



- 76 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 19
Attachment 3
-un A.T., chef de la mission d'assistance technique, charge
de la supervision et de la gestion d'ensemble de la mission et
d'assister la Division Technique du SMTP dans la mise en place des
imethodes de travail et de gestion au niveau des differents centres de
maintenance.  Cet A.T.  assistera egalement la Division chargee des
approvisionnements (duree estimee 30 h-m).
--un A.T. charge d'assister la Division Atelier dans le cadre
de la coordination et de la programmation, l'ensemble des activites de
l'Atelier Central de Bamsko (duree estimee 30h-m).
-un A.T. Mecanicien charge d'assister les equipes mecaniques
dans  les  activites  pratiques  conformement  aux  programmes  etablis,
Moteurs, Transmissions, Machines - Outils a l'Atelier Central de Bamako
(duree estimeie 30 h-m).
-un A.T. Electrom6canicien charge d'assister la Division
Atelier dans le cadre de la formation des equipes itinerantes de
depannage-montage. Cette fouction est itinerante a concurrence de 50%
du temps de travail (duree estimee 30 h-m).
A l'issue de la phase I, il appartiendra au Consultant de
faire des recommandations quant a l'allocation definitive du nombre
d'hommes-oois a fournir pour ces diffferentes fonctions et de proposer
d'eventuels amenagements dans la definition des missions devolues a
l'assistance technique.
Au cours de leur mission, les experts assureront la formation
de leurs homologues Maliens en les associant aux differents aspects de
leur fonctions.
3. Taches a Executer par le Consultant
3.1 Phase 1
Au cours de cette Phase le Consultant:
--prendra connaissance du fonctionnement actuel de SMTP et de
ses relations fonctionnelles avec les services utilisateurs de materiel.
-identifiera les principaux problemes rencontres par le SMTP
dans l'accomplissement de sa mission d'entretien du materiel.
--definira  les  mesures  a  prendre  pour  ameliorer  le
fonctionnement du SMTP et l'entretien du materiel au niveau des services
utilisateurs, de maniare a obtenir une amelioration substantielle du
taux de disponibilite des equipments de la DNTP.
Daus sa mission, le consultant examinera principalement les
points suivants:
--structure et organisation
--methodes de travail
--charge de travail des differents centres de maintenance
-moyens humains et materiels a mettre en place
--approvisionnement en piaces de recharge



- 77 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 20
AttachrAent 3
(A)  Structure et Organisation
Le Consultant dtfinira les modifications / ameliorations
eventuelles a apporter:
-aux structures des services centraux du SMTP
--a la definition des responsabilites respectives du SMTP et
des services utilisateurs dans le domaine de l'entretien du materiel
-aux relations fonctionelles ainsi qu'aux filiares de
communications et de contr8ole entre les services centraux du SMTP, les
services   regionaux   d'entretien   et   les   utilisateurs.    Plus
particuliarement, il definera:
(i)  les grandes lignes des documents a etablir ou ameliorer en
vue de permettre l'etablissement d'un systame de controle
et de gestion centralise de materiel;
(ii) les responsabilit6s et les limites d'intervention des
differents   centres  de   maintenance  (atelier  central,
r-gions, subdivisions, etc.);
(iii)  le role  d'eventuelles  unites itinerantes de maintenance,
depannage et formation.
Le cas echeant, il recommendera le relevement ou la diminution
des limites d'intervention de certains centres de maintenance compte
tenu de:
-leurs moyens actuels ou futurs
-leur eloignement
--des difficultes de transport et/ou comrunIcation
--des possibilites d'intervention des e.uipes itinerantes de
maintenance.
(B) Nethodes de Travail
Le   consultant   definera   les   modifications-ameliorations
eventuelles a apporter a la periodicite et au contenu de differents
echelons de maintenance ainsi qu'aux methodes de travail a mettre en
oeuvre pour l'entretien, la reparation et le depannage du materiel.
A cet effet, il definira pour chaque niveau de maintenance la
qiv.lification du personnel, les outillages et les grandes lignes des
documents n6cessaires a l'amelioration des methodes de travail (check-
lists, manuels, etc.).
Dans toute la mesure du possible, ces documents seront etablis
sur base de documents existants au SMTP ou dans d'autres organisations
similaires, en les adaptant aux nouvelles conditions de travail du
projet et aux contraintes locales.
(C) Charge de Travail
Compte tenu de la politique d'entretien du materiel et des
methodes de travail difinies precedemment le consultant evaluera la



- 78 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 21
Attachment 3
charge de travail previsible de chaque centre de maintenance pendant la
duree du 5eme projet.
Pour les travaux periodiques de maintenance preventive, cette
evaluation sera faite en collaboration avec les utilisateurs sur base de
l'affection  geographique et du taux d'utilisation probable du materiel.
Pour  les  interventions  majeures  (revisions  generales  et
grosses reparations) le consultant fera la mise a jour de l'inventaire
quantitatif et qualitatif du materiel et etablira un devis et un delai
estimatif de reparation (precision 202 sur devis).
Le consultant evaluera ensuite la charge de travail des
diverses sections des ateliers centraux de Bamako qui seraient charges
de ces interventions majeures, et etablira un calendrier-programme
d' intervention.
Cette evaluation tiendra compte de la possibilitE de sous
traiter certaines interventions dans le secteur prive, dont les
ressources et les capabilites seront evaluees parallelement.
Cette evaluation de la charge de travail permettra de definir
pour chaque centre de maintenance.
--le nombre de postes de travail
-la quantite et la qualification du personnel
-les outillages et equipements fixes, nEcessaires a la realisation
des objectifs vises.
(D) Moyens Humains et Materiels
En collaboration avec CPTP, le consultant procedera a
l'inventaire et l'evaluation quantitative (fonction, age, formation,
qualification, etc.) du personnel en poste aux ateliers centraux et dans
les differents centres de maintenance.
Parallalment  il  procEdera  I  l'inventaire  et  l'evaluation
qualitative des moyens techniques et materiels existant dans ces centres
(locaux, outillages, equipements fixes, adduction d'eau, installation
electrique, etc.)
Ceci permettra d'ajuster les effectifs et la qualification du
personnel, a la charge probable de travail en re_ourrant soit:
-& un eventuel prograume dtajustement des effectifs
--a une programme de formation de la main d'oeuvre existante. Le
consultant definira egalemeut les ameliorations/modifications a apporter
aux installations existantes, a leur outillage et leur equipeuent.
Il etablira le couit et le delai de r ealisation estimes de ces
travaux et amelioration ainsi qu'un ordre de priorite pour leur
realisation. I1 definira en outre les travaux pouvant ^tre confiEs aux
entreprises.
(E) Approvisionnement en pieces de rechange
Des progras sensibles ont ete realisEs ces dernieres annEes dans la
gestion du magasin central de Bamako. Des amEliorations importantes
restent cependant a realiser en particulier dams les domaines suivants:



- 79 -                     AM     -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 22
Attachment 3
-gestion des magasins regionaux
-etablissement des prevision de consommation et des stocks
minimums au niveau du magasin central et des magasins regionaux
-apurement des stocks morts
-enregistrement   des   consommations,   quelque   soit   le  mode
d'approvisionnement ou le systeme d'achat utilise
-reduction des ruptures de stock
Durant cette phase, le consultant definira les diverses
ameliorations i apporter dans ces differents domaines et etablira le
calendrier programme des actions 3 mener.
I1 evaluera egalement l'impact financier des actions qu'il
preconise, et plus particulierement le niveau des immobilisations en
magasin, par rapport du taux de rupture de stock admissible.
3.2 En fin de Phase I, le resultat des investigations et les
recommendations etablies par les experts et leurs homologues seront
examinees par la DNTP et discutees.Ces discussions deboucheront sur:
--La selection des actions a mener et des objectifs a atteindre
parmi ceux qui auront e't  proposes.
--L'etablissement d'un calendrier detaille et realiste des actions
mener compte-tenu des diverses contraintes et limitations existantes
ou previsibles.
--La definition des taches et attributions specifiques de
l'assistance technique dans le cadre de ce plan d'action.
Un document final sera etabli, qui servira de programme de
travail pour la Phase II. Ce document explicitera les buts et resultats
i atteindre ainsi que les delais dans lesquels ces resultats devront
-=tre atteiuts.
3.3 Phase II
Les activites de la phase II consisteront essentiellement a
mettre en place et a executer les mesures definies conjointement a la
fin de la phase I.  Ces activites porteront essentiellement sur les
points suivants:
(A) Structures et Organisation
--mise en place des eventuelles modifications dans la structure et
l'organisation du SMTP et des services regionaux de maintenance.
--amelioration des filieres de communication et de controle par la
mise en oeuvre de moyens materiels et des supports adequats.
--etablissement des documents-supports permettant la collecte des
informations au niveau des differents centres de maintenance.
--etablissement des couts, des statistiques et des indicateurs de
performance 5 tirer des informations transmises.
--wise en application du systeme d'incitations 8 la productivite.



- 80 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 23
Attachment 3
-Formation au niveau du SNTP, des regions at des subdivisions, du
personnel charge de mettre en place et d'appliquer les mesures definies
au programme de travail.
-Suivi et verificatiou periodique sur site de la comprehension et
de l'application correcte de ces mesures.
--D6pistage des carences et des retards.
-Redaction des rapports periodiques.
(B) Methodes de Travail:
-Etablissement des documents-supports necessaires a l'application
et au controle des programmes de maintenance preventive aussi qu'a la
mise en place de methodes de travail amiliorfes.
-Formation sur site du personnel charge des operations d'entretien
de reparation et de depannage.
Suivi et contr^ole sur site de la compr6hension et de l'application
correcte des mesures preconisees.
--Contr'ole et suivi du planning de reparation du zat6riel.
-Supervision de l'expertise du materiel avant reparation.
-Suivi et controle de la bonne execution des travaux lors de
revisions ou de reparations majeures.
--Mise en place et suivi des equipes itinerantes de depannage et
d'entretien.
(C) Moyens Bumains et Materiels:
--Selection en collaboration avec le CPTP du personnel a former au
CFTP de Bamako.
-Reaffectation du personnel en fonction des besoins.
-Le cas echeant, selection du personnel a embaucher en vue de
pourvoir les postes Eventuellement vacants (en collaboration avec le
CPTP).
-Participation a l' evaluation du personnel en vue de l'attribution
de primes de productivite ou autres avantages analogues.
--Controle et reparation des equipements des installations fixes
(outillages, groupes electrogenes, compresseurs, machines outil, postes
a souder, etc.)
--Selection/acquisition des outillages 't equipements a installer
dans les differents centres de maintenance.
-SuIvi et contr^ole de l'installation des nouveaux equipements.
-Etude succincte, suivi  et  controle des modifications-ameliora-
tions a apporter aux installations existantes.
(D) Approvisionnement en Pieces de Rechange
-Relations avec la Centrale d'acbat et les fournisseurs locaux.
-Supervision des appels d'offres et des commandes en pieces de
rechange;  assistance  a  la  redaction  de  specifications  techniques.
-Suivi de l'approvisiounement correct des utilisateurs en pieces
de rechange.
-Mise en place d'un syst-me d'app-ovisionnement periodique des
magasins regionaux.



- 81 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 24
Attachment 3
--Mise en place d'un systeme de reapprovisionnement systimatique
pour  les consommations previsibles;  etablissement de stocks-minima;
tenue a jour de la documentation (catalogues et references).
--Remise en ordre des magasins regionaux, apurements des stocks
morts.
--Suivi et controle periodique des inventaires magasins.
--Formation du personnel charge de la gestion des magasins.
--Creation des documents-supports necessaires a la realisation des
objectifs mentiones ci-dessus.
4. Rapports:
Un rapport provisoire sera soumis a la DNTP au plus tard dix
semaines apras le debut de la phase I. Copie de ce rapport sera envoye
a la Banque Mondiale.  Le rapport final sera presente deux semaines
apras la fin des discussions concernant les actions a mener au cours de
la phase II.  Ce rapport final servira de programe de travail pour la
phase II.
Durant la phase II, le consultant presentera trimestriellement
un rapport d'activite qui fera le point sur l'etat d'avancement du
programme d'actions a mener et sur les difficultes rencontrees.
A l'issue de sa mission, le Consultant remettra un rapport
final decrivant l'evolution du SNTP et analysant lee progres realises
dans la gestion et l'efficacite de cet organisme, au cours de la mission
du Consultant.
Durant le deroulement du projet, les divers rapports et ftats
mensuels qui seraient necessaires au bon fontionnement du SMTP seront
rediges sous la supervision des experts qui formeront et assisterout
leurs homologues dans ce domaine.
Ces rapports et etats mensuels dont le contenu detaille sera
defini au cours de la phase I contiendront au min:mum:
--les  resultats  statistiques  et  indicateurs  de  performance
permettant une appreciation rapide de 1'efficacite du 5MTP et des
services utilisateurs tels que: taux de disponibilite des engins,
kilometrage parcourus, heures d'utilisation, consommation specifique,
etc.
--Un releve des  avaries et des  causes  d'immobilisation prolongfe
des engins.
--Un releve des principales carences en approvisionnement.
--Un  releve  des  principales  difficultes  rencontrees  ou  des
principales lacunes constatees par le Consultant dans la mise en
application du plan d'actions.
--Les donnees comptables necessaires a lVappr6ciation rapide des
couts d'utilisation et de reparation du materiel.
A l'issue de sa mission, le Consultant remettra un rapport
final decrivant l'evolution du SMTP et analysant lea progres re.alises
dans la gestion et l'efficacite de cet organisme, au cours de la mission
du Consultant.



- 82 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 25
Attachment 3
Durant le dtroulement du projet, lea divers rapports et etats
mensuels qui seraient necessaires au bon fonctionnement du SNIP seront
rediges sous la supervision des experts qui formeront et assisteront
leurs homologues dans ce domaine.
Ces rapports et etats mensuels dont le contenu detaille sera
defini au cours de la phase I contiendront au minimum :
--   les  resultats  statistiques  et  indicateurs  de  performance
permettant une appreciation rapide de 1'efficacite du SMTP et
des services utilisateurs tels que : taux de disponibilite des
engins,   kilomfitrage   parcourus,   heures   d'utilisation,
consommation specifique, etc...
-    Un rUlev6 des avaries et des causes d'immobilisation prolongae
des engins.
-    Un  releve  des  principales  carences  en  approvisionnement.
-    Un  releve des principales  difficultes  rencontrees  ou  des
principales lacunes constatees par le Consultant dans la mise
en application du plan d'actions.
--   Les donnees comptables necessaires a l'appreciation rapide des
Co'ts d'utilisation et de reparation du materiel.
RENSEIGNEMENTS ET INSTRUCTIONS AUX SOUMISSIONNAIRES
1. Qualifications des Soumissionnaires
Les firmes admises a soumissionner ou dans le cas de
groupement de firmes, la firme pilote, doivent avoir une experience
iuportante et une activite effective et permanente dans 1'execution,
l'organisation et les methodes de maintenance et de reparation du
materiel de genie civil et/ou de tranport.
2. Pr&sentation de l'Offre
L'offre sera presentee en langue francaise et comprendra deux
parties distinctes qui seront expediees dans deux enveloppes separees
comportant l'une la partie  technique  et l'autre  la partie financiere.
a)   La Partie Technique de l'Offre Comprendra :
(i) Les references du Consultant dans le domaine  d'activites
concerne, ainsi que toute documentation permettant
d'apprecier 1'experience professionnelle du Consultant,
(ii) les   suggestions   et/ou   commeutaires   eventuels   du
Consultant   concernant  le   contenu   des   termes   de
references,
(iii) un expose sur le plan de travail et la methodologie que
le Consultant compte utiliser pour mener a bien sa
mission,   un   organigrame   fonctionnel   de   l'equipe
d'experts proposes par le Consultant, ainsi que la liste
et la consistance des outils et moyens de gestion qu'il
adaptera et mettra a la disposition du SMTP,
(iv) les curriculum-vitae des experts qui seront charges des



- 83 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 26
Attacbment 3
prestations,
(v) un releve des moyens logistiques que le Consultant estime
necessaires a la realisation de sa mission.
b)   La partie Financi&re de l'Offre Comprendra .
(i) les taux par homme-mois pour chacune des categories de
personnel proposees par le Consultant (maximum trois
categories). Les taux annonces comprendront :
les  traitements;  conges, jours feries et  indemnites
pour conges de maladie; les assuramnces, pensions de
retraite et autres charges sociales; les indemnites
d'affectation a l'etranger, y compris les indemnit6s
et frais de deplacement a l'int6rieur du pays; les
frais geunraux A l'Equipe du Projet, les depenses du
siage, les frais de voyage, etc.
(ii) Les postes de depenses remboursables au titre du
personnel, notamuent les frais de voyage international
pour l'employe et sa famille lors de l'affectation, de la
cessartion des fonctions et des conges, y compris les
excedents de bagages et autres indemnites; les frais de
logement, de deplacement local, de subsistance et autres
d6penses  analogues  pendant  le  sejour  au  Mali.  La
proposition  precisera  le  montant  de  chaque  poste
remboursable ainsi que la base de calcul retenu;
(iii) Le  cout  du materiel,  des  services  du  siage  ou  des
sous-traitants juges indispensables pour l'execution de
la mission du Consultant y compris le couft d'impression
des manuels, directives, formulaires et autres outils de
gestion destines au SMTP.
(iv) Le cout de stages de formation complementaire pour le
personnel du SMPT au siege de la firme.
3.   Monnaie, Variation des Prix :
Les couts seront exprines en Francs CFA pour la part locale et
dans la devise correspondante pour la part en devise. Les prix seront
revisables annuellement suivant une formule a proposer par le consultant
dans son off-re. Cette formule comportera une marge de neutralisation de
IOZ et utilisera des indices en relation avec l'evolution des coats
correspondants dans la ou les monnaies utilisees.
4.        Validit6 de l'Offre:
La validite de l'offre presentee par le consultant sera de
quatre mois A partir de la date d'ouverture des plis. Sauf cas de force
majeure, aucun remplacement, ne sera accepte pour Les experts proposes.



- 84 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 27
Attachment 3
pour autant que le contrat entre en vigueur avant la fin de la periode
de validite de l'offre.
5.        Preparation de l'Offre
Au cours de la preparation de l'offre, il est suggere que le
consultant effectue une visite au Mali afin de rencontrer les principaux
responsables de la DNTP et du SMTP et de se familiariser qvec les
conditions locales de vie et de travail.
6.        Ouverture des plis, Evaluation des Offres
L'ouverture des plis et l'evaluation des offres s'effectueront
en quatre etapes.
a)   Ouverture  en  seance  publique  des  offres  techniques
uniguement.
b)   Evaluation 5 la DNTP des of fres techniques selon les
critares suivants :
Ci) Experience de la firme dans l'execution
de la maintenance et de la reparation de
materiel  de  geine  civil  et / ou   de
transport                                   15 points
(ii) Experience de la firme dans les pays  en
voie de developpement                         5 points
(iii) Qualite de l'offre en termes d'adequation
du plan de travail et de la methodologie
proposee aux termes de reference,
- de qualite et consistance des outils de
gestion  propos6s  et   d'homogeneite  de
l'equipe d'experts                           10 points
(iv) Qualitg et experience du personnel.
(Treize points seront attribuables au
chef de mission, et 8 points 3 chacun des
autres experts).                            45 points
Sous total       75 points
c)   Ouverture  en  seance  publique  des  offres  financieres
correspondant aux offres techniques jugees acceptables
d)   Evalua.ion finale par DNTP en ajoutant a l'evaluation
technique le critere suivant :
(v) Prix : L'integralite des points sera
accordle A la proposition d'un montant



- 85 -
ANNEX 3-4
Page 28
Attachment 3
P la moins disante jugEe acceptable.        25 points
Les autres offres d'un montant Pi serout
affectees d'un nombre de points i calculi
sur la base suivante:
i - 25 P/Pi
TOTAL           100 points
7.        Paiement
Il est propose de remunerer les services du consultant de la
imaniere suivante :
- Paiement de 15% A la mise en vigueur du contrat
- Palement du solde par mensualite en fonction de l'execution des
prestations.
WAPT1
April 1985



- 86 -
Annex 3-5
Page 1
Kai
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Termes de REffrence pour l'Assistance Technique A l'ONT
I. Introduction
1.        L'Office National des Transports (ONT) eat us organise public
du  Mali  sous  l'autorite  du  Ministre  charg6  des  transports.   Cet
organisme a pour mission:
- de pronouvoir et d'adapter le d&veloppement du secteur des
transports aux objectife de production (mission de planifica-
tion);
- d'assurer le bon fonctionnement de ce secteur par la gestion
des transports;
-  d'&tablir les  projets de  textes r6glementant lea activit6s de
transports de surface.
2.        Les textes organiques de l'Office National pr&voient come
structure:
-  une division etudes et planification.  Cette division en plus
des 6tudes d'ordre gen6ral et tarifaires, 6lbore les projets
de texte rEglementant lee activitEs de transport at procbte &
la planification danu le secteur des transports;
-  une division controle technique et circulction routiere.  II
convient de preciser qu'avec l'adoption du code maritime du
Hali, cette division aura un role de suivi de l'ar_meent
ualien;
-  des representations regionales;
-  des representations dans les ports.  II convient de noter que
celles-ci sont chargees de la gestion des installations
portuaires mises a leur disposition par le Mali et d'organiser
l'evacuation   des   marchandises   maliennes   en   transit
conformEment aux  directives  et programmes arretEs par l'ONT;
- un service comptable;
- ume division administrative et financiare;
- un service de l' inspection des transports;
-  un service des hydrocarbures chargE, en rapport avec lea
services  techniques  compEtents  de  l'organisation  et  de
l'approvisionnesent du pays en hydrocarbures.
3.        La division etudes et planification est chargE. de:
- centraliser les prEvisions dEmographiques, de production et de
consomuation, en vue d'Etablir leo prEvisions des bosoins de
transport;
-  suivre l'Evolution des parcs: routier, ferroviaire, fluvial,
maritime et aErien;



- 87 -
Annex 3-5
Page 2
-  rassembler   et   enregistrer   les   statistiques   diverses
int6ressant le secteur des tranoports;
- suivre le d6veloppement de l'infrastructure de transport en
vue d'assurer un d6veloppement harmonieux du r6seau de
transport;
-  suivre   les   services   techniques   charg s   des   travaux
d'entretien, des voles  routilres et fluviales, l'&laboration
des programmes d'entretien;
-  d6terminer en liaison avec lea services intEresses lea norms
de securitg et lee conditions d'assurance;
-  editer le rapport annuel statistique des transports.
4.        La division contrBle technique et circulation routiare est
chargee de:
- d6livrer lea permis de conduire, les cartes grises, les
autorisations de transport;
- assurer le contr6le technique des vehicules;
-  percevoir lea taxes liles aux activites citCes ci-dessus;
- traiter les dossiers relatifo aux accidents de la circulation
routifre.
5.        Lea representations regionales sont chargEs. de:
- centraliser lea offres et lea demandes de transport de
uarchandises solides et liquides;
- effectuer la rEpartition des demandes de transport entre leo
modes et entre les transporteuro d'un mane mode (apairage);
-  _tablir lea autorisations opEciales de transport, lea bons de
chargement et lea billets de sortie;
- Etablir le journal des chargeuents, le rapport *emeuel
dtactivite6, lea cartes de transport;
- percevoir lea taxes d'affRetement;
- assurer lee missions de la division contrele technique dans
lea rEgions.
6.        Actions ddjk uenEes:  Dane le cadre des actions qui concernent
principalement ie projet ((i) Etablir lea programes de transport; (ii)
arrSeter une coordination eutre lee diffErents nodes de transport; et
(iii) fournir en permanence tous renseignesents permettant aux usagers
de connaltre 1'Evolution du marche  du transport et toutes dozinEs
nEcessaires a l'orientation de leur politique d'approvisionnement et de
distribution) l'ONT a exEcutE ou fait rEaliser les Etudes suivantes:
- l'etude sur les transports routiers de marchandises;
-  l'etude du IIa plan de transport du Mali;
- l'Etude sur la Taxe a l'Essieu;
- l'Etude de la mise en place d'une cellule de collecte et de
traitement  de donness  en matitre de  transport.  Une des
rEalisations de cette cellule est l'institution d'un document
statistique intitulE "DoninEss actuelles sur les transports au



- 88 -
Annex 3-5
Page 3
Mall".  Elle a rEalis6 la premiere *nquete fluviale du Mali,
un plan d'archivage et un plan de documentation i l'Office
National des Transports.
II. ObJectifs
7.        Dans le cadre du Cinquiaue Projet Routier, le Gouvernement a
deuand6 a l'IDk d'assister l'ONT dans lea taches suivantes:
(a) flaboration chaque annfe d'un programse tri-annuel des
investissements de transport.  Ces programme  comporteront
tons lee investisaments de l'Etat dans le secteur des
transports d'un montant sup$rieur a 400 millions de Francs
CFA, seront pr&parEs en utilisant des critares Iconomiques,
affecteront les ressources en priorite a la maintenance dera
investisseuents existants, et tiendront compte de la capacitE
d'endettement de l'Etat; et
(b)  elaboration d'un plan d'ections pour aulliorer l'efficecitf de
l'industrie des transports routiers.
8.        Dana ce cadre. l'ONT souhaite faire  appel a lasselstance
technique d'une firme de consultants dont l'intervention east d6fini. par
lea presents termes de rEffrence.  Cette firm  assistera Egalement l'ONT
daus  la  dEfinition,  lachat  et  la  uise  en  place  d'un  syst4ue
informatique appropriE. Pour cela, elle agira en tant que centrale
d'achat du materiel et logiciel luforuatique et *ara reuboursee our
pikces justificatives.
II. Taches A exEcuter par le consultant
9.        Le consultant assistera l'ONT dans l'execution des tiches
suivantes:
-  amelioration  des othodes  de travail et collecte des dounEes
Econoziques et de transports necessaires;
-  traitement statitique de ces donness et de leur Evolution.
analyse de leurs consEquences Economiques dans le secteur et
publication d'un rapport annuel A ce sujet;
- receneeent et collecte des conclusions des Eitudes de
factibilitE, en cours on recentes, dan le secteur;
- Elaboration de perspectives de dEveloppement daen le secteur
des transports dans lea quinze prochaines annes;
-  etude de la priorite relative des dEpenes d'entretien et
d' Investissement pour chaque mode;
- coordination at smivi des etudes et analyses de la rEpartition
inter.odale optimum des transports;
-  elaboration   chaque   annEe   d'un   programe   pluriannuel
d'inveatisseents dans le secteur de transports, classes salon
leur prioritE economique relative ainsi que via l via des
depenses d'entretien, prograsmes qul tiemnent compte de ls
capacitE financilre de 1'Ztat ou des organismes concerniEs;



- 89 -
Annex 3-5
Page 4
-  revision  des  charges  supportees  par  lea  usagers  des
infrastructures de transport et proposition d'actions pour
fairs correspondre ces charges aux coGts r6els d'entretien at
d'investissements;
- gtude et mise en oeuvre d'un programme d'action pour au6liorer
l'&fficacitE et la rendement des transports routiers at la
securite des usagers de la route;
- r&vision p6riodique des tarifa de transport pour s'assurer
qu'ils reflatent la r6alit6 6conouique;
- aise en oeuvre d'un programme de rEvision des capacites
effectives  des  ensembles  tracteurs-semi  remorques  pour
s'assurer qu'ils ne depassent pas lea limites lEgales des
charges a l'essieu, ainsi que de controle effectif de ceo
charges A l'essieu.
10.       Le consultant assistera egalement l'ONT dans l'informatisation
de ce service et A ce titre effectuera les taches suivantes:
- examen critique des taches ou donnees qu'il eat souhaitable de
faire executer ou g6rer par ordliateur notamment:
- fichier de3 cartes grises des vEhicules
- fichier des persis et autorisation de conduire
fichier des cartes de transport
- fichier des lettres de voiture
- traitement statistique des dounees relevant du secteur des
transports routier, ferroviaire, aErien, fluvial et maritlce
-  resultats  d'enquetes origine - destination  ou  de  comptages
routiers
-  donnEes  concernant  l'Etude,  is  realisation  ou l'entretien
d'infrastructures existantes ou a creer. en liaison avec les
services techniques concernes;
-  comparaison des avantages, InconvEnients et couts de plusleura
options d'informatisation (materiels et logiciels);
- prEparation des listen restreintes de fournisseurs et des
dossiers de consultation correspondants;
-  consultation des fournisseur , analyse des offres, *signature
des contrats de fourniture et reception des uateriels et
logiciels;
- elaboration de logiciels complemntaires necessaires et
formation sur le tas et au siage du consultant du personnel.
IV. Programme et Intervention
11.       Le consultant travaillera en etroite collaboration avec les
cadres de l'Office National des Transports et ceux d'organims
s'interessant au  secteur des transports.  Le  consultant Elaborers,
adaptera et fournira A l'ONT lea mEthodes do travail, logiciels
infor-atiques et autres outils d'Etude ou de gestion dont l'ONT a bosoin
dans l'execution des t&ches dEcrites en III. Il mettra a la disposition
de l'ONT des experts pour des sejours de durEe variable. Les experts
sEjournant plus de trois nois feront Equipe avec un homologue qualifie



- 90 -
Annex 3-5
Page 5
malien.    Chaque  equipe  expert-homologue  occupera  un  poste  de
responsabllite defini dans l'organigranme de l'ONT et sera responsable
du travail effectue dans son unite.  En particulier elle sera charge de
repartir les primes de rendement et controlera les frais de dtplacement
qui seront payes au personnel mslien dans le cadre du present contrat.
Le consultant formera sur le tas des cadres qui seront mis a sa
disposition en vue d'assurer la relave.  Le consultant proposera a
l'agrement prealable de l'Administration et de 1'IDA tout changement
dans la composition de l'quipe chargee de l'execution du projet.
12.       II est estime que le consultant devra fouruir un total de 60
hommes-mois (h-m) d'assistance technique repartis come suit:
(1) experts qui effectueront pour 1'essentiel des sejours longs au
Mali et accessoirement  des prestation au siege du consultant:
-  un economiste  de  transports,  chef de projet (30 h-m) qui
executera ou fera executer les etudes economiques et de
planification;
- un expert informaticien (12 h-n) qui elaborera ou adaptera
et mettra en oeuvre les logiciels;
(2)  experts de courte duree selon un programme d'intervention a
dafinir annuellement (18 h-m):
- specialiste de l'industrie des transports routiers
- statisticien
- autres specialistes.
V. Conduite du Projet
13.       Les rapports:  Le consultant etablira;
(a) un rapport initial. Ce rapport presentera le programe des
travaux, la methodologie retenue, les decisions eventuelles a
prendre concernant l'orientation generale du projet;
(b)  des rapports periodiques dTavancement.  Ces rapports seront
soumis tous les trois (3) mois apres la soumission du rapport
initial.   Ils feront le point de ltexecution des travaux
effectues  pendant  la  periode  couverte,  les  difficultes
rencontrees, l'etat des paiements, une re,capitulation des
decisions importantes intervenues, etc.;
(c) un rapport final. le consultant etablira un rapport final
falsant le point de l'execution de ce projet du debut jusqu'a
la fin.
14.       Dilais d'execution:  Le consultant conmencera les travaux au
plus tard trente (30) jours aprps la signature du contrat.  La durie
totale d'execution est fixee a 42 mois.  Le consultant livrera lea
rapports definis au point V aux dates ci-dessous indiquees:



- 91 -
Annex 3-5
Page 6
(a) date d'entree en vigueur du contrat    N
(b)  comencement des travaux                 M + 1 mois
(c) rapport initial                           M + 31uois
(d) rapport final                            x + 41 mois
15.      Apport de l'administration:   L'administration iettra a1 la
disposition du consultant tous renseignements et etudes disponibles
necessaires a la bonne execution des travaux. Le consultant prendra
connaissance des documents et instruments de travail ci-dessous:
- 1'e6tude sur les transports routiers de marcbandises
- les rapports Stablis dans le cadre du contrat d'assistance
technique a l'ONT que ie gouwernement du Mali a conclu avec la
societe SORCA-EMB
- le plan de transport du Mali 1980-1994
- le rapport sur l'entretien routier 1975 (BCEON)
- l'6tude sur l'application de la taxe 1 l'essieu, 1982 (BCEOO)
- donnEes actuelles sur les transports en RUpublique du Mali 1982
CBCEOM)
- documents du projet MLI/020  relatifs a  l'informatisaton  des
directions natio^2les de la douane, des affaires  economiques  et
du CMCE
- documents de travail de l'ONT (permis de conduire, cartes grises,
cartes de transport, autorisations speciales de transport, lettre
de voiture, documents comptables, etc.)
L'adudnistration mettra a le disposition du consultant lea
locaux meubles necessaires et &juipfls de tUlephone.
WAPT1
April 1985



- 92 -
Annes 3-6
Page 1
MALI
CINQUIEME PROJET ROUTIER
Assistance Technique a la Direction
Nationale des Travaux Publics
TEEMS DE REFERENCE
1.        Dans le cadre de 1 'exfcution du cinquieme projet routier, la
Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics (DNTP) fait appel A deux (2)
ingenieurs routiers consultants pour assister deux divisions centrales
de la DNTP: la Division des Etude GEnerales et des Programmes (DEGP) et
la Division des Etudes Techniques et des Travaux (DETT).
I. DIVISION DES ETUDES GENERALES ET DES PROGRAMMES (DEGP)
2.        Le consultant sera un ing&nieur routier ayant au moius 12 ans
d'expperience en particulier danas ladministration de reseaus routiers,
la prograiation, la gestion financiere et le controle des op$rations et
1'fivaluation technique et economique des projets de transport. Une part
substantielle de cette experience devra concerner l'Afrique.
3.        Le consultant travaillera en etroite collaboration avec le
chef de la D.E.G.P. Ils formeront une equipe homologue-consuitant.
4.        Cette equipe sera chargee en particulier des taches suivantes:
- coordination entre lea divers services de la DNTP.
- preparation et suivi des programes annuels et trimestriels
d'entretien courant;
- suivi du rendement des unites d'entretien  des  routes  en regie;
- formation sur les tas des responsables de lentretien routier et
participation   aux   activites   de   formation   du  Centre  de
Perfectionnement des Travaux Publics (C.P.T.P.)
- coordination du programe d'entretien, de remise eu etat et de
renouvellesent du materiel avec celui des travaux;
- initiation  d'actions  pour  I'aselioration  de  1'efficacite des
operations d'entretien routier;
- collecte de donnees techniques et economique pour 1' tablissement
d'etudes de factibilite de projets routiers;
- examen critique des etudes de  factibilite  de projet routiers et
etablissement de priorites  economiques  pour les investissements
et llentretien des routes;
- etablisseuent des demandes de decaaissements;
- suivi des engagements et depenses des diffErentes ca:egories du
cinquiame projet routier et de la situation des comptes IDA/
SUISSE/FAD tant au Mali qu'au niveau de la Banque Mondiale;
- participation active a l'informatisation du service;



- 93 -
Annex 3-6
Page 2
5.        Afin d'etre 1 mieme d'accomplir toutes ces tiches le consultant
proposera par ecrit a la DNTP toutes lea mesures indispensables en vue
d'obtenir en temps voulu toutes les informations necessaires de la part
de chaque service dependant de la DNTP.  }1 mettra au point tn systeme
de relance destinzi a eviter les retards et/ou irregularit6s dans la
transmission des documents, rapports ou informations. Afin d'atteindre
ces objectifs. il formera specialement le personnel de la D.E.G.P qui
collaborera a ses actions et il assumera la cogestion avec le chef de la
DEGP des incitants qui seront mis a leur disposition dans le cadre du
projet.
6.        Le  consultant  participera  etroitement  a  la redaction  du
rapport periodf.que d'avancement du cinquieme Projet Routier, dans lequel
il decrira en particulier ses activites principales.  II redigera un
rapport a l'occasion de chaque tournee.   II redigera egalement un
rapport final sur ses activites, trois mois avant la fin de son mandat.
7.        La duree de 1'intervention du consultant est de quarante deux
mois se situant entre le 117/1985 et le 3111211988.
II. DIVISION DES ETUDES TECHNIQUES ET DES TRAVAUX (D.E.T.T.)
8.        Le Consultant sera un Ingenieur routier ayant au moins 12 ans
d'experience en particulier dans la mise en oeuvre et le coutole de
travaux d'entretien et de construction de routes, les etudes routiares
et les techniques et reglementation routiere.
9.        Le  Consultant  travaillera  en  etroite collaboration avec le
chef de la D.E.T.T. Ils formeront une equipe homologue - consultant.
30.       Cette equipe sera chargee en particulier des tiches suivantes:
- etudes  dont  la DETT est chargee, projets d'exfcution, etudes de
prix, cahier de charge type etc....)
- initiation  et  preparation  des marches  de  fourniture  et  de
travaux, suivi de la procedure d'appel d'offres et d'approbation
et suivi de leur execution;
- rassemblement et diffusion des normes et documents techniques
concernant les travaux routier au Mali et suivi de leur mise en
vigueur;
- controle  des  travaux  en  regie et controle et surveillance des
travaux a l'entreprise du cinquiime projet routier et des autres
travaux qui relavent de la DNTP;
- mise en place d'un systime, de methodes, d'hommes, capables
d'amneliorer et ecourter les circuits et delais de passation des
marches;
- participation active a l'informatisation du service.
11.       Afin  d'etre  a  meme  d'accomplir  toutes  ces  taches,  le
consultant  proposera  par  ecrit  a  la  DETT  toutes  les  mesures
indispensables en vue d'obtenir en temps voulu toutes lea informations
necessaires de la part des services interesses.  II mettra au point un



- 94 -
Annex 3-6
Page 3
systeme de relance destine a eviter les retards et/ou irregularites dans
la  transmission  des  documents.  rapports  ou  inforuations.   Af in
d'atteindre ces objectifs, il formera sp-cialement le personnel de ia
DETT qui collaborera A see actions et il assumera la cogestion avec le
chef de la DETT des incitants qui seront mis a leur disposition dans le
cadre du projet.
12.       Le Cousultant redigera un rapport I l'occasion de chaque
tournee.   I1  participera  I  la  r6daction  du  rapport  periodique
d'avaucement du cinquiame Projet Routier dans lequel il d&erira en
particulier ses activitEs principales.  I1 redigera egalement un rapport
final sur ses activit6s, 3 mois avant la fin de son *andat.
13.       La duree de l'intervention du consultant eat de quarante deux
mois se situant entre le 1/7/1985 et le 31/12/1988.
WAPTI
April 1985



MALI
fIFTH HIGHAY PROJECT
Table 1    R AEORGANIZAT ION AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Detailed Cost ITble
Parameters
Totals Includirn  Contirgencies        ............................
Owntity                                            lost  Goal                  Phy.
------------------------  Unit Coat   -----------------------------------   Cont. for.   gross   Swuary
Unit       oSs1 IMS  to? 1to"  1919 Total    ICTAFI   1iSi  19S6   1987   1968  1969 total   Rate  Esch. Ta. Rate Account
1. INVESTRENT COSTS
A. ONT
1. 4110- Technical Assistance           sn-wmnth        4   20   16   16    -    50   4.s52.74s    41    220    214    231    -    706              0  0.91       0.05   01510
2. 4120- CrutIng/Study EquIpment   lImp swn              I    -    -    -    -       I 8I.421.555   231            -                 -    231   0.25        1        0    ICEJ
3. 4130  - Light Vehicles                  unit         2    -    -    -    -        2   6.357.105    27        -       -       -    -      27       0      1        0    ICE4
4. 4140  - Sparo Parts 110!1                            -                                                3      -               -            3       0      1        0    ICE4
s. 4150  - Incfntives                    per year    0.5      I    I           -   3.5   7,950,000       S      is     Is      21    -      65       0     0         0    NFA
Sub-Total ONT                                                                                             310    236    233    251       -  1,032
8. DECP
t. 4210- Technical Assistance           mn-month        4   10   tO   10    -    34   4.952.749    41    ilo    119    128    -    398              0  0.91       0.05    0165
2. 4220- Couting/Study equtint   l.m sm                 -    I    -    -    -        I  19.302.483       -     47       -       -    -      47    0. I      I        0    ICEI
3. 4230 -  Incentivos                    per year    0.5      I    1    1    -   3.5   3,279.640         3      7       8       6           27       0     0         0    NFA3
Sib-Total DEGP                                                                                             45    165    127    137    -    4713
C. DEII
1. 4310- technical Assistance           mn-month        4   10   10   to    -    34   4,952.749    41    110    119    126    -    398              0  0.91       0.05    011 t
2. 4320 -  Incentives                    por year    0.5      I    I    I    -   3.5  44.515.400    47         39    1o7    ItS    -    358          0     0         0    NUSI
Sub-Total KIT                                                                                              es    209    226    244    -    167
0. SNIP
1. 4410- Technical Assistance             n-month    12   44   44   40             140   4.607.208   I1      451    461    417          1.529      0  0.91       0.05    DIAl
2. 4420- Procu nt Agent                     fee         -       ---                                     20     U       35      92   27    330        0  0.91      0.05    oTHS
3. tools-Tooling
.............
440- for lahko wrkshops               lup sU1        --                                                    236       -       -    -    235    0. 1      I         0    ICE2
4440- for  egional workshops          lup                      - -              - -              -    -            1                    127    0. I     I         0    ICE2
Sub-Total tools-Tooling                                                                                  -    235    127        -    -    364
4. 4450 -  Incentives                    per year    0.5      I    I    I    -   3.5  1i.519.S60    13         41      45      43    -    154        0     0         0    NFA3
Sub-Total SHIP                                                                                            115    all    ;53    624   27  2.376
C. STUDIES
1. 4510- Short-term Specialists           n-month            10   10   10    -    30   5.183. 109        -    IIS    124    134            374      0  0.91       0.01    OIAU
2. 412- LIght vehicles                     unit          I                           I   5157, I        I        * .  105    13             13       0      I        0    ICE4
3. 4520 -  Spare Parts (l101                                                         -                   I                                   I       0     I         0    ICE4
Sut-Total SIUDIES                                                                                          IS    115    124    134    -    388                                                          q
F. AUDIT 
1. 4510- Setting-op occouns             wn-month   1.5    -    -    -    -   1.5   5,759,010    to              -       -       -    -      is      0  0.91      0.05   01411 A
2. 4620- Annual audit                    mon-month      -  1.5   .S  1.5    -   4.5   5.759.010                19      21      22           62       0  0.91      0*.0    OTAII                          ts
.... ...... ...... ...... .......... 
Sub-Total AUOIT                                                                                            is      12     21      22    -      SO
....     ......   ......    ......    ....  ........................ . . 
Total INWESIHNEI  COSTS                                                                                      631  1.563  1.482  1, 412   27  5, 115
Total                                                                                                         III  1;113  1.462  1.412    27  5. II
4pril 3. 1361 17:26



KALI
FIFtH HIGHMA NROJECI
i.bie 2 : REQACANIZAT ION A1O TECtlICiL *SSiST*1CE
Detailed Cost Table
Breakdomn of totals Incl. Canit
fuss I 000I
ease Costs                Totals Including ContIngencIes           totals Including Continrgencis           .................
ICFAF Hillioni                       ICFAF Nillion)us 1US$000                                                             Local
llas li65 1967 1356 1963 total   1235 1286 1267 1268 1363 Total   1955  108l   1367   1268  1992 total   for-. Exch. taxes)  Taxes   Total
I.INVESTHENT COSTS
A. OUT
I. 4110- Technical Assistance               20   29   69   62    -    22?    20  10  0"   113    -    146    41    220    214    231                 -    705           64S      26        35    706
2. 4120- Compeuting/Study Equ1pnnt          6      -    -    -    -       68   113    -    -             -    113   231         -       -            -    231            211       -              2 I1
3. 4130  - Light Vehicles                    13     -          -    -       13    13    -      -    -     -      13    2?7       -                    -      If            27       -         - 
4. 414@ -  $paroPartstl@1I1                   I    -     -     -             I      I                     -       1      3       -       -             -      3             3                 -       3
5. 4150-  incentives                          4    6    a    a    -        26      4    9    3  10        -      32      a      la      19      2 1          go6            -      66         -      66
5'.b-foata  OUT                                126  107   97   97       -    427   152  III  114  123    -         1061  310    236    233    251    -1.032                  205      92        35  1. 032
I. 060
I. 4210- Technical Assistance               20   50   50   50    -    168    20   54   56   63                  195    41    110    IIII    121             336          314      is        20    398
2. 4220- CoutIngjSts-dy equipat               -   to        -        -      Is     -   23      - -    -          23             47       -      -            47            47                        47
3. 4230 - Incoot i.s-                         2    3    3    3    -         11     2    4    4    4    -         13      3       7       I  I   a            27             -      21                27
.. . .       . . . .    .   - - -   . .      . . . .    . . . .     . . . . .     . . .    . . . . . .    . . . . .     . . . . . . . .      . . . . . . .
St-Totel KWP                                    21   72   53   53             1 II    22   St   62   6?1           232    41      165    127    131    -    413              411      42        20    413
C. 0(11
I. 4310- TechnIcal Assistance               20   so   so   s0             116111   20   54   se   13            III    41      110    119    128    -    328              314      1s       20    396
2. 4320 -  Incentives                       22  4514545                   15II    23  41525?St                  110    47       31    107    115    -    356                -    3168              318
Sub-Total KIT                                   42   34   14   24    -    325    43  103  III   llg    -    375    68    201    226    244    -    767                       364    363         20    117            %
S. SlIT,
1. 4410- Technical Assistance               SS  203  203  164    -    64S    57  221  236  234            - -   749    IIF    451    486    477    -  1.522             1.396     56         76  1.529
2. 4420- Procuremet Agent                    10   40   40   36   10    137    1O   43   47   43   13    162    *                681     29      22   27    330            301      12        1S    330
3. ToolsiToollrg
4430- for Inmho workshops                 -    7            -           2   7       I III    -    -    -    liII           236               -    -    236            236       -          -    236
4440- for Ngonal workshops                      -   48           -      41            -   62    -    -       62       -            i?           -        127           127                -    12?
Sub-fatal fools-Tooling                           213  46                  145     -  Ila   62    -    -    176           -    231     127       -          Sall4         364       -.        -     394
4. 44SOl  ncentives                           1  19  1213            -      5      10  2022  24           -      71     is      41      45      48    -     154             -    154          -     154
StA-Total SHIP                                  14  356  303  241   10    392    75  400  359  306   IS  1. 164   III    617    152    624   2?  2.376                     2.061    222         93  2.376
I. STUDIES
I. 4110- Short-term Specililsts                   12   12   12    -    115              seI  II   s6    .    113         -    I15      124    134    -    374             341      14        12    374
2     4520-IIghtvehicles                      6       -    -    -            6      7             - -                   13       -                     -      I            13                 -      13
3. 4520-   Sre Parts  (lfll                   I    -    -      -     -       I      I    -     -     -    -       I      i                                     I             I      -         -        I
Seb-1oteI STUDIES                                7   52   52   52       -    162       7   56   61   66    -    190    15    115    124    134    -             366          356       14        19    366
f. AUDIT
I. 4610- Setting-tj9 accounts                 9    -    -    -    -         9      9    -    -    -    -          9     la                                   is 1          11       1         1      Is
2. 4120- Anvwal audit                              2     9    9    -        26      -    910o11                  31      -      19      21      22    -      62            57       2          3     62
Sub-total AUDII                                  I    9    9    2    -         35      9    9   10   It    -         33     15      12     21      22            so6           73       3         4      60 
total INVESTMENT CoST                             2860 21I  614  546   10  2. 140   309  765  726  692   13  2.10?   131  1.583  1. 482  1.412   27  S. ItS                    4.110    155        lot  S.1Its
is::21; us:: mu::Z:   =2:::.         z :::  as:r:2:-  -    -555555zZi xx s5#:38 mmi::            89mii  sees imum.:  u:uumuu:um ii:::: uisisi:: imuizi
Total                                               26  O6       f 1   545   10  2.140   309  766  721  692   1i  2.507   631  1.553  1.482  1. 412   27  5.115                 4.170    755         191  S. 111             i
iii:8 a imassun.  cams mum: im22i2  l:is usees urn:: esem :u:u iuiss:  us:: :11111 :5:::: isuuul Isl: assets  iuui:ui::u usuum: asmimmm ni
Ue1l  3.. . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. . . . ...16.. . . . .. . . . .. . . . .. ..1.. . . . .. . . . .. . ..2. . . . .. . . .



NAil
FIFTN NISIII    MIOJCT
Table 401. mcOWamIZAvION AND uoCuNCAi ASSISTANCE
hid iled Cost Table
Expeniditures by Financiers
Dist '0003
Tolsis Includlrg Cant ingwcfos           -------------------------------- ----
fuss left                    ,Nu,cmATOAft ucviEiimNr ASSOCIATION                00VtIIINT Of uAtu
1ugs  1u86   18        IUs   1381 fotal   Iles  IIS    1167   lusa   1161 ftial   ines time II? logo 1361 Total
I. INVISIRNiU costs
I. 4110- Techimcal Asslstafces              41    220    214    231              IN70    33    201    203    21I        -      11      2   II   1I   1I            35
2. 4120- Comyting/Stutdy qllpfll    231                                         231   231         -               -231-                 ---
J. 4130  - Lfgit Vehilces                    27                                    27    27                -                   27
4. 4140  - $par*Parts 11021                   3       -                     -       3      3                                    3-
5. 4150  -Inlcentives                         a      II      is      21            som     a      Is      tu     2i     -      Si
sub-Total owl                                  310    238    233    251        -   .032   308    22?    222    240    -    Ii             2   II   It   12    -        35
S. OfOP
1. 4210- Technlcel Agglstgnce               41    110    III    12l              3ts    3s      lOs     Il3    122      -    375       2    U    S    I            20
2. 4220- CGNutin.'Stuy equitmnt                      4    -         41      -             47     4         -       -            - 4 --               --
3. 4230 -      lnamnllws                      3       7       a       I           27       3       7      a        a           27        
Si.h-IoaI01SKP                                  45    Is%      12?     13?1          473    43      151     III    130    -      453       2    6    6    I            20
C. KIT
1. 4310- lTehnIcal Assistance               41      ItO     III    121      -    396    39      105     113    122    -       378      2    5    5    I            20J
2. 4320 -  Incentives                        4?      19     107    OII      -    358    47       II      107     115          3M
Si-Totml SxlT                                   U5    209    225    244    -         71?    86    204    220    237         -    14?       2    6    6    S    -    20
*. SHIP
1. 4410- Technical Assistance              III    4S1      461    4771         1. 521    110    426    451    453    -  1. 452         6   23214   24    -    71
2. 4420- Procuremnt Agent                    20      55      Ss      33   2?    330       Is     64       SO     14   25    313        I    4    5    5       I    is
3. Tools-Ioollng
4430- fiw sinko wor'kslwpg                      236       -                   236      -     236       -       -     -    236--
4440- for leglfleal worhshcp                       -     17                   127                    127                   12?--
Sub-Total Tools-Tooling                       -     236     III       -           364      -    236    1I?-1                  364--- 
4. 4450 -  Incentives                        Is      41      45      46           154     1I      41     45      46           154--- 
Sub-TotlI SNIP                                 155    SIT    753    124   27  2.376   146    730    124    SOS   25  2.253                 2   2?   22   23       I    33
I. 4510- Short-term Spacimlists-                     1      124     134    -    374             I"10    III    127    -       355      -    I    5    7             19
2. 4520- Link' %ehIIes2                      I3       -                     -      I      13       -       -       -    -       3        ---
3.4520 -  SpM.Par, 1s1011o                    I       -                     -       I      I       -       -       -    -        I       ---
sub-Total STUDIES                                Is    115    124      134    -      368    IS    101       II$    127    -       351      -    I6          I 7    -                                        to
F. AIlOT                                                                                                                                                                                                   O
1. 4510- Se iting-uq acecunts                to       -       -       -     -      is    1?        -       -            -      if      I     -    -     -     -      IW
2. 4520- Annualaudit                                 19I     21      22    -        2             1 I     20     21    -        3            I    I    I             J                                       a
Syb-1oolaAUDIT                                 Is      1I      21      22            50     17      is      20      21     -      71      1    I        1       -      4                                        .
lalal INVESTMENT COSTS                             631  1.563  1. 62  1.4It   21  5.I IS ? 11 .50    .24  1.351   25  4.325                  14   55   53   II       I   IIl
Total                                               532   156    142   1.41 ;2;; 2;2     127  5.11;;   5617  1.10    1.2  .5    5   .2         4 5       63 S               I
..3  3313 s,12,12....  sext3t 3*11 **11..1   .. .11 ..3.12 . 122111 112112111112211                    221121222  11121
April 2. 1155 17;30



- 98 -
Annex 3-8
Page 1
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training of Public Works Personnel
Background
1.         Under the Third and Fourth (ongoing) Highway Projects a Public
Works Training Center (Centre de Perfectionnement des Travaux Publics,
CPTP) has been created and equipped and an initial training plan elaborated
and implemented, with some delays but with reasonable success. Details of
CPTP training activities, the Ministry of Public Works training needs, and
the range of other training institutions catering to some of these needs
are in the project file (The Present Situation of Personnel Management and
Training in MTTP).    The present project proposes to strengthen MTTP's
personnel management system and provide training that will not only make
MTTP's personnel more efficient in carrying out their tasks, but will also
seek to tie in the results of training with rewards for improved
performance.
ObJectives
2.        The objectives of the proposed training component are:
a )   Strentheninj the personnel manajement szsteL   includinl
special motivation measurespy:
Ci)   implementing  personnel  inventory  and  evaluation
system,  collecting  and  keeping  updated  the  data
required by the system;
(ii)   analyzing the data collected in para. 2.a.i. above so
that the relevant decisions can be substantiated and
taken such as regrading of personnel (reclassement),
organization of examinations for internal promotion;
(iii)   implementing  a  reward  system  for  the personnel by
payment of incentives based on the evaluation of the
content and quality of the works performed by the
personnel;
(iv)   assessing the personnel needs based on the Ministry of
Public Works policy (works by contracts and its own
forces)   and   roads   construction   and   maintenance
programs;
(v)   strengthening the Ministry of Public Works training
policy; and



- 99 -
Annex 3-8
Page 2
(vi)   strengthening the Ministry  of Public Works Training
Center (CPTP) responsible for and to be in charge of
preparation and implementation of training programs on
personnel job descriptions and work assignment aiming
at upgrading knowledge and skills of the personnel;
pre.aration and implementation  of  training programs
aiming  at  preparing  selected  personnel  for  the
competitive     examinations  for  internal  promotion
purposes;  preparation and implementation of training
programs to be directed to road, vehicles and fleet
maintenance personnel pertaining to other agencies
(technical services of Malian towns municipalities -
services techniques municipaux - and of Bamako in
particular).
b.) Imarovins. the road maintenance manaement Systemby:
'i)  implementation and use of the required managerial tools
such as road inventory, traffic survey, quarries
inventory, cost accounting system;
(ii)   preparation  of  a .road  maintenance  work  program
substantiated by the conclusions drawn from the
analysis of the data and results provided by the
management tools;
(iii)   follow-up of the road maintenance work program at the
implementation stage;
(iv)   study  and  implementation  of  measures  aiming  at
improving the efficiency of the DNTP directions;
(v)   improvement  of the works  quality  performed  by  the
Ministry of Public Works own forces;
(vi)   research   on   new   road   maintenance   techniques:
principally on materials available; and
(vii)   use of new  tools  made  available  to  the Ministry:
essentially a computer.
c.)  Imzrovinl the e     tipment manajement sZytem ym
(i)  implementation  of  the  newly  designed  storekeeping
system;
(ii)   implementation  of  the  organizational  and  technical
rules to be followed for maintenance and repair of the
vehicles and pieces of equipment;



- 100 -
Annex 3-8
Page 3
(iii) better use of the funds allocated to the regions for
the purchase of spare parts;
(iv) implementation and use of the cost accounting system;
(v) pros and cons analysis of equipment repair works
performed by either contractors or the Ministry of
Public Works own forces; and
(vi) maintenance of the existing fleet, including the one to
be repaired under the project.
d.)  _I2provin&  the  quality  of  the  w_orks  erf ormrbed      the
administrative departments and units.
Description of Training Component
3.        The project would assist the CPTP through services of specialized
consultants for (a) personnel planning and development, (b) training of
local instructors, and (c) staff training. First priority will be given to
the training of CPTP staff and instructors to be assigned to the training
center. Courses will be set up to upgrade the knowledge and skill of the
existing personnel and also to facilitate internal promotion through tests
and examinations to be organized under the responsibility of the CPTP
according   to   existing   procedures   for   personnel   administration.
Residential training courses will be organized for high- and middle-level
managerial staff, and also for administrative personnel (accountants,
storekeepers, quantity surveyors - pointeurs et pointeurs facturiers) and
for skilled tradesmen (workshop personnel), whereas field supervisors,
foremen, heads of gang, subdivision mechanics, operators and drivers will
be trained on-the-job by two mobile training teams which will visit the 8
regions and up to 19 subdivisions twice a year. The personnel from several
remote subdivisions could be gathered in one place for the implementation
of the training courses. The practical training of the workshop personnel
will be carried out partly in connection with equipment repair works
financed under the  project.  The technical assistance team assigned to the
SMTP will also be involved in the training effort.  Existing SMTP equipment
and facilities will be used by the CPTP instructors for the training of the
mechanics.
4.            To carry out the above traiuing program the project would
finance:
a.)  consultiex  assistance:    68  man-months  over  a  34-month
period, in a 3-nember team composed of one personnel
planning and development expert with an educational and
professional background as highway engineer (18 months
divided into one 12-month and two 3-month stays) and two
specialists - instructors in mechanics, one specialized in
equipment repairs (30 months) and one in vehicle repairs
(20 months);



- 101 -                    Annex 3-8
Page 4
b.)  fellowships:   for high level staff mainly in the fields of
road planning and design, bridges design, construction and
maintenance, cost accounting system, laboratory activities,
use of computers, personnel planning and development,
.zsining activities;
c.)  limited  improvement  of  the  existing  training  center
facilities and purchase of vehicles, training materials and
aids, and technical documents required for the increased
workload of the training center;
d.)  accommodation allowances for employees when they cow  to
Bamako to attend a trailning course;
e.) honoraria and allowances to CPTP staff, instructors and
visiting lecturers; and
f.) payment of incentives.
5-.           The details underlying the cost estimate for the training
component are as follows:
a.) Per diem for the trainers and instructors from the mobile
Tra ni n  units:  each unit consists of 2 trainers (one cIvil
engineer, one mechanical engineer); 2 instructors (one
civil, one mechanic); 2 drivers, and will visit a maximum of
10 subdivisions twice a year for one week.  Per diem per
year:
Trainers   : 2 x 7 x 2(10+9) x 7,000 -  3,724,000 FCFA
Instructors: 2 x 7 x 2(10+9) x 7,000 - 3,724,000
Drlvers    : 2 x 7 x 2(10+9) x 4,000 -  2,128,000
Total per year - 9,576,000 FCFA



- 1l'2 -
Annex 3-8
Page 5
b.) FellowrnI4ps:
Total        Cost
Trainees                     Topics               No. duratlon         US$
Engineer DETT         Bridges design, control of      1  10 months   40,000
work and inspection
Engineer DETT         Use of computer for road        1  10 months   40,000
and bridges design
Engineer DEGP        Cost accounting systes           1   2 months    7,000
Engineer CNPEX       Road research programs           1   3 X 0.5      6,000
performed by soils and              months
materials laboratories in
Mali's neighboring countries
CPTP Staff           Training of personnel            2   2 months   12,000
Head-Personnel Dept. Personnel management system    1   2 months   10,000
Others               To be defined later                 30 months  120.000
Total     235,000
c.)  Per diem for the trainees (residential tralning ln CPTP in
Refresber Course          Per Diem
Trainees            Number  Duration  Frequency  per daylper year
(weeks)  (per year)    (Thousand FCFA)
Regional Director                8         1         1          7       392
Deputy Regional Director         8         I         1          7       392
Hea  of Subdivision             19         1         2          7      1862
Deputy Head of Subdivision      19         1         2          6      1596
Equlpment Inspector             10        2          2          7      1960
e"d of Workshop                  8        2          2           5     1120
Head of Garage                  19         2         2          5      2660
Head of Sector                  19         2         1           5     1330
Accountanat                     50        4          1           5     7000
Quantlty Surveyor               19        3          1          4      1596
Mechanics of Subdivision        70         2         1          4      3920
Auto Electricians               25        3          1          4      2100
Storekeeper                     30        3          1          4      2520
Total per year: 28,448,000 FCFA



- 103 -
Annex 3-8
Page 6
d.) Honoraria for visiting lecturers and instructors.
Lectures on management will be given by visiting lecturers
froa   the   Institut   de   Productivit    et   de  Gestion
Pr vlsionnelle (IPCP) to the managerial staff (regional
directors   and   deputies,   DNTP   englneers,   heads   of
subdivisions and deputies, equipment inspectors, heads of
workshops and garage).   The honoraria for these lecturers
are estimated at: 132 hours x FCFA 3500/hour - FCFA 462,000
per year.   A provision of FCFA 374,000 per year is also
forecast for hiring Lnstructors from other institutions.
Personnel Motivation
6.         The project will assist MTP to improve personnel motivation by
implementing measures aimed at introducing career development prospects for
the employees; payment of incentives; evaluation of personnel for posslble
promotions; and improving the exlstlng procedures.
a.)  Career development:  The personnel management system includes
rules for internal promotlon of the employees (public
servants and contracted personnel - conventionnaires).
However, at the present time these rules are not applied. To
put them into practice, the following steps wlll be taken:
(i)  the personnel inventory established by the CPTP for the
preparation of the Fifth Highway Project will be updated
regularly (seminars wlll be organLzed for the personnel
in charge of this task wlthin the RegLons and at the
central level).   This lnventory gLves, in particular,
the   following   Lnformation   for   each   employee:
classlficatlon (used for salary calculation) as well as
the  post  occupied  and  the  number  of  years  of
professional experience ln the post.
(li) proposals for promotion or regrading (reclassement) of
personnel will be prepared regularly based on the
analysis of thls personnel inventory;
(111)  the personnel evaluatLon performed by the CPTP will be
updated regularly;
(iv) the CPTP will organize training courses to prepare the
candidates   eligible   for   promotLon   to   take   the
competitive examLnations; and
(v)  proposals  for Improvement of  the  existing  personnel
management system will be prepared by the technical
assistance team witb the MTTP personnel department and
CPTP. These proposals will be divided into those which
can be introduced by MTTP on its own and those which
extend beyond the Ministry's responsibility, involving
other Ministries, unions of employers, etc.



- 104 -
Annex 3-8
Page 7
b.)  Paym nt of incentives:   The project will pay incentives to
the personnel.  These incentives should not be perceived by
the employees as a salary increase but as a reward for
satisfactory work performance.   In order to achieve this
objective, the following steps will be taken by the technical
assistance teams, CPTP, and personnel department:
(i)  standards  will  be  prepared  defining  the  tasks  the
personnel have to perform and the quality expected.
These standards will take into account all the local
conditions and constraints prevailing in the work
environment of the personnel;
(ii) specific standards will be prepared in order to evaluate
whether the personnel implemented what they have learned
during the training courses;
Ciii) the employees' supervisors will regularly evaluate
whether the personnel comply with these standards.
Controls will be performed by the technical assistance
teams,  CPTP  and  personnel  department.    Payment  of
incentives will be subject to the findings of this
evaluation; and
(iv) the results achieved by this incentive system will be
regularly   analyzed   by   MTTP   managers,   personnel
department, CPTP, and technical assistance teams, and
relevant decisions made to improve the efficiency of
the system.
c.)  Evaluation  of_personnel _for__possible  p~romaotion:        the
trainees will be evaluated and proposals will be made to
regrade or promote those who deserve such a reward.
d.)  Improvement  of  the  existin   proce dures:  Presently  the
MTTP  suffers  from  a  lack  of  financial  and  material
resources. As a consequence, the personnel, even when they
are qualified, do not always have the necessary resources to
perform the works they are in charge of.   This situation
which has important negative consequences on the umtivation
of personnel is partly due to local circumstances over which
MTTP has little control and partly due to deficient existing
internal procedures:    i.e.  the budget  allocation to the
regions is on a three-month basis which makes it difficult
for the engineers to plan and organize the works, order the
necessary  materials,  spare  parts,  etc.,  on  time.    Such
problems should be identified and solutions studied and
implemented.



- 105 -
Annex 3-8
Page 8
Methodology for the implementation of the training program
7.        The training program will be implemented as follows:
a.) the technical assistance team will prepare specific work
programs for the CPTP staff and personnel in charge of the
personnel department;
b.) at the beginning of the project, a seminar will be organized
for the directors and engineers involved in the project in
order to inform them of the objectives to be reached,
systems to be implemented, follow-up end evaluations they
will have to perform, etc. During the project life, similar
seminars will be organized to analyze the results achieved
so far, raise the issues and problems faced, and present
solutions;
c.) training activities will be started after the other problems
--organization, procedures, etc. which could hamper the
training     activities      -      have      been     solved;
d.)  training activities will be directed first to the high level
personnel;
e.)  training activities for upgrading the skills of the existing
personnel will be limited by:
= what the personnel must do, taking into account the
existing organization, procedures, etc.
* the resources made available to the personnel in their
working environment;
f.) the training actions will be evaluated regularly in order to
adjuat the courses' contents, duration, etc., as needed; and
g.) recommendations for regrading, promotion etc. of trainees
will be submitted to the department of personnel as
necessary.
8.         Outline terms of reference for the technical assistance to CPTP
are in Attachment 1.



National Directio.a of Public Works (DNTP) - Personnel Inventory
Qualification                DEGP    DETT    SMTP       STN    SRR  Regional         Total
Directorates
Engineer                                3        10      10        5       5                     33
Other professional                                3       1                                       4
Regional Director                                                                    12          12
Head of Subdivision and Deputy                                                      38           38
Head of Sectlon                                                                     39           39
Administrative Staff                              4      12       10                75          101
Accountant and asslstant                                 11       18      4         45           78
Storekeeper and assistant                                 8        8       3        44           63
Technician                              3         7       5        9       3                     27
Surveyor technician and assistant                 5               12                             17
Laboratory technician                                              5                              5
Draftsman                                        4                 2                 3            9
quantity surveyor                                                 26       9        45           80
Foreman                                           3      23        6       9        30           71
Head of gang                                                                        42           42
Head of workshop                                                                     8            8
Head of workshop assistant                                                           4            4
Head mechanic                                                                       31           31
Mechanic                                                 13       27       6        119          165
Auto electrician                                                   3                24           27
Welder                                                             3                 13           16
Other tradesmen                                                   11               110          121
Mechanic helper                                          29                                      29
Serviceman                                                        13                11           24
Driver                                            5       1       45               119
Operator                                                          29      20       116          335
Laborer                                           1               95               460          556
Total        1935



- 107 -
Annex 3-8
Page 10
Attachment 1
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance* to
CPTP for Training of Road Maintenance and Equipment
Maintenance and Repair Personnel**
Background
1.             The Ministry of Public Works (MTTP) through its National
Directorate of Public Works (DNTP) is responsibile for the maintenance of
13,000 km of roads and tracks; it also constructs about 100 km of gravel
roads per year.  For these tasks it employs about 1,900 staff and has a
fleet of about 250 vehicles and pieces of equipment. An important part of
this fleet will be repaired under the project.
2.           A permanent training center (CPTP) already exists.   The 13
professionals and technical staff assigned to it began in 1981 to
implement refresher training courses for road maintenance personnel and
mechanics. The courses are given either at the training center in Bamako
(residential courses) or in the field (a mobile training team has been
created for this purpose). A description of the CPTP is attached to these
terms  of reference:    organization  chart,  status,  personnel  assigned,
inventory of facilities, vehicles, materials, apparatus, list of training
documents and aids.
3.        It is now necessary to develop a more structured training effort
to improve the personnel planning and development function, and prepare and
implement a general training program for all road maintenance personnel and
mechanics coherent with an improved personnel management system.
4.             The Malian authorities do not want to duplicate training
institutions but use the existing ones to the fullest extent   possible.
Therefore, in the future they intend to make the CPTP also reponsible for
the training of several categories of personnel employed by the
municipalities (personnel in charge of maintenance of the urban road
network and mechanics).
* The consulting firms should be asked to submit a list of the available
documents they would use for training of road maintenance and workshop
personnel with their technical proposal. The list of the unit costs of
each of these documents should be attached to their financial
proposals.
** The final terms of reference should include the paras. 2 Objectives, 3
and 4 Description of the training component, 6 Personnel movitation and
7 Methodology for the implementation of the training component of Annex
3-8 pages 1,2,3,6,7 and 8.



- 108 -
Annex 3-8
Page 11
Attachment 1
The Task
5.        A team of three experts is required to assist the HITP in the
planning and implementation of training activities over a period of three
years.  The team will be responsible for:
a.  preparation  and  implementation   of  measures  aimed  at
strengthening the personnel management system including
preparation and implementation of systems for personnel
inventory and evaluation, forecast of personnel needs for
DNTP, career development plans, promotion or reclassification
of personnel occurring after passing tests or examinations to
be organized under the responsibility of the CPTP according
to the procedures relevant to personnel administration in
use;
b. evaluation   of  DNTP   personnel   based  on  detailed  job
descriptions;
c.  training of CPTP personnel and selection and training of a
sufficient number of instructors;
d.  review of the training program for DNTP personnel prepared by
the CPTP during the period of December 1984 to June 1985,
including organization of fellowships;
e. use  of  existing  vocational  schools,  training  centers  and
available instructors to implement part of the training
program;
f.  implementation of the training program;
g. proposals for regrading, promotion, etc. of trainees as needed; -
h.  preparation  of  the  standards  to  be  used  for  payment  of
incentives to the personnel whose performances match these
standards;
i.  study and preparation of proposals to improve the existing
procedures aimed at better efficiency of the DNTP as well as
increased personnel motivation;
J.  setting up a system for determining training benefits (internal
and external efficiency of training) performed under the
project;
k.  evaluating the training results performed under the project;
1.  defining the role, responsibilities and duties of the CPTP for
the transportation sector leading to the determination of the
number of trainers and instructors per speciality;



- 109 -
Annex 3-8
Page 12
Attachment I
m.  preparation of a list of the equipment, training materials
and aids necessary, and of tender documents and cost
estimates as required;
a.  procurement  and  installation  of  equipment for workshops,
offices and classrooms etc., including preparation of the
tender documents with relevant costs estimates;
o.  organization of the probationary periods at MTTP (content,
work assignment) for the students of ENI Engineering School;
and
p.  preparation of the annual recurrent budget.
The Team
6.        A team of three specialists will be required for a total of 68
man-months as follows:
Han-Months
Personnel planning and development expert
(team leader) (12 + 3 + 3 months)                     18
Mechanical engineering instructor (equipment)          30
Mechanical engineering instructor (vehicles)           20
68
Qualification and duties
7.        Each member of the team should have at least 10 years experience
in his field. The team leader should have some previous experience as team
leader.  The members should also have worked previously in a developing
country. They should be fluent in French. Each member will have to work
in close cooperation at all times with the personnel already assigned to
the CPTP and with those who will be selected and trained as trainers or
instructors by the technical assistance team. The objective is that at the
end of the 3 year period, the local personnel will be able to operate the
training center independently. All team members will be based in Bamako
but regular travel in the eight regions will be necessary.  The experts
shall spend much more time in implementing training actions than on desk
work.
8.         The team will also have to work in close cooperation with other
technical assistants provided under this project (in particular the
technical assistance team assigned to SMTP) and other IDA projects (e.g.
Urban Project of Bamako).



- 110 -
Annex 3-8
Page 13
Attachment 1
Team leader
9.          The team leader should be a civil engineer with at least ten
years experience in the following fields:
a. Ministry of Public Works activities;
b. paved road, gravel roads construction and maintenance;
c.  manpower  planning  and  development  i.e.  in  particular
preparation of detailed job descriptions and analysis,
evaluation of personnel, preparation of career development
plans, organization of tests and examinations, forecasts of
personnel needs;
d. organization and operation of a training center; and
e. preparation and implementation of training programs.
10.       His duties to be performed, in particular with the assistance of
the CPTP Director and Deputy Director, will include:
a. liaison with the Ministry of Public Works and other agencies
as required;
b. management and coordination of all team activities for the
fulfillment of the objectives and tasks listed in paragraph 3
above;
c. general responsibility for the execution of the tasks listed
in para. 5 above;
d.  organization of monthly meetings devoted to the personnel
training program - preparation, organization, implementation
and evaluation - with all the technical assistance provided
under the project;
e. preparation and evaluation of work programs to be performed
by CPTP staff when he vill be on assignment outside Mali;
f.  payment of honoraria and allowances to lecturers, instructors
and per diem to trainees jointly with the CPTP director;
g. payment of incentives jointly with the CPTP director; and
h. preparation of the annual recurrent budget.
11.       His work assignment will be divided into three periods:  one stay
of 12 months starting at the beginning of the contract, and two stays of
three months, separated by 8 months of non-attendance.



- 111 -
Annex 3-8
Page 14
Attachment 1
Mechanical Engineering Instructors
12.         Each should possess a higher level technician's qualifications
with at least ten years experience in mechanical engineering, four of
which shall have been in a trade training institution.   Each instructor
will be responsible to the team leader and CPTP director for the
evaluation and selection of personnel to be trained and for the
preparation and conduct of all mechanical training courses directed to
local instructors and trainees in his own field i.e. one for maintenance
and  repair  of equipment, one  for maintenance  and  repair  of vehicles
including  the  electrical  components  and  systems.    Their  duties will
include:
a. preparation of the required training courses.
The organization and implementation schedule of the training
program directed to the mechanics in charge of equipment
repair should be based on the equipment repair schedule to be
performed under the same project in order to ensure that the
vehicles and equipment will be satisfactorily maintained
after being repaired.   It should also indicate how these
repair works will be used to train the different categories
of workshop personnel;
b. evaluation and selection of the trainees as required;
c.  training of the CPTP head of the mechanical department and
of the instructors already assigned to that department;
d.  selection  and  training  of  the  required  number  of
instructors including the ones assigned to the two mobile
training teams;
e. selection and training of workshop tradesmen;
f. selection and training of the drivers and operators in the
fields of vehicles and daily equipment maintenance;
g. preparation and implementation of the system for determining
training benefits (interr al and external efficiency);
h. assistance to the team leader for the preparation of
proposals  for strengthening    the  personnel  planning  and
development function, including the tests and examinations
for internal promotion and determination of the standards for
the payment of the incentives;



- 112 -
Annex 3-8
Page 15
Attachment 1
i. assistance to the team leader for the preparation of the list
of the training equipment, apparatus, aids etc. required for
the implementation of the general training program; and
J. assistance to the team leader for the definition of the role,
responsibilities and duties of the CPTP for the training of
transportation sector personnel.
Reporting
13.          An Inception Report will be prepared two months after the
starting date of the contract. It will include, but not be limited to:
a. the review of the data and analysis performed by the CPTP
for the preparation of the training program;
b.  the  three-year  training program to be implemented.   This
program will show clearly the training activities to be
implemented by the CPTP and the activities to be implemented
through the technical assistance team assigned to the SHTP.
It will also show how the works to be performed to repair the
fleet under the project will be used to train the workshop
personnel. It will include a first list of fellowships, with
proposals of work assignments for the trainees after they
have completed their training programs and draft agreements
between the Ministry and the candidates obliging the latter
to occupy posts for several years, where they will be able to
put into practice the matters they will learn during their
fellowships;
c. the existing training centers and available instructors to
be used for the implementation of the training program;
d. the number of CPTP trainers and instructors required for the
implementation of the training program;
e. the list of training equipment, apparatus, aids, etc. to be
purchased for the implementation of the training program;
f. the system for determining training benefits;
g. the standards to be used for payment of incentives; and
h.  the   technical   assistance   work   program   including   an
implementation schedule in accordance with the objectives
and tasks to be performed such as listed in paragraphs 5 -
12 above.



- 113 -
Annex 3-8
Page 16
Atrachment 1
14.           Quarterly reports should be prepared during the technical
assistance services, the first initiated three months after the Inception
Report is submitted.
15.        A final draft report will be required one month before the end
of the contract. It will document progress to date and lay out an action
plan for the next three years.
16.        All reports prepared by the technical assistance team should be
concise and all the proposals included specific and well documented. The
formats should be such that their utilization by the decision makers
concerned with the project will be easy: actions performed, actions to be
performed, results achieved, issues and constraints faced, solutions
proposed, expenditures, etc.   Each report should also include a table
showing the time each expert has spent during the period on desk work and
on implementation of training actions.



KAL I
FIlt  NIGMY POIET
1^1l 1.*CoStNictlell Of sn"e-uo"
Otatlld Cast Table
psta" ers
Totals lcludfIit     Coethlegs                 .........................
ati Ityfss WIS                                                     If.
------.....- -nit CHSt                                      . ----.-..-                              Cant. for.  Goss  Suey
Unit     1los  Iif   tll isu  tIo"  Total         ICtFMI      INS   iSU       157      IM      tIUS Total    Rate  Eachk  to  bte  ccmt
3ss3333s3  e3ggs 33s m3ss egg3 e333 3.3  3333333s3s3   3s33  333233 :2t3222  ::Ztx                   :: t2s2::: 2:::: : t332 :2:333:3 su33est
1. IItvtEIIM(     cOStS
................
L CIVIL VMSZ
............
t. Lot 0/RIsc                                      Iwo am            .0.2  0.4  0.4        -      I  317.116S.102       -       6      354      33       -      "8      0.1  0.21       0.07    lIS
2  taot tAIel      Nab I ItU  1.0611                  km               0.2  0.4  0 .       -   1.1  301.22.312          -     132      354       332     -      612    0.1  0.13 i.01             11s
3. lot flb         akmlelP   1.2                      k            -    I  2.1  2.6             .2 I s1.0"2.0us         -    644    1. 17S   I.S3    -   4.1* 2    0.1  0.13            0.0?      ICIS
4. lot 3/faladia-Aaeodro(P1  LUS)                     km               0.3  0.1  0.1            1.6   34.1 U 3.1        -      24       St       68      -      153    0.1  0.13         0 o.     Iaw
S. Lot 4/lAreom*C.So lnge(Pr             83.4711      km           - 12.1 32  6 31.3 2        14.6   4.11.313           -  1.425   J.06   4.IN           -   1.233      0.1  0.13        .o?      ICMI
S. tet 51/C.tonia-3opiUI               ISMI           km           - 12.0 31.2 31.3              is -1.011.65e          -  1.1S    4.13?7   4.644        -  10.4O5      0.1  0.13        0.01 ST   01
Sublotal CIV It       S                                                                                                        i 3.382   0.4i   11.441       -  21. ITT
L  TEEICII, ASSISTANICE
.....................
1. S0tviefot                                       w-s th          -  3 S   23 23.5        -    5s      4.311.141             Ifs      212      301             o13       0  0.31       0 .0      O144
.... .... .... ........ ....... ....... ..--.....-...
S i-lotel IECIIICUL  A5SISTANCE                                                                                                   lff      212      301             Sys
total I  ESINIIT COStS                                                                                                            4 4O   10.620  11.143            26.456
Total                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4.016  10.420  11.141  26.456
.....................................--s.................................... ---z....................................................................................................................................... ......................... @@;
ApiI 3. 165  17:26
to
NQ



t1. 2: uinatmtiU U iininU.
_sldw  .1 lfTtal$ hln. tU_
Cosetsat                         lsegl. l""iwl.ai    k tirwIge                   ltwis  t. IelqdIm1g.sImpIe u                .................
..................................... ...............................................................................K i  ft,   fee 
Ila    UG    IV    It          OM11  to tal    I6f"    Is"   I"1    1616 UISa IS       l      3U IUS' If"      1   1 6It       tIs"  Total   for  1ac   t ase    Ism          Ittal
1. mInt{Ima cSts
a. lwli U01S
............
1. Wt  Mi ss @^1"                                                    1 U      138     -         NO "1               1       1 2:           4       U  I1U4                    m              6            in       itIs       a        66
4. Isti eledle-Awi rem .l l                                    t. 14           14 S  a Id             *    of  Is    36      a               is3            14        a        U       -      III          its      to S4              In
1. Lot 4/     -anrmeC. ol lalft U6.4111                   *    O1   4"   1.441        -  3.43I              in6   .116  1. ON            4 4             1.426 ,     Iff4    4. 11          .233        1.2"0      26         6" 11 2
L  lot      .IeIe  In9 16.11                                       1.1*3   5.6        * .  3.6 S       "1  1.tl     11.1                 1.1 1           1.611    4.11    4.644        *  i.141         L 20    1.Mi                IL 66
....; .. ...... ........ ..... ........ ..... ........ .... ... ...... ....... .... .... ..... .......  ........... ......... ............ ....... ........... .... ...  ............ ....... .................. ..      .......  
liA-total CIVlILw        s UI  3. 921   6.6M                                                 kill        *  1.n11  LIPS  L.61           *  11.631        *  2.N    I.L06   l1.44          *  EL.PO       16.6a1   3.211       1.6 "aI 11"1
6.Ilimlt au6iitgu
.....................
a . IUVI sIMI                                                 4 1 1  14       O 4TT,,                     16    13314       111     -    1.631           4.6      612  1.1            -                             n411  fit    .3  3  IWO
M   10161 ItlUlUZA  U$Sl"SIU                                      *       14      11 6          1;1             so    Il 113    I       -      33l             IN       all       301            It N                   n          34      11"
38      8             ...... .... ......  .... ...... ...... ......3 ....3 .................................... .......3............................................
lgal .ll1sl  4ll                                                           6      4.12 I.61s  *.U14           &16       L2       L.11      -   1 .66           4.0W    11.636  11.1411    *           41     21.141  23116        1.6     OI 641
lose  1v; ,;   s.ls.                         as.ses ssess Bases;            s129i           .ses pn s aset                    2929  sezttes.o    sgsms                      tsestal
tlps0 1.                                                                                                                     M11 11:4                                                                                    3
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



IbeJl 3: me.tmsitls w W _lsm
laitd 6oat tIe
3:tals lvuIidI!yIMmOo saa,a
I@el1w9S* ,"iie@@-@@6-6--^e**-*@---@---............................................................................
s @ 1@111111 I No                  follo tCo tKIIS                I auciioU ia    N                               p    lx  @rlow                     N"       M        _t U&
........................................  ........................................................ ...................................... .................................................... ....................................................
IU3 1 It"        loaf      IU        IU   total        I6          IUU      lUt  l       lUg O  fatel       I6    IUN     In?    IU I          K O   ttl t lI         tM     OUT      OM        t        To1 Vtal
I. ImzOISUU W"il
...... .......  .
I. lot I Ul   w 1                                                   131       24        m2        -       6                 5       14  I     1U              eta                St      41* 1    in               311      -    IS        40       44       -      U
2.1at1I1iIob bilM   I              .O                        -      1n        34           2      *       5                 64       IN       152      *       412                 1     In i4 lS           -      I1l       -     Is        6       44 
I.    t      1zteltaIdaio%  L.ISO                            -     544    1.611    1. M           -    4.113   I           301      1u       Um        -    O.1          *       vil     ii4      pl        -    I. n3       -            i2  U    246       * *   46
4. 1is 2/'laiier               * ri. &U                      -    24           U          U    -    1                          1I    2J    n    *               12    -           6    26           2    -           64   -                  I        a              2 if
1. lot */besoin1LSltin"  fa U.4111                           .   1.426       . in     4.142       -     L 233              "I   1.1        1.315            4.311        *             1. VA    1.122       -    3.me        -   ISO      III      62 a          1.11141
L. lot Sit.o IuIq I..U.qpw-IN   IW.11 %OM                       1.511    4.111    4.644          -    0.66          -      16   1.563  1.112          - 4.  5" 12   1.164   1.3112                         -    42 MlO1t                 416      U13       -   1.0111
........ .... ... ..... ... ..... ................. .. ..... ........   ............ ..... ........  ....   ... ......   ......... ........ ..... ........ .....   ........ ...... ........   .. .... .......  ........ .... . ...... ...... .... ......
W-1t101 Cl 3 l  K                                                   2.20      104s.     11.44I       -  19.131              1.513   4.54       .24 M           it.s         *   1.612   4.242   4.12           -   14.134 1         446   1I.1S     L.M             2.Mt
L 11illi'U UllSlo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I
6. 110161614 111510061~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   4   s                                                                                                                                    3
..................... ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ..  ...     ...    ..    ...
I'S sa       g A                                                    11        21'        26f ts  S1  '    62        *      I         n9      25                641                .         .        .      ,         .      ,     s        14       IS 1      
AtstalItOlUiC*tMSIIIIMI                                        -      16        212        30               513        -      14      216       200      -       14       -         .                                         -     1        14       II      -         4 0
...... .......L...... .... .......  .... .......... ....   ...  ....    ......;......     ......  ....     ......     .....
lalal  IVISIMAI  COStS                                                  4*U        16.520   11.?"       -  2L              -    .I s    S.       3 S 641         1i  101       -   I.613   4.3        4.512       -   10.534       -  411   1. it    IL "1         -  2.91
N33n 3;3333   333333   *;31;13  *11x 1311135  save 1*Role  Seats* ulliul  Se*11s11is   sls       2sosae sale, uu   u..1113313                        lassoes111   1551  Sees states 5*uses   sees *$so$
total                                                  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0610   10.5In    1.14  364IL15           1.302   S. S"    S.641             12.161        -   1.613  4.342   4.512          *   it.63        .  a1I  1. 112   til "-  2.2."
~~~~~.......................................................................................................................................................... ................ ...................................................................  
ipel  J,   201   11:20
S.2
N



- 117 -
Annex 3-10
Page 1
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
1.        Project costs are sumarized in the tables page 2 and 3. They
are based on Government and consultants' estimates as wvll as appraisal
mission estimates3 updated to January 1985 prices. The Financing Plan
is shown in page 4.
2.        Physical  contingencies  of  10X  have  been  included  as
appropriate, with the exception of 252 for ONT computing equipment.
Price contingences of 5X for 1985, 7.5% for 1986 and 9% thereafter have
also been included for both foreign and local expenditures expressed in
dollar value, as past experience in Mali has shown that they do not
diverge significantly.
3.        Cost  estimates  for  consulting  services  and  technical
assistance have been estimated at US$9,738 per man-moath (urn) for
554 m-m of services, and a professional fee of 4% for the procurement
agent.
4.        Pie charts in page 5 show the breakdown of project total cost
(US$73.4 million) Into foreign exchange (US$54.7 million), local
(US$13.2 million) and taxes (US$5.5 million) and project financing.
5.        The  table and graph  on page  6  shov project comitments
(Commit) and disbursements (Disburs.) compared to the disbursement
profile for IDA credit for highway projects in West Africa (Profile).
Price contingencies have been estimated according to the commitment
schedule. The disbursement schedule is derived from the commitment
schedule by introduction of a disbursement lag. Differences between the
disbursement schedule and the profile reach 5% at the end of the project.
WAPTI
June 198.



fF JN HIl1I4lV PROJECT
PROJECT COSt SUANRY
ICFDF NIllionI                 (US  o00oe                               Total
... ...................            I foreign    late
tocsl  Foreign lfeal          tocal  Forefgn Total          Eucharng      Costs
32221::  2222232 2:22    #32228g   2 2 2 2 3..:::    ::::: :1 ::,:21.
A. ROAD IAINTINAICE MIS Ri(t*"ltlIATION PRWRAI
............ .................... .. _..................
1. Routine 1oad Nbintananca I  reltfe                                  2,112    2,250   4.811         5.209    4.609    9.618             47          17
2. hriodic Raintenance and Ru  billtation                              7Olo 8      o.S5   o.873       4, 119  13.g    ICs. lou             17         31
3. Ovriaul snd Rensul of Road tquipnt                                     266    1,721    1.18?         543    3,512    4.05               116         I
...... ........ ..... ........  .... ........ ....... ......... ....... ....... ....... ......................
Sub-total R0O0 MAIIfEINAICE AND RtHA4IltiUTEOU  PORAN                      4.897   10.164   1. 6171       9 671  277 110  31.J    1           so         55
C. lsUtilUlll SlREIIIGlHEINIWG 11001A1
.................. ......................... .......
1. Reorganization and Technical Aseletanee                               400    1 ,40    2. 140         81      ,1552    4,386 Cl                      a
2. traInIng Program                                                       t172       23      614         350    1,0 C7    1. 417           15          7
Sub-Total INSTITUTION SRIENGTHENING PROGRAM                                  572   ;;2613    2.83        1;;16i    4.5;1    5.5 50 s                      10
C. RECONSTIRUCTION Of CIaIA-II4OUIGUIo
. ... ,. ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,     _....
1. Civil  arks                                                         1.916    7,161    9. 577       3,20    15.62C    1.545             *0          34
2. SWevstisio"                                                             24       2S3      771          41      517?      go             91          I
........ ..................... ... ........ ....... .........  ....... ......... ........ ............  .......
Suh-Total RECONSIIICTION Of  NANO-wuUCOUNI                                 1.340   7T111    3.654         3.158   16.123  20.111              30         35
...... ........ ........... ................. ....... ......... ............ ....... .... ..... ...
Total IASILIRI COSTS                                                         *348  21, 012  20,30          14,915  42,881  57.871                74        100
Physical Continmnciaes                                                      402    1543    1.246           U21   3,110   3.971               79          7
Price Contingencies                                                       1.400    4,253    1,512       7.516   6.571      3 11.31           75         20
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                          3.150  26,801  35.958    11. 13  54.710  731.82                     is        1i7
4Pr11 3, 1981 17:30
00
{1t
I



EFFTH HISICA PROJECT
Project Conoents by Veer
(CFAF NillIonl
ass Colst                               Iotal
....... ............................................................  ..................
Iss    (955    (957         lose      1til      CFAF    (USl '0003
?t1!:t ::::::  a.::::: *sows:  SSUZ              5:::::   :::.mm:n:ss
A. ROAD1AINTEWNiCE AND RENA8ILITATIOU  PROGRAM
......................................................................... _
1. Routlno Road  lainlmnance Oeratio Is                                      671  1,374    1.314    1.314                   4.511         9.616
2. Periodla Maintenance and Rehbillltet(on                                   393   1.440    2.171    3.065   1.322           65.73        IS,IOB
3. Overhaul and Renewal of Road EquIpsnt                                      95   1.J393        31        124       62      1.967         4.055
.... ....... .........  ....... ....... ...... ....... ..... ........ ...... ;....... ... ....
Stb-Total 10A0 NIINIEMUACE AgD REHA81ililTION  PROGRAM                         1.119   4.205    4.400    4.504   1.354    15,611             3 t1,
S. INSTITUTION SIREGTHEiNiNG PROGRUA
..................................
1. Reoranli:ation and Technical AssistanceI 20                                        691       5(4       545        to     2. 140        4.365
2. training Program                                                          144      25?        III       106        -        694         1.411
Sib-Total INSIITUTION  STREMTHENIMO PROGRAH                                      424      249       lO        652        tO     2.535         5.7; 5                                                                   0
C. RECONSIRUCT0ON OP BSAR O-OUcGOUNI 
................ ...... .                                                                                                                                                                                          I
1. Clvil Hor.o s                                                                -   1.526    3.927    4.022           -     9.517        19,545
2. Sterwlsfon                                                                   -      47        114       IIS        -        277           555
... ................... ... ....... .........   ............ ....... ......... ..........
Sti-Total RECONSTRUCTION OF *MA1.A-0o1UGOU)1                                        -   1,515    4,040    4,139           -     9.54         20.111
...... ........ ........... ....... ......... ....... ......... ......... ............ .....
total BUSElIIE  COiTS                                                            1.596  6.532    9.242    9.294   1.314    28. 350              5.5711
Physical ContinencIels                                                           53      358       675       707      136      1.946         3.911
Price Contingencies                                                              42      543    1.724    7.576        565      5.552        11.535
...... ........ ........... ....... ......... ....... ........... .......................
total PROJECT COSTS                                                              1.702   7.841   tl, 54    12. 573  2,095    35.958             73. 353
:       :       :5t :   :::::- ::: : as     s   ssssuus.. ............ :sosu..nga:
Texas                                                                           128      593       577       931      III      2.686         S.482
Foreign Exchange                                                              1.131  5.7U88       ,702    9,50'5  1,51    2,6808            54.110
4pril 3.  1915   17:30
Aw Y



UAt I
Flfti HICIi4AT PROJECI
Financlng Plan by Project Cawyonents
(US, 10001
INIERNAIIONAI        AFRICAN          5111SS
DEVEWPO    NI    OEVEIOPNENI  DEVELOPMENI           (RENCH        GOVCRNNENI Of
ASSOCIAIION          fUN10        COOPERATION   COOPERATION            AItI              lotal                        Local
Xount       2    keunl    I        Aount  S        Aunl  *           bwunt   X   Suni    I            for. Each,  tsmail         fago
.223  *2   .1.212: ass   :z:z:: :ao::%t:-.  :::                1:::::  .ii:   a. Is SI  ...a  122282228s  32:2:2   stagnate
A. ROAD IININIENANCE AND REHAIILIIAIION PROGRAN 
............................................
1. Routine Roed   Nintenaince Operations                                   4. t7    42            -          2.426   21                        4,100    36    11 343    15            S.325      4.683       1.134
2. Periodic Maintenance and Ihabilitatlon                                21.717    2                              -    -       418    2        1.115      1   24.01S    11          18.614      3.631       1.117                       N
3. Overhaul and Renewal of Road Equiment                                    4.334    g0                *             -             *    -         S01    10      4.835      7         4.157        1i7         SO0
Subfattal ROAO MAINtENaNCE AXD RE ZiAtiNIllOtA PROCRA                         10.11    77 9                       2.426    5        418    ;       5,315    ;6    40. 1i9    55          28.016      *.6i1       3.410
6. INSTIIUIION SIRENGIHtENIN PRORAN
..................... ............................  
1. Raorganiallion and Technical Assistance                                 4.925    96                                 -           *   -          III     4     5. IIS      7        4. 170        755          191
2. trainIng  Program                                                             -                             .5137  9t                           42      3     t 6S1      2         1.204        369           42
Subt-otal INSIIIUIION  STREKGININIIG PRORA                                     4,925    13                 -      I.St3   23                -         233      3     6. 731     9          , 33      1. 124        233
C. RiCONSIRUCIION Of SAlMAO-SOiIGUCNI
............ ..................... ..........
I. Civil  aorks                                                           12.056    41    10. 834   42                 -                       2,881    11   25.777    35           20.621       3. 351      1.804
2. Supervision                                                                145    45                            - *                             34     5        61      1           620          '5          14
Stb-lotal RECONSTRUCTION Of 8HARAO-IOUGOUNI                                    12.701    45    10,534   41             . .                         2.921    11   26,456    36           21.241       3.376       1.838
total Oisburwaent                                                                48.543    56    10 834   IS        3.919    5         478    I      3.530    13   73, 383   100           54. 10    13. 11        5.482
.213::2:2   131322 $as  s en;;: ass  iaSitil ass  1a31:2 Isl2312as1 :2213:                                       :2 
................................................................................. ........................................................................................... ... ..................................................... ..............................
AprIl 3. 1295 11:31
00g
x
S_
0



-121-                             Annex 3-10
Page 5
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost
Br.akdown
TX (7.S)
LOC (I 1.0x)l
\u    _,/_  (74~~FE .6X)
Project Financing
Distribution
*Govnt (I 3.0%)
F'AC (0.7XC)  /
ADF (14.8X)
SOC (S.4X)                               (662/
T                / IOA ~~~~~(66.2X)



- 122 -                    Annex 3-10
Page 6
MALI
FIFTH HIGEWAY PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
Quarters            Disbursements
Date       From Commitments               Profile
Board            (USS Millions)
Sep-85          1                             0.000
Dec-95          2                  0.000      0.243
Mar-86          3      2.402       1.927      0.485
Jun-86          4                  3.277      2.184
Sep-86          5                  4.626      3.883
Doc-86          6                  7.000      6.553
Mar-87          7     13.375       9.374      9.223
Jun-87          8                 11.359     12.136
Sep-87          9                 13.343     15.048
Dec-87         10                 16.591     18.204
Mar-88         11     29.281      19.839     21.359
Jun-88         12                 22.665     24.271
Sep-88         13                 25.492     27.184
Dec-99         14                 28.842     30.097
Mar-e9         15     44.591      32.193     33.009
Jun-e9         16                 34.863     35.436
Sep-99         17                 37.533     37.964
Dec-B9         18                 39.848     40.048
Mar-90         19     48.543      42.163     42.232
Jun-90         20                 44.290     43.689
Sep-90         21                 46.416     45.145
Dec-90         22                 49.543     46.116
Mar-91         23     48.543      48.543     47.087
Jun-91         24                 49.543     47.815
Sep-91         25     48.543      49.543     48.543
40 
30 -
i20
10~~~~
9-"
0  _*   *  U I I I I I I U          W.I * I I   --
a5                         so 87  a0 ao    oo
rEnd Of Cnawtd. Year
a Commit     * Olb.       Pronle



MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
'tern "tout' iwc;                                                                                                         :t;N Pliu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ty  SCIC
MLLWITAIOU SCElItIlsmssr.utm iicKM
ti                            t iln                          III                            tilt                          II,?                                                           1W7                           19ft                          149                             '49
tK   m Fit ttAV 4r i ttr              Jult  A 4f Ir kt Nt DK Jan fg RV4t RAY Ra 33 hyl b; Soo kt                               Jet t  Ra 4J'  rv IP  JY t te T`  CdI Ut                       e 'SN h I Fi hr          Zn .' JO l 1 4    Soo  lt kw JO Jot fe  Itr              e by J u hl
I      stt untI    ORs                               f0-t
2 tctr ;ris^^:wts;                                                 I
t !lgittl   tU,IIu   tt,itIlL   T^!5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          *
! IE 16;StalQ--- .*-   
nN    It-tE                                                                                                               ,Ktlrr. .......-
! fi-N6/tdbi                                             ..rl ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ..___
I) :n.SdPlcunn  til
. gvIi, troc r t         .vtt                                                                                                             .................................
16iiii    I t &                                                                                                                                                                               .. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ............................ ................... ................................. 
.t. I       tuldSty0
No solrvlo t lwll rs .. ...... ...... ......................... .... _.._. ... . 
IS ft.UX  tONI  IAtf                            It--
1.1   rt.s cin ttI                                                                                                                                                                             ..r ... ... ... ... ... ..  ..  .._ .
1J5s  ttl/tl .. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .... ... ......
:1IS-ItS  "ltSA t;A                             e--            *
2i                                                                                                                                                 .. ..t. .         ,  0.  ............... .
I? U-46 I" Al  t    kStt            ,            .. ... _... ... ......
:L-   ISM)he71t s wsn                                                                        '.. * e **-**.-.. ... .-... .- .-... ... ......... .  n*.*.                .....n .*.-.  * 4 e .*w"* ga s   sn ...W
;Zen     re.,'      . Is                  *-- *-*-    -   -  -----                    
i M'hxuiiait  Iglifyt sip,                     5,. nun utrlsnun uu um... .tug           .._ .. :3
:e C                       stt ! ..v ...   ...   ...   ...   *-.-.-.--*-*-*-- ----- - - - ...                                                                                                                           ...    ..-_
5s161  .111fialg                   r           rlr"t a.  ..  ..  ..  .._ ...>
:1 n-ILtS Ii'00PFA  !-'-''L''S-                                                               ... ... ........ ..* .    ''''--... ... ... . .  ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .. _,._ 
t tlt.lllfrrecusiuet CATt ;._
Z ErwUEt.  eto 1t1                                                                           .. ... ... ... ... ..  ... ...- ... -..- .._ .......  ... ...... ..
Ys IILflCAI Inttt ta a                                                                                                                                                       *-- .___ 
'4  Stt/lh to  s- --  -@ *-* -s ... ... . .... . .... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... . .... ............ **-....   Z -  *-.... ... ... ... ... -  ...  .  _. _....._
SI 0?PII.TKI   1"w    ICh                                                                                                                                                                                           - -.
It WTP/tknruutls,                   l Cl,i                  r . . .   * * w-                             )-
[t: tEfff rff tttV      CItf e,t         ...  . ......          ..   ..  ..    .     .....
th riffttll Wt eKttJKt ~~~~~~~~.. ... / .-.-.* - .._ .._ .._ ... ... ... ... . .... ...... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... .. ... ... ... -*---... ... ... -._..  .._ ... ... ... ... ...... _  .._
x OItPuPArrMmtnnc. K.ts                                                                                               .a..... ._                                                                                                                                             .....
2     tirsc         wt  I      eqt         --: -- s    Puts
1: prI!lom4  ("!ltrxtt- ttl -- .._*.- ... .._ .._ .._ .._ ..., ... ... ... ... ..   . . ... t
X14VIIWA (It. VI Cinlrnct 
et P11lPvocnmnont  ?4A-
e                 cflFfttru.t..t STA lt    *-- --- ... .-  ...   ..... .                .
II 1WW11-Bttvu,snnt Cnq.tut
S2 NWift/Ilnpvetp Cqtnl%
S4  NP-K114  IIte  Cstisrt ._,
4!    TP!Nnuofwwt TA              -                                        ..
54 CPTPTI                                                                                                                               -..-
4? 0WT'PrFrninuot hutdinsv                             -.         .              ..
of CDTP!m,K, tur          llut I qo m                                                                                                                             ..-...-........   ......-..... .....    ..
II IPAdnely fp,z;au'                                                                                                               .        .. ..  ... ... ..... ...g...
S1 RUCUIW. U Wfl4RSAIt
I1111-116,c    rowl IV&$                                                                                                                        ... .............. .
14 t9Wlrxvuamt inowuna 
IS  111,11iliS   lIalotim                                                                   ..g
IA                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       -  -%u-a-  -  -.---.-  --.--..-1-



- 124 -
Annex 4
Page 1
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
General
1.        Mali's population is about 7 million; average per capita GNP
in 1983 was US$150 equivalent. It is a vast (almost 40Z the size of
India), landlocked and drought-prone Sahelian country.   Since transport
costs weigh more heavily than elsewhere in the price of basic commodi-
ties, especially of high-volume, low-value bulk goods, Mali has a
particular need for efficient and well-developed transport services.
Yet, it presently has the world's highest share of freight costs in the
total value of imports: 25.5Z, compared to a developing country average
of 10.7% and a developed market-economy average of 5.3x.  This is a
heavy additional handicap for a country already disadvantaged by a poor
natural resource base and inadequate social infrastructure.
2.        Although an important part (some 17%) of the country's overall
public investment in the past decade has been devoted to the upgrading
of its transport infrastructure, overall access to goods and services
remains  difficult  and  costly  for  large  segments  of  the  Malian
population.  The country's 600 km of railways serve a narrow corridor
between Bamako and the border of Senegal.  The network of 13,500 km of
classified foads translates into an average road density of about one km
per 100 km , among the lowest in West Africa.  Even so, this figure
actually overstates accessibility: it includes some 4,600 km of
unimproved earth roads and tracks which "serve" widely dispersed and
mostly self-sufficient (- except in drought years -) groups in the
first, sixth and seventh regions (Kayes/Gao/Timboctou) representing
15-20X of the total population.  These tracks carry only very low
volumes of essential goods traffic, and since they receive practically
no maintenance, they are impassable for 5-6 months out of the year.
3.        Over  90%  of Mali's  road  transport  is  concentrated  on a
priority network of some 8000 km, close to a quarter of it now paved.
Upgrading and extension of the paved network has been the Government's
priority for the sector since the early seventies and has absorbed the
bulk of available funds, while maintenance of the existing roads and
promotion of an efficient road transport industry were neglected.
4.        Although the first three highway projects financed by IDA all
included periodic maintenance components along with main and feeder road
construction, the latter was usually achieved, while road maintenance
results  consistently  fell short of appraisal  estimates.   This was



- 125 -
Annex 4
Page 2
essentially due to the fact that maintenance, carried out by force
account exclusively, tended to be treated as a residual activity,
bearing the full impact of any shortage of local funds (due to drought
and/or inflation) and of the increasing illiquidity of Road Fund
revenues paid in the form of postal cheques (Annex 2-4). An inefficient
Public Works Equipment Service, unable to keep a minimum of the
available road maintenance equipment in running order further compounded
the financial difficulties. By 1980, routine maintenance vas declining
to perfunctory levels. Significant increases in petrol prices and road
user taxes in 1981, combined with a steady deterioration of the road
network led to a marked increase in the Cost of vehicle operation
especially for truckers, and to a pronounced deline of road transport
services especially to the rural areas (Annex 2-5). This threatened to
deprive an ever increasing proportion of Mali's already disadvantaged
rural population of even the most essential exchanges with the rest of
the country and constitutes a potentially life-threatening handicap for
many communities during drought years that now seem to occur in
five-year cycles.
5.        The Malian authorities, recognizing the serious impacts of the
long neglect of maintenance requested IDA assistance in redressing the
situation. The 1981 Fourth Highway (Maintenance) Project (cofinanced by
Switzerland) accordingly financed a tvo-and-a-half year emergency
program to assure essential routine maintenance on a priority network of
4-5000 km, as well as the execution of deferred periodic maintenance on
some of the most degraded gravel and paved roads. At the same time, the
project served as a vehicle for evolving - in close collaboration
between MTTP and IDA - a coherent approach to a longer term, sustainable
policy of road construction and maintenance consistent with Mali's
needs, financial capacity and technical capabilities. The realization
that projected Road Fund revenues for 1985 and beyond will barely
suffice to cover the debt service on past road investments - leaving
little for local counterpart funding of ongoing investments and nothing
at all for road maintenance - was a dramatic reminder of the need for
reshaping the country's overall road sector strategy.
6.        The occasion to do so was provided by the preparation of the
present project, cofinanced by AfDF, Switzerland, and France. In the
course of this, a comprehensive approach to road investment and
maintenance (periodic and routine) programming has been agreed upon,
focussed on the priority need of (a) maintaining existing infrastructure
assets rather than on the creation of new ones; (b) securing a sound
financing base for adequate maintenance; (c) creating the conditions for
a more efficient delivery of maintenance works, and (d) promoting better
balanced  and  more  streamlined  transport  services  through  more
differentiated and realistic transport pricing, better vehicle (load)
control and, ultimately, transporter training.



- 126 -
Annex 4
Page 3
7.        In support of difficult Government policy actions required on
(b) and (d) above, the project provides the means for delivering (a) and
(c).  It finances not only the continuation of essential maintenance
activities begun under the previous project, but also a comprehensive
institution strengthening program designed to improve overall sector
planning, increase transport industry efficiency, and reorient and
streamline DNTP's maintenance activities.   The shift of part of the
periodic maintenance from force account to local contractors, initiated
successfully under the Fourth Highway Project, will be more actively
pursued.  In addition, a significant part of equipment rehabilitation
will be contracted out, in order to alleviate the backlog of work in the
Equipment Service and allow it to cope more successfully with a reduced
workload.    Key   technical   assistance   inputs   for   compensating
organizational and technical weaknesses in DNTP's operating units will
be provided, but technical assistance will be teamed with Malian
counterparts and the teans will be jointly responsible for achieving the
outputs of a clearly defined maintenance program. The project includes
a production-related incentive scheme for local personnel and provides
task-oriented training for all categories of maintenance personnel,
prepared and implemented by the Public Works Training Center equipped
under previous IDA projects.
8.        In combination,  these measures are expected  to produce a
leaner and more productive structure for the execution of both road and
related equipment maintenance.  However, the transfer of part of the
maintenance tasks to private contractors necessitates a strengthening of
DNTP's programming, contracting and supervision capabilities: again,
experienced technical assistants will be teamed with qualified Malian
engineers in the respective units to develop technically sound and
efficient procedures and practices, also on the "Joint-responsibility/
incentives-for-results" model described above.   Finally,  the project
fosters better sector planning capabilities through increased support of
the National Transport Office (ONT), improving data handling and
analysis capacity through computerisation, technical assistance and
train-'ng. In summary, the proposed project - rather than just concerned
with road maintenance - attempts to coalesce the support of all major
donor agencies active in the sector around Government's maintenance-
centered and productivity-oriented road sector strategy for the medium
term.
Parameters of the Economic Analysis
9.        Road maintenance is known to be a very high return activity,
because it both postpones the need for much more expensive renewal of
infrastructure and significantly lowers the costs of vehicle operation.
Specific returns of any program are a function of existing road
conditions, present and estimated future levels of traffic, estimated
costs of road maintenance activities and estimated costs of vehicle
operation. A summary evaluation of these four parameters for Mali shows
the following:



- 127 -
Annex 4
Page 4
10.       Road Condition and Road Maintenance Strategy: The links of the
2,470 km paved road network (including kilometrage under construction)
were classified according to their present maintenance status on a
three-point scale (1-Good, 2-Average, 3-Poor). Their overall rating is
1.8, with poorer ratings (2.1 and 2.4) for the 1350 km of more heavily
travelled sections, the most degraded of which are proposed for
resurfacing and/or reconstruction under the proposed project, which will
bring the overall rating of the paved network to a satisfactory 1.33.
The gravel road network of 3,330 km has been classified on a four-point
scale (1-Good, 2-Average, 3-Poor and 4-Very Poor). Its overall present
rating is 3, with a high rating of 1.1 on the most heavily travelled
sections and a low of 3.4 on sections with traffic below 20 vehicles per
day. Upgrading of gravel road sections under the project will increase
the overall rating for this class of roads to 2.7 - still quite
unsatisfactory and an obvious impediment to adequate transport services
in  several regions.   The earth  road network  of 2,990 km has been
classified on a three point scale (3-Fair, 4-Poor, 5-Very Poor). It has
been assessed an average rating of 4, which will be only marginally
improved by the routine maintenance activities proposed under the
project: these are restricted to activities aimed at restoring
reasonable passability to these roads after the usual wash-outs caused
by the brief, but extremely violent rainy season.  (For details, see
Annex 2-3, The Priority Road Network).
11.       Tne strategy of the proposed maintenance program will thus be
to (i) preserve the paved road network by (a) preventive maintenance of
the  more  recently  constructed  portions  and  (b) rehabilitation/
reccnstruction of the earlier portions, some of them now over 30 years
old and breaking up because of deficient maintenance over much of their
life; (ii) regular routine maintenance of a priority network of improved
gravel roads, selective rehabilitation (periodic maintenance) of
sections supporting agricultural and tourist development in areas of
good potential and with ongoing (rural) development projects; and
(iii) intermittent  maintenance  activities  on  selected   earthroads
providing essential services to substantial marginalized populations.
12.       Traffic: According to the semi-annual traffic counts carried
out by DNTP, 1983 traffic on Mali's paved roads ranged from 17,000
vehicles per day (vpd) near Bamako to some 55 vpd (Annex 2-3); the mean
on all paved roads (excluding Bamako-Senou) was 180 vpd with about 36%
of heavy vehicles (trucks and semi-trailer combinations).   On gravel
roads, traffic ranged from 145 to 5 vpd, with a mean of 25 vpd, 23% of
them heavy vehicles (mostly trucks, some semi-trailers). Traffic on the
unimproved earth roads averaged no more than 5-10 vpd, practically all
pick-ups and small trucks carrying passengers and essential goods.
While traffic grew at around 7% annually in the 1970s, it decreased by
around 9X annually from its 1979 peak until 1982, levelled in 1983 and
started increasing again in 1984, due mainly to increased shipments of
grains for drought relief.  It has been assumed that traffic would
continue to increase modestly (by 3% in 1984 and 4% annually thereafter



- 128 -
Annex 4
Page 5
on paved roads, by 2% on gravel roads in 1984 and by 3.5% annually
thereafter, and by 2Z on earth roads, the maintenance status of which is
expected to change only marginally throughout the analysis period of 10
years.  Gravel roads being rehabilitated are expected to have higher
growth rates due to the rural development projects being carried out in
the areas they serve (1984: 4Z, and 6% annually thereafter); in
addition, road improvements will add generated traffic of 10-15% of
existing volume, in line with observed traffic increases on recently
improved gravel roads. A pessimistic scenario, with traffic growth on
gravel roads rehabilitated reduced to 3X p.a. and on the remainder of
the network held at 2% p.a. (i.e. below the rate of population growth)
was also tested.
13.       Road Maintenance Costs: Due to severe degradation of many of
the priority roads, the estimated unit costs (Jan. 1985 prices) for road
maintenance  are  relatively  high.   For  the main rehabilitation  and
recurrent maintenance activities to be carried out under the project,
they are as follows: CFAF 10.2 million (US$360) per km of patching of
paved roads; CFAF 7.5 million (US$16,800) per km of regravelling and
CFAF 70,700 (US$155) per km of spot regravelling; and CFAF 38,600
(US$84) per km of grading. Other routine maintenance costs (maintenance
of shoulders, drainage systems, bridges, signalisation, etc.) average
about CFAF 151,500 (US$330) per km of paved road and CFAF 50,500
(US$110) per km of unpaved road. The above figures reflect the mix of
work by contractor and by force account foreseen under the project; the
costs of equipment depreciation and of works supervision have been added
to the site-costs of maintenance tasks detailed in Annex 3-1. A summary
of Maintenance costs used in the economic analysis is in Tables 1 and 2.
14.       Vehicle Operating Costs: Vehicle operating cost parameters
have been provided by ONT.  The most recent version of the Highway
Design and Maintenance Standards model (EDM III) was used to assess
vehicle operating costs in the reference "without project" situation (no
periodic maintenance; routine maintenance at one third the level and 1.2
times the cost per activity in the "with project case") and with the
project.   Estimated  vehicle  operating  costs  for  different  road
conditions are summarized in Table 3. From the analysis, it can be seen
that the economy would save some CFAF 33 billion annually in operating
costs due to improved road surface conditions with the project.
15.       Exogenous   benefits   :   To   reflect   the   agricultural
production/rural income benefits associated with the provision of
all-weather access to markets and social services in presently
marginalized regions where rural and agricultural development projects
are being implemented or firmly planned, incremental value added due to
the road has been estimated for the unpaved links proposed for
rehabilitation. The estimates are based on the considerations set out
below and are added as exogenous benefits for Alternative 1 "with the
project" in the HDM III model run.



- 129 -
Annex 4
Page 6
16.       The Bougouni-Yanfolila-Badogo, Badogo-Kalana, and Bougouni-
Manankoro roads (Group UPC2, links 1082, 2221 and 1091) are national
roads serving the Mali-Sud (IDA) Project area. The road influence area
is among the most fertile in the country with sandy loam soils and
annual rainfall of about 1500 mm. It has recently been freed from
riverblindness and has begun to attract immigrants from the Sahelian
north, a trend certain to be reinforced by the current drought and
famine in that area. The road influence areas (RIAs) are targeted for
expansion of cotton and improved maize production under the Second Mali
Sud project initiated in 1984 which promotes an effective small holder
farm package implemented successfully under the first MALI-Sud project
in the region north of Bougouni. While the agriculture project includes
essential maintenance of feeder roads in the project area, it assumes
that rehabilitation and subsequent maintenance of the main roads would
be carried out by MTTP. Lack of reasonable main road access is jeopar-
dizing CMDT's (Compagnie Malienne du Textile) goal of expanding cotton
production in the region by 6,000 ha. It hampers provision of inputs and
extension services, discourages the planned inflow of migrants and
reduces farmers incentives for the production of surplus coarse grains
for the city markets in the north. Quantified road impacts are   (i)
differential population growth with and without the project; (ii)
slower adoption of improved farm-practices leading to both acreage and
yield increases. Details of the estimation are in the project file.
17.       The Kayes-Nioro road and the access-dyke to Djenne  (Group
UPB2, links 1013 and 6210), although both in the Sahelian zone, serve
quite differing needs. The historic city of Djenne is an important
tourist-attraction, on the Tombouctou-Mopti-Dogon country circuit. Road
access is provided by a dyke road through the flood-plane of the Niger
river which, after long years of neglect, has severe erosion problems.
Rehabilitation of the road is expected to result in substantially
increased tourist traffic, reflected in higher than average traffic
growth rates for this spur off the San-Mopti axis. By contrast, the
expected impact of the Kayes-Nioro road in the isolated First Region
mainly concerns the agricultural and social development of its large
influence area. Providing a much needed all-weather link between Kayes
(population about 60,000) the First Region capital, and Nioro du Sahel
(population about 20,000) the administrative center of the Kaarta
District, the road will also serve an estimated (1985) rural population
of some 150,000 living in a 25 km band along its trajectory. A detailed
feasibility study of the Kayes-Nioro road and a related 68 km branch
road from Dialaka to Yelimane was carried-out with USAID financing in
1979/80. It examined seven alternative levels of road improvements, some
in combination with additional agriculture investment. Comparing net
incremental value added in agriculture and transport with and without
the project based on a regional simulation model, the study concluded
that the optimal level of road improvement, i.e. the variant with an
acceptable rate of return and which maximized net present value both
with and without associated agricultural investments in the RIA, was a



- 130 -
Annex 4
Page 7
paved link between Kayes and Dialaka (82 Km) and a laterite surfaced
road from there to Nioro. The variant with agricultural investments had
an estimated ERR of 16.4%, the road-only alternative one of 13%.
Sensitivity testing showed however, that under pessimistic assumptions
(limited maintenance;decrease in revenues of 20%; increase in costs of
20%). an all-laterite road from Kayes to Nioro would be the optimal road
investment, with ERRs ranging from 16.4% (most likely case) to 13.2%
(costs + 20%) and 9.2% (revenues - 20X).
1$.       Although deemed essential for the successful implementation of
several ongoing rural development projects in the RIA (Kaarta Integrated
Rural Development, supported by Canadian Aid (Can.$ 21 million) and
centered on Nioro; Kayes Nord Livestock Development, supported by
Saudi-financing (US$15 million) west of Nioro; irrigation studies;
ODIPAC, an IDA-financed experimental rural development project (US$6.5
million) expected to lead to a larger scale project in 1987; USAID rural
health services pilot project), the Kayes-Nioro road has not found
financing and remains a steadily worsening constraint the region's
development. What agricultural and livestock potential there is in the
RIA remains under-exploited, as access to markets and services continues
to deteriorate. Young able-bodied males migrate in increasing numbers to
the neighboring countries (especially. Senegal/Ivory Coast) and to
France in search of wage employment. This further accentuates the
deficit character of the region,vhose population relies for its survival
more and more on remittances from these migrants. Estimated growth of
the rural population in the RIA during the 1970's was not more than
0.9%, although the seasonal influx of cattleherders from the south
during trans-humance increases the resident population by about 15% for
a few months of each year. As deteriorating roads lead to declining and
increasingly unreliable provision of essential goods and basic social
services in the rural areas, outmigration (between 2-3Z annually)
accelerates: Kayes urban area has been growing at over 6%, although
employment opportunities are scarce, and many migrants move on to the
capital or abroad. Land use surveys in the project area have established
that only about a fifth of the cultivable land (estimated at 162 of
total area) is presently cultivated, and that improved cultivation
practices can produce significantly greater yields than those realized
by traditional farmers. With the provision of modern inputs, credit to
acquire them and agricultural extension to instruct farmers in the use
of new technologies - the package provided by the Kaarta Integrated
Development Project and ODIPAC - the area's agricultural potential would
allow its population to reach self-sufficiency and even produce a
surplus for the market, if access can also be assured. The impact of
road access has again been quantified in terms of (i) differential
population growth and (ii) differential adoption of improved farm
practices with attendant acreage and yield increases. Details of the
estimation are in the project file.



- 131 -
Annex 4
Page 8
19.       Rates of Return and Benefit-Cost Ratios:  The Highway Design
Standards (HDE III) model was used to estimate the project's economic
rate of return, which is higher than 50% overall. Separate ERRs were
established for the reconstruction of the Bamako-Bougouni road, for the
paved road maintenance program, as vell as for links with different
traffic and maintenance characteristics vithin each of these three
components.
20.       The Bamako-Bougouni road reconstruction yields an estimated
return of 28X overall, vith 65Z for the highly trafficked urban section
from Bamako to Faladie, and 15S for the rural section from Faladie to
Bougouni.  These results are conservative,  since neither congestion
costs on the urban section, nor the costs of increasing traffic
diversion on to a substantially longer route (132 km) from Bougouni to
Bamako in case of further deterioration of the road were taken into
account.  The benefit/cost ratio for this component at a discount rate
of 10 is 2.6:1. Details of the analysis are in Table 4b.
21.       The  paved  road  maintenance   program  includes  periodic
maintenance of 492 km and routine saintenance of 1.730 km. The overall
ERR fo^ the component is 34%. Four links with different characteristics
vere analysed separately: estimated ERRs range from 24Z to over 1OOZ.
The overall benefit/cost ratio for this component, at a IO discount
rate, Is 2.55:1. Link-by-link details are in Table 4a.
22.       The unpaved road maintenance program includes rehabilitation
of 535 km of gravel roads in areas with ongoing rural development
projects (paras. 16-18 above), and routine maintenance of a priority
network of some 3,330 km of gravel roads and 2,990 km of earth roads.
The overall ERR for this component is indeterminate, since the ERR on a
number of links exceeds 10O%.  Seven links with different character-
istics were analysed separately: estimated ERRs range from 13X to over
1002.  The overall benefit/cost ratio for this component, at a 1O0
discount rate, is 1.99:1. Link-by-link details of the aualysis are in
Table 5.   Returns  on  all  components  remain  satisfactory  vith  the
pessimistic traffic growth assumptions tested (Tables 4a and 'b).
23.       The major risks to achieving projected benefitt would be
inadequate funding and operating inefficiencies of the project agency.
Based on the experience under the ongoing Fourth Highway (Maintenance)
Project, and given the arrangements made to ensure timely execution of
equipment overhauls at project start-up, there should be no major risks
concerning periodic maintenance: force account operations have been
improving and performance by contractors has been satisfactory.  No
problems are anticipated on the reconstruction of Bamako-Bougouni by
contract. Adequate routine road maintenance in the final years of
project implementation depends on the timely introduction of the revenue
raising measures discussed in para. 2.16 of the SAR, but since
Government will have agreed with IDA on a timetable, this risk should



- 132 -
Annex 4
Page 9
be limited. It would demand, however, a close monitoring by IDA of the
implementation  of  these  measures.   The  provision  of  technical
assistance, coabined with intensified training and an improved incentive
structure for Nalian project personnel, should assure that the expected
gains in operational efficiency will, in fact, be realized.



FIFTH RIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 1: Derivation of Kaintenance Cost for Economic Analysis
Item                        Basic Coat            Pro-rated           Pro-rated          Adjusted                                         Coefficient
(CAPA HMilion)      Equipment Cost    Supervsiaon Cost        Base Cost                                   To Reflect Equipment
Coats
A.  Equipment                                 2,694.142 a/       (1,885.899)                                                paved 2,640.244 (451)
B.  Force Acct.- Routine H.                   4,560.231           1,306.977                                 5,867.208    unpaved 3.226.964 (552)               1.287
C.  Force Acet.- Periodic H. Gravel             785.693             225.182                 57.706          1,06B.581
D.  Force Acct.- Periodic H. Paved            1,234.249             353.740                 90.651          1,678.640
E.  Contractor - Periodic H. Gravel           2,759.521                                    202.676          2,962.137
P.  Contractor - Periodic H. Paved            3,101.123                                    227.765          3,328.888
G.  TA Supervision - Periodic H.                578.798 b/                                (578.789)              -
TOTAL                                                                                        14,905.454
+ 808,300 (Residual Equipment)
15,713.754
a/  Five-year life, of which 3.5 years for project, prorated to B, C, D.
/  Prorated to C, D, E, F.
CYAF nlo   CFA/L0    CA/a3
Average per Km Cost of Periodic Maintenance, Gravel (C+E): 4,030.778:535 - 7.534                   8,371
Average per Km Cost of Periodic Maintenance, Paved (D+F):  5,007.528:492 -10.178    1,696
Average per Ka Cost of Grading 814-443 CFAF million/pa: 27.142 km - 3b.006 X (coeff.) 1.287 - 38,618 CFAP/kb
Average per m3 Coat of Spot tegravelling 1,250.882    :455,682 *3 -  2,746 X (coeff.) 1.287 -  3,533 CFAF/u3
Average per *2 of bitumn patching                                         2,260 X (coaff.) 1.287 a  2,908 CFAF/03
Average per Km of routine maintenance; other:1,644.38003.S years * CFAF million 1469.823/yr: 6321 km unpaved
1884 X 3 km paved
Equivalent km unpaved:  11,973 - 39,240/km unpaved X 1.287 - 50,502/ka
117,720/ka paved   X 1.287 -151,506/km                             ' 
Source: Annex 3-1, Table 3, Annex 3-3, Table 2, Annex 2-4, Table 2                                                                                            Q
Notes   Coat figures for the economic analyasi  are based on the Jan. 1985 version
of the SAk, which used an exchange rate of US$1- 460 CFAF, and thum differ
slightly from the final coat-tables which reflect an exchange rate of
US41-490 CPA?.



- 134 -
Annex 4
Page I1I
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 2: Share of Different Project Components in Total
Economic Cost (Jan. 1985 prices)
Paved Roads                               CFAF Million     X
1.   Reconstruction:Bamako-Faladie              1,935.0         7.9
Faladie-Bougouni           7,595.0         31.1
Sub-total                  9,530.0        39.0
2.   Maintenance, Periodic: Contractor          3.328.9         13.6
Force Account      1,678.6         6.9
Routine : Force Account      2,640.3         10.8
Sub-total                 7,647.8        31.3
Unpaved Roads
3.   Maintenance; Periodic: Contractor          2,962.1         12.1
Force Account      1.068.6         4.4
Routine  : Force Account      3,227.0         13.2
Sub-total                7,257.7        29.7
TOTAL LCONOMIC COST                      24,435.5       100.0
Residual Equipment                           808.3
T. A. and Training                         2,638.1
Base Project Cost                         27,881.9
Note:   Cost figures for the economic analysis are based on the Jan. 1985
version of the SAR, which used an exchange rate of US$1- 460 CFAI, and
thus differ slightly from the final cost-tables which reflect an exchange
rate of US$1-490 CPAF.



- 135 -
Annex 4
Page 12
NALI
FIlTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table 3 - The Economic Cost of Vehicle Operation
--   -     Road Condition
Paved Roads               Good      Fair       Poor    Very Poor
Quality Index a/            45        95        120       150
CFAF/Vehicle/km - Jan. 1985
Passenger Car             68.9      73.0       77.5      83.9
Pick-un                   72.6      80.1       88.0      99.4
Bush-taxi                 79.8      88.5       98.1     112.1
Truck (7.5t)             304.3     327.8      343.6     365.7
Semi-trailer (30t)       480.4     511.3      531.5     563.6
Unpaved Roads
Quality Index a/            70       120        175       215
Passenger Car             71.6      78.9       90.5     100.2
Pick-up                   75.8      89.6      110.9     127.9
Bush-taxi                 88.5     102.7      127.8     149.1
Truck t7.5t)             337.4     375.5      418.7     453.2
Semi-trailer             563.1     607.5      659.2     703.5
US$/Vehicle/km - Jan. 1985
Paved Roads
Passenger Car            0.150     0.159      0.169     0.182
Pick-up                  0.158     0.174      0.191     0.216
Bush-taxi                0.174     0.192      0.213     0.244
Truck (7.5t)             0.662     0.713      0.747     0.795
Semi-trailer (30t)       1.044     1.112      1.155     1.225
Unpaved Rods
Passenger Car            0.156     0.172      0.197     0.218
Pick-up                  0.165     0.195      0.241     0.276
Bush-taxi                0.192     0.223      0.278     0.324
Truck (7.5t)             0.734     0.816      0.910     0.985
Semi-trailer (30t)       1.224     1.321      1.433     1.529
al Established as a function of road roughness by the Highway Design
Standard (XDM III) model.



KALI
VIM1  NIGEVA   1W ROET
Table eW   conemic Iveluatiam of a Proarm of Paved IRed Resurfacing and 1ainteanceo
(CIa 000,000, Jan. 1963 prices)
- Discounted Su" for 1916-1996 Period
Diteount    hoed lehabilitasioe   Veb. Operating   Ratio   #et Present Value
Ratio     OnA Ksintsmance          cost jahw          sic     (Totl Itot kneE its)
0                4*646                  21.053        4.51           16.346
10                4,206                  10,713        2.55            *.506
12.5              4.092                   9.221        2.23            S,129
23                3,560                    4,767       1.33            3,206
Cossarative Results for Links with Different 1964 Traffic Volume and Carresea-DIna Levels of  alintenance
(CFAP 000,000, Jan, 1965 pricts)
Totel CeoA eIC Cost. 19115-199%                          1e  p resent Values
19U4           L- ngth of                 Periodic Haiat.           TIuetonnnCe a VetiCle Operet. Cost)                 -a------ D      uScouet RAtes --------          mPrlI       DI 1   aI
Traffic Lvaol                Link              with project             With Prolect             Without Prolect              0o               102             232           W101)       Tr    '
monr than  l.000                 26                       -                   19,040                    19,761                   741             337             127           12.0       300     346
220-1,040                       224                     163                   9),522                  103,332                 8,010            2,1U           1.106            1239        is       47
100-220                        682                      327                  154,911                  112,0S1                 7,090            2.21              (91)           2.?        24      tS o   -
lsee  than 100                 19e                        *                   420                      46S.752                   145             195              H             0.1        4S       Ii    W
OtAL                          1,730                     492                  3117,729                 314,116                 16,3 6           58139           1.208            3.4        34       22
Table 4b: kecoomic Evalustion of auko-Iousount load  acooostruction
roe raln  10,000                7.3                     7.3                   66,004                    79,156                13,150          4,114            2,101          844;4       6*        6
2ZO-1000                      152.7                   152,7                   63,339                   71.919                 S.4 1           1.534          (1.S33)           10.1       1L       12
160.0                   160.0                  129,365                  151,63S                22,069           7,700             s66            46.1        26       26
a Ut I- Traffic growth at 4T pvo., IR 2- traffic growth at 21 p.m.
MIii'   Cost figres for the econome  analysis are based an the Jan. 1963 version
of the Ullt which uoed so exchange rate of US$ls  460 CAU, and thus differ
slightly from the final come-tbhles wbih reflect an amekago rate of
USl1-490 CVFA
0l



MALI
VIMT1 HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table S Econmic Evaluation of a Program of Periodic RegravellinA and
Rehabilitation of LaterLts and Earth Roads and their Routlne NaLntenance
(CFAF ml lion. Jan. 1985 prices)
 - --- - - -  Discounted Sums for 1986-1996 Period
Incresental Cost
Discount       of Road Rehabilitation                   Vehicle Operating                  Net Incremental         Ratio         Ratio      Net Present Value
Rate              and Kaintenance                       Cost  aving                   ASici Value Added          Sl/C        B1 & 62/C  (Total Yee Benefits)
Exsting       Generated        Total
0                     8.819               12.589            588          13.177             9.300                1.49          2.55            13.658
10                     6,329                7,645            312           7,955             4,664                1.26          1.99            6,293
12.5 SS927                                  6.901            272           7,173             4,003                1.22          1.90 5l,29
25.0                   4,569                4,588            149           4,737             2,058                1.04          1.49            2.226
Comosrative Results for LLnks with DLfferent 1984 TraffLc Voluaos and Corresponding Levels of Kaintenance
(ClAP million, Jan. 1955 prices)
Periodic
1984                Length of       Maintenance        Total Econ3mic Cost              Net Present Values            NPV/Kn   ER 1*       EU 2*
Traffic Level              Link         With Pir!jct                                        --- Discount Rate ---
(,pd)                  tE;i             (km)        With Project   Without Project  O0            102     25S          (IO)       (2)       (2)
a I/more than 40            305               -             29,764          32,271       2,507      1,488      900         4.88       >100      >100
a        21 - 40            535               -             13,940          14,929         990        653      411          1.22        68      >100
C  21 - 40,rH b/            285              288            10,277           8,982       2.014        242    (635)         0.84         13        if
a       up to To          1,675               -             27,940          26,997       1,058        665      405          0.56      >100       100
0   up to 20. PH            247              247             1,487           4,592       S,662      2,370      606          9.59        41        41
 e/more tban 20            391               -              7,600           7,645          45         31       24         0.08       >100      >100
E       up to 20          2,598               _             24,894          26,276       1,383        844      514         0.33       >100     >100
TOTAL          6,242                             115,902        IZ3,692      13,659       6,293   2.225          1.01  Multiple    Multiple
wwin           .~uu                             N"Nmua          waumuam      so-wuas      uum -a 
a/ G  - Gravel roads
M Pa * Periodie maintenance
c/K e    Earth roads
* ERR 1- traffic growth at 3.51 p.a.1 ERR 2- traffic growth at 22 p.m.                                 Q K
Note:   Cost figures for the economic analysis are based on the Jan. 1985 version
of the  MAN, which used an exchange rate of US$I1  460 CrAF, and thus differ
slightly from the final cost-tables which reflect an exchange rate of
US$1-490 ClAF.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ,,t  ,'io 
j.                                   IF.*                                       . 
MALI                               i                       j
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                 A L G E R I A
Transport N.twork                         i
C NI3 10 TOA VN II?VAMVVAV!O L#40 V PUOPONg MOACT                      I~                                                                 ~
- 7AIA aO.oS SS4AMVS wrg IA                                                 f                                                _V 'WAV m*Cf          'A
M    a.M     D tl *I&      wu rt tS                  I                     i Kt wow
G3~w~1s OP VVArtY    , auS 
- PAYV!O lOA-DSI   c
* 7MVA twA,OP t.D?Wd VtI;IO/
---~ ~~~~O! VMVDe      WO I!rsec                                         ,r  
SIACKS
_  EMNOADS                                             iiJ
DAN$. 1111RfO                                      !I                               I                    
.   SAOS, I:5, 
_    FLOO UIEA
4/ 'ISOPVOAtKA SAPOP f NIMAVdL AdlIILOS
WFIATINA  $MA'                                                                                                                  '            i
M  A  U  R I T A  N  I A
U R K I N A
~~~               ) ~LGVAGU
IVORY C  AST%\'                                                  G~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIJIIANIA'NOII
a.     a.  VJI.4~~AA   L 
I N E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AU .






