Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15444
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Cr.1629-MLI)
MARCH 19, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                CFA Franc (CFAF)
At Appraisal   US$1 0 =      SDR 1.042
At Appraisal   US$1 0 =      CFAF 490
1985          US$1.0=             454
1986          US$1.0=             342
1987          US$1.0 =            297
1988          US$1.0=             309
1989          US$ I.0 =           336
1990         LU-t1.0 =            285
1991          US$ I.0 =           275
1992          US$1.0 =            289
1993          US$1.0=             280
1994          USS1.0=             540
1995          USS1.0=             495
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metnc System
FISCAL i EAR OF BORROWER
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGETIPE    Agence de Travaux d'Interet Public pour l'Emploi du Mali
(Malian Public Works Executing Agency)
ADB         Afncan Development Bank
CPTP        Centre de Perfectionnement des Travaux Publics
(Public Works Training Center)
DEGP        Division des Etudes Generales et des Programmes
(General Studies and Programming Division)
DETIT        Division des Etudes I echniques et des Travaux
(Technical Studies and Works Division)
DNT         Direction Nationale des Transports
(National Transport Directorate)
DNTP        Direction Naionale des Travaux Publics
(National Directorate for Public Works)
ERR         Economic Rate of Retum
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
FAC         Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
(French Bilateral Aid Agency)
MITTP       Nlinistere des Transports et des Travaux Publics
(Mlinistry of Transport and Public Works)
ONT         Office National des Transports
(National Transport Office)
PCS         Postal Checking Service
RCFM        Regie du Chemin de Fer du Mali
(Malian Railway Company)
SDC         Swiss Development Cooperation
SMTP        Service a Matefiels des Travaux Publics
(Public Works Equipment Service)
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SRR         Service de Renforcement des Routes
(Road Strengthening Service)
STN         Service des Travaux Neufs
(Regravelling Maintenance Unit)
TSP         Transport Sector Project
(Cr. 1730-MLI)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FW lH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Cr. 1629-MLI)
Table of Contents
P R E F A   C E                                                                                     ...................................................... 11
EVALUATION   SUMMARY   ......................................................                                                                                iii
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .......................................................1
B ackg rou n d    .................................................................1
A. Statement/Evaluation  of Objectives .......................................................1
B. Achievement of Objectives .......................................................3
C. Mlajor Factors Affecting the Project .......................................................5
D. Project Sustainability .......................................................7
E. Bank Performance .......................................................7
F. Borrower Performance .......................................................8
G. Assessment of Outcome .......................................................8
H. Future Operation .......................................................8
I. Key Lessons Leamed .......................................................9
PART H: STATISTICAL TABLES.1 ...................................................... 
Table  1.  Summary  of Assessments ......................................................                                                     II
Table  2.  Related  IDA  Credits  ...................................................... 13
Table  3.  Project Timetable ......................................................                                                           15
Table  4.  Credit Disbursements: Estimated  and  Actual ................................................... 16
Chart 1.  Credit Disbursements:  Cumulative Estimated  and  Actual ................................ 17
Table 5.  Key  Indicators for Project Implementation ...................................................... 18
Table 6.  Studies Included  in the Project ...................................................... 19
Table  7A.  Project Costs ......................................................                                                              20
Table  7B.  Project Financing                                     .................................................... 20
Table  8.  Economic  Costs and  Benefits ....................................................... 21
Table 9.  Status of Legal Covenants ......................................................                                                    22
Table  10.  Compliance with  Operational Manual Statements .                                                 ......................................... 24
Table 11. IDA Resources: Staff Inputs                                          ............................................ 24
Table  12.  IDA   Resources:  Missions ...................................................... 25
Appendices:                   A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
C. Chronogram of Transport Operations
D. Organization Chart of the DNTP
E. Map
Ths document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Cr. 1629-MLI)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Fifth Highway Project in the
Republic of Mali, for which Credit 1629-MLI in the amount of SDR 50.7 million (US $48.6
million equivalent in 1985) was approved on September 19, 1985, made effective on May 1, 1986
and had an original closing date of December 31, 1990.
The credit was closed on June 30, 1995, 54 months later than planned. Final disbursement
took place on December 11, 1995, when the remaining balance of $47,309 was disbursed. Co-
financing for the project was provided by the African Development Bank (AfDB) and the Swiss
Development Corporation (SDC).
The ICR was prepared by Mr. Abdelghani Inal (Senior Highway Engineer) and Sapna
Gupta (Economist) of the Infrastructure Operations Division of the West Africa Department and
reviewed by Messrs. Alberto Harth, Division Chief, AF5IN, and Emmerich Schebeck, Projects
Advisor, AF5DR. The Borrower provided comments that are included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision/completion mission,
from October 15 to October 27, 1995. The Borrower commented on the draft ICR and its views
are reflected in the mission's aide-m6moire and its own evaluation. Comments were requested of
the Task Managers (TM's) that appraised the operation and were incorporated in this report.
.,






iii
EVALUATION SUMMARY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Cr. 1629-ML)
REPUBLIC OF MALI
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    The project evaluated is the eighth Bank-financed project in the transport sector in Mali.
The Fifth Highway Project was built upon the lessons leamed in the previous projects and helped
consolidate progress of the then ongoing Fourth Highway Project, particularly on (a) road
investment and maintenance planning, financing and management; (b) institutional strengthening
and capacity building; and (c) relying more on private sector contracting. The project overlapped
with and was followed by two infrastructure operations: (a) an AGETIPE-Type project which
streamlines procurement through transparent contract delegation for small-scale public works, and
(b) a transport-wide sector investment project, TSP, that places the management of roads in the
context of other modes of transport. The foundation for the TSP is a Letter of Transport Policy
and a Transport Sector Strategy prepared and issued under the Fifth Highway Project.
Project Objectives
2.    At Appraisal. The project's overall objectives were to: protect the existing priority road
network and strengthen road institutions through: (i) the involvement of the local industry;
(ii) greater efficiency in force account works; (iii) improved personnel management and training;
(iv) local financing of maintenance and rehabilitation through the road fund; and (v) continued
institutional development and capacity building.  The project's components were: (i) road
maintenance and rehabilitation by force account and private contracting; (ii) institutional
strengthening, and (iii) the reconstruction of the Bamako-Bougouni road (160 km).
3.    During Implementation.  A reduction in the credit amount in FCFA caused by a
depreciation of the dollar vis-a-vis the FCFA, led to the rehabilitation by contractors of 237 km of
unpaved roads to be dropped from the project. The rehabilitation of 7 km of the urban section of
the Bamako-Bougouni road was dropped as well, due to continuing disagreements between the
Borrower and the Bank on the physical characteristics of the project, and was replaced by the
rehabilitation of 33 km of national roads in Bamako.
4.    Evaluation of Objectives and Risks. The objectives at appraisal were too optimistic on
the ability and commitment on the part of the borrower to implement works by contracting.
Moreover, the Borrower was intent on using force account works while the Bank thought that force
account works should be abandoned in favor of contractors. This led to a project design that
included both types of works despite the lack of commitment on the part of the borrower to
effectively follow through with the contracting of works.



Iv
5.     The main risk identified, a decrease in maintenance effort as a result of insufficient or
illiquid local funds, did tum out to affect the project implementation. However, the following risks
that were not identified hindered implementation: (a) the Borrower's capacity to manage the
numerous components, (b) weak institutional capacity and ineffective technical assistance, and
(c) a lack of commitment to further increase private contracting.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Achievement of Objectives. Substantial progress was made on developing a sector policv,
although no policy component was specifically planned at appraisal. Through the suspension of
disbursements IDA was able to draw attention not only to serious implementation problems, but
also to the need to: (a) liberalize the transport sector, (b) adequately maintain the existing priority
network, (c) institute strict accounting standards within the National Directorate for Public Works
(DNTP), and (d) conduct periodic maintenance and rehabilitation exclusively through pnvate
contractors.
7.     Achievement of the financial objectives was negligible because the road fund was dissolved
in 1990 as a result of the Structural Adjustment Program. While road taxes and duties did fund
the maintenance and renewal of the network, they were not allocated directly or in their entirety to
fund maintenance. Achievement of institutional development was partial: (a) the DNTP is in the
process of reforming its accounting practices, (b) a routine maintenance program is in place, (c) the
Public Works Equipment Service (SMTP) is in the process of being privatized; (d) the DNTP has
increasingly relied on pnrvate contracting for the rehabilitation of roads; and (e) the ground was
prepared for a sector-wide operation, the TSP.
8.     The partial achievement of physical objectives was due mainly to the depreciation of the
dollar. Completed were: the reconstruction of the Bamako-Bougouni road, periodic maintenance
and rehabilitation of 459 km of paved roads managed by private contractors; regular maintenance
of 6,000 km of high priority roads; rehabilitation of 33 km of national roads in Bamako; periodic
rehabilitation by force account of 159 km of paved roads; rehabilitation of 60 km of gravel roads;
and the paving of the 35 km access road to Djenn6 by contractors rather than by force account.
9.    Assessment of Sustainability. The project is evaluated as sustainable because many of
the objectives that were achieved have continued under the TSP: (a) sector policy reforms that
were initiated have been sustained (par. 7 (a)); (b) further institutional developed occurred (par. 7
(c)); (c) the small and medium enterprise sector has developed and countrywide procurement
reform has been initiated under the contract delegation arrangements of AGETIPE; (d) contracting
procedures have been simplified and the reliance on the private sector has increased; (e) the
physical achievements are more sustainable through private contracting (par. 7 (d)); and
(f) allocation of funds was increased for maintenance and rehabilitation to preserve the priority
network.
10.    Costs and Delays. The exchange rate fell from CFAF 490 for one dollar in 1985 to CFAF
285 for one dollar in 1990. This depreciation of the dollar reduced the amount in CFAF of
resources available while the cost of goods and services in CFAF remained constant. As a result,
the rehabilitation of 237 km of unpaved roads by contractors was dropped from the project. The
CFAF devaluation in January 1994, towards the end of the project, did not impact the project
because the Government had sufficient funds to adjust the amount in French Francs owed to the
contractors. Political changes in Mali in 1991 also slowed down the implementation during that



v
time. The significant delays in contracting and implementation caused the closing date to be
extended twice, from December 31, 1990 to December 31, 1993, and then to June 30, 1995.
11.    Key Factors. The key factors that affected the achievement of the objectives are the
following: the change in the value of the dollar; the cumbersome procurement procedures; the lack
of internal controls and accounting which lead to inadequate costing of the force account works;
the absence of technical and financial audits for several years; and the lack of compliance with
several DCA covenants until disbursements were suspended.
12.   Bank and Borrower Performance. Bank performance is rated satisfactory: it urged the
improvement of accounting controls and the timeliness of audits from the start and, after
suspension of disbursements, helped bring about a Letter of Transport Sector Policy. The Bank
was unrealistic in assessing the Borrower's capacity to implement and commitment to contract
private enterprises for road rehabilitation. There was a lack of continuity due to the management
of the project by five different Task Managers. The Bank reorganization in 1987 led to some lapse
in supervision, as procurement and auditing delays on the part of the implementing agency were not
swiftly addressed.
13.    Borrower performance is rated deficient. The Borrower was slow in procurement, did not
institute accounting controls or appoint an outside auditor to monitor force account and private
contractor works for several years; and did not comply with four covenants until disbursement was
suspended.
14.   Assessment of Outcome. The project's outcome is rated satisfactory as the project
achieved most of its objectives and is expected to yield worthwhile development results. It must be
noted, however, that implementation delays were considerable and the project was completed 54
months behind schedule.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
15.    Summary of Findings. There was substantial achievement in sectoral policy formulation
and partial achievement of financial, institutional, physical and private sector development
objectives, but negligible impact on public sector management: slow procurement, less than
effective coordination, misuse of technical assistance, and an implementation delay of 54 months.
16.    Future Operations. The DNTP is in the process of putting in place a new accounting and
control system that will ensure that routine and penrodic maintenance operations will be properly
monitored. There are new procurement procedures in place, which will reduce delays in launching
works to be executed by private contractors. AGETIPE Mali is fim-ly established and has created
a sizable private sector capacity, which will in tum ensure the viability of the privatized SMTP.
These developments will ensure that the achievements of the Fifth Highway Project will be
sustainable. The progress of these developments can be evaluated in the future through (1) audits,
(2) by checking whether routine maintenance is carried out by contractors, and (3) by monitoring
the speed of procurement procedures.
17.    The Transport Sector Project (Cr. 2617-MLLI) approved on May 26, 1994 became
effective on April 13, 1995 was prepared during the implementation of the Fifth Highway Project.
This project was prepared taking into account the shortcomings encountered in the implementation



vi
of the Fifth Highway Project, principally on sector-wide coordination, procurement and contract
management, auditing, road funding and private/public partnerships in all modes.
18.   Key Lessons Learned  There are eight lessons learned from the Fifth Highways Project.
The need to (a) streamline procurement procedures; (b) assess the relative costs of force account
vs. private contracting and ensure adequate commitment to increase private participation by private
enterprises in road maintenance and rehabilitation; (c) establish adequate and timely project
accounts and audits; (d) design the project with a monitorable objective, such as a transfer of
knowledge and expertise to the local counterparts; (e) avoid the project-by-project approach in the
highways sector without a broad policy statement; (f) use Bank remedies, such as suspension, for
Borrower compliance of covenants; (g) have all donors review annual programs in a sector round
table as is done under the TSP; and (h) seek borrower and stakeholder ownership prior to appraisal
and maintain it during implementation.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(Cr. 1629-MLI)
REPUBLIC OF MALI
PART I. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Background
1.    In a vast, landlocked country like Mali, the transport sector is of vital importance. At
appraisal, roads were the dominant transport mode accounting for 55% of total freight, while rail and
river transport moved 36% and 9% respectively. Mali's road network consisted of about 13,460 km
of national, regional, and local roads, of which 2,460 km were paved roads, 6,320 km were gravel
roads, and the remaining 4,680 km were unimproved dirt roads and tracks. In Mali's southern
regions, the most heavily populated in the country, road density was 8.5 kmi/10 km2, well below the
average density of 14 km/I00 km2 for Cote d'lvoi re at that time.
2.    While other donors were involved in the road sector, IDA was instrumental in gradually
reducing over-ambitious investment programs and improving the planning and execution of
maintenance works. IDA's objectives of involving the private sector and improving the quality of
force account work through training, improved procedures, and incentives to local personnel,
initiated under the Fourth Highway Project (Cr. 1104-MiLl, US $13.4 million), had begun to show
results. IDA's support of the fifth operation was important in further developing the policy dialogue
on road maintenance financing and investment planning and, although not included in the original
design, developing a transport sector-wide Letter of Sector Policy.
3.    This project was the fifth project in the road sector and the eighth in the transport sector.
The Fourth Highway Project closed on December 31, 1986 and included periodic maintenance of
680 km of paved roads and 220 km of gravel roads by force account and by contract; a three and a
half year program of routine maintenance of national, regional and feeder roads, technical assistance
and training; and equipment for vehicle axle load control. Lessons from the previous operation were
incorporated into the design of the Fifth Highway Project.
A.    Statement/Evaluation of Objectives
Al.   Project Objectives
4.    At Appraisal. As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR, Report No. 5315-MLI, June
26, 1985), the project's objectives were to protect the priority road network and strengthen the
institutions concemed with road infrastructure and transport through: (i) a growing involvement of
the local private construction industry in road maintenance operations; (ii) development of a reduced
but more efficient capacity for force account works; (iii) strengthening of personnel management
and development, including training; (iv) introduction of measures to ensure financing of recurrent
road maintenance costs from local sources -nd a balanced allocation of resources to road investments



2
and maintenance; and (v) continued and expanded institutional development of the road transport
subsector.
5.     To achieve these objectives, the project financed new equipment, spare parts, fuel,
construction materials, labor, civil works, and consultant services to carry out the following three
components:
(a)    a road maintenance and rehabilitation program for a network of 8,200 km of priority
roads, including: (i) three-and-a-half years of routine road maintenance operations
(that would be financed through the national budget thereafter), (ii) periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation of 492 km of paved roads and 535 km of unpaved
roads; and (iii) overhaul and renewal of road equipment;
(b)    an institutional strengthening program including: (i) reorganization and technical
assistance to the directorates of the Ministry, engineering studies, and supervision of
civil works; and (ii) a training program for public works personnel; and
(c)   the reconstruction of the Bamako-Bougouni road (160 km).
6.     During Implementation.  Cost changes due mainly to exchange rate variations and
implementation delays caused the rehabilitation by contractors of 273 km of unpaved roads to be
dropped from the project. The rehabilitation of 7 km of the urban section of the Bamako-Bougouni
road was dropped as well, due to disagreements between the Borrower and the Bank on the physical
characteristics of the project, and was replaced by the rehabilitation of 33 km of national roads in
Bamako. Political changes in Mali in 1991 also slowed down the implementation during that time.
A.2    Evaluation of Objectives and Risks
7.     The objectives at appraisal appeared realistic given the experience under the FourLh
Highway Project that was ongoing at the time. The performance by contractors was generally
satisfactory and force account operations had been improving.  The concept of user financing
through the road fund had been established. It was expected that the reorganization of the SMTP
would help improve the execution of force account works. The objectives of improving the incentive
structure and training for Malian personnel, and improving the results of technical assistance also
appeared realistic.
8.     The main risk identified at appraisal was a decrease in the maintenance effort as a result u,
insufficient or illiquid localfunds. The following actions were designed to prevent these risks from
being realized and were designed as conditions for effectiveness: (a) adoption of an action plan for
solving the liquidity problems of the postal checking system which, despite its illiquidity, was used to
settle government bills instead of replenishing the general revenue fund; and (b) a deposit in the Road
Fund of monies required for the first year, 1985, and an increase by CFAF 12,750 million (US
$26,020) in the fuel taxes to be collected from road users over the January 1985-December 1990
period and allocated to the Road Fund. This risk was realized due to the dissolution of the Road
Fund through the Structural Adjustment Program in 1990.



3
9.     Three risks that had an impact on implementation were not identified:
(a)    Coordination capacity of the Borrower (MTTP): the project had numerous
components that were to be implemented by different Divisions within the MTTP. It
was not anticipated that a delay in implementing a project component within one
Division would stall progress on other components. For example, the execution of
force account works was dependent on a reorganized and efficient SMTP; however,
the reorganized SMTP did not function as expected, and force account works were
delayed for several months. Also, supervision responsibility was spread in different
directorates, making coordination difficult without strong Directorate or Ministerial
leadership. For instance, DETT was to prepare technical studies and supervise
works done by force account within the STN and SRR, and works done by
contractors. DNTP was to coordinate and supervise these works directly as well,
while launching works that were to be executed by contractors.
(b)    Weak institutional capacity and ineffective technical assistance: the SAR identified
the need to improve management tools and skills of technical staff and recognized
that previous technical assistance did not have a lasting effect. While this was cited
as a weakness in preceding projects, it was not anticipated that the same would
occur with this project. The SAR did not anticipate that the DNTP and ONT staff
would be resistant to change, that DNTP would not implement adequate accounting
controls and would be extremely slow in the procurement of contracts, and the
reorganization of SMTP would not be adequately implemented.
(c)    Little commitment to increase private contracting: the government's determination to
rely on force account works rather than private contracting was underestimated.
This lack of commitment delayed procurement procedures and also delayed the
development of a local, private construction industry.
10.   In sum, the objectives at appraisal were too optimistic about the ability and willingness of
the Borrower and the MTTP to coordinate effectively across the directorates and play a leadership
role during implementation. Moreover, the Borrower was intent on using force account works while
the Bank thought that force account works should be abandoned in favor of contractors.
11.    The result was a project design that included both types of works despite the lack of
commitment on the part of the borrower to effectively follow through with the contracting of works.
This led to lengthy procurement delays and lack of proper accounting and auditing for several years
after the credit became effective. Moreover, the commitment to increase private contracting was
missing until the change of Government in 1993 and the creation of AGETIEPE as a commercial, not-
for profit contracting agency, that has both spurred the development of the local construction
industry and promoted country-wide procurement reforms.
B.    Achievement of Objectives
B.1   Degree of Achievement of Objectives
12.    Macroeconomic Policies. Not applicable.



4
13.   Sector Policies.  The achievement is substantial, although no policy component was
specifically planned at appraisal. Through the suspension of disbursements IDA was able to draw
attention not only to serious implementation problems, but also to the need to: (a) liberalize the
transport sector, (b) adequately maintain the existing priority network, (c) institute strict accounting
standards within the DNTP, and (d) conduct periodic maintenance and rehabilitation exclusively
through private contractors.
14.   Financial Objectives. The achievement is negligible. The Road Fund, a center piece of the
project, was dissolved in 1990 as a result of the Structural Adjustment Program. The Road Fund
was financed by petroleum taxes collected by petroleum companies, and served to fund routine
maintenance as well as some periodic maintenance. Its dissolution severely reduced the funds
allocated to these operations.
15.   Taxes and duties specific to transport were in fact sufficient to fund the maintenance and
renewal of the road network. However, they were collected under the heading of general national
taxation and were not allocated directly or in their entirety to funding road maintenance. In its
"Declaration de Politique G6n6rale dans le Secteur des Transports" (November 3, 1993), the
Government indicated its intention to redesign its taxation policies in order to improve cost recovery
and base it on road usage (now ongoing under the TSP).
16.   Institutional Development.  The achievement is partial: (1) the DNTP completed a
program to reform its accounting practices, (2) a routine maintenance program is now in place,
(3) the SMTP is being converted into a private rental company, and (4) the institutional development
begun under the project has led to the launching of the TSP.
17.   Physical Objectives. The achievement is substantial even though partial: (a) the Bamako-
Bougouni road was rebuilt, (b) the periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of the paved roads by
contractors was achieved, specially the 307 Km Bougouni-Sikasso-Z6goua road, (c) approximately
6,000 km out of 8,200 km of high priority roads received regular maintenance, (d) the 7 km urban
section of the Bamako-Bougouni road was not upgraded but replaced by the rehabilitation of 33 km
of main national roads in Bamako, (e) 158.6 km out of the original 185 km of paved roads received
periodic rehabilitation by force account, (f) 60 km out of the planned 139 km of force account
rehabilitation on gravel roads was achieved, and (g) the access road to Djenn6 (35 km) was paved by
contractors instead of being rehabilitated by force account. The partial achievement of the physical
objectives was due mainly to the depreciation of the dollar (see par. 30).
B.2   Economic Evaluation
18.   At Appraisal  The SAR provided a separate economic evaluation for the reconstruction of
the Bamako-Bougouni road and for the paved road maintenance and rehabilitation program. The
SAR estimated an ERR of 15% for rural section of the Bamako-Bougouni road and an ERR of 34%
for the paved road maintenance and rehabilitation program. It must be noted that the economic
evaluation was based on traffic data that was collected during a massive distribution of food aid
from donors and aid agencies due to an exceptional period of drought from 1983 to 1985;
consequently, the base line assumptions about traffic flow may be overstated in the SAR.
19.   After Project Completion. The lack of reliable data on road traffic and road user costs at
completion did not permit the calculation of rates of retum for the project and its components.
Currently, the scales and traffic monitoring stations to be established under the TSP are not



5
operational. It is expected that data will be available in 1997. A complement to this ICR presenting
ERRs for the project will be submitted in December 1997. It is expected that the ERR for the
various components is going to be less than estimated in the SAR because: (i) the planned works
were not entirely completed while costing almost the entire amount allocated in the credit; this was
further aggravated by the significant depreciation of the dollar between 1986 and 1993 as the amount
in dollars of the credit was reduced while the cost level remained constant in FCFA (see par. 30); the
devaluation of January 1994 did not have a significant effect on the completion of works because the
government had sufficient funds to compensate the contractors; and (ii) the high and exceptional
traffic level during appraisal as mentioned above.
C.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
C.1   Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
20.   Depreciation of the dollar: the value of the dollar dropped from 490 CFAF at the time of
appraisal to as low as 285 CFAF in 1990 while prices in Mali remained constant in real terms. This
reduction in the amount of credit in the local currency was compounded by the many delays that
made the credit all the more vulnerable to exchange rate risk. The depreciation of the dollar reduced
the dollar amount of the credit. This led to two subcomponents consisting of 273 km of road
rehabilitation by contractors to be dropped from the project, because there were not enough funds
remaining in the credit to pay for the works.
C.2   Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
21.   The Government established cumbersome procurement procedures that led to extensive
delays for works to be implemented by contractors, while works that were to be implemented by
force account were implemented a little more rapidly. It was clear however, that the Government did
not keep adequate project accounts of the expenditures, which resulted in cost overruns in works
done by force account.
C.3   Factors Subject to Implementing Agency Control
22.   The implementing agency was extremely slow in processing the procurement for the works
to be implemented by contractors. The lack of commitment on the part of the agency to following
through procurement processes and to improving the efficiency with which bids were requested and
processed resulted in delays of several years.
23.   Slow procurement of spare parts by SMTP personnel resulted in little equipment being
repaired and bought. This created backlogs in the rehabilitation of roads to be done by force
account, as the implementing agency lacked the equipment necessary to begin rehabilitation and
periodic maintenance.
24.   Lack of motivation and experience on the part of the implementing agency personnel
contributed to the lack of progress in executing works by force account.  Workers were
inexperienced with periodic maintenance and rehabilitation and little work was ultimately achieved as
a result.
25.   The lack of internal controls and accounting system within the implementing agency
prevented systematic supervision and monitoring of the force account works that were in progress.



6
As a result, the amount set aside by the Bank for routine road maintenance was depleted in 2.75
years instead of the 3.5 years that were planned in the SAR.
26.    The implementing agency did not appoint an auditor for several years and this prevented the
preparation of annual audits of the project. Consequently, neither the implementing agency nor the
Bank could adequately monitor the implementation of the project and take appropriate measures to
address the many implementation problems. In addition, no action was ever taken to improve the
implementation of force account rehabilitation because the DNTP was slow in hiring an independent
supervision consultant to oversee the operations.
27.    The DNTP prepared poorly-conceived civil works contracts, and three years after the start
of the project, it had not yet started the periodic maintenance of the roads that was to be executed by
contractors. Unexpected delays in retaining independent supervision contributed to this situation.
28.   In addition, the DNTP failed to comply with several DCA covenants: (1) preparation of a
multi-annual investment program in the road subsector; (2) notification and consultation with the
Bank on investments in the road sector costing more than one million dollars; (3) preparation of audit
reports concerning project accounts and Statements of Expenditures; and (4) creation of a system of
vehicle weight control measures.
29.    These shortcomings led IDA to suspend disbursements from May 1, 1990 to December 18,
1990. The Government drafted a Letter of Transport Sector Policy signed by four Ministers, with
measures that would lead to (a) an increase in the coordination between the implementing Ministries,
(b) a limit in the use of force account exclusively to routine maintenance, (c) the preparation of a
multi-annual program of road investments, and (d) the expansion of private sector participation in
the execution of road maintenance.
C.4    Cost Changes
30.    The change in the exchange rate of the dollar vis a vis the CFAF had a significant impact on
the Project. The exchange rate fell from CFAF 490 for one dollar at the time of appraisal to CFAF
285 for one dollar in January, 1990. This depreciation of the dollar reduced the amount in CFAF of
resources available for the remaining five years while the cost of goods and services in CFAF
remained constant. As a result, the rehabilitation of the 237 km Kayes-Nioro road and the 123 km
Bougouni-Manankoro road were dropped from the project. The CFAF devaluation in January 1994
had a moderate impact on the total cost of the project because the contracts being executed had a
fixed exchange rate and a price escalation formula.
C.5   Implementation Delays
31.    There were three types of implementation delays: (a) project launch was delayed by one
year due to slow and cumbersome procurement procedures; (b) the average time between equipment
purchase and delivery was 24 months, leading to costly delays, as the price adjustment formula
increased contract prices long before the purchased equipment was delivered; and (c) the project
slowed down prior to the suspension of disbursements and after their resumption due to the ensuing
reassessment of sector objectives.



7
32.    The closing date was extended by three years from the original date of December 31, 1990
to December 31, 1993, and then by an additional year and a half to June 30, 1995. This increased
the implementation time by 96 percent, from 56 months to 110 months.
D.    Project Sustainability
33.    Overall, the project is sustainable because many of its objectives were achieved or are being
implemented under the ongoing TSP, namely:
(a)    The Government prepared and implemented significant changes in sector policies:
(i) it liberalized the transport sector, (ii) prepared a multi-year investment program
centered on road maintenance, and (iii) has reoriented its programs towards the
maintenance of the priority road network.
(b)    The project had a lasting impact on capacity building: (i) rehabilitation work is now
done by private contractors, (ii) works by force account are being phased out,
(iii) the SMTP is now being reorganized into a private rental agency, (iv) a
significant number of small and medium sized enterprises have developed through
the delegation of contracting by AGETIPE, and (v) contracting procedures were
reviewed and streamlined.
(c)    The physical objectives of the project are sustainable for the following reasons:
(i) road rehabilitation is now carried out by private contractors, a practice that has
proven to be sustainable, and (ii) the Government is now regularly investing
adequate resources towards routine maintenance, which will help ensure the
preservation of the priority road network.
E.    Bank Performance
34.   In project identification. Performance is rated satisfactory: the project was well aligned
with the Bank's strategy of promoting the maintenance of the road network for the country. It was
not as consistent with the country's own development strategy, which at the time continued to
emphasize construction of new roads. This emphasis was changed, however, with the adoption of
the Letter of Transport Sector Policy.
35.   In project preparation. Performance is rated satisfactory: the Bank assisted the Borrower
in preparing the technical, institutional, and physical aspects of the project with the assistance of a
team that included an economist and an engineer.
36.   In project appraisal. Performance is rated satisfactory: the Bank's assessment of the state
of the road network and of the necessary measures to bring about improvements in its physical
conditions and management were realistic. However, the Bank was optimistic in its assessment of
the Borrower's capacity to implement all the various components of the project as well as in its
assessment of the Borrower's commitment to delegate the execution of road rehabilitation to private
contractors. The Bank did not anticipate that procurement delays were likely, given the lack of
capacity on the part of Borrower to properly coordinate and implement the various project
components.



8
37.   In supervision. The performance is rated satisfactory: while IDA continued to note the
need to improve the speed of procurement and establish accounting controls and audits from the
start, its advice was almost never followed until disbursements were suspended in 1990. There was
a lack of staff continuity in supervision, as a total of five Task Managers supervised the project from
appraisal to completion and only ten missions included both a transport economist and highway
engineer.  In addition, the Bank's supervision was adversely affected by the Bank wide
reorganization during 1987.
38.    Finally, IDA should have considered suspending the credit disbursements earlier in the
project given the extent and continuity of problems during the first few years. While such a measure
was not encouraged at the Bank at the time, an early suspension of disbursements would have
probably reduced the many implementation delays and lack of compliance with the covenants in the
Development Credit Agreement.
F.     Borrower Performance
39.    Boriower performance is rated deficient for the following reasons:
(a)    It was extremely slow in its procurement procedures, which caused an overall delay
of 54 months in implementation. It did not improve its performance in accounting,
auditing and institutional restructuring despite being repeatedly urged by the Bank to
do so. The Borrower was not fully committed to hiring private contractors to
execute road rehabilitation until after 1990, when the Letter of Transport Sector
Policy was adopted.
(b)    The Borrower did not institute accounting controls and did not appoint an outside
auditor to monitor the progress on works done by force account and by pnrvate
contractors for several years into project implementation. This did not permit the
implementing agency and the Bank to monitor the quality and the cost of the works
done by force account.
(c)    The Borrower did not effectively coordinate the timing of the technical assistance to
the SMTP with that of the procurement of new machinery and new spare parts. It
was unable to fully utilize the technical assistance because the equipment necessary
to undertake the assistance was ordered with a six month delay. Consequently, the
technical assistance remained at the SMTP much longer than planned.
(d)    Finally, the Borrower did not comply with the DCA covenants until disbursement
was suspended.
G.    Assessment of Outcome
40.    The project's outcome is rated satisfactory as the project achieved most of its objectives and
is expected to yield worthwhile development results, sustained by the ongoing TSP and AGETIPE
operations. It must be noted that implementation delays were considerable and the project was
completed 54 months behind schedule.



9
EL    Future Operation
41.    The DNTP is in the process of putting in place a new accounting and control system that
will ensure that routine and periodic maintenance operations will be properly monitored. There are
new procurement procedures in place, which will reduce delays in launching works to be executed by
pnvate contractors. AGETIPE Mali is firmly established and has created a sizable private sector
capacity, which will in turn ensure the viability of the privatized SMTP. The progress of these
developments can be evaluated in the future through (1) audits, (2) by checking whether routine
maintenance is carried out by contractors, and (3) by monitoring the speed of procurement
procedures.
42.    Monitoring indicators are also included in the TSP, the follow-up project. The TSP,
developed during the implementation of the Fifth Highway Project, was approved on May 26, 1994
and became effective on April 13, 1995 It is structured to address the shortcomings of the Fifth
Highway Project by (a) developing a sector-wide investment operation covering all transport modes;
(b) establishing a Letter of Transport Policy as a foundation of future IDA and donor support to the
sector; (c) determining clear conditionalities established before effectiveness (preparation of standard
bidding documents, signing of the contract for conducting a project audit, establishment of the
SMTP as an equipment rental company); (d) better linking the transport sector to macro-economic
reform; and (e) greater consistency with the Country Assistance Strategy.
1.     Key Lessons Learned
43.   Streamline procurement procedures. Procurement delays were one of the most serious
obstacle to the implementation of the project. The implementing agency did not have the capacity
and the ability to prepare acceptable bidding documents. Under the Public Works and Capacity
Building Project, this problem has been addressed under the procurement reform component and a
new procuremrent code was passed by Parliament in 199S
44.   Assess the relative costs of force account vs. private contracting and ensure adequate
commitment to increase private participation by private enterprises in road maintenance and
rehabilitation. Road maintenance performed by force account was lower in quality, higher in cost,
and less timely than if the works had been contracted out to the private sector. This was exacerbated
by the inability of the implementing agency to address bottlenecks (such as the lack of machinery and
spare parts) and its reluctance to engage in private contracting. Under the TSP the privatization of
the SMTP and the contracting out to the private sector of routine maintenance works is being
implemented.
45.    Establish adequate and timely project accounts, audits, and a monitoring system to record
the physical and economic achievements. Project accounts were inadequate and therefore it was
difficult to get an accurate picture of the cost of force account works and an independent audit was
not implemented unti] disbursements were -ispended. There was also no system to collect data and
quatify the achievements, which prevented the calculation of the ERR. Under the TSP, an audit
contract was signed before effectiveness and the auditor has to establish an appropriate accounting
system prior to effectiveness. A system to monitor traffic is also a component of the TSP.
46.    Design the project to ensure that the long-term benefits of technical assistance are realized
by specifying a monitorable objective, such as a transfer of knowledge and expertise to the local
counterparts. Technical assistance did not have a lasting effect. Long-term expatriate technical



10
assistance was never fully integrated within the implementing agencies and very little technical
knowledge was transferred within the ranks of the implementing agency. Under the TSP, only short
term technical assistance on specific tasks has been included.
47.   Avoid the project-by-project approach in the highways sector without a broad policy
statement. Project-by-project efforts to develop a more rational approach to investment planning, to
strengthen institutional capacity, and to improve sub-sector performance have had little success.
Under the TSP, a broad-sector approach was adopted. It was based on the Letter of Transport
Sector Policy.
48.    Use Bank remedies, such as suspension, for Borrower compliance of covenants. The
suspension of disbursements resulted in drawing immediate action on the part of the implementing
agency, as well as from the Malian government. It was a drastic, but useful measure to make the
Borrower comply with the DCA covenants and improve its performance and should have been
applied earlier when the Government did not meet legal covenants.
49.   Have all donors review annual programs in a sector round table as is done under the TSP.
Donor coordination was weak, with little synergy having been developed. There was no effort on the
part of the co-financiers, except on the part of the SDC, to take any type of concerted action to
address the many problems that were encountered in the implementation of the project. Under the
TSP, a round table has been held before appraisal and annual meetings are planned during
implementation.
50.    Seek borrower and stakeholder ownership prior to appraisal and maintain it during
implementation.  Borrower and stakeholder ownership was not systematically sought during
preparation, appraisal and implementation. Borrower ownership was initiated through a Transport
Working Group after the credit disbursement was resumed. The Transport Working Group's
purpose was to develop a coherent transpurt strategy and policy, which eventually led to the
elaboration of the TSP. Under the TSP, borrower and stakeholder ownership has been crystallized
through a Letter of Sector Policy, prepared with the input of private and public sector institutions,
transporters, and users.



11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:       Summary of Assessments
Table 2:       Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:       Project Timetable
Table 4:       Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
Chart 1:       Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:       Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:       Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:      Project Costs
Table 8B:      Project Financing
Table 9:       Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:      Status of Legal Covenants
Table I 1:     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:      Bank Resources: Staffs Inputs
Table 13:      Bank Resources: Missions
Table 1. Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives    Substantial    Partial    Neglig_ible   Not applicable
(1/)    ()              (10           (/
Macro policies                                     ]         F]          7m
Sector policies                                 F]           F]         F]
Financial objectives               F]           E]            W          Fm
Institutional development           C]                       F]         F]
Physical objectives                F]            W           F]          F]
Poverty reduction                  F            FL            L           7
Gender issues                        ]          F]           F] 
Other social objectives            E            F]           F]C
Environmental objectives            F]           F            F]          W
Public sector management           F]                        F]S         F
Private sector development         F]                         F] EF
Other (specify)                    F]           F]            F]          W
(Continued)



12
B. Project sustainability            Likely              Unlikely           Uncertain
(/)                 (1)                 (1)
C. Bank performance                  Highly
satisfacto           Satisfactory       Deficient
(I)                 (I)                 (.1)
Identification                         Oi7                                       IO
Preparation assistance                 I Z                                   F
Appraisal                                 I                                  LI
Supervision                           Li                                     EL
D. Borrower performance              Highli
satisfactory         Satisfactory       Deficient
(1)                  (1)                (1)
Preparation                             i                                       i F
Implementation                        Li                  Ei                   1
Covenant compliance                  Ei                   LII                17]
Operation (if applicable)             L                                       Li
E. Assessment of outcome      ffighly                                           Highly
satisfactorv    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactorv    unsatisfactory
(L)                             Li)  V )          V )
EO              Fv-              ED              F



13
Table 2. Related IDA Credits
Preceding operations
First Railway Project    To finance a $1 1.1 million project  FY 67   Closed on 6/30/74
(Cr. 95-MILI)         designed to equip the Mali Railway              and rated not fully
with modern traction and rolling               satisfactory
stock and improve its track and
managerial procedures.
Highway Maintenance   To finance a highway maintenance     FY70       Closed on 3/31/76
Project (Cr. 197-MLI)   program, construction and                     and rated satisfactory
betterment of feeder roads, technical
assistance and feasibility studies.
Second Highway Project To improve two paved roads,         FY73       Closed on 3/31/83
(Cr. 383-MLI)         Bamako-Bougouni (155 km) and                    and rated satisfactory
Faladie-Segou (223 km), to continue
highway maintenance and feeder
road betterment program, to procure
highway maintenance equipment
and studies
Second Railway Project  To partially renovate the Mali    FY 73      Closed on 6/30/78
(Cr. 384-MLI)         Railways and expand the passenger               and rated partially
and freight carrying capacity.                 satisfactory
Third Highway Project   To improve 1,200 km of feeder      FY76       Closed on 12/30/81
(Cr. 599-MLI)         roads, including provision of two               and rated satisfactory
ferries; a program to eliminate
backlogged maintenance on 944 km
of paved roads; to assist a Training
Center established in the previous
project, and to prepare a national
transport plan.
Third Railway Project   To prevent the breakdown of railway  FY 77    Closed on 6/30/88
(Cr. 713-MILI)        services on the Dakar-Bamako                    and rated partially
international corridor by                      satisfactory
rehabilitating endangered bridges,
improving operations through better
coordination between Mali and
Senegal railways, and by
strengthening the motive power
maintenance.
Fourth Highway Project  To ensure that road maintenance    FY81       Closed on 12/31/86
(Cr. 1104-MLI)        would be continued by providing a               and rated satisfactory
contribution to recurrent costs and
the foreign exchange needed for
imported products
Following operations
Public Works and      To create temporary employment by    FY92       Implementation is
Capacity Building     labor-intensive technologies; to               highly satisfactory.
Project (Cr. 2371-MLI)  increase the productivity of Bamako;          A supplemental
(to inciease the capacity of the               credit of US $ 10
public sector to manage its demand             million equivalent



14
for and expenditures on goods and                 was approved in
services; to improve public                      November 1994 to
procurement; to strengthen the                   finance further
capacity of the private sector to                works.
design, implement and supervise
urban public works, including roads
Transport Sector Project  To strengthen sector management     FY94       Project was declared
(Cr. 2617-MLI)         and performance; to restructure                   effective in April
transport sector parastatals; to                  1995 and is currently
modify the regulatory and                        rated highly
institutional framework; to                      satisfactory
rehabilitate and maintain a priority
network; and to improve the
transport operation's efficiency and
reduce transport costs



15
Table 3. Project Timetable
Identification (EPS)                  April 1983                  April 1983
Preparation                     April 1983 - April 1984      April 1983 - April 1984
Appraisal                             May 1984                    May 1984
Negotiations                      March 11416, 1985            March 11-16, 1985
Board presentation                September 19, 1985          September 19, 1985
Signing                           November 4, 1985             November 4, 1985
Effectiveness                       November 1985                May 1, 1986
Suspension of Disbursement           not foreseen                May 1, 1990
Letter of development policy         not foreseen              October 23, 1990
Midterm review                                                     July 1991
Project completion                December 31, i989              June 30, 1995
Loan Closing                      December 31, 1990              June 30, 1995



16
Table 4. Credit Disbursements: Estimated and Actual
Appraisal          3.3    8.1    11.3   12.2   9.4    4.3
estimate annual
Actual annual      5.5    12.2   12.0   9.1      1 6    1.9    5.4    6.3   12.6   2.1
Actual as % of     167    151    106    75       17     44      --    --
estimate
Appraisal          3.3    11.4   22.7   34.9   44.3   48.6
estimate
cumulative
Actual             5.5   17.7   29.7   38.8   40.4   42.3   47.7   54.0   66.6   68.7
cumulative
Actual as % of     167    155    131    111    91       87      --    --       --
estimate
The last disbursement was made on December 11, 1995.



17
Chart 1. Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
70
50 '
304
10
rI  IT t 0  00  0   m            xo ' 00  0  Cl  'T  00  0   Cx   o  or   00  0
-   -tR -   - 9  C   C R Cl    C C                9) en 0n  ni 
-0-O-SAR&Rffile($) -X- SPRardPRtle(SM) -iMdS   0-kw  S



18
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Periodic Maintenance and
Rehabilitation
-Paved roads                            492 km                    466 km
-Gravel roads                           535 km                    95 kmn
-% by force account (paved)              38%                       34%
-% by force account (gravel)             26%                       63%
- National roads                         N/A                      33 km
Bamako-BouRouni Road
-rural section reconstruction           152.2 km                 152.2 km
-urban section upgrading                7.3 km                   Abandoned
Institutional Strengthening           $4.4 million              $3.7 million



19
Table 6. Studies Included in the Project
,~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ....'t        ...t'''""'" '''"""""'  ............
Study of traffic     Estimate evolution of      completed        Construction of bridge
pattems related to   traffic between the two                     delayed
existing bndge       banks of the Niger
River over the next. 20
years and the
possibility of deferring
as long as possible the
construction of a third
bridge
Multi-year investment  Definition of a viable   completed        Input for next project
program              program
Training needs       Define training needs      completed        Input for next project
of sector staff
Environmental impact  Assess impact of           completed       Input for next project
study                project on the
environment in
preparation for TSP
Technical audit      Detemuine                  completed        Study detemuined that
effectiveness of                           works carried out by
investments made                           force account were
inferior to those
carried out by private
contractor
Effect of road       Assess impact of           completed        Inconclusive
improvement on prices  project on the prices of
of products          products transported
transported
Study on the         Improve the                completed        Input for next project
reorganization of the    effectiveness of
accounting systems at  accounting controls
the DNTP
Study on the         Define structure of the    completed        SMTP is being
transformation on the   private leasing                          privatized
SMTP into a private   company
leasing company
Multi-year routine   Define a viable            completed        Input for project itself
maintenance program    maintenance program                       and next project



20
Table 7A. Project Costs
(US  Al)
Rehab Programa
la. Routine Road              5.2        4.6        9.8         0.3        6.3        6.6
Maintenance
l b . Periodic Iiajutenance   4..1       14.0 1.8.i             1.4       28.6       30.0
and Rehab.
Ic. overhlaul & Renewal of    063.41061.016
equipmentt
2. Institutional
Strengthening and TA
2a. Reorganization &TA         0.8        3.6        4.4        0.5        10.5       11.0
2b. Training                   0.3__ 1.11._03_.25.
3. Reconstruction of           4.0       1 6. 1     20. 1       1.1I      21 .8       22.9
Bamako-Bougouni Road
Base Costs                    1.          29        5.
Physical Cont.                 0.8        3.2        4.0
Price Cvnt.                    29861.
TOTALS                        18.7       54.7       73.4        3.7       73.9        87.6
Table 7B. Project Financing
;  ... ,     , ..........j .....,O       m   :                  ,..,                     ....   ......... i
IDA           7.1          41.5         48.6          3.5          65.7          69.2
AfDB           1.0          9.8          10.8          0.5          9.0           9.5
FAC           0.1           0.4          0.5                         --
SDC           1.0          3.0           4.0          0.2           4.4          4.7
Gov't         9.5           0.0          9.5           0.2          4.0           4.2
TOTAL          18.7         54.7          73.4          4.4          83.1         87.6
L Iocal costs are actual costs, not expeladitures incurred in FCFA.



21
Table 8. Economic Costs and Benefits
Individual road                   greater than 12%              Not Available
Road Maintenance and Rehab            t than 50%                Not Available
Program
Reconstruction Bamako-
Bougouni (urban section not             15%                     Not Available
included)



22
Table 9. Status of Legal Covenants
3.01         general                                          Due diligence
3.02       procurement       CD                               Procurement to be
carried out in
accordance with
Schedule 3 of DCA
3.03(a)    implementation     CD      Aug. 15 of  10/23/1990   Prepare and fumish  Complied
every year               a multi-annual     with after
program of road    suspension of
transport          disbursement
investments and
adopt program
agreed with IDA
3.03(b)    implementation     CD                   10/23/1990   Limit investments   Complied
in road sector to  with after
program above,     suspension of
those costing less   disbursement
than US $1 M,
others as agreed
with IDA
3.04      implementation                                      Limit investments   Not
in trucking finns    applicable
since 1990
3.05        counterpart      NC                               Take measures to    Not
funding/financial                                    ensure that Road    applicable
Fund revenues are   since 1990
sufficient to cover
al debt service
requirements and
counterpart funds.
Revenues shall
aggregate not less
than CFAF 28.95
billion between
Jan. 85 and Dec.
90
3.06         financial        C                               Imports of fuel to
be subject to same
rates of taxes and
duties
3.07      implementation      C       May 1987                Prepare and fumish
a system of vehicle
weight control
measures
C=Covenant complied with
CD=Complied vvith after delay
CP=Complied with partially
NC=Not complied with



23
3.08       cost recovery               May 1987                  Prepare and furnish  Not
a schedule of road   applicable
tariffs structured to  since 1990
take into account
the economic cost
of different types
.________                             of road transport
3.09        institutional     NC                                 Section du          Not complied
Contr6le des       with
Travaux et des
Marches of DNTP
to be filled with
qualified staff in
adequate numbers
3.10          studies          C        12/31/95                 Undertake study of
traffic pattems
3.11     reviews/accounts               7/311/85,                DNTP to review its  Partial
12/31/85,                accounting system;  compliance;
CD       12/31/94                 implement           new
necessary changes   accounting
and establish      system is
detailed payment    being
and disbursement    established
procedures         under the
TSP
3.12       cost recovery       C                                 Major part of the
proceeds of the
highway toll to be
applied to the Road
l____________ _  .Fund
4.01(a)       accounting        C                                 Maintain separate
records and
accounts by project
__________ rcomponent
4.01(b)       accounting       CD      not   later                Have accounts       Audits
than     4                audited and fumish  fumished
months                    IDA with accounts  after 1991
after end of
period
4.01(c)       accounting       CD      not   later                Have all            Ibid.
than     4                expenditures made
months                    by SOE audited
after end of              and included in
period                    annual audit report
4.02        monitoring        CD      4    weeks                 Fumish to IDA and  Interrupted
after  close              SDC a report on     when
of    each                progress of the     technical
calendar                  project             assistance
quarter                                       departed



24
Table 10. Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
OD 11.00: Procurement                           The Borrower did not follow  proper bank
procedures when awarding contracts.
OD  13.10: Borrower compliance with audit  The Borrower did not provide a financial and
covenants                                       technical audit for four years, and only did so
once disbursements were suspended.
Table II. IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
~~~~~~~~~~~~..    :.:..   .E. -...   .   ..,  ,      - ...................... ... ... .   .
~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . . . .   . . ,   . . . . . .   . ''''':'.-:-'':-':'
lll~~~~~Jue R-vise
Preparation to           N . A.       N . A.     N..A.      N ..A.     19.5        41.1
appraisal
Appraisal                N.A.         N.A.       N.A.      N.A.        62.6       136.5
Negotiations.through     NA ..  N. A.    N..                N.A.       27.3        56.8
Board approval
Supervision              N.A.         N.A.       N.A.      N.A.        139.4      381.8
Completion               N.A.         N.A.       N.A.      N.A.          3         8.4
TOTAL                    N.A.         N.A.       N.A.       N.A.       249.8      624.6



25
Table 12. IDA Resources: Missions
[., --j~*fr~       -~ja      r    B      .  .. ..           -77                .  .- -.  . .- :   .. - .--.- ... .  . .   -. .. .   - -
Through
appraisal
Appraisal-Board
Board -
effectiveness
Supervision I         11185          2          14          E. LIE          not effective
Supervision 2         2/86           1           8            HE            not effective
Supervision 3         6/86           2           9          E, HE                II
Supervision 4         10/86          1.9.HE  2..
Supervision 5         2/87           1          17           HE                  1                   1
Supervision 6         11/87          2          10          E, HE                11
Supervision 7         5/88           2           8          E. HE                10
Supervision 8         8/88           14                      HE--
Supervision 9         11/88          1           4           HE                  2                  2
Supervision 10        5/89           3          17         F, E, HE.             2                  2
Supervision 11        10/89          2          14E, HE                          3                  3
Supervision 12        5/90           215                    E, HE33
Supervision 13        10/90          2          13          E, HE                3                  3
Supervision 14        7/91           2          14           E, CI               3                  3
(Mid-term)
Supervision 15        10/91          2          16          E, HE                                    -
Supervision 16        6/92           117                     HE                  3                  2
Supervision 17         1/93          1          22            HE--
Supervision 18        7/941                     23           HE                            22
Supervision 19        11/94          1           7                               2F  2               2
Supervision 20        5/95           1          19           LIE                 2                  2
Completion            10/95          2          20          F, HE
Specializations:
Cl=Construction Industry Specialist
E=Economist
HE=Highway Engineer



26
MtALI                             APPENDIX A
Evaluation de Fin d'Ex6cution du Cinquieme Projet Routier (Cr. 1629-MLI)
Mission de l'DA du 15 octobre au 27 octobre 1995
AIDE-MEMOrRE
1.    Une mission de l'IDA, conduite par M. Abdelghani Inal et comprenant Mlle
Sapna Gupta (Economiste), a sejourne au Mali entre le 15 et le 27 octobre 1995, pour
preparer entres autres, l'evaluation de fin d'execution du Cinquieme Projet Routier.
Le present aide-memoire resume le resultat des travaux de la mission. Toutefois il
n'engage pas l'IDA avant d'etre formellement avalise par elle.
2.    La mission tient a remercier 1'ensemble des Autorites maliennes rencontrees
pour l'excellence de leur accueil et leur entiere cooperation, et particulierement Son
Excellence Monsieur Mohamed Ag Erlaf, Ministre des Travaux Publics et des
Transports. M. Inal et Mile Gupta ont explique les objectifs du rapport de fin
d'execution (RFE) et du besoin de la part de la DNTP de preparer son propre rapport
de fin d'execution de projet qui sera annexe a celui de la Banque Mondiale. La mission
a re,u un bilan sommaire sur l'execution de certaines composantes du Cinquieme
Projet Routier de la part de M. Diarisso, directeur adjoint de la Direction Nationale de
Travaux Publics (DNTP).
EVALUATION PRELEMINAIRE DU DEROULEMENT DU CINQUTEME
PROJET ROUTIER
3.    Le Cinquieme Projet Routier (Cr. 1629 MLI) etait finance par ['Association
Intemationale du Developpement, la Cooperation Suisse, le Fond Africain de
Developpement, et la Republique du Mali. Le projet avait pour objectif de
sauvegarder le reseau routier prioritaire et de renforcer les institutions chargees des
infrastructures de transports routiers. Le projet comprenait (I) un programnme de
refection et d'entretien des routes, (2) un programme de renforcement des institutions,
et (3) la reconstruction de la route Bamako-Bougouni. L'Accord de Credit fut signe le
4 novembre 1985 pour un montant de 50,7 M DTS (48,6 M US$ 1985), et la mise en
vigueur fut le I' mai 1986.
4.    L'execution et le deroulement du Cinquieme Projet Routier ont subi plusieurs
decalages et retards (la date de cloture du credit fut reportee trois fois, du 31 decembre
1989 au 31 decembre 1990, puis au 31 decembre 1993, et finalement au 30juin 1995).
L'origine des difficultes se trouve dans 1'execution du projet et aussi dans la
conception meme du projet pour la partie travaux en regie. II y a a mentionner une
suspension des decaissement du credit (du Ier mai au 20 decembre 1990) causee par le
non respect de plusieurs sections de I'Accord de Credit.
5.    La levee de cette suspension a doenn lieu a une lettre de Politique Sectorielle
definissant, entre autres, la preparation d'un progranmme pluriannuel d'investissements
dans le secteur routier, l'intention de n'effectuer en regie que les travaux d'entretien
courant et d'effectuer les travaux d'entretien periodique, de rehabilitation,



27
reconstruction et construction des routes que par des entreprises privees, et de mettre
en ceuvre un rapport d'audit technique et financier. Les sections suivantes donnent un
resume du deroulement des differentes composantes du cinquieme projet routier.
Renforcement des Institutions
6.    Le SMTP vient d'etre enfin transforme en une societe de location de materiels
des travaux publics dans le cadre du Projet Sectoriel Transports. Cette transformation
devrait ameliorer la fa,on dont le materiel est gere et loue aux DRTP pour effectuer
1'entretien, et aussi pour louer le materiel au secteur prive. Une partie clef du
Cinquieme Projet Routier etait la rdorganisation du SMTP, qui lors du Quatrieme
Projet Routier, dtait un service decentralise.
7.    La reorganisation du SMTP en un service centralise et charge des reparations
et renouvellement du parc materiel entier fut une des raisons pour le rallongement des
ddlais du Cinquieme Projet Routier, au moins pour les travaux executds en regie. Le
SMTP a eu des difficultes de coordination entre la DNTP, le SRR, le STN, et les
directions rdgionales. La conception du volet renforcement des institutions de la part
de la Banque Mondiale (renforcement de la regie) et la mauvaise gestion de la part de
la DNTP et le SMTP ont etd une des causes de la carence des travaux en regie.
L'absence de comptabilite analytique, de contractualisation des travaux, de planning, et
de transparence sont les autres facteurs qui ont cause tant de retards et rallongements
tout le long du projet.
Volet Travaux A l'Entreprise
8.    La passation des marches pour les travaux a l'entreprise par la DNTP et la
supervision de ces travaux ont ete d'une lenteur extreme. La cause principale des
retards etait le mauvais suivi des appels d'offres et des passations des marches de la
part de la DNTP. Cela a cause des retards de pres de 9 ans pour l'ex6cutitn d:
certains projets.
9.    Les retards causes par la passation des marches ont eu un autre effet: celui de
reduire le montant disponible du credit a cause du taux de change du dollar. Bien que
la passation du marche pour la construction de la route Bamako-Bougouni a ete
approuvee en 1987, la chute du dollar a reduit le montant disponible pour achever les
travaux supplementaires qui etaient imprevus lors de 1'etablissement du contrat et qui a
porte a I'annulation du tronion urbain de ce projet (7,3 km); les travaux prdvus sur les
routes en terre de Kayes-Nioro (150 km) et Bougouni-Manankoro (123 krm) ont do
etre annulds. Les travaux annulds sur le trongon urbain ont ete remplaces par un
entretien periodique et rehabilitation effectues par AGETIPE sur des routes nationales
traversant la ville de Bamako (33 km).
Volet Travaux en Regie
10.   Entretien Pdriodique. La DNTP, a travers le STN et le SRR, devait achever
l'entretien periodique des routes apres I'achevement des etudes conduites par la
DETT. La partie entretien periodique du projet a ete tres lente et n'a jamnais repris
apres la suspension du crddit en mai 1990. La lenteur du travail jusqu'a mai 1990 dtait
causee par la carence des materiels qui devaient etre fournis par le SMTP et aussi i



28
cause de la mauvaise coordination et gestion de la DNTP. Le personnel n'avait pas
d'experience avec les travaux d'entretien periodique non plus. En octobre 1990, le
STN a ete absorbe par le SRR, et s'est occupe essentiellement de l'entretien de la
route Sevare-Gao sur un cofinancement Mali/Allemagne. Seulement 158,6 km sur 260
km de routes revetues, et 60 km sur 139 km de routes en terre ont ete realises.
11.   Entretien Courant. Les DRTP devaient effectuer l'entretien courant d'un
reseau de base de 8.200 km de routes. L'execution de ce volet a ete tres lente a cause
de trois facteurs principalement: l'absence de motivation de la part des cadres des
DRTP, I'absence de materiel pour effectuer l'entretien courant, et l'absence de
supervision et coordination de la part de la DNTP avec le decaissement du credit
suisse. L'organisation interne de la DNTP etait telle que le montant des travaux
effectues par les DRTP n'ont pas subi de contr6le, avec le resultat que le montant
prevu pour ce volet de la part de l'IDA s'est epuise dans une periode de 2,75 ans au
lieu de 3,5 ans. L'entretien courant n'a ete effectue que sur environ 6.000 km de
reseau prioritaire au lieu de 8.000 km prevus dans le rapport d'evaluation. Le volet de
la part du don suisse a et delaisse et n'a pu etre realise, laissant un reliquat de pres de
2 M USS.
Volet Assistance Technique
12.   L'assistance technique avait pour but de renforcer les institutions et leurs
structures. L'execution de l'assistance technique s'est deroulee comme prevue, bien
qu'avec quelques retards. Un des probleme du Cinquieme Projet Routier fut que le
benefice de l'assistance technique n'a pu etre entierement capitalise. Dans le cas du
SMTP, I'assistance technique a ete gaspillee pendant plusieurs mois pendant que le
SMTP agissait sur la passation des marches pour l'achat des pieces de rechange.
13.   Une assistance technique devait appuyer l'Office National des Transports
(ONT) dans la preparation d'un plan de transports et dinvestis ments dans le secteur
des transports. Cette assistance n'a pu etre mnise en plc ce suite a plusieurs lenteurs et
finalement a la suppression de l'ONT en 1990 et la liberalisation des transports.
Toutefois, suite a l'amendement de l'Accord de Credit 1629/MLI du 9 Mars 1993, une
partie de l'assistance technique a concerne des etudes portant sur le secteur des
transports.
Volet Formation
14.   Le volet formation etait uniquement finance par le don de la Cooperation
Suisse et les objectifs generaux ont et realises avec le CPTP.
Lesons Tirees
15.   L'execution des travaux en regie a ete un echec total et a emp&ehe l'emergence
d'entreprises locales de travaux publics. II faut esperer que la transformation recente
du SMTP en societe de location de materiels puisse remedier aux inccnvenients passes.
16.   Les lenteurs dans la passation des contrats a l'entreprise et l'impact tres faible
de l'assistance technique dans le developpement des capacites du Minist6re trouvent
leur origine dans l'absence de motivation du personnel et l'absence de cours de



2Q
perfectiornement appropries. Des mesures incitatives appropriees devraient etre mises
en ceuvre pour encourager le personnel, avec des actions de formation bien cibiles,
dans le cadre d'une politique A moyen et long terrnes.
Fait a Bamako le 26 octobre 1995
Le Charge de Projet
Abdelghani Inal



30
SUMMARY OF THE BORROWER
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Fifth Highway Project Cr. 1629-MLI
I. Evaluation of the Objectives and Lessons Learned
1.1 Achievement of Objectives
*  The maintenance of the priority network composed of 8,200 km of roads was delayed and only
80% completed for the following reasons: (i) Swiss co-financing was only 73% disbursed
(CFA 4.071 million instead of CFA 5.558 rmillion); and (ii) the renewal of the SMTP had
many lengthy delays, which in turn delayed the execution of force account works.
* The participation of the local private sector in road maintenance only took place towards the
end of the project due to the creation of AGETIPE. In 1994, 27% of the resources devoted to
the maintenance of the network went towards private contracting, and the amount increased to
29% in 1995.
* Periodic maintenance of the Faladi6-S6gou and Segou-Markala roads was attempted
sporadically and suffered delays because (i) the proper equipment was acquired after a year's
delay, (ii) the lack of knowledge about which type of equipment to deploy, and (iii) the control
of works was poor.
*  Periodic maintenance for the dirt roads of Bougouni-Badogo and Badogo-Kalana was stopped
bv IDA because (i) the roads should have been rehabilitated rather than receive periodic
maintenance and (ii) the crew was inexperienced.
* Training objectives were fulfilled through on-site and off-site classes and workshops.
* Budget shortfalls in the replenishment of the road fund were remedied with various measures.
(Please refer to Annexes no. 2, 3, 4, and 5.)
e Technical assistance was carried out at the DNTP/DGEP but was never applied to the
National Office of Transport (ONT) because the contract was not approved for four years and
was subsequently canceled. Technical assistance was not effective for the control of force
account works because it was insufficient. It was ineffective at the SMTP because it was not
fully integrated with the loca oersorr. -'.
1.2 Evaluation of the Project Design
*  Technical Design. The project was prepared with the participation of officials from the
DNTP. While there was perfect agreement on the program of routine maintenance, the
technical analysis of the roads to be periodically maintained and rehabilitated was missing due
to a lack of funds, and therefore agreement between IDA and the borrower was very difficult to
reach.
* Financial Design. The government fully participated in the financial design of the project and
permitted the borrower to clearly define which counterpart funds it had to furnish.
II. Evaluation of the Performance of the Administration During the Project Preparation and
Execution
Except during project preparation, the Administration's performance was not very
satisfactory due to the following reasons:



31
*  The procurement and processing of contracts was very slow, with delays ranging from one to
two years for the preparation of procurement documents, and from six months to a year for
processing the contracts.
*  The tumover of the staff created inertia in the execution of the project.
* Delays were incurred in setting-up the credits allocated to road maintenance.
* Delays were incurred in starting the audits of the project.
* Delays in procuring the proper equipment further retarded the force account execution of
periodic maintenance.
* The technical assistance to the ONT, which was responsible for implementing many important
project components, was never put-in-place.
III. Evaluation of the Performance of IDA During the Project Preparation and Execution
Except during project preparation, the Administration's performance was not very
satisfactory due to the followving reasons:
* Supervision missions were not held at regular intervals: before November 1987, IDA
supervised the project approximately every four months while it supervised the project every
seven months, on average, between May 1988 till 1989.
* Task managers were changed four times.
- Despite a total of seven different studies (done by four consultants) giving a favorable opinion,
IDA did not provide an official opinion on the rehabilitation of the urban section of the
Bamako-Bougouni road.
* The suspension of disbursements occurred at a tirne when actions that significantly affected
Mali's economy were being taken, such as the processing of the procurement of works that
would have been 50% of import volume in the country, and when the periodic maintenance of
the Faladi&Segou road were in full force.
The project could be properly implemented only once a new task manager took over the
supervision in 1992



32
APPENDIX B
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS                                        REPUBLIQUE DU NL%.L[
ET CES TRANSFORTS                                           ; r Pcuple -n L'i  t Utie Foi
CABINET                           .           /                         V   r
-,  Monsieur Alberto HARTH, Chef Division
N               /MTPT CAB                        Infrastructure-DApartement de l'Afrique de
l'Ouest Region Afrique - Banque Mondiale
1818 H  Street-Washington D.C 20433 U.S.A
REF :V.L. en date
du 6 Septembre 1995.
OBJET   Rapport de fin d'execution
du Cinquieme Projet Routier
(Credit n'1629/MLI).
"4   ,1$'cJc1>-ttLtL.L
Monsieur le Chef de Division,
Suite A votre lettre cit6e en reference ci-dessus, j'ai
1'honneur de vous faire parvenir le rapport de fin d'ex6cution du
Cinquieme Projet Routier en deux exemplaires.
Ledit rapport a ete prepare au nom de l'Administratif du
Mali.
Dans  l'attente  de  recevoir  le  rapport  srepare  oar  la
Banque Mondiale, veuillez agr4er, Monsieur le Chef de Division,
l'expression de ma haute consideration.
P/Le Ministre P.0
Secretaire GCneral
-0cj  -       Abdoe   e TRAORE
'.    



33
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS           REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
ET DES TRANSPORTS        Un Peuple - Un But - Une Foi
DIRECTION NATIONALE
DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS
CINQUIEME PROJET ROUTIER
RAPPORT DE FIN D'EXECUTION
DECEMBRE.1995



34
INTRODUCTION
Le present rapport de fin d'execution du cinquieme projet
routier, objet de l'accord de cr6dit n :629/MLI du 04 novebnre
1985 conclu avec la Banque Mondiale, est prepar6 par la
Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics dans le cadre de la
responsabilite de l'Emprunteur apres la date de cloture dudit
projet soit le 30 juin 1995.
I1 comprend trois chapitres a savoir
I.       iUne evaluation des objectifs, de la Conception et de
1'exp6rience tiree du projet.
II.      iUne evaluation de la performance propre de l'Emprunteur
durant l'6laboration et la mise en oeuvre du projet.
tII.     iUne evaluation de la performance de la Banque au cours des
phases de pr6paration, de formulation et d'ex6cution du projet,
y compris une appreciation de l'efficacite ou de l'inefficacite
des relations entre l'Emprunteur et la Banque en mettant
1'accent, encore une fois, sur les legons que l'on peut tirer
pour l'avenir.



35
I.   EVALUATION DES OBJECTIFS DE LA CONCEPTION ET DE L'EXPERIENCE
TIREE DU PROJET
I.1. EVALUATION DES OBJECTIFS
A.         La sauvegarde du reseau de routes prioritaires
Sur 8.200 )an de routes prioritaires A entretenir par an pendant
trois et demi(3,5) ans, il a et6 realise 6.500 km par an,
pendant trois (3) ans, soit 80 % de la prevision.
Le cofinancement IDA/Suisse/Mali a 6t6 assure A hauteur de
4.071 millions FCFA contre 5.558 millions FCFA prevu, soit 73 %
de la prevision. Ce cofinancement a et6 arrete au 31 decembre
1988 et le Mali a continue seul le financement de l'entretien
routier A partir de cette date.
Voir la situation financiere en annexe 1.
Le retard dans la remise en 6tat du parc materiel s'est
r6percut6 sur l'entretien courant des routes qui n'a pas pu
couvrir la longueur du reseau pr6vu, 8.200 km . En effet
l'execution du programme de remise en 6tat du materiel n'a pas
preced6 celle du programme d'entretien courant des routes et a
pris un tres grand retard du fait des delais n6cessaires tant
pour le choix d'une Centrale d'Achat (longue proc6dure de
passation des march6s) que pour l'acquisition des pieces
detach6es (continentalite du Mali).
B.         La participation croissante de l'industrie privee locale
de  construction  et de  mecanique  au.- o-;eaions  d'en-reti^-.
routier.
La participation des op6rateurs priv6s locaux A
l'entretien courant des routes n'a pu se faire que vers la fin
du projet, p6riode pendant laquelle certains venaient de
s'adapter A 1'entretien routier grAce A la creation de
1'AGETIPE.
Apres une exp6rimentation tres timide en 1993, 27 % des
ressources reservees A 1'entretien courant du r6seau a 6te
affect6 aux travaux A l'entreprise en 1994 et 29 % en 1995.
Le manque de materiels a et6 un handicap serieux au niveau des
operateurs prives locaux.
C.         Le renforcement de la capacite du Service de Renforcernent
des Routes (SRR) et du Service des Travaux Neufs (STN) A
ex6cuter des travaux d'entretien periodique en regie.



36
Le'renforcement de la capacite des services en question
n'a pas pu etre atteint pour plusieurs raisons A savoir :
C.1.       Pour le SRR charge de 1'entretien periodique des  routes
bitumees Faladie-S6gou et Segou-Markala.
-    Changement de la solution technique A adopter au moment du
demarrage des travaux : monocouche double aravillonnage sur
toute la longueur en lieu et place des sections en monocouche
simple et en bicouche.
-    Absence d'6tudes des materiaux A mettre en oeuvre
-    Faiblesse du controle en regie
-    Acquisition du mat6riel de transport avec un an de retard.
Le SRR n'a obtenu un bon rendement (20 kmr/mois) qu'apr6s deux
ans et demi (2,5) de tAtonnement.
C.2.       Pour le STN charge de l'entretien periodique des routes en
terre Bougouni-Badogo et Badogo-Kalana.
-    Solution technique non adaptee : en realite il s'agissait
d'une r6habilitation au lieu d'un entretien periodique pour
raison economique, ce qui avait 6t6 signale par l'Administration
depuis le montage du projet.
-    Inexp6rience du contrle: en regLe
-    Inexp6rience du STN en organisation de chantier.
Compte tenu des difficultes ci-dessus evoquees qul on.t
suscit6 une mefiance des superviseurs de la Banque Mondiale
quant A la capacite des deux services A achever les travaux dans
les limites des enveloppes financieres pr6vues, ces derniers ont
fait arreter les travaux en demandant de les prevoir a
l'entreprise ainsi que le contr6le.
D.         Le renforcement de la gestion et de la mise en valeur des
ressources en personnel, notamment la formation.
Trois types de formation ont ete r6alises par le Centre de
Perfectionnement en Transports et Travaux Publics (CPTP) pendant
la duree du cinquieme projet routier, A savoir :



37
DI. Formation sur le tas
Cette formation a concern6 les agents des dix neufs (19)
Subdivisions des T.P. et du SRR une fois par an pendant quatre
ans A travers des chantiers-ecoles.
Les categories professionnelles ciblees ont et6 les suivantes
-    Chefs de Secteurs
-    Chefs d'equipe
-    Pointeurs
-    Conducteurs
-    Chauffeurs
-    M6caniciens
-    Electriciens-auto
I1 y a eu environ 400 stagiaires/an pour ce type de rcrmar-icn.
D.2. Formation r6sidente A Bamako (locaux du C2TP)
Cette formation a concerne trois cents (300) agents d'un
certain niveau de base ou les sp6cialit6s en tres petit nombre
dans les Unit6s des Travaux Publics en deplacement A Bamako pour
15 A 31 jours sur des thdmes tels que administration, gestion du
personnel, initiation en informatique, Micropiste et HDM-III.
Quelques formations ont et6 sous-traitees avec des centres
prives de la place (MICROLAB. CEFIB et CITA).
Le personnel cible a ete le suivant
-    Directeurs R6gionaux des T.P.
-    Chefs de Subdivisions des T.P.
-    Chefs de personnel
-    Comptables
-    Inspecteurs Techniques du mat6riel
-    Chefs d'atelier
-    Electriciens
-    Magasiniers
-    Secretaires de Direction (informatique)



38
D.3. Formation A 1'exterieur
Une vingtaine de cadres a ben6ficie de ce type de
formation, notamment :
-    4 Formateurs du CPTP A 1'ENTE d'Aix en Provence (3 mois)
-    Le Directeur des T.P. A Haward Institute (2 mois)
-    Le Directeur Adjoint des T.P. A Boston (Evaluation et
gestion des investissements)
-    2 cadres de la DNT A Lyon en Economie des Transports
(4 semaines)
-    1 cadre de la DAF (Gestion informatique du personnel)
-    2 cadres (CPTP + DNTP) entretien routier et sa gestion
dans les pays en developpement
-    2 formateurs du CPTP au CAMPC d'Abidjan (Techniques de
formation)
-    2 cadres (SMTP et CPTP) au CAMPC d'Abidjan (gestion
des stocks)
-    2 cadres du CPTP au CAMPC d'Abidjan (gestion de la
formation)
-    1 cadre de la DNTP A 1'ENPC-PARIS (maitrise HDM III)
-    2 cadres (Cabinet MTPT et DNTP) a Cotonou au benin
(Management et gestion strategique)
-    1 cadre du SMTP A Dakar (passation des march6s
d'6quipement)
E.         L'introduction des mesures permettant d'assurer, sur les
ressources internes, le financement comple, des coCits
^enouvelables d'entrecien et une r-ea--_-ion eauilibr6e des
ressources entre les investissements et l'entretien routier.
Suite A l'evaluation du projet qui faisait ressortir des
deficits au niveau de la contribution de l'Etat, des mesures ont
effectivement ete prises pour lui permettre d'assurer non
seulement le financement de l'entretien courant des routes mais
aussi de faire face aux charges des prets routiers et aux
differentes contreparties au financement des projets
d'investissement. Ces mesures ont et6 les suivantes
1.        Le deficit du budget de l'exercice evalue A 1,2 milliard F
CFA a ete combl6 par des apports ci-apres :
- Office de Stabilisation et de R6gularisation des Prix
(OSRP) pour 0,300 milliard FCFA.
- Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement pour 0,4 milliard FCFA
- Droit de Traversee Routiere pour 0,500 milliard FCFA.



39
2.        Le deficit cumule de la periode 1985-1990 a 6t6 comble par
les mesures ci-apres :
- Augmentation du prix de l'essence et du gas-oil a la
pompe de 15 % a partir d'aoQt 1985, dont 11 % en faveur du
Fonds Routier et 4 % pour l'OSRP (arrete n 4297/MFC-DNRE-CI2
du 3/08/1985).
- Versement au Fonds Routier de 0,300 milliard FCFA par an
a partir de 1986 en provenance des Droits de Traversee Routiere.
Voir les differentes contributions au financement du
projet en annexes n2, n3, n04 et n5.
F.        'La poursuite et le renforcement du developpement
des institutions du sous-secteur des transports routiers.
F.1.       Renforcement  des  moyens  de  l'ex-ONT  aux  fins  de  la
planification du secteur des transports et de la mise au point
d'un plan d'action pour ameliorer l'efficacite des entreprises
de transports routiers.
L'assistance technique prevue A cet effet n'a pas pu etre
mise en place du fait de la longue procedure de conclusion du
contrat correspondant ; ledit contrat n'ayant pas pu etre
approuve en quatre ans a 6te annu1e.
F.2.       Renforcement des moyens de la DEGP/DNTP aux  fins de la
coordination des projets, de la pr6paration des programm.es et
des budgets de refection et d'entretien, de l'etablissement
d'analyses des couts, de la preparation et de l'examen d'etudes
de faisabilit6.
Cet objectif a 6te atteint grace A une assistance
technique et aux actions de formation qui ont ete realisees avec
succes.



40
F.3.       Renforcement des moyens de la DETT/DNTP aux fins de la
preparation et de l'examen d'etudes techniques et de la
supervision des travaux effectu6s a l'entreprise et en regie.
Cet objectif a 6t6 atteint concernant la preparation et
l'examen des etudes techniques ainsi que la supervision des
travaux a l'entreprise grace a une assistance technique mise en
place et a l'integration des equipes de la DETT aux differentes
missions de controle sous forme d'homologue ou de stagiaires.
Par contre aucun succes n'a pu etre obtenu en ce qui
concerne le controle des travaux en r6gie par defaut de
formation pr6alable et d'assistance technique : l'assistance
technique en place etait insuffisante.
F.4.       Renforcement des moyens du SMTP aux fins de la revlsion et
de l'entretien du materiel.
A part l'integration de quelques agents du SMTP aux
6quipes de la Societe "Manutention Africaine" chargee de la
revision des engins de marque Caterpillar, cet objectif n'a pas
6t6 atteint pour le reste du parc malgr6 les assistances
techniques mises en place, une Centrale d'Achat pour
l'acquisition de pieces d6tachees et une assistance technique
pour la reparation et l'entretien du mat6riel. La gestion
previsionnelle des stocks a fait defaut et les incitantS prv_:s
pour le personnel n'ont pas pu etre attribues faute de r.exte
reglementaire.



41
1.2. EVALUATION DE LA CONCEPTION ET DE L'EXPERIENCE TIREE DU PROJET
A.   Le montage technique du projet
Le projet a 6te prepare avec la participation des cadres
de la DNTP.
A part la route Bamako-Bougouni dont l'etude technique
d'ex6cution 6tait disponible, tout le reste du programme
d'entretien periodique et de r6habilitation n'a pas fait l'objet
d'etude par manque de fonds de preparation de projet avant le
demarrage du cinquieme projet routier ; les etudes et les
travaux devraient etre realises dans la periode du projet, soit
5 ans.
En I'absence d'etudes economiques l'identification des
routes et le choix des natures d'interventicn, de commun accord
entre l'Administration et la Banque, ont ete tres difficiles.
Tel n'a pas ete le cas dans la preparation du programme
d'entretien courant oui une parfaite entente a existe entre
l'Administration et la Banque sur la methodologie adoptee.
B.   Le montage financier du projet
Le montage financier du projet a ete fait avec la
participation de plusieurs services de l'Administration, a
savoir :
-    la Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics
-    l'Office National des Transports
-    la Direction Nationale des Douanes
-    la Direction Nationale du Budget
-    la Direction Nationale des Imp6ts
-    l'Office de Stabilisation et r6gularisation des Prix.
le resultat de cette concertation a permi de definir les
mesures a prendre par I'Emprunteur afin de faire face a ses
contreparties dans le cadre du financement du projet.



42
II.  EVALUATION DE LA PERWORMANCE DE L'ADMNISTRATION DURANT
L'ELABORATION ET LA MISE EN OEUVRE DU PROJET
A part la phase de l'elaboration, l'Administration n'a pas
6te tres performante A la mise en oeuvre du projet pour les
raisons suivantes :
- La lenteur dans les procedures de passation des marches et
contrat : de un A deux ans pour les marches des travaux A partir
de l'elaboration des dossiers d'appel d'offres et de 6 mois A un
an pour les contrats de prestation de service A partir de la
mise au point des dossiers de consultation.
- Le.changement des responsables de l'administration engendrant
une inertie dans l'execution du projet.
-Retard dans la mise en place des credits affectes A l'entretien
courant des routes.
- Retard dans le demarrage des audits du projet.
- Les travaux d'entretien periodique ont accuse un grand
retard dans leur d6marrage dt A l'indisponibilite du materiel
dont la remise en etat n'a pas reussi.
- la non mise en place de l'assistance technique A l'ONT A
laquelle beaucoup d'actions importantes etaient confiees ; La
non execution de ces actions pouvait conduire a la suspension
des decaissements de la Banque.



43
III EVALUATION DE LA PERFORMNCE DE LA BANQUE AU COURS DES PHASES DE
PREPARATION, DE FORMULATION ET D'EXECUTION DU PROJET.
Egalement A part la phase de pr6paration et de formulation
la Banque n'a pas ete tres performante durant la mise en oeuvre
du projet pour les raisons suivantes :
-    1'irr6gularit6 des missions de supervision
avant novembre 1987 la Banque supervisait le projet chaque
quatre (4) mois en moyenne alors qu'apr6s cette date elle le
faisait chaque sept (7) mois en moyenne avec une interruption
d'un an dans la periode de mai 1988 A 1989,
-    le changement des superviseurs par quatre fois
celui de mai 1988 a conduit a la suspension du projet en mai
1990 A la suite de la mission de supervision d'octobre 1989.
Ci-joint l'annexe 6 refl6tant la cadence des missions de
supervision de mai 1985 a octobre 1989,
-    l'avis officiel des superviseurs de la Banque concernant
1'etude du trongon urbain de la route Bamako-Bougouni
(Faladi6-Pont des "Martyrs") n'a pas pu etre obtenu malgre les
resultats favorables de sept (7) etudes faites par quatre (4)
consultants de 1986 a 1989 pour un montant total de 200 millions
FCFA environ,
-    la suspension des d6caissements du projet est intervenue
au moment oui des actions importantes pour 1'economie du Mali
6taient entreprises : les march6s des travaux de la route
Bougouni-Sikasso-Zegoua assurant plus de 50 % des importatior,s
du pays et de l'acces a Djenne etaient provisoirement adjug6s
les travaux d'entretien p6riodique de la route Faladie-S6gou
avaient atteint un rythme important (20 km/mois).
Ce n'est qu'apres le dernier changement au niveau des
superviseurs en 1992 que le projet a pu se derouler
normalement jusqu'A juin 1995 date de sa cl6ture.



44
Annexe x..
119861196711988119891  Total        Total   |
I    I    I    I    Ir6alisat. J prevu   Ir6alis.j
| IDA    | 3131 5861 4851 497|1881(46%)   360(43%)    80 %I
fStJISSE     1541 2891 249t  821 774(19%)  189(21%)    65 %
|MA.LI I      2171 348| 8571  - 11416(35%)   2009(36%)j  70 8
|Tct-al                      
Irealisat. 1 68411223l15851 57914071(100%  15558(i.00%)!  73 % |
Total                                      II
prevu    1 7051149711614117421             1 5558      1
jr6alisat. 1 97%1 82%1 98%1 33%1   73 %   I              I        |
Nota       Le cofinancement de 1'entretien courant des routes a ete
ar-rtA au 31 decembre 1988. !es montants indiizues en 1939
au titre de l'IDA et de la Suisse concernant les paiements
des 36 et 46 trimestres 1988 par l'IDA et du 3e trimescre
1988 par la Suisse.  Le Mali a finance  seul  1'en:retien
courant de l'exercice 1989 (en dehors du 5eme Projet
Routier) pour 1227 millions FCFA. Ce qui ramenera a 5298
millions FCFA pour la periode 1986-1989, soit env:ron 95 %
de la prevision.



ANNEXE 2
SITUATION DES DECAISSEMENTS DE L'IDA, 5 PROJET ROUTIER DU MALI 1986-1995                               _ _=
CATGOIEANNEES
C T EGORIE               ___=1986  1917  1988     1989         1990        19          1992        1993         19           1995        TOTAL
1.A                                         ___  =__ __436 419 244 1876751 94E 35937333724 133861610  10O40766174
1.B         __            334980938 1 035689589 1 004866 165 936002053  39544 129                                   __          479827 111   3830909985
2._=_ _  _                 37977014   157427 670   443 565 117  360 908 633 412467 520 =        __    129 882 482         __                 1542228436
_3_           _ - 313 083 919   585808 396   485457293   496 734 305           __3__    ____                        _.__   _______    1881083913
4.                                      240 799 500   310 776 204 _                                                                           551575704
5.                       1 099 224 416   965979963 _723 727013-  _        _         __         ___-                                          2788931392
6.A            79 06658"    526388 282  510828 147  534543854  226 633 867 161 219 685  29 53399    366049961   5t736308W   573 409688   3525037469
6.8   _=--            -                  55532 057    47 680 574  45 40 928 _  7 391 800      _   |           ___               __            158007359             v
7.           ______  .  _  ______     .  ___                                     ______               I                          __ __   _  _______
TOAL CFA                       _                        32tZ5843796   345171429   3561F89332  1568947481 _620623134  465953242   2372684391   4111096460   5187095409  24316540432
TOTAL DTS    984 7t9,64  7924 225,66  8 646 343.93  8720 04,22  20479,76  633 836,10 1 292479,58  5 894 535,5  4 862 374,87  6 540 927,81 50 704 186,86
PARITE       398,236C076  326,1364778  399,2 5   408i7i923i 373196075 379,8564213 360,5111053  402,5226976  845,491466   793,0218097  479,5765781
DTS-CFA  _ t _ __                                                                           _ _ -    _ _                    __                   ___



mme.c.b/5epr
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS                                                                                      REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
ET DES TRANSPORTS                                                                                          Un Peuple - Un But - Une Foi
DIRECTION NATIONALE
DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS
5EME PROJET ROUTIER - CONTREPARTIE DE L ETAT
ANNEXE N- 3
Categories    1986         1987          1988         1989         1990         1991         1992         1993         1994         1995         Total
IA                                                                                      32.848.760   141.260.899   270.496.060   311.150.874   755.756.593
I B                    33.298.303   102.951.251    99.887.292    93.041.954  3.930.827                                         28.164.608   361.274.235
2                      3.755.968    15.569.770    43.869.077    35.694.260    40.793.491                                                   139.682.566
3       217.233.079   347.821.476   8511.769.845                                                                                          1.416.824.400
6b                                   5.520.085    4.739.620    4.513.214      734.771                                                        15.507.690
Total     217.233.079   384.875.747   975.810.951   148.495.989   133.249.428    45.459.089    32.848.760   141.260.899   270.496.060   339.315.482 2.689.045.484



mme.c.btSepr
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS                                                             REPUBLIQUE DU MALI
ET DES TRANSPORTS                                                                Un Peuple - Un But - Une Foi
DIRECTION NATIONALE
DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS
SEME PROJET ROUTIER - SITUATION DES DECAISSEMENTS
DE LA COOPERATION SUISSE
ANNEXE N 4
Categores     1986          1987         1988         1989         1990         1991          1992         Total
3       154.205.512   288.532.493   248.741.587    81.898.656                                        773.378.248
7        92.913.940     3.531.250   173.441.157   179.398.499   230.945.681    62.213.583            742.444.110
Total FCFA    247.119.452   292.063.743   422.182.744   261.297.155   230.945.681    62.213.583         1.515.822.358
Total
F. Suisse    1.232.406.7  1.441.499.35  2.083.330,35  1.336.596.05  1.187.123,05  317.358,4              7.598.313.9
Parit6
F.S.-FCFA        200,52       202,61       202,65        195,49       194.54       196,04                     199.48



mme.c.b/5epr
MINISTERE DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS                                                                                            REPUBLIOUE DU MALI
ET DES TRANSPORTS                                                                                               Un Peuple - Un But - Une Foi
DIRECTION NATIONALE
DES TRAVAUX PUBLICS
5EME PROJET ROUTIER - SITUATION DES DECAISSEMENTS DU FAD
ANNEXE N- 5
Cat6gories     1986          1987         1988          1989          1990         1991          1992          1993         1994          1995         Total
lb           -         297.686.829   920.384.184   892.992.390   831.795.068    35.141.593     -             -            -        1.155.300.456 4.133.300.520
6b           _             -          49.349.561    42.372.200    40.348.129    6.568.856      _             _            _             _         138.638.746
Total                   297.686.829   969.733.745   935.364.590   872.143.197    41.710.449          _                              1.155.300.456 4.271.939.266



49
Annexe VI
SEME PROJET ROUTIER
CADENCE DES MISSIONS DE SUPERVISION
Du 25 mai au 2 iuin 1985                |9 jours
Mme Mitchell
6 mois    Mr. Kowalski
Mr.. Benchicou
Du 2 au 15 novembre 1985                  14 jours
Mme Mitchell
3 mois    Mr. Kowalski
Mr. Prefontaine (decaissement)
Du 6 au14 f6vrier 1986                   I9 jours
4 mois    Mr. Kowalski
Du 13 au 21 juin 1986                   )r8 jours
4 mois    Mr. Kowalski
Du 19 au 29 octobre 1986                  11 jours
4 mois    Mr. Soto
Mr. Kowalski
Du 19 fevrier au 7 mars 1987              17 jours
Mme Mitchell (Banque Mondiale)
8 mois    Mr. Auradou CISSE (B.M.)
Mr. Kathery Imbodon (Suisse)
Du 4 au 14 novembre 1987                  11 jours
Mime. Mitchell (Banque Mondiale)
6 mois    Mr.  Amadou CISSE (B.M.)
Mr.  Kathery Imboden (Suisse)
Diu 2 au 8 mai 1988
7 jours
Mme. Mitchell
12 mois    Mr. Amadou CISSE
Mr. felix Jacob (Urbaniste)
Mr. Scriabine (Consultant)
Du 15 mai au ler juin 1989
1 17 jou r:s
Mme. Mitchell B.M.  Mr. Palme BAD
Mr.  CISSE    -"-   Mme. OUEDRAGO BAD
4 mois    Mr.  Watson
Mr.  Vidal
Du 12 au 24 octobre 1989               |13 jours|
Mr. Watson, Mr. CISSE et Mr. Vidal



50
APPENDIX C
CHRONOGRAM OF TRANSPORT OPERATIONS
656 .    .76t                ',8 70.    . 72.                  74.             '76            78              80,             82             84              86              8s              90:             92             94              96
Fiat Ruilvay Project '
- .           SS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...  ....                                  ... ....''........... .            ...........                                     ...   ....   ........ I'... ........
Hig.E i y Maintenance Project                   ..  ...                                                               .          . ......
4.....                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.......   ............ ...  .................... ....          ...
I  '  !  .   ,       *      I                         ~~~~Sooond HZdghvy Projecti                                         I       I       .       i       :T*                                     I       I      '
Second Riilvay Projeet
Tbird HIhvay Project    .   .
.. . .                                                               .     . .     . .     .          . .  . .  . .  ..   . . .Third Rrlv.y Project  .
. . . . ......                                                          ..  .                                                                 .. ..  .. . .  .. . . .. . . .   .. ..   , ..'...!  ..'. .  ... .  ... . .. . . .  .... ..  .... ..... ..
t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~...                                                                                                                                  ....   ..1  2     | t.... .................  .... .... ....... ....... ......;:
HoinHghvay Project
Filth Highway Puject
''''   -   f''''   ''.   ''    ''''''''   -''T'  '''''''''''.'''''''''''''T'''''''''''''''''' ''' ;..  . ....
Pub Wks & Cap. Bl
TSP



Organizational Chart of the DNTP
| Ministn de* Trauporto
et des Travaux Publico
D|FeCtion NaIiwale
F    .1 Travaux l'ubics    |
Dm,vsiooidr"Liudes               D)V151o0ii dcx E  | |,d.                   de Ruu.w       i  i                            Dcxv 11bl,,  Rk               KAYES
hAl't e*srul des                feuuw' 1   rava                                                       u
SIKAS50
SEGOuJ
MO_ I
TOMUOUCTOU
GAO
0      2!                            E                                   Dvn_   DtRe BAMAKO
U0.o                  0
00l5anigrtmme de Ia   0lreclion Nalionale  ces Travaux Public                                                  L ,      t;ENIKAYES
C                                                              >-3>                                                                          NIORO
6  10  0                                    -         IC~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITA
BA MA KO
Organigramme de Iii Direction Nationaic des Travaux Publics ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     -     KOUKOR






IBRD 18705R
,,-                           Vo                             ,-                                                                                          V                             " ,.V,,
I                                 ,                                                                   N.       z
M AlI                                                 I
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                        'A L G E R I A
Transport Network
GRAVEL ROADS TO BE REHABILITATED UNDER THE PROPOSED PROJECT
GRAVEL ROADS REHABILITATED UNDER THE ROURTIE HIGHWAY PROJECT             I
MOP?   REGIONAL DIRECTORATE OF PUBLIC WORXS                                      j
A     SUEDIVISIONS OF PUBLIC WORKS
PAVED ROADS|
___  RAVED ROADS UNDER CONSTRUCTION                                                                                                                                                        ,/',
-       UNPAVED ROADS OF THE PRIORITY NETWORK                                      lp                                       _
TRACES
RAILROADS                                                                  !                                                                                                                 RIDRL
-   NAVIGABLE RIVERS I,I D-6v;
-     DAMS. ERISTING
DAMS. UNDER CONSTRUCTION
PLOOD AREA
.4.     INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT I NATIONAL AIRPIELDS
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'P-
M         A    U     R   I   T    A     N     I   A                                                          1. A                      fO's*
-  r--- -
9   _, DiRE      z- .- D.                              /2>                         ,_____4
/ , _                                   _I_,  f __ --------
a~~~~~~~~~ct--d                                                                                                                                                                                   "ONG0 <r-__)\
O   i   _   tst,t, plolad    z C ; <   . 4    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  D*n            7Esi-;   3        <                                                \ ~~~~~~N   I G   E R
4           IU   '> BU_jB U R K I N A   F A S   O                              i                  NIGE
\ > ~~~~~~~~~~~S 1ANof ..j.... '                                                                                                                                                               OIL|4s, 
,,. \,' e Xf                                                                                                                              \._r *I  N  ALGERIA
0      50    IO0    150    200    250                   5P-NI5H         I                                   /
A SOLUCON.:                                                 K IEILOMETERS                            M
A                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAURITANIA           L C
G    U   I  N    E   A                       04., 0-                                                                                    Jr                                                                 o, - To    )  i  {  > fR   '- _z_   ~   Y  , -      --  NIGER
10'  >  vz,    ~    / rt<>                                                      eG H A N A                                         TOGO  %.                          _/                             _
*o-t r  0E PAr  I                                                                IL                                                                         T4E , ! ! o -t *, z   , ABURKINA FASO   
D'IVOIRE                                   V                   ' 3                                                                             )                 -      NIGERIA
10'          IV                                                                                                                   5           V                               0'                     V'   rJTA~~~c  UINE   GRAN_;AI   BNY, N.
JULY 1988









IMAGING
R epoDrt Nor):    15444
Type: ICR



