Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFiCIAL USE ONLY
Rqeprt No. P-3941-MLI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
OF SDR 50.7 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALI
FOR THE
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
August 27, 1985
This document has a sslbeted distribuom and msy be ued by recipients only in the pedoenmace of
their offii dus Its contnts may nd otherwise be disclosed without World Bak authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
US$ 1.0 = CFAF 460
US$0.959 = SDR 1.0
GOVERNMENT OF MALI FISCAL YEAR
January  1 - December 31
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC)
1 meter (m)          2        =       3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (! )           =      10.76 square feet (sq ft)
1 cubic meter (m )            =      35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
I kilometer (km)           2          0.62 mile (mi)
I square kilometer (km ) =            0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (t)              =       2,205 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIAONS AND ACRONCM6
Engl sh                                   French
adt      average daily traffic                        traffic journalier moyen
AfDF     African Development Fund                     Fond Africain de Developpement
CFM      Mali Railway Cpany                           Cheffdn de Fer du Mali
CPTP     Public Works Training Center                 Centre de Perfectionnrment des
Travaux Publics
DEC;P    General Studies & Prograuming Division       Division des Etudes Generales et
des Programmes
DElr     Technical Studies and Works Division         Division des Etudes Techiques et
des Travaux
DNIbP    National PDrectorate of Public korks         Direction Nationale des Travauc
Publics
ERR       Fconloic Rate of Return                     Taux de rentabilite econmique
FAC      French Bilateral Aid Agency                  Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation
ICB      International Campetitive Bidding            Appel a la concurrence
internationale
LCB      Local Ccmpetitive Bidding                    Appel a la concurrence locale
iLT=P    Ministry of Transport & Public Wbrks         Ministere des Transports et des
Travaux Publics
ONT      National Transport Office                    Office National des Transports
PCS       Postal Checking System                      Systeme des cheques postaux
SDC      Swiss Development Cooperation                Cooperation Suisse pour le
Developpement
SMIP     Public Works Fquipment Service               Service du Materiel des Travaux
Publics
SRR      Road Strengthening Service                   Service de Renforcement des Routes
STN      Regravell3ng Maintenance Unit                Service des Travaux Neufs
Cooperatives                            des Transporteurs Routiers du Mahli



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MALI
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      The Republic of Mali
Credit Amount: SDR 50.7 million (US$48.6 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project        The project would support:  (i) maintenance of the priority
Description:   road network; (ii) a growing involvement of the local private
construction and mechanical industries in road maintenance
operations; (iii) development of a reduced but more efficient
capacity of force account works; (iv) the introduction of
measures ensuring full financing of recurrent road mainte-
nance costs from local sources; (v) a balanced allocation of
resources to road investments and maintenance and continued
and expanded institutional development of the road transport
subsector; and (vi) increased efficiency of the country's
transport industry.  The project would provide funding for
spare parts, fuel, construction materials and labor, as well
as for new equipment, consultants services and civil works,
to carry out a road maintenance and rehabilitation program,
an institution strengthening program, and reconstruction of
the Bamako-Bougouni road (160 km).
Project        The project would improve the efficiency of road maintenance
Benefits and   and rehabilitation activities and, by reducing the cost of
Risk:          vehicle operation, would benefit road users and reduce the
price of road transported goods.   The project would also
bring about institutional benefits which would have the
effect of maintaining other benefits after project completion.
The main risks stem from the possibility of a decreased
maintenance effort as a result of insufficient local funds
and/or of a diversion of these funds for other purposes.
However, since the Government has established a timetable for
revenue   raising   measures   for   the   Road   Fund,   and
implementation of these measures would be closely monitored,
project risks are considered reasonably small.
This document has a restricted distribution and mnay be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offucial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Summary Project Cost Estimate
(US$ Million)
Estimated Costs a1:                            Local      Foreign   Total
--~ --(US$ Million) -
1. Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Program
(a) Routine Road Maintenance                  5.2        4.6       9.8
(b) Periodic Maintenance & Rehab.             4.1       14.0       18.1
(c) Overhaul & Renewal of equipment           0.6        3.5       4.1
2. Institution Strengthening and
Technical Assistance
(a) Reorganization & Tech. Assistance         0.8        3.6       4.4
(b) Tratning                                  0.3        1.1        1.4
3. Reconstruction of Bamako-Bougouni             4.0       16.1       20.1
Base Cost                                    15.0       42.9       57.9
Physical Contingencies                        0.8        3.2        4.0
Price Contingencies                           2.9        8.6       11.5
Total Project Cost                            18.7      54.7       73.4
Financing Plan                                 Local      Foreign   Total
- - -  (US$ Million)
Organization
IDA                                               7.1      41.5       48.6
African Development Fund                          1.0       9.8       10.8
Swiss Development Cooperation                     1.0       3.0        4.0
French Bilateral Aid Agency (FAC)                 0.1       0.4        0.5
Government                                        9.5       --         9.5
TOTAL                                            18.7      54.7       73.4
a/   not all taxes and duties are exempt under the project; a total of
US$5.5 million equivalent in taxes will be financed by Government and
are included in local costs (US$18.7 million equivalent).
Estimated IDA Disbursements                       IDA Fiscal Year
FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90  FY91
------    (US$ Million)
Annual                    3.3      8.1   11.3  12.2    9.4    4.3
Cumulative                3.3    11.4   22.7  34.9   44.3   48.6
Economic Rate of Return
ERR exceeds 12% for any individual road and overall exceeds 50% for the
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program portion of the project. The
overall ERR for Reconstruction of the Bamako-Bougouni road is 28%.
Statf Appraisal Report: Report No. 5315-MLI, dated June 28, 1985.
Map: IBRD 18705
WAPTI
June. 1985



- 1 -
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF MALI FOR
THE FIFTH T' iWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of SDR 50.7 million (US$48.6 million) on standard IDA
terms to the Republic of Mali to help finance the proposed Fifth Highway
Project.  The Project will be cofinanced by a credit of about US$10.8
million equivalent from the African Development Fund (AfDF) and by
grants of US$4.0 million equivalent from the Swiss Development
Cooperation (SDC) and of US$0.5 million equivalent from the French
Bilateral Aid Agency (FAC). The AfDF credit is expected to be on terms
of 0.75 percent interest per year, for a period of 50 years, including a
10-year grace period.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last full economic reports on Mali, entitled "Economic
Memorandum   on   Mali"    (3200-MLI)    and   "Mali-Special   Economic
Study--Planning Institutions and the 1974-78 Plant' (3333-MLI), were
distributed to the Executive Directors on June 30, 1981. The following
paragraphs update the information in these reports and are based on the
findings of recent World Bank and IMF economic missions. Annex I gives
country data.
Background
3.        Landlocked  in  Africa's  Sahelian  belt,  most  of  Mali's
1.2 million square kilometers is desert; only one-fourth is arable, and
even this is subject to the climatic vagaries of the semi-arid tropics.
Over the last 15 years, average rainfall and length of growing season
have significantly diminished.  Annual rainfall in some areas reaches
1,400 mm but is much lower in most  agricultural areas.   Soils are
shallow, lateritic, poor in phosphates, and easily eroded. Agricultural
technology is rudimentary, with low crop yields and livestock offtake.
Thus, Mali's 7 million people are among the poorest in the world, with
1983 per capita income of only US$160 and life expectancy at birth of
only 45 years. Overall, the country's potential for long term growth is
severely limited by harsh resource constraints.
Developments in the 1960s and 1970s
4.        In order to promote growth and alleviate poverty, the first
post-colonial Government (1960-68) intervened extensively in the economy
through numerous public enterprises in key sectors (trade, transport,
utilities, various industries) and through the institution of strong
price controls, leading to rationing, forced sales and domestic trade



- 2 -
controls.   Despite  these  policies,  relatively  favorable  climatic
conditions during this period allowed GDP per capita to grow at
0.9 percent   per  year   in  constant   prices.    Nevertheless,   most
macroeconomic aggregates (including the budget deficit, the current
account balance and external debt) deteriorated rapidly.  By 1967 the
situation had become untenable. The Government embarked hesitantly on a
long-term restructuring program aimed at restoring financial and
economic equilibrium.
5.        The present Government, which came to power in 1968, gradually
began to introduce a series of modest economic reforms aimed at
liberalizing trade, restructuring public enterprises and promoting
agriculture.   Initially,  however,  even  these  modest  efforts  were
frustrated by exogenous difficulties.   Drought depressed agricultural
production to its nadir in 1972 and 1973; and, oil prices for Mali
increased by almost  200 percent  in the  1970s.   However,  conditions
improved somewhat during the second half of the 1970s. Good rains and
newly built irrigation networks raised grain output from about 800
thousand tons in 1972-73 to over 1,200 thousand tons in 1978-79. Cotton
cultivation expanded, from 66 thousand hectares in 1974 to 119 thousand
hectares in 1979.  Both investment and consumption were sustained by
high inflows of official development assistance, which quintupled
between 1972 and 1980.  Thus. GDP per capita registered a 3.6 percent
growth rate from 1974 to 1980.
6.        Despite these improved conditions, the Government's budgetary
position continued to deteriorate through the late 1970s, reflecting a
combination of ill-conceived policy measures which thwarted even its
modest reform efforts, and continuing excessive government intervention
in the economy. Restrictions on civil service recruitment were relaxed,
and the roster of public employees shot up by almost 50 percent between
1975 and 1980.  Between 1976 and 1980, scholarship payments for higher
education doubled.  A number of costly public investment projects with
dubious justification and several equally questionable new public
enterprises were launched. In an effort to insulate the population from
inflation, public enterprises were forced to operate with very low (or
even negative) profit margins; consequently the sector's deficits rose
significantly. The combined effects of these policies were reflected in
dramatic increases in the consolidated budgetary deficit, and, in turn,
in foreign indebtedness, such that by 1980 total medium and long term
external public debt  equalled  75 percent  of GDP.   Further economic
reforms were clearly warranted.
Progress Since the Early 1980s
7.        Since  the  early  1980s,  the  Government  has  more  firmly
committed itself to a program of structural reform to counteract
mounting disequilibria arising from excess consumption and uneconomic
investments.   A  number  of  measures  have  been  introduced  aimed  at
substantial reductions in budgetary deficits, operating losses of public
enterprises, and public sector arrears (both foreign and domestic). In
addition, other reforms have beern introduced to improve resource



allocation; these include market liberalization for a number of
products, improved farmer price incentives, greater emphasis on
rehabilitation and maintenance of existing capital stock, and fewer, but
more efficient public investments. The Government's progress in many of
these policy areas has been especially creditable given the severe
adverse effects on production and incomes resulting from drought
conditions in recent years.
8.        The donor community has responded very positively in support
of Mali's progress toward structural reform.  Arrangements for Mali's
entry into the West African Monetary Union (WAMU), which included
substantial financial aid and debt consolidation from France, were
completed in June 1984.  In addition, a detailed stabilization program
was initiated under two IMF Standby Programs - the first in May 1982,
for SDR 30.4 million, and the second in December 1983, for SDR 40.5
million, and negotiations for a third, for SDR 22.9 million, were
completed in August 1985.  In close cooperation with the IMF, IDA has
also actively supported Mali's restructuring efforts.   In 1982,  IDA
approved the Economic Management and Training (EMT) project which
provided technical assistance and training to the civil service cadre to
improve its planning, management, and policy formulation capabilities.
This laid the basis for subsequent additional policy reforms addressing
cotton pricing and revenues, educational expenditures, grains trade,
public enterprises, and cost recovery for roads maintenance, which are
being assisted through other IDA lending operations.
9.        As a result of these policy initiatives, there was significant
progress in the area of financial stabilization.  The first and second
IMF programs were well-implemented, and their performance criteria
achieved. The consolidated fiscal deficit was reduced from 4.4 percent
of GDP in 1980 to 1.9 percent in 1984, and the share of personnel costs
in central government expenditures declined.   Moreover,  1984 saw the
reduction of treasurv arrears and a significant reduction in public
enterprises' operating losses and excessive employment levels. However,
in recent months there appears to have been some deterioration in Mali's
public finances.  Against this background, negotiations were completed
in August 1985 for a third Standby program focussing on further
liberalization of price controls, adjustment of numerous controlled
prices, reforms in the public enterprise sector, and further limitations
on the share of civil service costs in central Government expenditures.
10.       Resource allocation is a second area in which substantial
progress has been achieved. Traditionally, the Government had sought to
impose strict control over both prices and marketing of many consumer
products. Recently, however, it has been more willing to permit the
interplay of market forces. Government policy now favors liberalization
of both domestic and foreign trade.  In particular, the marketing of
groundnuts, along with the bulk of products handled by the state trading
company (SOMIEX), as well as pharmaceuticals and medical services have
all been  legally opened to private  traders.   Marketing and pricing
arrangements for cotton and coarse food grains have also been
substantially improved.  The Government has announced its intention to



- 4 -
liberalize paddy and rice marketing by the 1986/87 season; but the
details of how this will be achieved, and particularly how this will be
reflected in pricing policies, must still be worked out.
II.       As  for  public  resource  allocation,  budgetarv expenditures
increasingly  emphasize  rehabilitation  and  improved  operation  and
maintenance of existing capital stock rather than investment in new
facilities, especially in irrigation, roads, and public enterprises.
Nevertheless, it is too early to judge the extent to which the criteria
for  public  investment  programming  have   improved  since  certain
questionable projects are apparently still being considered.  There is
much scope for improvement in the Government's investment planning and
evaluation capability.
12.       Despite the important policy improvements discussed above,
many macroeconomic indicators have been depressed since 1980, with
recent trends worsening. Average annual GDP growth in constant prices
has  been  stagnant  and,  recently,  negative.   As  a  result  of  two
consecutive years of severe drought between 1982/83 and 1984/85 (with
the last one the worst in Mali's history), production of cereals
declined by more than 25 'ercent, as a result of which cereal iniports in
1984, both aid and commercial, reached a record 320,000 tons (aJmost 50
kilograms per  capita).   Moreover,  significant  livestock  losses  and
destocking occurred in 1984.  Despite buoyant cotton exports, rising
imports of foodstuffs (largely necessitated by the drought) have caused
the 1984 current account deficit to remain at 18.7% of GDP (6.2% of GDP
including grants); this percentage has remained approximately stable
since 1981.  The outlook for 1985 is not encouraging.  Cereal imports
are expected to remain as high as their 1984 levels, while agricultural
exports, especially cotton, are likely to decline. Little or no growth
in GDP is projected for 1985.
Economic and Financial Policy Issues
13.       If the Malian economy is to achieve its financial and economic
stabilization objectives, policy reforms must be broadened and deepened
in three priority areas:   public  finances,  economic regulation,  and
investment efficiency.
14.       Public  Finances.   Despite  recent  remedial  efforts,  public
finances remain weak and external budgetary assistance has been
necessary to support current operations. Continued fiscal austerity by
both Government and public enterprises is imperative if financial
disequilibria are to be kept to manageable levels.  To safeguard the
substantial progress already achieved, Government must resist any
pressures to expand its intervention in the economy, and make a
concerted effort to reduce subsidies and excessive personnel outlays.
Operation and maintenance costs should be funded insofar as possible by
cost recovery measures, although in Mali this will be limited by the
poverty of beneficiaries and the frequently long lead time before
benefits  can  be  realized.    In  addition  to  containing  future



expenditures, efforts to increase revenues will also have to be
intensified.
15.       Regulation  and  Incentives.   The  Government  has  clearly
indicated its commitment to reducing its intervention in economic
affairs,  especially  in  the  areas  of  price  controls  and  trade
restr±ctions. It has announced plans to liberalize paddy marketing, and
to reduce the scope of its control over public enterprises, either
through complete divestiture or allowing them greater autonomy. In
addition, the Government should allow the private sector to assume a
greater role in the delivery of agricult- al services and inputs.
16.       Investment  Efficiency.   Promoting better use of  investment
resources, both foreign and domestic, and public and private, is among
the most important challenges for Government policy makers. As in much
of sub-Saharan Africa, investment as a proportion of GDP has been high
(over 15 percent of GDP during the 1970s, the bulk of which was public
investment), but it has not yielded a commensurate level of growth in
output. Public resources have not been used optimally, while excessive
regulation of the private sector has encouraged inefficient allocation
of private resources.   Together these have contributed to recurrent
financial disequilibria, including levels of debt servicing and
Government subsidies which the economy is incapable of sustaining.
Remedial measures should be enacted. Non-viable projects should be
susper.ded, regardless of the source or terms of financing, and new
projects undertaken only when they clearly exhibit sound economic
justification.   Resources  should be  allocated  to rehabilitating and
mairtaining existing facilities before undertaking new investments.
Finally, it is essential that Government institutions and personnel
responsible  for  planning  and  evaluating  public   investments  be
strengthened..
Issues Affezting Long-term Growth
17.       Even with substantial improvements in resource reallocation
and financial policy reforms,  concerted action will be required to
redress the major resource constraints facing the economy. Three areas
should   be   given   priority:    (i) human   resource   development;
(ii) consolidation of economic infrastructure;  and  (iii) agricultural
development.  In addition, the public debt constraint will continue to
require especially close management.
18.       Human Resource Development.  Population growth is clearly the
overriding issue in the area of human resource development.   Unless it
can be slowed from its projected rate of 2.8 percent per year,
population growth will negate even the most substantial development
efforts.   Although overall  population density  is  low,  the  cost  of
additional population will weigh heavily on the country's scarce
resources. The provision of basic needs, including minimal health care,
clean water, and primary education, is already inadequate for the bulk
of the population, and food production per capita has seriously
declined.   Population growth must decline if these trends are to be



- 6 -
reversed.   Second,  education  policy  should  be redefined  to  provide
broader access to better quality primary education, to lower unit costs,
and to promote greater participant financing.   Literacy and primary
enrollment are presently far too low to provide an adequate foundation
for strengthening human capital, Mali's primary resource, or to begin to
challenge entrenched attitudes toward family planning and population
growth. Third, primary health services, including rural water supplies,
must be improved.   Otherwise,  low life expectancies  and high child
mortality will continue to sap the productive capacity of the
population,  while  fueling  the  demand  for  more  children.   Donor
assistance will be required to expand public health programs, but these
must be based on affordable, replicable project designs, improved cost
recovery, and greater involvement by beneficiaries.
19.       Consolidation of Economic Infrastructure.  Mali needs to pay
much greater heed than it has in the past to the twin issues of better
utilization   and   improved   maintenance   of   existing   economic
infrastructure.   Faced with a high premium on investment resources,
future investment decisions should not only reflect established macro
and sectoral priorities, but should also carefully weigh the alternative
of rehabilitating existing facilities before undertaking any new
investments.  While this will be true throughout all sectors of the
economy, decisions regarding transport sector investments must be taken
with particular care.  The provision of internal transport in Mali is
frustrated by its landlocked position, its vast internal distances, and
its low population density.  Although the western part of the country
has very few all-weather roads, priority must be first given to
rehabilitating and maintaining existing roads in the productive central
and southern areas of the country. Similarly, in the irrigation sector,
existing capacity is often idle or deteriorating, and the rehabilitation
of such facilities should be given priority in allocating investment
funds. In addition, local resource mobilization and cost recovery need
to be improved to enable adequate maintenance.
20.       Agricultural  Development.    Agriculture  is  the  country's
dominant sector (over 40 percent of GDP); cotton and livestock alone
account  for  75 percent  of  exports.   With  no  significant  mineral
deposits, overall future growth will depend primarily on raising
agricultural production, and, relatedly, on improved agricultural
practices and technology.   There is little scope to expand the area
under cultivation, and hence the greatest potential lies in increased
yields, which in turn, are most likely where rainfall is highest or
where irrigation facilities exist. Future development efforts should be
concentrated in such areas.  Substantial irrigation potential from the
Niger River lies untapped, but expansion of irrigation systems would be
very costly. Equally important to the sector's future development will
be better delivery of agricultural services, especially extension and
inputs, and adequate maintenance of irrigation structures and access
roads.   In addltion  to consolidating agricultural infrastructure and
strengthening essential public institutions, efforts should be mounted
to increase cost recovery, expand beneficiary participation in operation
and maintenance, improve producer incentives, and liberalize input and



- 7 -
output  markets.   At  the  same  time,  agricultural  research  must  be
strengthened to improve crop varieties, to develop new export crops, and
to further integrate livestock with crop cultivation.
21.       External  Debt.    A  dramatic  inoreass   in  debt  service
obligations now coming due on past borrowings will have a major impact
on public finances and strongly underlines the necessity to exercise
great caution in future public borrowings.  Service on external public
debt is expected to reach about 27 percent of Government revenues in
1985. In balance of payments terms, the debt service ratio, which was
some 12 percent in 1984 (about 9 percent excluding IMF repurchases), is
expected to increase sharply to 20 percent by end 1985 (15 percent
excluding IMF repurchases) and remain approximately at that level
through 1987, with a moderate decline (to 17 percent and 11 percent
inclusive  and exclusive of IMF repurchases)  forecast  for  1988.   To
prevent the accumulation of arrears, increased resource mcbilization is
required.   Petroleum  prices  and  road user  fees have  recently  been
raised.  Similarly, electricity tariffs must be increased to support
debt servicing obligations. In addition, external debt rescheduling may
become necessary in 1985.  The rise in external debt obligations has
several additional implications. Most fundamentally, it points to the
need to strengthen control of public sector investment and to ensure
rigorous project selection based on stringent economic criteria.  With
external debt charges already at a level which strains the country's
servicing capability, recourse to non-concessional loans will have to be
avoided. In addition, Mali will need to make every effort to expand the
export base and to mobilize domestic savings to minimize recourse to
external borrowings wherever possible.
Foreign Assistance
22.       To  date,  Mali  has  benefitted  from  considerable  foreign
assistance, which in fact, has financed virtually all development
investments. Following the 1972-73 drought, there was a rapid increase
in foreign assistance, mostly grants complemented by highly concessional
borrowing.   By 1982, official development aid per capita amounted to
almost US$30, equivalent to one-sixth of per capita GDP in that year.
Mali will continue to require substantial donor assistance to maintain a
minimum level of output as it proceeds with its intended program of
economic reform and structural adjustment. In particular, donor support
on concessional terms will be crucial to help pay operation and
maintenance costs and to broaden access of the population to basic
services like education, health services and rural water. Donors could
increase their contribution to Mali's development by increasing
concessionality, channelling investment into priority sectors, and
providing a greater share of aid in the form of quick-disbursing,
non-project  support.   Because of Mali's poverty  and  limited  saving
potential, it is important that donors finance a high percentage of
project costs, including local as well as foreign costs.



- 8 -
23.       Because of the importance of aid to the Malian economy, aid
flows substantially influence national policies. To assure that donors'
projects and policies promote sound development and an efficient
allocation of resources, investment programming and donor coordination
need to be strengthened.
PART II - WORLD BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
24.       The proposed credit would be the Association's thirty-fifth
credit extended to Mali (including two supplementary credits), which
would bring total commitments of IDA funds to US$388.2 million
equivalent (including IDA Special Funds totalling US$11.2 million
equivalent).  Of the thirty-four operations already approved, fourteen
have been for agriculture and related activities; eight for transport;
three for education; two for telecommunications; two for energy; and one
each for small-scale industries, urban development, power and water
supply,   technical   assistance,   rural  water   supply   and   health.
Agriculture and transportation represent the largest share of past
commitments, accounting for 38 percent and 2: percent, respectively. In
addition,   the   International   Finance  Corporation  has  made   two
investments, totalling US$3.2 million, one for a bleach and plastic
products factory and the other for a sheanut processing plant. Annex II
gives a summary statement of these credits as of March 31, 1985.
25.       Project  implementation  in Mali  is generally  satisfactory.
Despite difficulties and delays caused by inadequate Government
counterpart financing, the rate of IDA's disbursements to Mali through
1984 was about the same as for other West African countries.   More
importantly, project performance appears to be improving. pari  assu
with increased Government commitment to solve its financial problems and
strengthen economic management.
26.       IDA's lending strategy in Mali has two objectives:   (i) to
nurture and support structural adjustment and (ii) to lay the foundation
for sound long-term growth. To lay the groundwork for subsequent policy
reforms, the Association financed a technical assistance project in
1982, designed in close collaboration with the IMF, aimed at
strengthening  Mali's  economic  and  financial  planning  capability
(Economic Management and Training Project. Cr.  1307-MLI).   This was
followed by a series of sectoral adjustment projects which are
addressing important  reforms in specific  sectors.   For example,  the
Second Mali-Sud Rural Development Project (Cr. 1415-MLI) is supporting a
comprehensive reform of the cotton sector while the Third Education
Project (Cr. 1442-MLI/SF1O) and the proposed Fifth Highway Project are
designed to improve planning, and resource mobilization and allocation
in their respective sectors.
27.       Following on from reforms already undertaken in recent vears,
there is, over the next few years, a solid project pipeline for Mali
which will continue to address necessary structural adjustment measures.



- 9 -
To help support such measures, and in recognition of Mali's continuing
commitment to a program of macro policy reform, especially in the
context of a third IIF Standby program, Mali is eligible to receive
assistance from the Special African Facility.  Two projects, each with
important policy reform components, are currently earmarked for such
assistance.   The first of these, the Public Enterprise Rehabilitation
Project, is designed to introduce an appropriate policy framework for
the public enterprise sector and to put it on a sound financial footing.
The second project is the Office du Niger Rehabilitation Project; it
will consolidate the pricing and marketing reforms in the rice subsector
initiated under the recently approved Mopti Area Development Project
(Cr. 1597-MLI), and will also address the financial restructuring of
this important irrigation authority.
28.       Whatever sectoral adjustment programs are implemented. Mali's
long-term growth prospects will depend on the full realization of its
natural and human potential. The Association has financed a wide range
of projects in both traditional infrastructure and social sectors
designed to exploit and augment that potential. Given Mali's difficult
climatic and soil conditions, much work remains to be done to develop
suitable technological packages in agriculture.  Most projects in the
agriculture and rural development sector therefore include research
components aimed at establishing farming/cropping systems appropriate
for a given area, while a second forestry project has recently been
appraised designed to test approaches to rural forestry in the hope of
combatting  the  problem  of  deforestation.   Selected  infrastructure
projects will attempt to ensure that the benefits of past investments
are fully realized and that Mali's future growth is not constrained by
inadequate capacity in its transport, telecommunications or energy
sectors.
29.       Previous operations in the health, water supply, housing and
education sectors have been designed to develop Mali's human resources
by expanding the population's access to basic education and improving
their health and productivity.   Further operations in each of these
sectors are planned. Finally, the Association is increasingly stressing
in its dialogue with Government the linkages between the deterioration
of Mali's fragile resource base, the Government's difficulties in
providing for the basic needs of the population, and the high population
growth rate.  We intend to pu.rsue this dialogue in our economic and
sector work and to highlight family planning efforts in the ongoing
health project with the hope of developing a project supportive of a
population policy consistent with the country's vision for the future.



- 10 -
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The Transport System
30.       In a vast (1.24 million km ), landlocked country with a widely
dispersed population like Mali, the transport sector is of vital
importance. Despite the sector's share of 15-25% of public investments
over the past decade, the country's internal communications remain
difficult. Also the long distances between Bamako and the ports of
Dakar (1,000 km by rail) and Abidjan (1.250 km by road) have been a
constraint on the country's economic development.
31.       Road transport, the dominant mode, accounts for some 55% of
total freight traffic (in ton-kilometers), while rail and water
transport move the remaining 36% and 9% respectively.  Road transport
also accounts for close to 90% of all passenger-kilometers.   The road
network adequately covers the south and south-east of the country where
population is concentrated.  By contrast, the regions west of Bamako,
the capital, which are supposed to be served by the railway, are only
very poorly equipped with feeder road access to the railheads and lack
main road access - a situation which significantly curtails the flows of
agricultural products from potential surplus areas to the main market in
Bamako.
32.       The Mali Railway (Chemin de Fer du Mali, CFM) runs a single
line (642 km) from Bamako to Kidira on the border with Senegal. CFM's
share of the country's foreign trade handled has been declining steadily
from two thirds of the total (460-580,000 tpy) merchandise imports and
exports in the sixties and early seventies to no more than two-fifths of
the total today. Despite the railway's comparative economic advantage,
until 1983 an increasing portion of international traffic had been using
the  Abidjan  road  route.   This  shift  reflected  a  decline  in  the
reliability and speed of rail services due to poor maintenance of track
and rolling stock, and to poor cooperation between the Senegalese and
Malian Railways. IDA has been supporting both railway systems and has
just completed its Third Railway Project in Mali (Credit 713-MLI, 1977,
US$10.5 million) which financed a time slice of the railway's investment
program and provided  training and consulting  services.   Measures  to
improve operating efficiency and to strengthen the Railway's budget and
procedures have been  successful only in the last two years.   Since
December 1983, both Mali and Senegal railways have simultaneously
improved motive power availability and coordination of operations, and
as a result Malian import traffic through Dakar increased by almost 50%
in the first half of 1984.
33.       Water transport is important f-r the vast inland delta area of
the Niger northeast of Mopti.  The river connection will become less
important when the paved road from Sevare (Mopti) to Gao is completed in
1986. The Senegal river is also presently navigable from St. Louis
(Senegal) to Kayes (Mali), the trans-shipment place to the railways,
from August to October; it will be navigable all year round on



- 11 -
completion of the Manantali dam southeast of Kayes. Traditional canoes
carry all Senegal river traffic and about half that on the river Niger.
The state-owned Compagnie Malienne de Navigation dominates traffic on
the Niger with more modern vessels.
34.       In a large and sparsely inhabited country like Mali,  air
transport plays a significant role. Mali has two international airports
at Bamako and Gao, and some 30 small airfields for domestic traffic, of
which only seven have regularly scheduled commercial services. In recent
years, international air transport has shown a stagnating trend for
passengers and a declining trend for freight, while local traffic has
remained at 15-18,000 passengers annually, limited by available
capacity.  International freight traffic is almost exclusively handled
by UTA (70%) and Air Afrique (20%).  Air Mali, a state-owned company
created in 1961, carried all domestic and about a third of the
international passenger traffic in 1982, down from two-thirds in 1973.
Heavily  overstaffed,  plagued  by  deficits,   and  with  accumulated
short-term debts of about CFAF 2.5 billion at end 1983, Air Mali is
bankrupt.  Liquidation of the company is expected in the near future.
Meanwhile, a private local air charter company (Societe de Transport
Aerien du Mali) with experienced management will  reportedly provide
essential domestic and regional services.
The Road Transport Subsector
35.       The Network:  Mali's road network consists of about 13,460 km
of national, regional and local roads, of which 2,460 km are paved,
6,320 km are gravel and improved feeder roads, and the remaining 4,680
km are unimproved earthroads and tracks.   Paved roads now link the
capital Bamako to the border with the Ivory Coast (Bamako-Bougouni-
Zegoua, 460 km), as well as to the eastern regions (Bamako-San-Mopti
axis). A direct link from the Ivory Coast to Mopti is also fully paved
(Zegoua-Sikasso-Koutiala-San-Mopti axis), and has in part served as an
alternative road to Bamako which, although about 130 km longer than the
direct road, allows truckers to avoid the narrow and severely degraded
Bamako-Bougouni section that is ro be rehabilitated under the proposed
project.  Paving of the Sevare (Mopti)-Gao road (556 km), although not
of high economic priority, began with rhe financial support of several
financing agencies in 1980 and is expected to be completed in 1986. For
th  country as a whole, road density averages no more than 1.1 km/100
km    Even in Mali's southern regions, th  most heavily populated in the
country,  road density 2at  8.5 km/100 km   is well  below  the average
density of 14 km/100 km for neighboring Ivory Coast.
36.       Road Administration:  The National Directorate of Public Works
(Direction Nationale des Travaux Publics, DNTP) within the Ministry of
Transport and Public Works (Ministare des Transports et Travaux Publics,
MTTP) plans, designs, constructs and maintains roads, and supervises
technical  studies  for  railways,  river  ports  and  airports.   DNTP's
organization, with two divisions and three technical services, is
satisfactory.  The General Studies and Programming Division (Direction
des Etudes G6nerales et des Programmes, DECP) prepares investment and



- 12 -
maintenance programs and budgets, and controls expenditures; the
Technical Studies and Works Division (Division des Etudes Techniqueb et
des Travaux, DETT) handles project studies and supervision of works; the
New Works Service (Service des Travaux Neufs, STN) carries out gravel
road construction and improvement; the Road Strengthening Service
(Service de Renforcement des Routes, SRR), deals with periodic
maintenance of paved roads; and the Public Works Equipment Service
(Service du Materiel des Travaux Publics, SMTP) purchases and repairs
road equipment.   DNTP's eight Regional Directorates  of Public Works
carry out maintenance and other public works activities through 19
subdivisions. An Accounting Office, supervised by an Administrative and
Financial Unit, performs accounting work.
37.       DNTP's all-Malian professional staff has increased from about
20 engineers and 60 technicians in 1979 to about 68 engineers (adequate)
and 53 technicians in 1984 (not sufficient for the tasks on hand).  In
addition, DNTP employs about 1,100 permanent workers and between 300-500
seasonal laborers, depending on requirements and available budgetary
allocations.   Generally,  engineers  are  adequately  trained  but many
lower-echelon technicians are not. Training, especially of technicians,
has been increasingly stressed in the four previous highway projects.
More structured  training courses  and  a better  coordination  between
training results and career development for DNTP employees will be
supported under the proposed project.
38.       Construction:      Engineering   and   supervision   of   road
construction projects are the responsibility of DNTP's Technical Studies
and Works Division (DETT). The division has been taking on supervision
of increasingly important projects with only a small advisory staff of
foreign consultants, but for major engineering studies of foreign aid
financed projects it still uses foreign consultants, assisted by its own
engineers. The division is supported by the Surveying Institute for
topographical surveys, and the Public Works Research and Experimentation
Center for laboratory tests. The center, which has received assistance
under a FAC project (building, equipment, technical assistance) is now
well equipped and can perform all regular soil and construction material
tests  required  for  road  design  and  construction.   A  state-owned
consulting firm, the Societe d'Etudes du Mali, has also carried out
feasibility studies and detailed engineering, often in association with
foreign consultants.   Road construction has until recently been the
domaine of foreign contractors, but local contractors are becoming
competitive in executing all but the largest construction and
rehabilitation projects. The New Works Service has acquired skills in
feeder road construction under IDA and other foreign-financed projects.
39.       Maintenance:  DNTP, through its 8 Regional Directorates and 19
subdivisions, is theoretically responsible for maintaining over 90%
(12,300 km) of the road network.   Some para-public entities maintain
some local roads in their areas of operation. Under the Fourth Highway
Project,   periodic  maintenance  has  been  carried  out  partly  by
contractors, with satisfactory results. Periodic maintenance outputs by



- 13 -
force  account  are  lower  but  improving.   Overall,  however,  Mali's
capacity to maintain existing road infrastructure is still far from ade-
quate. Routine maintenance is regularly carried out on only about 5,000
km of the most trafficked roads. Effective execution of road maintenan-
ce has been hamstrung since the mid-seventies by two major problems, one
technical  and  one  financial.   The  technical  problem  has  been  the
inability of the Public Works Equipment Service to keep a minimum of
equipment in acceptable running condition. Lax management, inadequately
trained and poorly motivated personnel, and lack of funds, all contri-
buted to create a backlog of equipment repairs that has slowed down
periodic maintenance and paralyzed the work in the subdivisions.
Although some improvements occurred with the provision of technical
assistance and funds for equipment renewal and maintenance under the
Fourth Highway Project, which will continue under the present project
with no gap in continuity, major changes -- including both involvement
of the private sector and a re-orientation of technical assistance --
will also be required under the proposed project to eliminate equipment
bottlenecks and thereby improve all maintenance operations (paras. 61
and  65  below).   The  financial  problems  resulted  from  inadequate
allocation of revenues to the Road Fund.
40.       Road Financing:  Road investment and maintenance expenditures
over the period 1979-83 averaged CFAF 8.3 billion (US$20.5 million) per
year, a figure two and a half times higher than that for the previous
five year period.  The increase was due mainly to the high investment
outlays on the Sevare-Gao road project (over 60% of total expenditure),
but it  reflects  high  inflation  rates  as well.   Annual maintenance
expenditures have doubled over the last ten years (from CFAF 0.9 billion
in 1974 to CFAF 1.7 billion in 1983): they have thus grown at just over
7% annually in nominal terms, compared to an average annual inflation
rate  over  that  same  period  of  10%.   Consequently,  maintenance
expenditures have declined both in real terms and as a proportion of
total road expenditure (from about 24% between 1974-78 to around 18%
during 1979-83). This decline would have been much sharper had it not
been for the Third and Fourth Highway Projects, both of which have
focussed on periodic and routine maintenance. They were instrumental in
securing allocation of some additional local funds to the maintenance
budget through increased earmarking of fuel taxes for the Road Fund.
However, in view of Mali's difficult economic situation and the
competing demands for scarce resources -- including some non high
priority investments -- the provision of adequate funds for road
maintenance remains an issue which is addressed under the proposed
project. In order to ensure that future investments do not jeopardize
the Government's ability to maintain the existing netnrk, Government
will prepare multi-annual programs of road transport investments for
annual review with the Association; such programs will follow economic
criteria and take into account the road maintenance capacity and the
country debt servicing capacity (Section 3.03 of draft Development
Credit Agreement).   Under the first such review,  covering the period
1986-1988, Government will not initiate any new major road investment
(i.e. exceeding US$1 million equivalent), except for the proposed
project, resurfacing of the Ouan-Sevare road, and construction of a



- 14 -
second bridge over the Niger river in Bamako, investments which are of
high priority and for which financing is available on acceptable terms.
41.       Recovery of recurrent cost of roads through taxation of road
users in Mali has been sufficient to cover the cost of an adequate level
of maintenance of the country's road network.   However, all revenues
raised from duties on vehicles and spare parts imports, from taxes on
vehicle insurance and from vehicle registration, as well as 55% of the
taxes on transport fuel (gasoline, diesel) go to the Treasury for
general budgetary purposes, leaving the Road Fund with no more than 45%
of  the  taxes  levied  on  transport  fuel.   From  these  insufficient
revenues, the Road Fund is supposed to finance road maintenance
including equipment renewal, local counterpart funds for road studies
and investments, the debt servicing of loans for roads, and some urban
street improvements. The Government increased the pump price of fuel by
almost 50% in 1981.  This major increase reflected both rising refinery
prices and the introduction of additional taxes including a small
proportion for the Road Fund. It resulted, however, in a sharp drop in
fuel  consumption.   In  addition,  for  a limited  period,  some  local
merchants took advantage of loopholes in the taxation system to import
Nigerian fuel and market it untaxed. However, in the beginning of 1985,
Government took satisfactory measures to ensure that Nigerian fuel
imports are subject to the same taxation as other imported fuels.
42.       Despite a covenant under the Third Highway Project stipulating
that all road maintenance expenses were to be met before any Road Fund
proceeds were allocatcd to investment, existing contractual obligations
on foreign-financed road projects compelled Government to continue using
a large part of Road Fund revenues for road investments. This, combined
with a steep rise in debt service requirements since 1981, has kept
funds available for maintenance at a static level of around CFAF 1.6
billion annually. Forecasts of Road Fund revenues and expenditures over
the 1985-90 horizon show that, following the expiration of the grace
period on a number of earlier loans for road investments, expected
revenues are insufficient from 1985 onwards to cover even Go-vrnment's
debt service obligations, and would therefore preclude any local
counterpart financing for ongoing road investments, any expenditures for
maintenance and, a fortiori, any new investment well into the 1990s.
43.       The shortfall in Road Fund revenues is compounded by the fact
that most of the revenues that it receives are illiquid in the form of
postal checks. Mali's Postal Checking Service (PCS) has not been liquid
for many years, that is to say, post offices do not have cash to honor
postal mandates or checks.  Since they cannot be cashed, postal checks
are usually refused by banks ard merchants. This problem resulted from
Government's mixing of PCS funds with other funds, and using them to
settle its liabilities.  Since Government has, among others, also been
paying a major portion of its fuel bill with postal checks, it has had
to accept, in turn, that suppliers use them to settle their tax bills,
thus spreading the liquidity problem to the Road Fund.  The Government
has    engaged    a   consultant    under   Credit    1200-MLI    (Second
Telecommunications Project) to recommend an action plan to put the



- 15 -
postal service on a sound financial footing, including measures to
reliquify the PCS. Measures being considered include separation of the
accounts of telecommunication, postal services and the PCS; restriction
of Treasury access to PCS funds; strengthening of financial staff of the
postal service; and use of counterpart funds generated under a proposed
Public Enterprise Project for, inter alia, payment to the PCS of funds
borrowed from it by Treasury. Adoption of a plan of action satisfactory
to the Association for solving the liquidity problem of the PCS would be
a condition of effectiveness for the proposed project (Section 6.01(c)
of draft Development Credit Agreement, DCA).
44.       Consequently, Government has recently decided to increase tax
revenues directly and automatically available to the Road Fund
sufficiently to ensure that the Road Fund's revenues cover debt service
and maintenance requirements in the highway sector (i.e. CFAF 28,950
million over the period January 1985 to December 1990 - Section 3.05 of
draft DCA). The following are already allocated to the Road Fund: (i)
the revenues of the existing fuel tax (estimated at CFAF 13,500 million
over the same period); (ii) CFAF 700 million transferred to the Road
Fund on May 8, 1985; and (iii) an additional CFAF 500 million scheduled
to  be  transferred  by  credit  effectiveness.   In  addition  to  the
foregoing, Government has decided to allocate directly to the Road Fund:
(a) revenues collected from the droit de traversee routiare (para 53)
net of collection cost (corresponding revenue esLimated at CFAF 1,500
million between January 1986 and December 1990, or CFAF 300 million
annually); and (b) increased fuel taxes to be collected from road users
from January 1986 onwards to generate additional revenues of CFAF 12,750
million over the same period (that is, CFAF 2,550 million annually).
Deposit in the Road Fund of monies required for 1985 and adoption by
Government of an IDA approved plan of action for covering the shortfall
in  Road  Fund  revenues  through.  1990  are  conditions  of  credit
effectiveness. (Section 6.01(a) and (b) of draft DCA).
Experience with Past Lending
45.       IDA first became involved in the road subsector in Mali in
1967-68 as executing agency for a country-wide transport survey financed
by UNDP. The survey concluded that the sector mainly needed improved
highway maintenance and construction of agricultural feeder roads.  The
four highway projects implemented since 1970 have responded to these
needs.  The first three projects have been satisfactorily completed.
The Project Performance Audit Report of the first one, (February 1978),
as well as the Project Completion Reports for the second and third
projects (July 1983), concluded that the initial institution building
objectives (reorganization of DNTP and reactivation of the Road Fund)
were mostlv achieved, although training outputs under the third project
were only about half of those estimated at appraisal, due to delays in
the training of trainers and the delivery of office and teaching
equipment; limited training is continuing satisfactorily under the
Fourth Highway Project.   Technical assistance was  somewhat narrowly
focussed on a few units within DNTP and, in some instances, was less
effective than expected because of poor receptivity on the part of the



- 16 -
agencies and units, and poor integration into their activities. In all
these projects, road maintenance results fell considerably short of
expectations, mainly because of a shortage of local funds due to drought
and inflation (first project), insufficient liquidity of funds due to
the use of postal checks (second project), and repeated breakdown of
equipment coupled with intermittent and late intervention of technical
assistance (third project).  The lessons learned under these projects,
particularly regarding the problems facing road maintenance, have been
incorporated into the design of the present project.
46.       The ongoing Fourth Highway Project (Credit 1104-MLI, SDR 13.4
million,  co-financed  by  Switzerland with  a grant  of  SF18  million,
September 1981) covers periodic maintenance of 680 km of paved roads and
220  km  of  gravel  roads  by  force  account  and  by  contract;  a
two-and-a-half  (now  extended  to  three-and-a-half)  year  program  of
routine maintenance of 6,600 km of national, regional and feeder roads;
technical assistance and training; and equipment for vehicle axle load
control.   After  a slow  start  and  an  increase  in  the  very  modest
technical assistance envisaged by the project, implementation is now
satisfactory: periodic maintenance of paved roads by contractors is on
schedule and has been extended to gravel roads. The quality of periodic
maintenance by force account has been improving and outputs are above
target  for  the days when  equipment  is working.   However,  equipment
down-time remains a problem, traceable mainly to the continuing poor
performance of the Equipment Service which, even with technical
assistance inputs in advisory functions, has improved only marginally.
To ensure acceptable efficiency of force-account operations, better
institutional arrangements for equipment maintenance involving the
contracting out of certain tasks are being introduced under the proposed
project.   Training  at  the  Public  Works  Training  Center  (CPTP)  has
continued with satisfactory results, but needs to be better integrated
with career development prospects of trainees for productivity gains to
be realized.
Road Traffic and Road Transport Industry
47.       Vehicle fleet estimates for Mali are based on annual vehicle
registrations.  In a major effort over the past two years, the National
Transport Office (ONT) has brought up to date and consolidated all
documentation on road transport (vehicle registrations, driver licences,
freight documents, etc.) in preparation for the computerization of its
data bank, expected to be carried out starting in 1986 under the
proposed  project.   From  the  available  figures  which  are  probably
underestimated, Mali's vehicle fleet has grown only moderately (at just
over 4% p.a.) over the past decade, from a total of about 19,100
vehicles in 1974 to 27,900 vehicles in 1983.  The adequacy of overall
transport capacity is difficult to judge: there is an excess of supply,
especially of large semi-trailers, for several months of the year, but
supply is not sufficient to handle peak demand.    Also, small truck
capacity is not sufficient to handle the demand of the harvest season
mainly  because,   in  response   to  a  tariff   structure   based  on
ton-kilometers handled and therefore favoring the operation of large



- 17 -
vehicles, the number of small and medium size trucks (which are needed
to operate  on earth and  gravel  roads)  has  declined  sIgnificantly.
Construction of storage facilities in key locations could do much to
spread transport demand over a longer period and allow better fleet
utilization. Moreover, a reform of the tariff structure (para 53) will
reinstate a balanced incentive for purchasing of trucks of different
types and sizes.
48.       Fuel consumption, which had risen at an annual rate of 9.5%
between  1974-1980,   declined  sharply  following  substantial  price
increases in 1981, and in 1983 reverted to 1977 levels, both for
gasoline and diesel. March 1985 retail prices of gasoline and diesel in
Mali, at CFAF 260/liter and CFAF 183/liter (equivalent to US$2.01/gal
and US$1.41/gal) respectively, were well above those in Benin, about
equal to those in Senegal, and well below those in Ivory Coast, the
three countries from which Mali imports respectively 3%, 34% and 63% of
its  total  fuel.   Fuel  prices  were  well  above  border  prices  of
internationally traded fuels; in Mali, they include about 21% of taxes
plus an additional 10% on average for gasoline and 3% for diesel to
compensate for regional differences between the countrywide retail price
and the officially determined cost of fuel in different locations, thus
equalizing the differential cost of distribution.
49.       Traffic count data also indicate  that vehicle traffic has
declined sharply between 1979 and 1983. The drop in vehicle traffic was
particularly marked on the paved road network (-47%), where heavy trucks
and tractor-trailer combinations have replaced a larger number of small
and medium size trucks during recent years.  Due to the poor state of
repair of feeder roads and tracks, traffic on these has consistently
been limited to essential services and has varied very little over the
years. Given the country's difficult economic situation, it is unlikely
that traffic will quickly return to the 1978/79 peak, but there are
indications that the downward trend is being reversed in 1983/84, mainly
due to increased grain imports necessitated by persistent drought.
50.       Mali's  road  transport  industry  is  dominated  by  private
operators that handle all passenger transport and own over three
quarters of freight vehicles.   Some 25 large operators  (owning 10-20
vehicles each) are independent, while some 850 small operators (owning
five vehicles  each  or  less)  are grouped  in regional  cooperatives.
These, in turn, are affiliated to a loosely organized National Union of
Road Transport Cooperatives, a lobby and mutual aid organization for
transporters.   A number  of para-public  entities,  with  some  15% of
freight vehicles, transport goods such as cotton and grains on own
account.   Only  one  of  three  state-owned  transport  firms  remains
operative with a small fleet accounting for less than 5% of freight
capacity. State-owned trucking companies have consistently operated at
a loss. Government has decided not to undertake any new investment nor
provide any credit guarantee for any new investment in trucking firms
uInless, on the basis of economic and financial criteria, the Government
and the Association have agreed such investment is justified (Section
3.04 of draft DCA).



- 18 -
51.       The National Transport Office  (ONT) is responsible  for the
coordination and management of all transport activities.  Its main role
in road transport is that of freight allocation: through its regional
and international (port) offices, it centralizes transport demand and
allocates freight between cooperatives, independent truckers and state
trucking companies in proportion to their share in overall transport
capacity; within these groups, distribution is on a first come-first
served basis.   Unattractive transport runs of essential goods to the
outlying regionis are allocated to transporters in turn. Transport from
the port of Abidjan Is by law allocated in two-third/one-third shares to
Malian  and  Ivorian  operators.   The  official  tariff  applies  to  all
ONT-allocated transport, whether by public or private carrier.
52.       In its efforts to improve road transport efficiency, ONT has
carried out a number of surveys to establish transports costs, transport
demand by region, available transport supply, and transport bottlenecks
(which exist mainly for crop collection in the regions and are due to
unremunerative  tariffs).    While  these  studies  resulted  in  some
realignments of the tariff structure in the late seventies, adjustments
proposed by ONT since  1981 have not been approved.  Tariffs are now
estimated to average about 20% below the costs of vehicle operation,
making it difficult for transporters to allow for equipment maintenance
and  renewal.   Generally,  transporters  compensa_e  for low tariffs by
heavily overloading their vehicles, thus damaging their own equipment,
and the country's road infrastructure. The Government is preparing and
will furnish to the Association within a year of credit effectiveness,
(i) a schedule of road tariffs structured to take into account the
economic cost of different types of road transport and (ii) a system of
vehicle weight control measures; it will thereafter adopt such measures
as agreed with the Association (Sections 3.07 and 3.08 of draft DCA).
53.       A major impediment to road transport efficiency in Mali, as in
most West African countries, has been the numerous semi-official road
checks carried out along all major routes. In 1984, ONT eliminated some
of them and established in their place a small number of official ones
for the collection of an agreed toll (droit de traversee), the proceeds
of which currently amount to CFAF 250 million annually. With coverage
scheduled to be extended to the whole paved network by December 1985,
they are expected to amount to about CFAF 300 million annually.  The
proceeds accrue in a special fund administered by the ruling political
Party.  The proceeds net of collection costs will be allocated to the
Road Fund (Section 3.12 of draft DCA).



- 19 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History and Objectives
54.       The project was identified in April 1983, and prepared by DNTP
with the assistance of consultants. Appraisal was carried out in May
1984.  Credit negotiations took place in Washington, D.C. from March
11-16, 1985, with the Malian delegation led by H.E. Mamadou Haidara,
Minister of Transport and Public Works and were followed by post-
negotiations discussions in Bamako in May 1985.
55.       The main objectives of the proposed project are to protect the
priority road network and strengthen the institutions concerned with
road infrastructure and transport through (i) a growing involvement of
the local private construction and mechanical indust..ies in road
maintenance operations; (ii) development of a reduced but more efficient
capacity of force account works; (iii) strengthening of personnel
management and development, including training; (iv) introduction of
measures ensuring full financing of recurrent road maintenance costs
from local sources and a balanced allocation of resources to road
.'nvestments   and   maintenance;   and   (v)   continued   and   expanded
i.xstitutional development of the road transport subsector.
Project Description
56.       To achieve these objectives, the project would finance new
equipment, spare parts, fuel, construction materials, labor, civil works
and consultants services to carry out the following three components:
first, a Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program starting July 1985
on an 8,200 km network of high priority roads and including (a)
three-and-a-half years of routine road maintenance operations; (b)
periodic maintenance and rehabilitation of 492 km of paved roads and 535
km of unpaved roads; and (c) overhaul and renewal of road equipment;
second,   an   Institution   Strengthening   Program   including:    (a)
reorganization and technical assistance to (i) the National Transport
Office (ONT) for transport sector planning; (ii) the General Studies and
Programming Division (DEGP) for project coordination, implementation of
planning and financing mechanisms and feasibility studies; (iii) the
Technical Studies and Works Division (DETT) for engineering studies,
supervision of civil works and improvements in force account works; and
(iv) the Equipment Service (SMTP) for improving equipment maintenance
and overhaul efficiency; and (b) a training program for public works
personnel; and third, the Reconstruction of the Bamako-Bougouni Road
(160 km). Details are given in a Staff Appraisal Report, No. 5315-MLI
dated June 28, 1985, which is being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.
The Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
57.       Routine Road Maintenance Operations:  Routine road maintenance
will continue to be carried out by the regional directorates of DNTP.



- 20 -
It will be implemented by force account using civil servants paid under
Government's recurrent budget and locally hired laborers, as well as
materials, fuel, lubricants and spare parts paid under the Road Fund.
The 19 subdivisions will carry out standardized routine road maintenance
tasks on the priority road network.  The budget for routine maintenance
has been cut back from that agreed under the previous project by about
10% to stay within available resources.  Consultants estimates of unit
costs per task have been used for both the project and forecast of Road
Fund budgets. DNTP has agreed to streamline the regional directorates'
staff and equipment fleet and tr Amprove their internal discipline
concerning the work program, the cechnical definition of tasks, and the
cost accounting categories.  ihese measures will improve the efficiency
of routine road maintenance operations and its management through a
better knowledge of actual costs.  This streamlining together with a
slight reduction in maintenance tasks will also reduce claims on Road
Fund revenues, in line with critically limited local funds in the near
future.  As the financial and fiscal situation of Government improves,
additional roads will be added to the priority network.
58.       Periodic  Maintenance  and  Rehabilitation:   As  there  is  an
important backlog of periodic maintenance, a major component of the
project is periodic maintenance and rehabilitation on 492 km of paved
roads and 535 km of gravel roads.  38% of the works on paved roads and
26% on gravel roads will be carried out by force account and the
remainder by contract. Efficiency of force account works should improve
following renewal and rehabilitation of equipment, the use of
96 man-months (m-m) of technical assistance at the brigade level and the
use of limited engineering studies.
59.       Most   of   the   incremental   periodic   maintenance   and
rehabilitation will be carried out by contractor, in line with a
long-term strategy to gradually reduce force account works from these
tasks.   The  local  construction  industry  is  starting  with  small
entrepreneurs and one major private joint venture (Malian-French).
International contractors are also active on the Malian market.
Contractor and force account works will be supervised by DETT (para 64).
Experience under the Fourth Highway Project has shown that ICB brings
several competitive bids and that works by contractor are of better
quality and completed faster than works by force account. However, the
preparation and bid processes have been rather slow and time consuming.
In addition, new procurement rules have recently instituted a National
Committee  on  Procurement  (Commission  Nationale  des  Marches).   To
minimize the delays that the introduction of a new circuit of clearances
before contract signature is likely to produce, DNTP will strengthen its
procurement unit to expedite processing within MTTP and provide close
follow-up throughout the subsequent administrative circuits. Technical
assistance will also support DNTP in supervision of road maintenance
works both by force account and by contractor.
60.       Overhaul and Renewal of Road Equipment:  Road works by force
account will be carried out mainly with existing DNTP equipment.  Some
renewals and some purchases of complementary equipment will also be



- 21 -
necessary.   A major portion of existing DNTP equipment  is in poor
condition but has a large residual life and can be overhauled
economically. These revisions and overhauls will be carried out by the
local Caterpillar dealer under SMTP supervision for the Caterpillar
pieces (60% of the fleet) and directly by SMTP with technical a-sistance
for the rcst of the equipment and the transport vehicle fleet.
The Institution Strengthening Program
61.       Reorganization  and  Technical  Assistance:   Under  previous
projects technical assistance was not sufficiently integrated into road
maintenance institutions and activities.   Limited in scope, size and
duration,  it was often poorly timed with the availability of other
resources, and unbalanced between divisions and services. Generally, it
consisted of individuals in advisory roles or responsible for carrying
out specific tasks (e.g. transport plan).  There was no overall plan to
improve management tools and skills of the Malian staff or to provide a
work environment in which all resources including organization,
operating procedures and training were adequately developed and used.
As a result, those services receiving adequate technical assistance did
not improve as much as expected, while others with little or no
technical assistance became weak links in the organisation that hampered
the effective operation of the system.  During the ongoing project it
has become increasingly clear that it is necessary to set up a
comprehensive program of technical assistance to improve all elements of
the structure in a coordinated manner.   The Malian authorities have
understood this and have requested increased technical assistance from
both IDA and FAC to suiport the various divisions and services of DNTP
and ONT. Accordingly, in addition to 150 m-rm of consulting services for
supervision of works or studies, the proposed project will provide 404
m-m of technical assistance (48 of these cofinanced by a grant from FAC)
to work within the structure of DNTP and ONT, to furnish new management
tools or improve existing ones, to coordinate or actively participate in
carrying out project  tasks and to train local staff.   The experts
financed under the program will form teams with qualified local
counterparts. In the production units, these teams will occupy in-line
positions within the unit, most of the time under a Malian supervisor.
The team members will be jointly accountable for the work of their
respective units.  They will also control incentives for local personnel
to be financed under the project.  The incentives will be linked to
better productivity and outputs in accordance with agreed performance
standards for each unit. Moreover, the plan incorporates a monitoring
and feedback system and foresees the gradual phasing out of expatriate
personnel as local expertise becomes strong enough to handle the
respective  tasks.   It  is expected that the program will positively
influence both the quality and sustainability of project outputs.  The
tasks to be undertaken by the different units are summarized below;
detailed  terms  of  reference  for  the  technical  assistants  to  the
different services are provided in the Staff Appraisal Report.
62.       The project will integrate the transport data collection cell
established under the Fourth Highway Project into ONT's Study Division.



- 22 -
The project will also provide for computing equipment and 60 m-m of
technical assistance to enable ONT to carry out the review or execution
of transport planning studies, intermodal feasibility studies, and the
establishment of an action plan to improve the efficiency of the road
transport industry.
63.       With computing equipment and 34 m-m of technical assistance,
DEGP will be strengthened in its role of preparing annual programs and
budgets for road maintenance and rehabilitation, analyzing cost
accounting results, preparing or reviewing feasibility studies for new
road investments, coordinating implementation of the present project and
preparing a follow-up project. DEGP will also prepare, and follow up
on, Government's actions to increase Road Fund revenues so as to arrive
at full financing of recurrent costs of road maintenance by 1989.
64.       With another 34 m-m of technical assistance, DETT will be
strengthened in its role of preparing or reviewing technical studies and
supervising worKs by contractor.   DETT will also supervise periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation works by force accourt.
65.       As deficient and late repair or overhaul of equipment have
been key reasons for inefficiency of the force account operations, the
equipment fleet maintenance will be reorganized in order to reduce
delays in procurement, payments and financing, increase SMTP efficiency,
accelerate equipment maintenance and make it cheaper, and increase
equipment availability.  To these ends:  (i) the revolving fund  to be
set up in DNTP (para. 73 below) will ensure inter alia availability of
timely financing for spare parts. These will be purchased by a
procurement agent with the exception of urgently needed spare parts and
available locally; (ii) complementary tools and tooling will be provided
for SMTP's and selected regional workshops; (iii) 140 m-m of technical
assistance will be provided by an experienced mechanic firm. They will
review SMTP's management structure, and methods and tools for equipment
maintenance, and assist SMTP to implement the agreed improvements.
66.       The Training Program:  With 68 m-m of technical assistance,
training and transport equipment, per diem fees to trainees and
honoraria to teachers, and an additional room to be used as a cafeteria,
CPTP will  carry  out  the  training program  for DNTP  personnel.   It
includes short courses in Bamako and the use of two mobile training
teams visiting the regions, as well as fellowships abroad. In addition,
CPTP will develop an improved personnel management system and will be
responsible for evaluating, on a regular basis, the work performance of
personnel  that have returned to their units after training.   These
evaluations will be part of the basis for incentive payments.
Reconstruction of Bamako-Bougouni
67.       The 30-year old Bamako-Bougouni road (160 km) is the worst
paved section on the essential Bamako-Abidjan route which carries more
than 60% of Mali's external trade. The project will: (i) on the rural
section (152.2 km), where traffic varics between 260 and 530 vpd,



- 23 -
reconstruct the road by using as much as possible existing pavement
materials to raise the present road level, improve drainage, and
strengthen and widen the pavement to 7 m to better adapt it to the large
semitrailers now using the road; (ii) on the urban section (7.3 km),
where traffic varies between 7,000 and 24,000 vpd (not including between
3,000 and 18,000 two-wheelers) upgrade it to a 2x2 lane standard with
cycle tracks.
68.       An Urban Investment Plan is being developed as part of the
preparation  of  a  proposed  Second  Urban Project.  The urban  section
Bamako-Faladie has been designed to r2flect its function as an urban
interchange system. However, its connection to a proposed second bridge
on the Niger river and the insertion of both bridges in the urban road
network will  require  a  study to ensure optimum benefit  from both
investments as well as postponement of the need for an eventual third
bridge. Government will complete such a study, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association, by December 31, 1985 (Section 3.10 of
draft DCA), which should make it possible to adhere to the current
implementation schedule. Adoption of a design solution agreed to by IDA
and fulfillment of all conditions precedent to disbursement of the AfDF
Credit are conditions of disbursement on the Bamako-Bougouni component
(Schedule  1, para 2(b)  of draft  DCA).   In  the unlikely event  that
Government and the Association are unable to agree on the connection of
the Bamako-Bougouni road to the proposed second bridge on the Niger
river in Bamako, the Bamako-Faladie section will be excluded from the
project.
Project Cost and Financing
69.       Total cost is estimated at US$73.4 million equivalent of which
75% is foreign exchange; 25% is local costs (including 7% taxes). Cost
estimates are in January 1985 prices, and include physical contingencies
of 10% as appropriate (with the exception of 25% for ONT computing
equipment), as well as price contingencies of 5% for 1985, and 7.5% for
1986 and 8% thereafter.  The project will be financed by IDA (US$48.6
million equivalent); SDC (US$4 million equivalent, joint financing of
routine   road  maintenance   and   training);   AfDF   (US$10.8  million
equivalent, parallel cr joint financing of Bamako-Bongouni, depending
upon the eligibility of the prequalified contractors); FAC (US$0.5
million equivalent, parallel financing of technical assistance to SRR);
and the Government  (US$9.5 million equivalent).   The IDA credit will
Lover 71% of project costs (net of tax) while external financing in
total covers 95% of the (net of tax) costs.  For Bamako-Bougouni, the
Government will finance US$1.08 million of local costs in addition to
taxes.  For road maintenance,  IDA and SDC will finance 64% on average
but on a declining basis (90% in 1985, 76% in 1986, 61% in 1987 and 46X
thereafter) in order to ease the baiancing of the Road Fund budget the
first year and thereafter to foster Government progress towards full
financing of recurrent costs with local funds.  Also, IDA and SDC will
retroactively   finance   up   to   $400,000   for   routine   maintenance
expenditures from July 1, 1985, to enable routine maintenance operations
to continue uninterrupted following exhaustion of Fourth Highwav Project



- 24 -
funds  (Schedule  1,  para  2(a)  of  draft  DCA).   Fulfillment  of  all
conditions precedent to disbursement of the Swiss contribution is a
condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(d) of draft DCA).
Implementation
70.       The project will be implemented by DNTP and ONT.  In addition
to the supervision of routine road maintenance by the Regional
Directorates, DETT will be responsible for supervising works by
contractors, and periodic maintenance and rehabilitation force account
works  by  STN  and  SRR.   DEGP,  meanwhile,  will  prepare,  plan  and
coordinate all project activities.  CPTP will implement and coordinate
all project training as in the ongoing project. ONT will implement the
new transport planning component.  The ongoing Fourth Highway Project
finances studies, the preparation for the road maintenance program and
the training program as well as the continuation of technical assistance
to DEGP, DETT and SMTP until new contracts are awarded under the
proposed project.  The proposed credit is expected to be effective by
November 1985 and the project is expected to be completed by December
1990.
Procurement
71.       Reconstruction  of  the  Bamako-Bougouni  road  will  be  by
contract, awarded to prequalifled contractors after ICB in accordance
with  procedures  acceptable  to  IDA and AfDF.   If some prequalified
contractors are not eligible under AfDF procedures, the work will be
divided into two contracts.  That portion of periodic maintenance not
done by force account will also be carried out under contracts awarded
after ICB in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local contractors will
have a 7.5% preference for civil works contracts awarded under ICB
although Government has indicated at negotiations that this clause will
not apply to the Bamako-Bougouni civil works. Most equipment will be
awarded  after  ICB,  in  accordance  with  Bank  guidelines.   Goods
manufactured locally will be given a preference margin of up to 15% or
the applicable  custom's  duty,  whichever  is less.   Spare parts  for
equipment rehabilitation will be procured either under contracts
negotiated directly with the supplier of such equipment or under
contracts awarded through limited international bidding on the basis of
Bank  guidelines.   Contracts  for  a  small  training  center,  training
equipment, road building materials, fuel and lubricants will be procured
after LCB.  The i-cal procurement procedures which will be used under
the project will be reviewed on a case by case basis to establish that
they are acceptable to IDA.  Technical assistance will be procured in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines. All procurement decisions, the
estimated costs of which exceed $200,000, would Be subject to IDA's
prior review resulting in a coverage of 85% of the total estimated
value. Procurement arrangements are summarized in the table below.



- 25 -
=AitA wd Ietihtd of Ptrrurinn
It_ CU egr n                      Procnrant IfthSd a/            Total
Project
IC     113   Other     A bh/ Cet
1 iquipnt c/                     '.2    0.1                    2.3
(.:.1)  (-)                   12. 1)
2 Rsehblittckin at Equpon 2t                                   2.6
t2.2)
3 Clvl Wbrk s by (cotracter     32.1    0.1                   321
( 0.8)    C-)                 (20.8)
4 Civil Works by Force Acaemt            7.2e'    4.8fJ  4.dg  14.6
(4.21    (2.6)  (1.8)  (8.6)
5 Tstnic  Axtstatrce, Fellothps                  5.7   0.5h/  6.2
ad TraininR                                 (4.4)   (-3   (4.4)
6 Uhinlocatd                    11.3    1.2        3    0.7   35.5
7,.7)   (0.-)    (1.7)  (0.6)  (10.5).
Total Projer          45.6    S.6    15.4   3.8   73.4
(30.6)   (6.9)    (10.9) (2.2)  (48.6)
a/   Amounts finance' t, iDA are In pmrentheuss
bJ   Not Applicable
c/   Including heav  equipment. vebicles, tools. initial etock of prtrs.
training equipment and computer hardware and soft are.
di   Of which USSO.4 million In limited international bidding (LUB) for
non proprietary parts and US$2.2 millton is direct procurement for
proprietary parts and rehabilitation of Caterpillar equipment
eI   For materials, fuel and lubricants
Ti   Of which USS3.2 million is LID for non proprietary parts and USSI.6
millicn is direct procurement for proprietary parts
zI   Salaries
h/   Fellowships; honoraria and per diem for trainers/trainees.
Disbursements
72.             In line with the disbursement profile for IDA highway projects
in West Africa, the credit is expected to be disbursed by December 1990.
The IDA credit would be disbursed as shown in the following table:
Allocation and Disburmement of IDA Credit
Category                 Description                       Amount            S
at            (USS million)
).a  Civil Works by Contractor -                        14.4            93
l.r  Civil Wcrks: Bamako-Bougouni b                    10.7            47
2    Civil Works by Force-Account -                      3.5            91
3    Routine Maintenance Operations                      4.5    Declining
percentage
4    Equipment dI                                        2.1           100
5    Rehabilitation of Equipment /                       2.4           100
6    Technical Assistance                                5.1           100
7    Training and Fellowship                              -             -
8    Special Account                                     1.1            -
9    Unallocated                                         4.8            -
Total                                                40 6
a/   Other than Bamako-Bougouni
b/   Other than Routine Maintenance Operation
c/   Including Swiss financing:
902 of disbursements up to US$0.9 million
76% of disbursements from US$0.9 million to US$2.4 million
61% of disbursements from US$2.4 million to US$3.7 nillion
and 462 of disbursements thereafter
d/   Including heavy equipment, vehicles, tools, initial stock of spare
parts, training equipment, computer hardware and software
e/   Including spare parts



- 26 -
73.       Disbursement  for  routine  road  maintenance  and  periodic
maintenance and rehabilitation force account expenditures will be made
against statements of expenditure (SOE's) using unit costs for each
task.   Estimated unit costs will be reviewed after each annual audit.
No reimbursement of less than US$20,000 will be made by IDA. A Special
Account  for  the  IDA/SDC  participation  will  be  established  in  a
commercial bank.   Administered by DNTP,  it will provide up  to four
months of project operations to SMTP (US$50,000 for locally procured
spare parts), STN (US$321,000 for operations) and SRR (US$430,000 for
operations),  and  to  regional  directorates  for  routine  maintenance
operations (US$500,000 for operations). An initial deposit of US$1.1
million will be disbursed from the IDA credit at credit effectiveness
upon receipt of a withdrawal request.
Reporting and Auditing
74.       A  cost  accounting  system  exists  in DNTP.   An  independent
auditor firm wijl review the system, help DNTP implement necessary
changes   and  detailed  payment   and  disbursement   procedures   and,
thereafter, annually audit the project including the revolving fund with
a mid-year review. DNTP and ONT will prepare quarterly progress reports.
Benefits and Risks
75.       The  expected  benefits  of  this  highway  rehabilitation  and
maiatenance project can be divided into the tangible and quantifiable
reductions in the cost of vehicle operation and of maintenance of the
portion of the road network included under the project, and into equally
important, but less tangible and non-quantified institutional benefits.
The latter would result from (a) improved operational efficiency in
DNTP's road maintenance activities and (b) phased introduction of
legislative measures to allocate revenues from road user charges to the
Road Fund in sufficient volume and in sufficiently liquid form to ensure
financing for adequate routine and periodic maintenance of Mali's
existing road infrastructure in future years.  Some efforts towards the
realization of these "institutional" benefits have been made under
earlier projects; these are gradually showing results and are reflected
in the readiness of the Malian authorities to introduce the difficult
managerial and revenue-raising measures now required. The project will
facilitate this process by providing a significant contribution to the
financing of recurrent costs on a decreasing basis, thus permitting a
gradual adjustment of local revenues to the requisite ]evel of project
implementation.
76.       The Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model (RDM III)
was used for the economic evaluation.   On gravel road sections being
rehabilitated, incremental net agricultural value added, attributable to
year-round road access, has been taken into account. Vehicle operating
cost parameters were provided by ONT; DNTP provided data on the current
maintenance status of the road network; data or. agricultural production
and costs are based on agriculture project estimates and consultants
feasibility reports.  All costs and benefits in the econonic evaluation



- 27 -
of the maintenance program are in January 1985 prices net of taxes and
duties. An economic evaluation of the Bamako-Bougouni reconstruction by
means of the HDM II model was undertaken by consultants in 1984 using
1983 prices: this has been up-dated to 1985 levels, to reflect new
construction characteristics for the 7.3 km urban section which was
changed to include a number of traffic interchanges not foreseen in the
original urban expressway design, as well as a number of cost revisions
for an update of the 153 km rural section of the road.
77.       Economic rates of return (ERRs) have been estimated separately
for the reconstruction of the Bamako-Bougouni road, for the maintenance
program of the paved road network, and for the maintenance of the
priority  unpaved  road  sections  included  in  the project.   For the
Bamako-Bougouni road, the high-traffic urban section and the rural
highway section were also examined separately.   The former has an
estimated ERR of 65%; this is a conservative estimate since no benefits
for  congestion  relief  are  included.   The  highway  section  has  an
estimated ERR of 15%, also conservative, since the costs of increasing
diversion of international traffic to Bamako onto an alternative route
that is 130 km longer than the present one were not included in the
analysis. The combined ERR for the Bamako-Bougouni road component which
accounts  for  39%  of  total  project  cost  is  28%.   The  paved  road
maintenance program includes periodic maintenance of 492 km and routine
maintenance of 1730 km. It accounts for 31% of project costs and has an
overall ERR of 34%, assuming that traffic grows by 4% annually for the
ten year analysis period starting 1986. The ratio of benefits to cost
for the total package is 2.55:1 at a discount rate of 10%.
78.       The unpaved roads package includes rehabilitation of 535 km of
gravel roads mostly serving areas with ongoing rural development
projects, and routine maintenance of a priority network of about 3,330
km of gravel and 2,990 km of earth roads.  It accounts for 30% of
project costs and has an overall ERR of over 100%, assuming traffic
grows by 3.5% annually on gravel roads and by 2% on earth roads during
the 10 year analysis period.   The benefit/cost ratio for the total
package at a 10% discount rate is 1.99:1.
79.       Based on the experience under the ongoing Fourth Highway
Project, and given the arrangements made to ensure timely execution of
equipment overhauls at project start-up, there would be no major risks
concerning periodic maintenance: force account operations have been
improving and performance by contractors has been satisfactory.   No
major problems are anticipated on the reconstruction of Bamako-Bougouni
by contract.   The reorganisation of the crucial Equipment  Service,
combined with intensified training and an improved incentive structure
for Malian project personnel, should assure that the expected gains in
operational efficiency will, in fact, be realized. The main risks stem
from the possibility of a decreased maintenance effort as a result of
insufficient or illiquid local funds. However, since the Government has
established a timetable for revenue raising measures for the Road Fund
during negotiations, and implementation of these measures would be
closely monitored, project risks are considered reasonably small.



- 28 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Mali and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Sect n 1td) of the Articles of Agreement of
the Association are being ditcributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
81.       Special features of the draft Development Credit Agreement are
referred to in the text and listed in Section III of Annex III of this
report.   Conditions  of  effectiveness  of  the  Credit  include:   (a)
adoption of a plan of action, satisfactory to IDA, which ensures that
Road Fund revenues are sufficient to cover investment (including debt
service) and maintenance needs of the priority road network; (b)
increase of Road Fund revenues for 1985 by CFAF 1.2 billion; (c)
adoption of a plan of action for solving the liquidity problems of the
postal checking system; and (d) fulfillment of all conditions precedent
to  disbursement  of  the  Swiss  Contribution.   Disbursement  for  the
Bamako-Bougouni road would be conditional on (a) agreement between the
Government and IDA on action to be taken following completion of the
supplemental study of urban traffic patterns associated with the
existing and proposed bridges over the Niger River, and (b) fulfillment
of conditions precedent to disbursement of the AfDF credit.
82.       I am satisfied  that the proposed Development Credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.       I reconmend that the Executive Directors of the Association
approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
August 27, 1985



29 -                                           ANNEX I
TABLE  3A                                          FACE I
ALI                    - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
KALl                                 REFERENC CROUPS (WEIGMTD AVERAGES) E^
HOST                  (HOST RECCNT ESTIHATE) lb
RECENT       LOW INCOME AFRICA       HIDDLE i0fER
1G!A-.      io97t!   ERTIHATELb        SOmtH OF SAHARA     AFRICA S. OF SMAH
ARM (TIUSD SQ. M)
TOTAL                               1240.0        1240.0      1240.0
AGRICULTURAL                         316.3         317.5       320.6
ClP FE CAPITA (o5$)                      50.0          70.0       110.0            249.1               1112.9
EIIEEC  WUSUTEOE FEE CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF OIL EQUIVALENT)         10.0          11.0        21.0             62.8                529.0
rOnTLAfON AMD VTAL STATSnmCS
POPULATlON.NID-TEAR (THOUSANDS)     4040.0        5162.0      7076.0
URBAN POPULATION (Z OF TOTAL)         11.0          14.9        19.1             19.2                 29.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                                11.6
STATIONARY POPULATION (HILL)                                  41.8
POPULATION NO.NTWI                                             1.L
rOPULATION DE NSITY
FER sq. Km.                          3.3           4.2         5.5              32.5                55.6
PER SQ. Dl. LII. LAND               12.8          16.3        21.5            119.2                111.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (Z)
0-14 YRS                           43.7          44.7        46.4              45.6                45.4
15-64 YRS                           53.7          52.6        50.6             51.5                 53.7
65 AND ADOYb                         2.6           2.7         2.7               2.9                 2.9
POPULATION GROW  RATE (Z)
TOTAL                                2.1           2.5         2.6               2.8                 2.6
URBAN                                5.2           5.4         4.7               b.2                 5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)          49.8          49.1        48.2             48.6                 ;7.o
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)          26.8          23.6        20.6             17.7                 15.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.3           3.2         3.3              3.2                  3.2
FAMILY PLANNINC
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)             ..
USERS (I OF HARIED WMEN)              ..
FOOD AND uniTnoN
INDE OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(196971-100)                         103.0         100.0        83.0             85.8                 91.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (Z OF RSQUIRIENTS)         91.0          95.0        72.0             66.4                 98.2
PROTEINS (CRAMS PER DAY)            59.0          60.0        49.0             49.9                 56.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         16.0          17.0        14.0 /C           18.3                17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE           45.0          37.0        27.0             23.8                 18.7
UZALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)         37.5          40.5        44.9             48.4                 51.7
INFANT mORT. RATE (PER TkIOUS)       179.0         162.0       132.0            117.5                102.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (SPOP)
TOTAL                                 ..            ..         9.0 Id           21.6                35.6
URBAN                                 ..          29.0       42.0 |d           61.5                 54.1
RURAL                                 ..            ..         3.0 7ir         14.2                 27.3
ACCESS TO ENCRETA DISPOSAL
(Z OF POPULATION)
TOtAL                                 ..           8.0          .              32.0
URBAN                                 ..          63.0         ..              69.2
RURAL                                 ..            ..         ..              24.8
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           64130.0       42660.0    22130.0 1e        27477.8              11948.3
POP. PER NURSING PERSON             4710.0 flp   2740.0      2380.07;          3396.2               2248.9
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             1390.0 /h    1420.0 /h  1760.0 Ie,h         1069.0               986 3
LRSAN                              350.o 7r,h   1260.0 7W    570.0 V7W        395.2                368.7
RURAL                             2520.0 f      7ih 1540.       ..           3094.0               4012.1
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..          27.3        30.5 /c
DOI
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 * -                      4.8 /d
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
AVERAGE NO. OF PERSONSIROOM
TOTAL                                 ..
URBAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..
URCAN                                 ..
RURAL                                 ..



- 30 -
ANNEX I
T AP   L C  3A                                        PAGEl
MALI                     - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHNET
KALI                                   REVERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) in
MOST               (HOST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
RECENT       LOW INCOME AFRICA        MIDDLE INCOME
tg60t!       1970L!_   ESTtmATELkb       SOUNM OF SAHARA       AFRICA S. OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJIISTED ENROLLNENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      10.0           23.0        27.0 /1            69.2                  91.0
MALE                       14.0          30.0         35.0 7             78.8                  90.5
FEMALE                      6.0          16.0         20.07Ti            57.6                  73.6
SFCONDARY: TOTAL                       1.0            5.0         9.0 te            13.1                  17.4
MALE                        1.0           R.0         13.0 7             17.6                  23.7
FEMALE                      0.3           2.0          5.0 7;            8.3                  14.8
VOCATIONAL (Z OF SECONDARY)             14.6 /t         9.8         9.0 11             7.2                   5.3
PUPI L-TEACIIFR RATIO
PRIMARY                               45.0           40.0        41.0 tt            46.1                  38.6
SECONDARY                             17.0           15.0          *                25.9                  24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)                  2.2             ..        10.0 /c            44.3                  35.6
0ONSIPTION
PASSENGER CARS/THOUSAND POP              0.6            1.7          ..                3.8                  Z0.7
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP             2.0           11.6        13.4               41.9                 100.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP                 ..             ..          ..                2.0                  18.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION                0.2            0.6 I1       ..                5.4                  17.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA          1.9            O.S7         ..*               1.4                   0.3
LABO FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOb'S)            2324.0         2853.0      3655.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      48.1          47.9         48.3               36.5                  33.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 94.0          91.0         72.6               77.4                  57.1
INDUSTRY (eERCENT)                     3.0            4.0        11.7                9.8                  17.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 57.5           55.3        51.7               41.0                  36.3
MALE                                  60.6           58.6        55.2               52.1                  47.6
FEMALE                                54.5           52.0        48.3               30.2                  25.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8            0.9         1.0                1.2                   1.4
ITlM  DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS               ..
LOWEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS                ..
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS
rVouTn TARGET sROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   * *                      98.0 /c           168.3                 525.3
RURAL                                   ..             ..        60.0 Zf            90.8                 249.0
ESTlMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..             ..        61.0 Ie           107.7                 477.4
RURAL                                   ..             ..        37.0 7;r           65.0                 186.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (Z)
UFIBAN                                  ..             ..        27.0 I1            34.7
RURAL                                   ..             ..        48.0 la            65.4
INOT AVAII.ALE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
la   The grotip averaRes for each indicator are populatlon-welghted arIthmetic means.  Coverage of countries aong the
Indtcators depends on avsilabiltty of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless otherwise noted.  Data for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between 1969 and
1971; and data for -Most Recent Estimate- between 198D and 1982.
/c   1977; Id 1976;  /e 1978;  if 1962; /L Government persounel;  lh Government hospital establishments; /L 1979;
. 1975;  /k Not Including private vocational schools;  /I 19727 /. 1968.
JUNE. 1984



- 31-                                                                                  ANNEX I
Page 3
loflua.. Ut      5k eaade    FI. .aea sp,e.Ite a-545cd It a   askIai.   5                      lbs     aill .k I- al. k .1S Ct   lkt seell a  b. [otIIIslalle
.esistiala .81- wolla .8 .ssdsa.: l     aisul.la  a   .a    ws dIlfseuy -  aau             ..I albstlq Wlbs S.   Ift=a...   se tas l..l.  -41tl 5
ds.ellgl. atdtsa. s8 olgAll". leatil.  aIlda .d ..a otaaelset"l -a.sI. a-sW 5 9..w  ss   l-o.sa-
wt ..tu             uSloa loll It at   a  Sewi  dspsp  It 0. -b)s.I asle    a  Cs, 5    uyp sIIt-  uIbI s_   a  big* a..       I.      k -Mke-h SIcvsW .8 It
*e IaSe   .w  1kvlaa. 'Kg%      as KI ..as.  .9 eagI   e, Ift     ....... Mm      sC -    lIt assd IS  Isy.8 de.        I. II   S    = _.,aI    -   i
.srisla i-.. issi  ea.  . -11.   a-   ala. tf   I.6ak.ls.sr~.    ae.s' .lfaa.l. .    v-.  1k w.al. ..uv., a  III.a.at      *l.  ewes If   .                        Ia*.
2tIi .-Yslee e  all.0 eWiattIC..5a.155                 v..  15.-  "1.!f                               dvfll   It.          411.4b   .         8 tesaIallq
z-  F -               1.atsl a .uss.evl*, at. 55,
dna.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              ~~~~~~~~ ftlaaul    la n   --Fs .Ie dt.idaa by aa us.k58ss.Is
liliall-al.  55   5  hskujIk. oa     -                   -sI -.1.   ts              u.I .,Iclu
Poll  giI  s..                                                                    7ut a-al .ft  k  ll     o.-Istl.9e0911k     ...utuwelI-Yet5a   l.l
swinCj,Jflflfft- at auruqic. aIlase. S 111955   11t5i 7718.5.          951101. 4. pahlIa a 1Mls't."ssse.I :0      up.uIsIe.d kt,Is.a a:
aim,  em. a  ~~sI dal,                  abylos    fa 14ll                              "latbl.  a.  PlyM.1sdpr.w. tssllk.s. w..vlbs  ptls.lelI1vli
_aftdlat otid 1~ 4ol   fll41MI3 tlL.".5.fg least1 -s.-.s. tepal.e kiIel.14...l.td                        k    lflle.d
E   ore. i tlug flIf-.e ..uu    ssa   .   stls                                             s.  sst.a plaeL al Icalttd  e                   elcsals fIliby * CIsa
ISL         Mm.lT          1TSt..s     p-Ia s.a        .ahye,sus.                            s.-sa   sc..  Idti   .4.1 Slab, .91tloIol-e ls  .es..ls    asd-
a  wksa  alaetll)   .  P.-L.ea.% al  5155   l  uds   15                                      est.*1.14et  8aIsallIl.a.                           --
sure, a0 lIt S..                                                                                                     -ls.a           t.a..aI       Is..
-m o.  "a    d-  sea.,ItIt,Iee  Casa                      ____________________________________
R -11.1mIS1sA..SLIE*Alow-MAwV M5.Ssf.
dl -ial.Itl aIgts=.k..-isa    algola Lial    sesbtla Idlla 9Saalkeaea.   I -.ad8d- -aIt-,  aMM                                                   ktaladI
a   W.ewUls'IaOts. toll  a.41 It   d Is.                                            ak      Id i,..4.l.t  Mnss.
la-looklas d-it- t. f-11114CY oll-olifiloi 1. I-                                                  1.5 se-I   111 *5lo555 
W" - .    uis -.le  Is et.Jsau1-a  a of '-   Its                     1l.e ear: .,T eer.i.iaula
a       lliall. a  ..a aal   u-tilt asale   a   utIlySIsc, ueaI.i.klts..e.    sueI4u  511s 
tal   s   lCeta.us.yIItIusbIIIsssusi   sia.04                                          utsqetjfl.squt-.7lep  ls-- u-. -b..-S  eel 
yells Issa  Beat,  a   at." Ill-s usaase II&. vll     a   71Ia                                     s    -.ll  a.cpLtib  Iulet   sne        ssls
-11 an      Loal dt a i    ....ntu Is.a..dI    I. Isa  Isse  a  u. tale                                          t"         -              I'.~     .iI
"N.asa1ai -IF t.aiu  5rt f-              . 55s l-avl.                                         IC IsIUty
sates lsq lIts. Oil.    -,aaltl ..-Ile                     55.     a*--I              I    ea   ivls esnuw    Iieue.
e.etsatis  ,.5a.IJ.le a s gutllsI.,   WI b111en  I~ .-dt Ia, "-.a -alld  Cs. dlee.  ia.sk.peetsdailIe
a  t- kdst   l.  i .,ssk.   le  aa.. oft,k                                          .s.scls. t  -5 -1 auv.I  5515ltts.  e   -dawe
hs7Cto-atoa ttialC is   11 tsta-ta   Ctc 117t   is.. 4.1-.1  Ieal. Isay=    Il aI  se    tl!eveds.                                                  ts 
IP,to.etit 5           ,a eeS .tae.. Is.  us.LIsat.  1k                                 aae.lc.atssi
ned, Its4 e    s.mul-Iat ts* r- ellusyt s    a.aae     yn   tasuaelldI
fts!sA~~hs4a.                                                                   ewSael as' Ms.e.W.  4at. lusat   -lat     II.d. IIftae. . is's kI tk1  
.d- I. . sala dae.-  I..Cu b                                                                 .su   ILs. acls.sl.1  se-Ldl  aTu
et.tylural In -   If d s o.ci- F. lrlitaea    Is.                    a. -se.vs-   a . al-d1 Ifta.s Ist.   dIi is. W        . *        -C.
eseutasiSl Ills, IWO, aS  is! a ."ll   WIalsaloo.                                                                                          bs.russ, 55 l-I .1
-   Ira-     -       - e-I seunt eessuae .s.el sad-                     uWlte   .ubi.ta.f.     lIltIC        f
___________ __________ ___   -  a t   is s  bleik  e-    tt,o l aII   tf  - r d-  al la. a Iu . at s a .  s e se l  s.    ep a   is y  ar   I    t a   t
1    al aIf*ll,         t  dte.                                                tuasls  5104  luais
-aaaaftall-      a L.- .  t 4~.i7            Ili..  I  s                   .sal.apu,taS                   sist.les-i s..    ssta
IsesUtw less   ssil, tIvu-p.t ae  abs tuIts  -75  a                        cl.s i          alp saeal  c..s.           e.st  45955sea  ue.dse
list                                                                                   a mlels   sta   tsp  tI  eseiesae                        .I   .ml..
_It_ Ild  _-49pr~n   P-""              ato  pai'ac_.s Ca.asAsuaqase  eiu   e    Isse-                                       1 a..5 . tis at  lo. 5
IoWse.                                                                                 "lSst.                                                                 I,lstc   a. .lds   aaeb      eu-ses
Fails fl4a.;ep-bsea Iaatepcs a altIS uqas - Fue.ssequ .9 arriad  sOil. uSgs.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PI""L               I loli
abtd-  tsls  Wsam ste a as 1            54-4   eIk1       asa1Jjflsel                                      s.       lssty.ltwse   seuIusa
14                              11~~~~~~tischs  Its  c97  a115 dt.
-.1, .0 f-, P- Aw.          -IIt sy   veaqt                            !.a5jyIJ-.sltteit t.a ete.es8 c.ia    eiaea
Ifdaasa            ys      va  eel- aP- 11514.0 awl,  aClist                              alsI a.
d.i.                                                                                    PuflMMtsltutt.l.tisa     1- uset at a   al     ettielsea
ssees, dse- es, .8aufCs.upi; se  .vuip-Ipa is sas    pso aI-        aeteeses   tInt   !  5                                ae_psnis  .1ueeselle
Is.o"sI.bcs 11II eie   elistt.             ee.s.ltn. - svn loll a                         -11  tWl,       f list I.e.It. alf . lA se  iS'. esSlCe          --I el.
qattlis  a  is 155 seusaslug.  C  isa I. diis.Ikflse.  tasule..    tsu 5541w..... eta atlas tav-!.  I   s."
am  C   -  dlaeikvis sIe-titls        slsls  10Mh   Ce.a   Fatal.
as *P leI&,        25   ul         t         -aa.   -o bSl.u.i
o1t  tat .it    tess. ateblllki by a    ps.1  1st   agos                         l t
Mit  ails - sa f   1 jIsIsI -ssleg paM.   - Xaoa    r8as   55
dev!sll e.ss l.8 CahIll ss    beli            t .si.I
af alar a. rotat iSat fIld a  5eslsse   ae.5   5ar                                       FIsi          ets    1   sy.tseasauc   9reI.isl,
M8 aaS'tull. a      aet    tat Itst,essa   y16111aalkl.lMs  sl   .leba.elu
Whil_                                                                                              _    _ __a",_                _    _  _ _    _ _  _    __.



- 32 -
ECORIC IUICATUS                                                 PAN 4
3S0 NATINAL PROODICT IN 19R4 III                                                AI_AL COW        RATE OF  WTN  It MITS? PRICES)  121
IC MR.                                       9       1967-74  197440  19K-
OIP AT MET PRICES                              92.5   100.0                                  3.4       2.5      1.2   -17.3
SROSS MCESTIC INVESTIMET                       270.0    27.2                                  6.1    -2.1       17    -11.1
GROSS STINKL ShIVISNS                           42.1      4.3                               -2.3        13/      131
CURREIT ARINT  ALAtCE /41                     -206.4   -20.9                                -15.5    -6.6    -1.2   -16.1  151
EIPORTS WF  NGDIS NFS                          221.5    22.3                                 12.0    -2.9      11.6    -9.1  131
IMPORTS WF GODS, NFS                           430.2    43.3                                13.7      4.9       4.2   -12.7  /51
*TPUT, LAR FCRE AND PROICTIVITY IN 1912 161
VALUE ADDED                        LOR FORCE                        V.A. PENR   KER
1s0 Pil.     I                       uil.       I                        Ms    I NAIL.AVE.
AGRICULTURE                                    445.6    42.6                         2.7    75.0                       16.0    56.3
INISTRY                                        107.7    10.3                        0.4     11.1                      269.3    92.7
SERICES                                        492.6    47.1                         0.5    13.9                      915.2   339.1
TOFALIAVERAGE                               1045.9   100.0                        3.6   100.0                       290.5
GVENENIT FINNE 171
GENERAL GOVUNT                                        CEtRL GOVEMENT
CFAF    I DF                                                  CF^F     I OF
PRWO.   srP                                                   Pla.   G
2994     1994   1911-1                                        1994    1954   191-93
CJRRENT REEIPTS                                 64.9     14.7    14.5                                          46.6    10.5    11.4
CURRENT EIPEITIRES                              63.2     34.3    14.1                                          49.4    11.2    12.4
CURRENT SRUS                                     1.7      0.4      0.4                                         -2.1    -0.1    -1.0
CAPITAL EIPENDITURES                            39.0      9.6      9.5
EITERNAL ASSISTANCE Rgi                         95.6    19.4    13.5
MDII!, CREDIT AND PRICES /201                  1979    1910      1931    1392      33       1914              1992     N9S3    3994
(bin. CUAF OUTSTANDING ENUD-4EPII                     KCN   3ECBE    ECEIER
NMOE? AND OUST-ONEY                             60.3    62.9    64.7    72.3    97.3   104.7                   72.3    17.2    104.7
BN  CREDIT TO G6WER81T                          55.1    56.0    61.6    75.9    91.4    29.1                   75.9    91.3    29.1
BA  CREDI7 TO ECNMY                             76.3    12.4      97.4    95.0   101.7    70.1                 95.0   101.7    70.1
PDF EICH STATE ENTERPRISESI                    144.61   152.32   155.4)    31.41  159.2)   (22.41             (15.43   159.21   122.4)
E! AND OASI-NEI (IX DP)                         23.1     22.4     21.3    21.4    22.9    21.7
GENERAL PRICE IICI /111                        130.9    121.0   134.3   146.1   157.6        ...
-UL PERCENTARE CHAIE 1I
GENERL PRICE INEX 113/                          10.9      9.2     11.0      9.9      7.7      ...
RK CREDIT TO 6OVER2UENT                          9.2      1.6    10.0    23.3    20.4   -31.2
VA  CRED! To tEONY                              15.7      7.3      6.6      9.7      7.0   -30.6
(IT MI10 STATE ENTERPRISESI                    (24.13   (17.3)    15.31   (Q.5)    13.31  1-62.21
NOTES:  ALL CORERSIOMS TO USt ARE AT THE AVERAGE EICNHNE RATE PREAILIE DURING THE PERID COVERED.
NOT AVAILABLE NDUICATED 37
6/    N G  ESlINATES FOR 1992, 1993 AM  1924 BASED ON ClRET GRTH  RATES FROM  IIF M3   190 GM  VALE RS  ElD NTIOMAL
ACCEiNTS DAIA. ALL OTHER COMPONENTS ARE ESTIATES FROM INF STAFF REPORT, AUUST 1993 3D IMF, RED, UCTOBER, 93, RED 195.
i21   G1i GROTH RATE CaLCAOaTED BY THE L.EAST-SDUARES METHO, ALL OTHER GROUTH RATES USING END POINTS.
I3M  GROSS NTIONAL SAVINGS TURED NEGATIVE IN 1974, MING CALCULATION OF A 6RDITH RATE INOSSIILE.
t'4   GROTH RATE CALCULWTWD FRM RESOURICE  A, MIT CURRENI DALMCE. A NEGATIVE SiSs INDICATES A 6ROIMING DEFICIT.
51  GROWTH 11ES CALCULAMED N THE BSIS F CEITAT 53. FR ALL PERIODS.
16U   LaDR FORCE FROM MRLD DEVELDET REPORT 1993; THESE FIGURES ACTUALLY REPRESENT THE 190 LABOR FORCE.
DAK ESTIMATES OF VALLE AIED IY SECTOR ARE NOT YET AVAILAIE. THESE FIGUES uERE CALCULATED FI  ASSRING
THA  ETNTEN 1991 aND 192 7HE SECTOS    NED  IRELATIVELY TO OE ANOTHERI) AS NOTED IN THE IF STFF REPORT.
THESE RELATIVE CHANGES APPLIED TO 1991 BANS SECTORAL  MEDO     ND SCALED TO SUM TO UP.
11i  FROM IMF RED, OCTUER, 193
/91   IMF STAFF REPORT/RED, OCTOBER 1913
191  ESTIMATES Wf NET FOREIGN IORINING FRM 0RS 9     OF GRANTS FRM INF RED, AUGIST, 1993.
GRMTS INCLUDE FOE AID, PROJECT AID AN    GTaRY AID.
1101  aLL DATA FRMI IMF INTERTIOINAL FINCIAL STATISTICS YEARpnC.
/II C DP DEFLATOR. THIS IS A COMPOSITE SERIES USING EUATMS FRM EPD NATIOL ACCOUNTS DATA UNTIL 399o
AND THEEAFTER CALCULATING THE INDEX DY USING PERCENTAGE CHAIGES FROM INF STAFF REPORT TO ME THE
DEFLATORS COMPATIBLE  ITh MATIUHAL ACCOUOTS FIGURES USED.
DATE: 7-1-35



- 33 -
TRADE PAYnENTS AND CAPITAL FLONS                                               ANNEX I
- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - - - - - - - - -             - -- -- --
PAGE 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS I1/                                                          PROY.           MERCHANDISE EXPORTS, FOR (AVERAGE 1981-041  /L/
1991     1902      1903      1904
USs Kln.       I
MILLIONS US-
EXPORTS OF GOODS, NFS                               200.2    197.7    206.3    221.3             COTTON AND PRODUCTS                        64.9      46.2
IMPORTS OF GOODS, IFS                             -446.0   -390.4   -410.4   -430.2              LIVESTOCK AND PRODUCTS                     46.7       3.'2
RESOURCES GAP (DEFICIT=-;                         -246.6   -202.7   -204.1   -209.7              GROJUDNUTS AND PRODUC1S-                     4.9      3.5
FISH IDRIED AND SMOKED)                     1.9       1.4
FACTOR PAYMENTS INET)                               -29.1    -29.5    -26.3    -18.5             ALL OTHER COMMODITIES                       22.2     15.0
PRIvATE IRANSFERS INET)                              29.0     20.9      23.4      20.8
TOTAL                                     140.6    100.D
BALANCE ON CURRENT ACCOUNT                        -245.9   -203.3   -207.0   -206.4
EXTERNAL DEBT, DEC. 31, 1993  121
GOVERNMENT TRANSFERS (NET)                          129.9     93.1    100.9    132.5                                                               US$ Kin.
MLT CAPITAL (NET)                                   71.0      79.2      93.4      55.6                                                             -
PRIVATE (NET)                                    0.4      -3.0       ...       5.7           PUBLIC DEBT, INCL. GUARANTEED                      1300.0
PUBLIC (NET)                                    70.b      91.2      03.4      49.9           (OF IHICH DISBURSED)                               (980.01
- LISG URSEMENT                                 7b.5      99.9      95.3      65.4
- PRINCIPAL                                     -5.9      -7.7    -11.9    -15.5             DEbT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1994  /2/                       1
SIDR ALLOCATION                                       3.7      ...       ...       ...                                                                12.2
REF:NANCING OF DEBT                                   2.9     23.1      17.3       6.4           PUBLIC DEBT, INCL. GUARANTEED                         6.4
- PRINCIPAL                                      2.5       0.9       0.5       1.4.
- INTEREST                                       0.4      22.2      16.9       5.0
OVERALL BALANCE                                     -30.4     -9.9       2.6    -11.9            IERD/IDA LENDING AS OF MARCH 1995 I(ILLION USEi
CENTRAL BANh                                         20.2     17.7       5.2      19.7                                                       10RD      IDA
- OPERATIONS ACCOUNT                           127.6)   (-7.9)   (-6.93        ..                                                       ----       --
- IMF (NET)                                    (-2.61   (2&.8)   113.63   (20.1)             OUTSTANDING - DXSBURSED IMIL. USSI          0.0    219.7
- OTHERS (NET)                                  (4.01   (-1.2)   1-1.61    I...                             UNDBISURSED (MIL. USSI       0.0    102.6
DEPOSIT MONEY BAS                                    -4.0     -;.i      -7.3    -11.4
CHANGES IN ARREARS                                   21.3     -9.7       5.5      -4.9           TOTAL OUTSTANDING (NIL. US$1                0.0    321.3
OBLIGATIONS NOT SERVICED                             0.9       5.1      -6.0      -9.4
PENTOING SETTLEMENT
GROSS RESERVES                                      29.1      31.4      3B.a       *-
NET RESERVES                                      -238.5   -234.9   -225.6         ...
:MPOR[S OF PETROLEUM                                i'.2      69.4      64.4      57.4
IMPORTS OF FOOD STUFFS                              93.7      61.6      05.6    129.9
RATE OF EICHANGE
uSs 1.00 = CFAF                                     271.7    329.6    391.1    437.0  (AVE. FOR YEAR)
'AS OF AUGUST 1984: 1S1  1.00 - CFAF   443.1
CFAF  100 = USS    D.26)
NOTES:
III  DERIVED FROM IMF, RED, APRL 1995.
/21 FROM DRS TABLE 2. DEBI SERVICE RATIO IS THE RATIO OF DEBT SERVICE TO EXPORTS OF
G2ODS AND NON-FACTOR SERVICES.
qATE: 7-I-85



- 34 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MALI
A. Statement of IDA Credits as of March 31, 1985
Borrower: Republic of Mali
Credit  IDA Fiscal                                            Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year               Purpose                           IDA     Undislursed
-----us$ million----
Fifteen Credits fully disbursed                                107.34
538-MLI    1975    Livestock                                   13.3         0.29
669-MLI    1977    Mali-Sud Agricultural                       15.5         0.49
753-MLI    1978    Mopti Rice II                               15.0         0.26
883-MLI    1979    Forestry                                     4.5         0.14
943-MLI    1979    Urban Development                            12.0        1.92
986-MLI    1980    Industrial Sector Development                8.0         4.62
1104-MLI    1981    Road Maintenance                            17.0-'       3.03
1134-MLI    1981    Petroleum Exploration Promotion              3.7         1.27
1174-MLI    1982    ODIPAC Technical Assistance                  6.5         2.66
1200-MLI    1982    Second Telecommunications                   13.5         9.37
1282-MLI    1983    Water/Power                                 24.0        15.63
1307-IMLI    1983    Economic Management and Training           10.4         6.46
1403-HLI    1984    Biomass Alcohol and Energy Efficiency    7.6             5.86
1415-MLI    1984    2nd Mali-Sud Rural Development              25.9        20.7?
1422-MLI    1984    Health Development                          16.7        12.94
1431-MLI    1984    Rural Water Supply                           4.6         3.50
1442-MLI    1984    Third Education                              4.6         3.69
F007-MLI    1984    Rural Water Supply                            6.3        5.33
FOIO-MLI    1984    Third Education                              4.9         4.42
Total    321.34      102.63
of which has been repaid        2.41
318.93
Total now held by IDA    318.93
Total undisbursed                      102.63
1/   Beginning with Credit 1104-MLI, credits have been denominated in Special
Drawing Rights. The dollar amounts in these columns represent the dollar
equivalents at the time of credit negotiations for the IDA amounts and the
dollar equivalents as of March 31, 1985, for the undisbursed amounts.



- 35 -
kAIexIn
Page 2 of 2
B. Statweit of IFC Iese ts as at Mnkch 31, 1985
Lan                                                         hemt
Number   Year   Borromar                   frp             of Lomy  ,        Usbursed
4034IL   1978   Socihti Mwadou              eawh and        0.6                  0.0
Soda Diaflo et Fils      PsJmdc
Prxcte
612-Mil   1982   Sochte lmsrieUae          Sheuit butter   1.8        .45        0.0
de aritg du Mli,  S.A.   for expore



- 36 -
Annex III
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
Project Prepared by DNTP
Project Identified                              April 1983
Project Appraisal                               May 1984
Project Post-Appraisal                          November 1984
Negotiations Substantially Completed            June 1985
Planned Date of Credit Effectiveness            November 1985
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Action
(a) Assistance to Government in drawing up action plan for liquifying
PCS (para. 43).
Section III: Special Conditions
A. Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Adoption of a plan of action for solving the liquidity problems of
the postal checking system (para. 43);
(b) Adoption of an IDA approved plan of action which ensures that Road
Fund revenues are sufficient to cover investment (including debt
service) and maintenance needs of the priority road network and
increase of such revenues for 1985 by CFAF 1.2 billion (para 44);
(c) Fulfillment of conditions precedent to disbursement of Swiss
Contribution (para. 69).
B. Conditions of Disbursement
(a) Government to undertake and complete a study on the connection of
the Bamako-Bougouni road to a proposed second bridge on the Niger
River in Bamako and the insertion of both bridges in the urban road
network, under terms of reference acceptable to th: Association, by
December 31,  1985.   Adoption of a solution agreed by IDA and
fulfillment of conditions precedent to disbursemnt of the AfDF
Credit will be conditions of disbursemwnt on the Bamako-Bougouni
component (para 68).
C. Other Conditions
(a)  Multi-annual  programs   of  road  transport  investments would  be
prepared  and  reviewed   annually   with   the  Association,  such
programs to follow economic criteria and take into account the
couutry's road maintenance and debt servicing capacity (para. 40);



- 37 -
Annex III
Page 2 of 2
(b) An increase in tax revenues directly and automatically available to
the Road Fund sufficient to ensure that the Road Fund revenues
cover debt service and maintenance requirements in the highway
sector (i.e. CFAF 28,950 million over the period January 1985 to
December 1990) (para. 44);
(c) Government would not undertake new investments nor provide any
credit guarantees for new investments in trucking firms, unless, on
the basis of an economic and financial justification, the
Government and the Association have agreed such investments are
justified (para. 50);
(d) Government would prepare and furnish to the Association within a
year of Credit effectiveness, (i) a schedule of road tariffs
structured to take into account the economic cost of different
types of road transports, and (ii), a system of vehicle weight
control measures; and thereafter adopt such measures as agreed with
the Association (para. 52); and
(e) The proceeds net of collection cost from the road toll would be
applied to the Road Fund (para. 53).



M A LII 
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                             A L G                :    A
Tronsport Network
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4   N
A   *.A.. Ia Z'.)! A *.I C .ac4'i                                                                                      S                      C
91~~~~~~~
I          _   1&~~~~~'.!: St:-:s                                                                                      
- -- '^..i .c.:i .*.C41 :*F.rtIJ'.c es               I                  *..                                                                       I-
_._*L&{Q&   it                mm                                                                                         i      
-   .NA.E ICIP fflS7' %E'CU
',.Ok                'I I 6.111   1                                                                            , 
*  :A.I  Ii.I'                    '
,    ANsI .*.1 :I s5 TcI
_.t'-"r'- w.rc  'IoI,
i~~~~~~~c.  is                                                                                                 , 
A  U  R I T A  N  I A 
.4-  (NAiAd ~ ~ ~     ~     W.-      --    
r-8 U R K I N A
(3  I3C' s:.o   c    so w                                                                    No
EJAUEITANI1A             L
-~G U IN E A                     '1             4                 a              ~                          --o_        
v ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~                                                              - \e" r                Fr                MALI    OE 
~/'-'-'''ST\\\~ --.=  't>ff>>v^J,,   ,le                   GHANA               TOGO    ,               <    >      -__
_                                                                                                               Cf- [WP(¢4 1\       > rr   FehA  ,,; t5-,IAUs
-63.ll



