r RL   E ffi F  F Q) r  gDocument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.  P-2155-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SIXTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
November 8, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is officially set
relative to the Pound Sterling. From May 17, 1975 through April 25,
1976, the official value was 30.0 to the Pound Sterling. Since
the latter date the value has been changed on three occassions, the
most recent being on November 3, 1976, when it was set at 25.45
to the Pound Sterling. The Pound is floating relative to the
U.S. dollar and consequently the Taka-U.S. dollar rate is subject
'to change. The exchange rate used in preparing the data for this
report is Tk 15.5 - US$1.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS USED
BCIC      - Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation
BJMC      - Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
BSB       - Bangladesh Shilpa Bank
BSRS      - Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha
BTMC      - Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation
CIDA      - Canadian International Development Authority
GOB       - Government of Bangladesh
JICA      - Japanese International Cooperation Agency
ODM       - United Kingdom's Overseas Development Ministry
UNDP      - United Nations Development Program
UNIDO     - United Nations Industrial Development Organization
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



10  O VIQAL USE ONLY
ANNEXES
I.   Economic Development Data
II.   Status of Bank Group Operations as of September 30, 1977
III.   Supplementary Project Data Sheet
IV.   Past Action Programs
V.   The Current Situation and Prospects for Major Industries
VI.   The Jute Industry
VII.   The Cotton Textile Industry
VIII.   Utilization by Sector of the Five Previous Imports Credits
IX.   Production Trends of Selected Industries
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclod without World Bank authorization.



BANGLADESH
SIXTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:               US$75 million equivalent
Terms:                Standard
Purpose:              To provide foreign exchange for the import of in-
dustrial components, chemicals, raw materials and
spare parts to enable selected high priority indus-
tries to maintain their production. In connection
with this proposed credit action programs have been
agreed to consolidate and to expand the scope of
efforts started under previous imports credits in
improving the efficiency and financial viability
of the jute and cotton textile industries.
Estimated                                  ------US$ Millions------
Disbursements:           IDA FY            FY78      FY79       FY80
First Quarter          -         18         5
Second Quarter         -         10         3
Third Quarter           7         7         -
Fourth Quarter         20         5        _
27        40         8
Cumulative Total       27        67        75



Recommended Categories
and Ceilings                                (in US$ million)
Maximum Amount
Average Estimated          of the Credit
Annual Imports            that can be
Category                 FY1978 and FY1979             Withdrawn
Industry: Raw materials,
spare parts, chemicals,
components and packaging
materials for:
1.   Jute Industry                        15.0                       15.0
2.   Textile Industry                     90.0                       35.0
3.   Paper and Board Industry              12.0                       7.0
4.   Fertilizer Industry                   18.0                      10.0
5.   Steel and Foundry Industry           35.0                       20.0
6.   Export-oriented Industries
(frozen fish, shrimp, and
frogs' legs, tea process-
ing and leather tanning)              7.0                        5.0
7.   Chemicals and Pharmaceutical         30.0                        5.0
Industry (excluding proprietary
items)
Construction Activities:
8.   Cement and raw materials
for cement manufacture
including packaging
materials, spare parts
and other intermediate
building materials.                 30.0                       18.0



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECO1IMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SIXTH IMPORTS PROGRAM
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$75 million, on
standard IDA terms, for the Sixth Imports Program. The purpose of the Credit
will be to provide foreign exchange to help finance imports of raw materials
and spare parts required by high priority industries. In connection with this
proposed Credit, action programs have been agreed to consolidate and to expand
the scope of efforts started under previous imports credits to improve the
efficiency and financial viability of the jute and cotton textile industries.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD dated September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission was in the field in November 1976 and its report entitled "Bangladesh:
Current Economic Performance and Development Policy Issues" (Report No. 1469-BD,
dated May 19, 1977) was distributed on May 23, 1977.
Introduction
3.        The Basic Economic Report described the obstacles to development
in Bangladesh and outlined a course of action to maximize the development
of the country's resources. The high ratio of population to natural re-
sources, the slow development of the productive and infrastructural base
and the weaknesses of the administrative and institutional framework led the
Report to project a growth rate of GDP of between 2% and 3.5% per year in
real terms over the five years 1973-78, the variations within that range
depending on the appropriateness of the policy framework and on levels of
aid.
4.        The Bangladesh economy is characterized by a number of structural
imbalances. Foremost is the imbalance between the large population (approxi-
mately 85 million), growing rapidly (2.8% annually) in a small area (54,000
square miles), with a population density which is one of the highest in the
world (1,400 per square mile). Second is the imbalance between food produc-
tion and consumption. The agricultural sector - basically comprising
foodgrains and jute - is characterized by low productivity. For example,
only 10% of the rice farmers (those with farms of 5 acres or more in size),
produce a marketable surplus. For the past decade the rate of growth of
foodgrain output (1.3% annually) has been less than the growth in population.
This has resulted in the reduction of per capita consumption of cereals to a



-2-
level of about 15-1/2 ounces per day, which is less than the average before
independence. The food gap has also necessitated annual imports of 1-2 mil-
lion tons of cereals, even in years of good harvests. Third, a large gap
exists between savings and investment, necessitating foreign aid inflows of
up to 7% of the GDP. About 80% of the country's development expenditure and
about half of its import bill is financed through foreign assistance. Efforts
have been made in recent years to mobilize a greater volume of resources from
domestic sources through improvements to the tax system and incentives for the
expansion of non-traditional exports. As a result, in FY77 the budget showed
a modest surplus and the balance of payments deficit was reduced significantly.
However, the underlying structural problems related to resource mobilization
and economic development in general still remain. The single biggest chal-
lenge is to improve productivity, both to cope with current problems of
economic development, and to cope with contingencies that result from adverse
weather or changes in the country's terms of trade.
5.        The present Government, in power since November, 1975, rules by
martial law. General Zia Rahman, the Army Chief of Staff, serves both as
President and Chief Martial Law Administrator. The two chiefs of the other
defense services serve as Deputy Chief Martial Law Administrators. The
three service heads and fifteen civilians form a President's Advisory Council.
Each of the members has responsibility for one or more ministries. General
Zia Rahinan's political program was endorsed by an overwhelming majority in a
referendum held in May 1977. This program includes national elections in
December 1978 and local elections, at municipal and district level, later
this year (Union Councils were elected in January 1977). The current Govern-
ment has introduced some economic reforms, such as a reduction of producer
and consumer subsidies, a tax on agricultural income, liberalized imports and
an improved climate for private investment and private sector participation
in domestic and foreign trade. Steps have also been taken to disinvest about
300 industrial enterprises and to grant greater functional autonomy to public
corporations. In the financial field, the Government has continued to pursue
prudent monetary and fiscal policies. However, the fundamental problems of
the country - namely overpopulation, weak administration, inadequate infra-
structure, insufficient foodgrain output and inadequate resources for develop-
ment - continue to confront Bangladesh.
The Current Economic Situation
6.        On July 1, 1975, Bangladesh initiated a stabilization program in
conjunction with a standby arrangement with the IMF. Its principal elements
consisted of a credit restraint program and elimination of deficit financing,
combined with some import liberalization. This was preceded by a devaluation
of 58% in May 1975, which subsequently, as a result of a link with the Pound
Sterling, has led to a cumulative de facto depreciation of 90%. The record
so far is that the credit restraint program has been a success: after an
estimated rate of inflation of about 80% in 1974, prices declined by 10% in
1975, and price stability has continued to be a major objective in 1976 and
1977. The import licensing requirements were relaxed during FY76; besides
increasing allocations to an average of 95% of entitlements, licenses were
renewed on expiry and there is greater fungibility in the use of exchange



allocations for selected categories of imports. Improvements in this area
continued in FY77: import requirements of all public corporations and high
priority private sector industries were fully met, the role of the Trading
Corporation of Bangladesh was further reduced, and the list of items permitted
under the Wage Earners' Scheme for imports by the private sector was enlarged.
7.        The economy of Bangladesh was relatively stable in FY77.    Population
continued to grow at the high rate observed in recent years and the dependence
on food imports to meet internal deficits continued. Export earnings showed
a modest increase. Adverse weather affected the rice and jute crops, reducing
output. However, the impact on prices was mitigated by recourse to stocks.
A drawdown of foodgrain stocks, in conjunction with imports, helped to moderate
an escalation of foodgrain prices in the first half of 1977. Likewise, jute
exports were maintained at about the previous year's level by utilizing jute
stockpiled from previous years. Monetary and fiscal policies were designed
to stimulate production and to moderate the rise in prices. Despite emerging
shortages, the rate of inflation in FY77 was restricted to about 12%.
Increased incentives were offered for the export of non-traditional exports
and import liberalization was accelerated. Greater opportunities were offered
for participation of private enterprise in economic activity. Overall, eco-
nomic management continued to consolidate-albeit slowly-the progress that
has been evident in recent years.
8.        The agricultural sector did quite well in FY76 with overall pro-
duction increasing more than 10%. Favorable weather was essentially respon-
sible for the good harvests. The output of foodgrains rose to a record level
of 13.0 million tons. This was reversed in FY77 when, as a result of cyclones
and floods, foodgrain output declined to an estimated 11.8 million tons. The
declines were concentrated in the autumn (Aman) and spring (Boro) crops. As a
response to the lower harvests domestic rice prices began to rise sharply in
the first quarter of 1977, prompting the Government to import about 100,000
tons of foodgrains with its own foreign exchange resources. Since that time,
the Government has imported a further 280,000 tons of foodgrains at a cost
of $70 million. While weather continues to be an important element in the
determination of harvests in Bangladesh, attention has to be paid to the
improvement of agricultural support institutions and input delivery services
as well as marketing systems. The small-scale irrigation program (comprising
low-lift pumps, and shallow and deep tubewells) is a major input in the
improvement of farm productivity. The program needs to be designed to ensure
greater coverage, efficiency in the maintenance of equipment and punctuality
in delivery of the service. Procedures for the allocation of fertilizer,
though much improved, still require simplification. GOB has expressed an
intention as part of an approach to a comprehensive food policy, to increase
the procurement price for rice and reorganize and improve the marketing,
storage, and distribution network. It has also announced that it would
increase the price of foodgrains sold through ration shops, change the pro-
portions of rationed rice and wheat in the ration system in favor of wheat,
and ensure greater selectivity in the distribution of rationed foodgrains.
In order to achieve a greater degree of food security which would help it
to carry out these measures in a satisfactory fashion, the Government has
announced that it wishes to increase its foodgrain stock to about 1 million



- 4 -
tons by the end of June 1978, and to have a pipeline of imports of about
500,000 tons, to withstand unforeseen contingencies. The achievement of
the target foodgrain stock will depend on the efficiency of the domestic
foodgrain procurement program, a satisfactory level of imports and appro-
priate pricing and distribution policies for rationed foodgrains.
9.        In the industrial sector, capacity utilization has improved in a
number of industries and the supply of raw materials and spares has improved.
GOB has started to reorganize public enterprises, which account for a major
share of industrial output, in order to improve management and labor produc-
tivity through, among other measures, providing them with more autonomy in
matters such as staffing.
Balance of Payments
10.       The impact of the good foodgrain harvests and the policies and
measures instituted in FY76 were reflected in Bangladesh's FY77 balance of
payments. The restrictive monetary and fiscal policies of FY76 were main-
tained in FY77 and they continued to restrain demand. This, plus reduced
requirements for food imports and lower import prices, reduced the value of
total imports by 27%. Export earnings showed an increase of 5%. Exports
benefitted from a favorable climate for non-traditional exports which, in
addition, were stimulated by a package of incentives. New items were added
to the list of export products eligible for export performance licenses;
the income tax rebate on earnings derived from non-traditional exports was
doubled; exporters were qualified for preferential credit and interest rates;
and priority was accorded them in the issuance of import licenses for the
purchase of raw material and machinery. These incentives contributed sub-
stantially to the large expansion, estimated at 36%, in the value of non-
jute exports. Consequently, the trade deficit is estimated to have declined
from US$909 million in FY76 to US$537 million in FY77. The current account
deficit in the balance of payments is estimated to total US$512 million.
However, since external aid disbursements in FY77 are estimated at US$572 mil-
lion, inclusive of a cash grant of US$50 million, Bangladesh's international
reserves are estimated to have risen by US$72 million to US$285 million at
the end of June 1977. This would be equivalent in value to about three
months anticipated imports in FY78.
ii.       The balance of payments gap is expected to worsen in FY78 as a result
of a marked increase in the trade deficit. Export earnings are expected to
maintain the momentum of recent years and increase further to about US$425
million, principally due to a further increase in non-traditional exports.
However, the supply of jute is likely to be constrained as a result of a low
level of stocks, while the scope for further increases in export prices is
limited by competition from synthetic substitutes. The value of imports is
projected to rise by US$337 million (36%) over FY77. This is principally a
result of food imports of 1.6 - 1.7 million tons (double that of the previous
year) and an expansion in imports of raw material and other consumer goods.
In FY77, certain basic stocks were run down, especially of such items as
cotton, rock phosphate, cement clinker, pulp, soda ash, steel scrap, and
crude soya bean oil. Increased capacity utilization in industry and the



- 5 -
drive to contain inflation will necessitate larger imports in FY78. The
Government has also accelerated the liberalization of imports: essential
industries are now permitted to import raw materials and spares to meet 8 to
11 months of requirements. Further, for the first time, items such as cotton
yarn, coconut oil, tires and tubes, and dyes and chemicals can be imported
under open general license. The amortization of external debt will also
rise in FY78. Bangladesh will have to repay approximately US$30 million to
the IMF over and above its normal debt service. Hence, despite a 45% increase
to US$816 million in anticipated disbursements from external aid, Bangladesh
expects to reduce its international reserves by about US$32 million in FY78.
Table 1. BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES
(million US$)
FY75      FY76       FY77       FY78
(Actual)  (Actual)    (Actual)  (Projected)
Merchandise Imports (c.i.f.)        -1,402     -1,290 /b    -937      -1,274
Merchandize Exports (f.o.b.)           358        381        400         425
Trade Balance                     -1,044       -909       -537       -849
Other Current Account                     7         1         25          15
Current Account Balance           -1,307       -908       -512       -834
Other Receipts and Payments (net)      272 /a     122         46          50
Amortization:   Long-term debt         -25        -78        -21 /c      -13
Short term capital movements
(net) (including IMF)                 62                   -13 /d     -51
Changes in Reserves (-=increase)      -196         50        -72          32
External Capital Disbursements         924        814        572        816
of which:
Food                              389       307         128        286
Commodity                         386        378        220        300
Project                           145        129        174        230
Cash                                4        -           50
/a Includes US$260 million of outstanding letters of credit.
/b Includes an estimated settlement of US$24 million of outstanding
letters of credit carried over from FY75.
/c Including repayment of US$6 million on USSR Wheat Account.
/d Including refund of a deposit of US$21 million made by the Kuwait
Central Bank.
Source: Bangladesh Planning Commission and Bank estimates.
The Medium Term Development Focus
12.       In its memorandum for the July 1977 Bangladesh Aid Group Meeting,
GOB spelled out the focus of its development strategy for the medium-term.
Agriculture continues to be the cornerstone of its program. Within agri-
culture, the emphasis will be on an intensified Rural Development Strategy
which seeks "growth with equity" in the distribution of benefits. Strong
efforts are being made to include many of the landless and unemployed in



- 6 -
works related to the building of rural infrastructure. Efforts are being
made to expand the acreage of high yielding varieties of seed, to intensify
"Food for Work" programs, to step up agricultural input programs and to
improve the efficiency and capability of agricultural support institutions.
An intensive production program to increase output by 500,000 tons has been
launched in connection with the forthcoming Aman crop and programs to increase
the output of pulses, oilseeds, tobacco, sugarcane and tea are being planned.
It is too early to say to what extent GOB's intentions will be translated into
realistic programs of action, but they represent an essential recognition of
priorities.
13.       A determined effort is to be made to improve the efficiency of the
industrial sector and its contribution to economic growth. One element of
the new industrial strategy consists of further measures to improve the
climate for private investment, such as raising the ceilings for such invest-
ment, the payment of compensation for nationalized property, the encouragement
of foreign private investment collaboration in selected fields, the provision
of increased opportunities for private participation in domestic and foreign
trade, and steps to activate the capital market. The second element in the
strategy consists of an effort to improve the performance of public enter-
prises through such measures as the granting of more autonomy in matters of
staff management, pricing policies and inventory control, and creation of
improved distribution networks. The proposed Credit addresses these issues
for the jute and cotton textile industries. Details of industrial performance
are discussed in Annex V.
14.       The weak administrative framework, the frequent overlapping of
functions, and insufficient decentralization of authority have been important
reasons for delays in the execution of projects. GOB has indicated its
intention to remedy these defects and has taken positive steps to reduce
administrative bottlenecks impeding project execution. Discussions are under-
way with GOB concerning provision of technical assistance (with IDA funding)
to the Planning Commission in the fields of overall planning and project
preparation. Project preparation and implementation cells are being set up
in Ministries and Public Sector organizations to identify, develop, and mon-
itor projects. A study to determine measures to strengthen the capabilities
of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation is under way, with assistance from IDA.
15.       Despite a substantial fiscal effort in recent years, Bangladesh
continues to depend heavily on foreign assistance, to finance the bulk of
its development expenditures. GOB has indicated its intention to reduce this
dependence and to improve its efforts to mobilize domestic resources. In
FY77, total revenue is estimated to have increased by 11%, about twice the
projected rate of growth of GDP. Some new taxes and reductions in subsidies
have been introduced: (a) a tax on urban non-agricultural land and a tax on
agricultural land holdings in excess of 8.4 acres; (b) a water charge levied
at 3% of the gross increased benefit accruing to beneficiaries of the Ganges-
Kobadak, North Bengal Deep Tubewell, and Dacca-Narayanganj-Demra Projects;
and (c) a 20% increase in the price of fertilizer.



-.7-
16.       The policies and measures initiated by GOB represent a good start.
Yet they are no more than a beginning in tackling the major problems of
expanding the output of foodgrains, increasing domestic resource mobilization,
promoting exports and improving administration. Successful implementation
of the measures already initiated and formulation of additional measures
are necessary in FY78. The liberal economic policies initiated in recent
years are likely to be continued in FY78. Specifically, a greater role for
market forces in the allocation of resources is envisaged. This would mean
a continuation of flexible pricing policies, a further reduction of producer
and consumer subsidies, improved efficiency in state enterprises and the
maintenance of export competitiveness through appropriate pricing and the
enforcement of quality control. The trend towards expansion of the role of
the private sector especially in the fields of energy and exports, and towards
disinvestment, especially of uneconomic public enterprises is likely to con-
tinue. The Government will continue to experience difficulties in the
mobilization of domestic resources, the faster implementation of projects,
and maintenance of the tempo of development expenditure. The pressure on
its pool of managers could be exacerbated by emmigration of personnel.
17.       For the medium term, the Government needs to prepare a development
strategy and plan with realistic short- and medium-term targets, a clear set
of priorities, and a consistent resource allocation pattern. The Government
has announced that it is now working on a two year interim plan for FY79 and
FY80, to bridge the gap between the First and Second Five Year Plans. The
Government is also beginning to work on the latter, to cover FY81-FY85. A
plan to meet the criteria noted above must focus on at least four key areas.
First, and central to any program to raise living standards, is the need to
check the rapid growth of population. The main specific task is to increase
effective delivery of family planning services, while continuing to motivate
families to practice birth control. The second key area, because of its
large potential for supplying food requirements and providing a broad distri-
bution of benefits, is the need to increase agricultural productivity. Farm
yields are far below what is environmentally and technologically feasible
and the main constraints -- inadequate incentives, inefficient delivery of
inputs and the slow progress of rural development programs -- are essentially
administrative in nature. Third, increased exports and supporting agricul-
tural and industrial development are essential to the country's future
economic viability. Improved efficiency of the jute industry, expansion
of labor-intensive industries based on local raw materials (e.g. tea, fish,
leather, sugar, paper, spices, fruits, vegetables and handicrafts), and the
promotion of new industrial export products would be central elements of a
successful export strategy. The fourth key area is to increase domestic
resource mobilization.   While the potential for increased public and private
saving beyond the rate of growth of the economy may be limited, some margin
should be possible through measures to increase taxation, improve tax admin-
istration and reduce the very large subsidies to public corporations. While
these elements of a development strategy are not the only requirements to
improve the economy, they are among the most important and will themselves
place heavy demands on development administration.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
18.        Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.
Initially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on reactivation
of IDA credits for uncompleted projects financed under credits to Pakistan
before the independence of Bangladesh. Eleven such credits in an aggregate
amount of US$148.55 million (including US$44.1 million for the repayment of
amounts that had been disbursed under the corresponding previous credits to
Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were made to Bangladesh. In addition,
as of September 30, 1977, 21 new credits, excluding the consolidation credit
of US$31 million referred to in paragraph 19, have been made totalling
US$599.3 million. Of these US$350.0 million have been for five program
credits. The project credits have emphasized agricultural development, but
also included amounts for population, telecommunications, transport and in-
dustry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th member of IFC. IFC is
currently considering several possible projects and a request from GOB to
provide technical assistance in developing a capital market.
19.       Agreement has been reached between GOB and most of the bilateral
and multilateral donors concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of portions
of the debt contracted by Pakistan before Bangladesh became independent.
This will lead to some increase in debt service from the levels now pre-
vailing. Currently, the debt service ratio is about 12%. While it is not
expected to exceed 20% over the next several years, it may do so by the mid
1980s unless careful debt management policies are pursued and aid provided
on appropriately concessional terms. With respect to the Bank Group,
Bangladesh has agreed to accept liability for certain debt for projects
visibly located in Bangladesh and completed before independence. A consol-
idation loan of about US$54.9 million and a consolidation credit of about
US$31.0 million were signed on February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of
Bangladesh's outstanding external debt is not expected to rise significantly
over the next few years from the present level of about 22%.
20.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of September 30, 1977 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. Present disbursement performance under the program credits
is satisfactory. In contrast, disbursements under project credits have lagged
far behind expectations. Reasons for this include delays in the release of
local funds, clearance of contracts, employment of consultants and appointment
of needed staff. GOB has taken steps aimed at eliminating the most pressing
of the bottlenecks and it is hoped that this will lead to accelerated project
implementation. The release of local funds for projects to semi-autonomous
government agencies now requires one application per year instead of the pre-
vious requirement for quarterly applications. The approval of the President
is no longer required for contracts; the ceiling for contracts which can be
approved directly by the project implementing agencies has been raised from
Taka 700,000 to Taka 10 million. Similarly, the requirement that the President
approve all consultants' contracts has been waived; this responsibility now
devolves upon the ministries responsible for the project agencies concerned.
Finally, the authorization of the appointment of staff is being made automatic
in the case of approved projects.



- 9 -
21.        The IDA project lending program increasingly has concentrated on
the rural sector, and specifically on food production. The Ashuganj Fertilizer,
Barisal Irrigation, Karnafuli Irrigation, Rural Development, Agricultural and
Rural Training, Muhuri Irrigation, Shallow Tubewells and Extension and Research
Projects all fit into this strategy. Other priority projects at an advanced
stage of preparation include jute development and foodgrain storage. While
development of the rural sector must have top priority, the growth of other
sectors cannot be neglected. Particular emphasis should be placed upon proj-
ects which provide infrastructure for the rural sector, which process or
provide outlets for its products, or which reduce the strain on Bangladesh's
foreign exchange resources. Finally, emphasis must be placed upon improving
Bangladesh's project preparation and implementation capability. Given its low
per capita income, Bangladesh is heavily dependent on foreign assistance to
help finance its investment requirements. In view of Bangladesh's difficult
foreign exchange position, IDA credits cover all foreign exchange costs.
Taking into account the level of financing expected to be available from other
external lenders, and in order to direct IDA lending to those sectors (such as
agricultural and rural development) where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency expenditures is also
justified.
PART III - THE PROJECT
22.       The proposed Credit was appraised by a mission which visited
Bangladesh from June 13 through July 2, 1977. Negotiations were held in
Washington from October 3, 1977 to October 12, 1977. GOB was represented by
a team led by Mr. Shamsul Huq, Joint Secretary in charge of the Ministry of
Textiles. The Credit would be the sixth in a series of Import Program Credits
totalling US$350 million. The first four of these credits have been fully
disbursed. The progress of disbursements against the Fifth (approved in
January 1977) is satisfactory; disbursements were $28 million, out of a total
credit of US$75 million, as of September 30, 1977.
The Case for Program Assistance
23.       Bangladesh needs program assistance because of the gross inadequacy
of its domestic savings and foreign exchange earnings to finance its develop-
ment program. A large inflow of external capital has been, and will continue
to be, required merely to achieve a very modest growth of per capita income.
At present, domestic savings constitute only about 2 percent of GDP. Thus,
although investment is quite inadequate at around 8 percent of GDP, external
assistance is financing about 80 percent. In the public sector, external
capital, directly and indirectly in the form of counterpart funds generated
by commodity assistance, contributes 75 percent of the development budget.
24.       The corollary of this disequilibrium between savings and investment
is a similarly severe imbalance in the country's external payments position.
A marked shift in the terms of trade against Bangladesh, which began in 1973
further exacerbated an already very difficult situation; world prices for



- 10 -
jute, which make up the bulk of the country's exports, weakened while essen-
tial imports of fuel, food and fertilizer became considerably more expensive.
A sharp reduction in food imports, resulting from the good crop in 1975/76,
and a fall in general imports, reflecting the continuing effect on demand of
highly restrictive monetary and fiscal policies introduced in 1975, combined
with some improvement in the terms of trade, eased the situation markedly
in FY77. However, this is a temporary improvement, and it is already evident
that the basic structural weaknesses will reassert themselves in FY78. These
are apparent in the fact that exchange earnings are equivalent to only 35
percent of imports. Moreover, the share of capital goods in total merchan-
dise imports is only 22 percent; the remainder consists of food (22 percent),
other essential consumer goods (18 percent), fertilizer (4 percent), indus-
trial raw materials (22 percent) and crude petroleum and petroleum products
(12 percent).
25.       These structural characteristics, both internal and external, make
it impossible to transfer the amount of external assistance required by Bang-
ladesh to sustain a modest rate of growth by means of project financing alone,
even if it includes substantial provision for financing local currency expen-
ditures. It is generally recognized that there are limits to the extent that
components of a country's development or investment program can be formed into
projects suitable for external financing. In the case of Bangladesh, external
financing requirements are clearly well beyond this limit - not because they
are extraordinarily large in per capita terms, but because they are equivalent
to a very large share of investment spending in the country.
26.       Given the structural constraints in the country's foreign trade
discussed above, including the composition of imports, requirements for im-
ports of general commodities cannot be met by net foreign exchange earnings.
Without program assistance to finance imports of general commodities, the
supply of non-agricultural goods to the economy would be reduced greatly. In
particular, production in the industrial sector, which provides commodities
essential to the livelihood of the population and to exports, would have to be
cut back substantially. As it is, utilization of existing industrial capacity -
at less than 50 percent in many sub-sectors - has remained low. Although this
situation has many causes, one important factor has been the overall resource
constraint which has compelled the Government to restrain domestic demand
below the level required for fuller utilization of capacity.
27.       GOB's strategy to mobilize domestic resources for expansion of
investment and thereby to reduce the relative size of the investment/savings
gap is based on: (i) reducing subsidies on agricultural inputs and food-
grains distributed through the ration system; (ii) increasing financial
contributions from nationalized industries and public utilities through
improving their operating efficiency and through economic pricing of their
products; (iii) increasing tax revenues by improving tax administration and
by widening and deepening the tax base; and (iv) encouraging private savings
through developing attractive incentive schemes and institutional structures.



- 11 -
While some progress has been achieved in some of these areas, detailed pro-
grams designed to accelerate these objectives have yet to be formulated.
The elimination of deficit financing since the 1975 devaluation has been
salutary in this respect. GOB is taking steps to improve its capabilities
in project formulation and implementation, which have been a constraint in
expanding investment activities.
28.       Aware of the need to improve its balance of payments position, GOB
has introduced measures for promoting exports, particularly non-traditional
exports. These measures include concessionary interest rates on export
financing, additional export licenses to exporters and an export guarantee
scheme. In addition, the devaluation of the Taka in May 1975 significantly
improved the profitability of the export sector. The recent improvement in
non-traditional exports was largely due to these initiatives. GOB's efforts
to increase foodgrain production through its programs for seed multiplication,
improved facilities for irrigation and agriculture credit through the Inte-
grated Rural Development Program should also contribute towards narrowing the
export/import gap.
29.       Bilateral members of the Bangladesh Aid Group have recognized that
it will take time for GOB to ease substantially the country's severe struc-
tural imbalances. They have accordingly accepted the continuing need to
provide a substantial bulk of their financial support in forms other than
project assistance. Of total bilateral commitments of about US$503 million
which they expect to make to Bangladesh in FY78, US$239 million would be in
the form of non-project aid. The latter amount includes US$158 million in
commodity assistance other than food. As the undisbursed pipeline of non-
food commodity assistance stood at about US$393 million at the beginning of
the year, new bilateral commitments at the level indicated would bring to
about US$550 million amounts available for this purpose. Against this, it is
estimated that Bangladesh will have to draw on non-food commodity assistance
in the amount of US$300 million to help finance the imports projected for the
current year, leaving US$250 million to be carried over into FY79. A pipeline
of that size is quite insufficient to assure Bangladesh of continuity of sup-
ply and in particular to give the Government the requisite confidence to
proceed with measures to accelerate the pace of economic activity, including
further liberalization of imports. For these purposes, a pipeline in the
order of US$420 million will be required. Thus, there is at present a
shortfall of US$170 million in the amount of non-food commodity assistance
available. It is this shortfall that the proposed Credit is intended to help
cover.
The Policy Focus
30.       In developing the policy focus of program credits to Bangladesh,
the primary objective has been to help the country's largest export oriented
and import substituting industries to operate more efficiently over a period
of time. Improved performance by the jute and cotton textile industries, which



- 12 -
represent about 40% of Bangladesh's industrial output and have essential links
to the agricultural and rural sectors, is vital for long-term economic growth
and the complexity of their problems justifies a concentrated effort under the
proposed Credit. Satisfactory progress has been made in implementing the
action programs for jute and cotton textiles agreed under the Fourth and
Fifth Imports Program Credits (Annex IV). The action programs for the proposed
Sixth Credit will consolidate these efforts and introduce new elements such as
a stronger emphasis on organizational and managerial questions, pricing poli-
cies, the evaluation of mill investment requirements and the setting of quanti-
tative performance targets.
Jute Action Programs under Previous Credits
31.       General.   The action programs for the jute industry under the Fourth
and Fifth Imports Program Credits were based on a 1975 study 1/ which reviewed
developments in the jute industry over the past decade, in particular the
changes that had occurred in the pattern of world demand as well as in the
structure of domestic productive capacity following independence.
32.       There were three main areas of emphasis under the action program
of the Fourth Credit. The first was to strengthen the organization of the
Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation (BJMC) with a view to improving control of
production at the level of individual mills. The second objective was to
initiate action to improve production efficiency, a process which would require
some time to achieve the desired results. The third was to improve the exter-
nal marketing effort, another area where improvement would be a long term
objective.
33.       Under the Fifth Credit, the scope of activities was broadened to
initiate action on financial and related organizational matters and to
strengthen efforts to improve productivity. The programs were structured
so that GOB could make use of external assistance available from other multi-
lateral or bilateral donors (paragraph 46), as well as funds under the IDA
Technical Assistance Credits.
34.       Evaluation.   Annex IV shows the status of the jute industry action
programs agreed upon for the Fourth and Fifth Credits. All the activities
under these programs have been initiated and most of the objectives are ex-
pected to be achieved, although in some cases later than originally planned.
Delays in completing some of the actions have been due to the following
factors: (i) difficulties in obtaining suitable consultants for plant
productivity studies; (ii) longer lead times than originally envisaged for
equipment delivery for local manufacture of spare parts; (iii) deficiencies
in the original methodology used for carrying out revaluation of assets
requiring revisions which have now been made; and (iv) difficulties in
recruiting suitable staff for the audit division. The progress made on
1/   Report No. 883-BD, September 25, 1975, Bangladesh - Survey of the Jute
and Cotton Textile Industries.



- 1 3 -
the organization and staffing of an Export Inspection Service has been dis-
appointing although an allocation of Tk 500,000 was made in the Government
budget for FY78 to set it up and staff it. IDA agreed to GOB proposals for
a revised schedule for the implementation of the Export Inspection Service.
35.       In some areas progress has been achieved.   Marketing has been much
improved and production is now closely related to demand for the various
products of the industry. Maintenance, however, requires considerable effort
particularly in identifying the extent of the deterioration of mill equipment
and needed spare parts. Surveys of all mills are under way and BJMC has
established a self contained spare parts production unit.
36.       Action programs under the Fourth and Fifth Credits have helped
lay the institutional foundation from which to tackle the problem of mill
efficiency. It is now both necessary and feasible to broaden the scope of
the effort and to stress the organization, management and financial aspects
of BJMC and the mills, and their relationship with GOB. It is also appro-
priate to set quantitative targets against which the performance of BJMC
and the mills can be reviewed and the effectiveness of the action programs
monitored.
Proposed Jute Industry Action Program for Sixth Credit
37.       Table 2 below shows the proposed action program for the jute indus-
try which has been discussed and agreed with GOB and BJMC during negotiations.
Annex VI discusses the current situation and prospects of the jute industry in
more detail. The proposed actions can be classified into those aimed at im-
proving the industry's profitability and those tackling problems in the area
of organization and management control systems.
38.       Measures to Improve Profitability.   The losses incurred by the jute
industry have been steadily increasing, rising from Tk 239 million in FY75
to Tk 285 million in FY76 and to an estimated Tk 533 million in FY77, mainly
due to steep increases in raw jute costs. Raw jute costs, which account for
50%-60% of the cost of goods sold, have varied considerably between mills.
These differences mainly explain why six mills made profits in FY76 while
others made losses. During FY77 GOB set a minimum raw jute price of Tk 90/
maund and the market price (secondary markets) averaged Tk 105/maund during
the year. However, due to inefficient buying and wastage the cost of raw
jute to BJMC averaged Tk 126/maund. BJMC would have broken even if its raw
jute costs had been Tk 100/maund. The elements in the action program to
reduce raw jute costs include timely availability of bank credit to mills
for raw jute purchase; (paragraph B7 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development
Credit Agreement); efficient use of raw jute in batching; reduction of wastage
through improved production efficiency; and more autonomy to mills in buying
with strengthening of BJMC's mechanism for monitoring the mills' buying per-
formance through the newly created Raw Jute Directorate (paragraph B8 of
Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreeement). The proposed Jute
Project (scheduled for Board presentation during this fiscal year) is de-
signed to increase the yield from jute cultivation which could lead to price
reductions in the long run. GOB has established a temporary jute pricing



- 13a -
TABLE 2. JUTE, ACTION PROGRAM FOR SIXTH CREDIT
Actions Agreed Under Proposed
Sixth Import Program Credit                              Completion Date
A. Rehabilitation/Profitability Improvement
i) BJMC to carry out a survey of each mill              February 28, 1978
to identify the need for rehabilitation
and to determine a) the necessary
investment requirement; (b) anticipated
operational improvements; (c) incremental
benefits resulting from the improvements
and (d) financial and economic rates of
return.
ii) On the basis of the mill-by-mill survey,             March 31, 1978
and taking into account projected levels
of demand, BJMC would make recommendations
for the closure of uneconomic units.
iii) BJMC shall continue (a) to carry out its             i) Completion of Report -
program aimed at appraising the preventive              March 31, 1978
maintenance systems of its mills, make              ii) Appointment (if necessary)
recommendations for their improvement and               of consultants, July 1,
implementing such recommendations;                      1978.
(b) furnish to GOB and IDA its report
on the program and if necessary employ
consultants to improve the implementation
of its program.
iv) GOB/BJMC to carry out a study of raw jute            December 31, 1978
supply including the review of the present
pricing policies of raw jute and the
optimal mix between raw jute and jute
goods export.
B. Operational Targets
i) BJMC to prepare operational targets for              February 28, 1978.
each mill and consolidated "Corporation"
target for items such as production,
spinning and weaving efficiency, conver-
sion costs per ton, raw jute purchasing
efficiency, wastage and profits.
ii) BJMC has prepared tentative industry
targets for review by IDA. Actual targets
are to be established by February 28, 1978
after the mill-by-mill assessment.
Tentative targets to be achieved include:
(Annex VI details the tentative targets)               Targets     Projections
FY78     FY81      FY85
Production C'OOO tons)                             512      565       645
Wastage (% of production)                          8.3      6.8       6.5
Conversion Costs (Taka per ton)                  2,261    2,121     1,953
Raw Jute/Consumption Cost Ratio                    1.18     1.10      1.08
Profitability (Taka Millions)                     (670)    (133)       93



- 13b -
Actions Agreed Under Proposed
Sixth Import Program Credit                                  Completion Date
C. Management and Systems Improvements
i) GOB to assist in reduction of raw jute                Understanding with GOB/BJMC
purchasing costs through better timing                reached during negotiations.
of credit availability coupled with
more autonomy for BJMC and the mills
in raw jute purchasing.
ii) GOB to give BJMC and the mills more                   Draft reviewed by IDA
autonomy in areas such as personnel                   before negotiations.
policies, raw jute purchasing, etc.
The degree of autonomy is to be
clarified in the Rules of Business.
iii) BJMC to decentralise its organisation                 July 1, 1978.
and delegate more authority to mill
management. The decentralisation
would be combined with the design
and implementation of a revised
management control system.
iv) GOB to establish a policy that the Chief             TTrr1d=rstaLLLg reached
Executive should remain at his post for               with GOB/BJMC during
at least three years and BJMC will reduce             negotiations
inter-mill transfer of managers.
v) BJMC to present to GOB recommendations                March 31, 1978
for an incentive system for BJMC and
mill personnel.
vi) BJMC to prepare and implement a training              Preparation by December 1,
program for BJMC and mill personnel.                  1977 of training program to
be completed by June 30, 1980.
vii) BJMC to implement improved spare parts                March 31, 1978
purchasing procedure including greater
autonomy for mills in the purchase of
local spares.
viii) BJMC to expedite completion of                     i) Annual audit for FY77 to be
FY77 audit  and thereafter have its                   completed by October 31,
external audits completed within 6                    1978.
months of the fiscal year end starting
with the accounts of FY79.
ii) Annual audit for FY78 to be
completed by March 31,
1979.
iii) Thereafter audits to be
completed within 6 months of
each year end.



- 14 -
policy committee and has agreed to a study to formulate appropriate policies
for pricing and distribution of raw jute in order to maximize economic and
financial benefits from exports of raw jute and jute goods and to recommend
appropriate organizational arrangements for implementing these policies in
line with production and demand. The study will also review methods for
reducing costs of collecting jute from the farmers and transporting it to
the mills or to export markets. This study, which is expected to be carried
out with the assistance of consultants financed by ODMI, will be initiated by
late 1977/early 1978, and by December 31, 1978 GOB would furnish to the
Association for review a plan to establish, in consultation with the Asso-
ciation, an improved jute pricing mechanism (paragraph BI of Schedule 3 to
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
39.       Besides reduction in raw jute costs, the improvement in profit-
ability will depend on conversion costs being reduced through equipment
rehabilitation and better cost controls, product quality being improved so
as to obtain better prices in the long run, and on interest costs being
reduced through capital restructuring. With regard to the reduction in
conversion costs, BJMC will undertake a survey to review the condition of
its mill equipment and any structural problems, identify items requiring
rehabilitation (and, on a more selective basis, replacement, particularly
spindles); determine investment requirements to improve its operating effi-
ciency; estimate the incremental savings in manufacturing costs resulting from
the proposed investments; calculate financial and economic returns for each
mill; and rank the mills from highest to lowest rate of return (paragraph
B2 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement). Investment in
rehabilitation/replacement is an important element in any program to improve
productive efficiency in the industry. However, such improvement will take
the form of increased output in the rehabilitated mills and as market demand
will allow total output to grow only slowly, a program of rehabilitation/
replacement will have the desired effect of improving efficiency only if it
is accompanied by the closure of some of the existing mills. The ranking of
mills in order of the reported return on investment in rehabilitation/replace-
ment and the related cost data would provide a basis for selecting those that
are candidates for closure. Obviously, the final selection will have to take
into account other considerations as well, including in particular alternative
use of facilities and employment of redundant staff. BJMC has completed a
survey of 16 of its 77 jute mills and will complete a further 16 by February
28, 1578. The balance will be completed with UK technical assistance by
February 28, 1978, when recommendations including those on the closure of
mills will be made (paragraph B3 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit
Agreement). Further, BJMC agreed to continue with its present staff (subject
to subsequent review by IDA on further needs) the program initiated under past
import credits for appraising the preventive maintenance systems of its mills
and of implementing systems improvements (paragraph B4 of Schedule 3 to the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
40.       A program to improve the quality of products is already being
carried out with technical assistance from UNIDO. This should lead to better
prices in the long run. The improvement in marketing through the development
of promotion programs overseas and the preparation of market studies is being



- 15 -
followed up under the action program for the Fifth Credit 1/. GOB is also
active in research and development activities to find new uses for jute, with
support from IDA's Technical Assistance Credits for development of jutton,
a blend of jute and cotton fibers to produce yarn for the textile industry.
However, research on alternative uses of jute needs to be intensified. Even-
tually it is hoped that research and market development activities can be
coordinated and expanded under the aegis of Jute International. The program
of capital restructuring to reduce interest costs is being implemented under
the action program for the Fifth Credit and some progress has already been
made (Annex VI paragraph 27).
41.       Institutional Aspects.   The elements in the program dealing with
institutional aspects focus on the problems of autonomy, BJMC's organization,
and personnel policies. They also cover procedural issues such as purchasing
of spare parts (paragraph B5 of Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement) and audit.   A major problem has been the lack of autonomy to BJMC
and the mills, particularly in raw jute purchasing and staffing decisions.
IDA has discussed with BJMC a new draft of its "Rules of Business" which
define in detail the relationships between GOB and BJMC and between BJMC and
the mills. The new "Rules of Business" provide for adequate autonomy for both
BJMC and the mills although they also provide for continued centralization in
areas such as production planning and certain aspects of marketing where this
can be beneficial.
42.       On organization, decision-making responsibility has been with BJMC's
head office, particularly the Chairman and the six Directors. BJMC has recog-
nized the difficulty of having seven individuals at head office concentrating
on the administrative problems of 77 jute mills, setting policy, monitoring
the mills' performance and coordinating their activities. Therefore BJMC has
agreed to decentralize its organization and delegate greater authority to the
zonal offices and mills with Boards of Directors for each mill, while the head
office's functions will be mainly to establish performance targets, exercise
control, coordinate, and set policy (paragraph B8 of Schedule 3 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The action program incorporates the design of
an adequate management information and control system for BJMC and the mills
which will be completed by July 1, 1978, the time when the organizational
changes will be completed (paragraph B8 of Schedule 3 to the Draft Development
Credit Agreement).
43.       On staffing, GOB and BJMC have indicated their intention to reduce
transfers of top management which, have been excessive in the past both at the
Corporation and mill levels. The action program deals with-the difficulty
faced by the industry in attracting and retaining qualified personnel through
1/   The UK is providing technical assistance for this element of the action
program and has also carried out a desk study on the overall market
of jute goods. On the basis of the findings, BJMC may decide to carry
out studies on a marketing strategy for specific products, for example,
carpet backing.



- 16 -
the preparation of a comprehensive incentive system covering management,
workers and other staff, and the implementation of an overall training plan
for the industry. The UK is providing technical assistance for the design of
the incentive system and for training. However, BJMC is preparing initial
proposals on both subjects and an implementation timetable has been agreed
(paragraphs B9 and B10 of Schedule 3 to the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
44.       Targets.   With regard to overall performance, the table below and
the attachment to Annex VI show the overall targets that BJMC expects to
achieve over the next 5 years.
Table 3. Performance Targets and Other Indicators
Actual /a                   T a r g e t s      Projections
FY77     FY78    FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82    FY83   FY85
Production
('000 Long
Tons)             490      512    529     547     565    585    605     645
Raw Jute
Utilization
Ratio /b          1.20     1.18   1.15     1.10   1.10   1.10   1.10    1.08
Conversion Costs
(Tk/Ton) /c     2,328     2,261  2,213 /c  2,165   2,121  2,074  2,031   1,953
Profitability
(Tk/Ton) /c /d (1,057)   (1,329)  (642) /c   (375)  (243)   (89)    21     154
Profitability
in constant
prices (Tks
millions) /c /d   (533)    (670)  (340)      (203)  (133)   (50)    12      93
Profitability
in current
prices (Tks
millions) /e      (533)    (670)  (334)      (165)   (70)    56    173     379
/a Unaudited actual results.
/b Represents the ratio of BJMC material costs (including wastage, batch
efficiency etc.) to the average market price of raw jute.
/c FY79-FY81 expressed in constant FY78 prices.
/d In computing profitability for FY78 an average raw jute market price of
Tk 130/maund has been assumed. For FY79-FY85 the average raw jute
market price is assumed to be Tk 110/maund.
/e  Expressed in current prices assuming 7% rate of cost/benefit price
increase from FY79-FY85.



- 17 -
These targets were discussed and agreed with BJMC during negotiations, subject
to revision if necessary in light of the mill by mill survey to be completed
by February 28, 1978 (BJMC also brought to negotiations individual targets
for 16 mills which had been surveyed). The targets include projections of
demand, volume of production, production efficiency and reduction in raw jute
purchasing cost, capacity required based on the estimated levels of efficiency
and market forecasts, capital structure indicators and profitability. These
targets indicate that it should be possible for the jute industry to begin
earning profits by FY82 (paragraph 45). Clearly, not all the elements in
the targets are under the control of BJMC and GOB. The two main elements of
operation, selling prices and raw jute costs, are subject to uncontrollable
external influences and are critical to profitability. The market studies
to be undertaken in this regard (paragraphs 39 and 40) should provide a more
realistic basis upon which to make projections of these elements for future
years. For FY79, the projections for these variables are based upon expected
results given present market conditions. When monitoring performance, IDA
will concentrate on the controllable factors such as the efficiency indicators,
capital structure and conversion costs per ton sold. The setting of targets
(paragraph B6 of Schedule 3 of the draft Development Credit Agreement) will
not only allow IDA to monitor the effectiveness of the action program and the
performance of BJMC but will also provide GOB/BJMC with a framework for deci-
sion making and planning purposes.
45.       For monitoring purposes, target costs and benefits have been
exressed in constant FY78 values as their main purpose is to focus upon
controllable elements. To translate the targets into current price terms,
a number of alternative assumptions are possible. Assuming a 7% annual rate
of increase in costs and benefits, BJMC would incur a loss of about Tk 334
million in FY79 and achieve a profit of about Tk 56 million in FY82. On the
other hand, if selling prices were to increase by 7% per annum and prices
relating to raw jute and conversion costs by 10% per annum, BJMC would incur
a loss of Tk 400 million in FY81. Under these circumstances, BJMC would only
achieve profitability if there was to be an adjustment of the taka to the
dollar of about 16%. However, if, given an improved supply of raw jute from
intensive cultivation, the raw jute price increased by only 6% while selling
and conversion related costs increased by 7% and 10% respectively, BJMC would
break even in FY82 and achieve profits of about Tk 140 million in FY85.
Coordination of Technical Assistance
46.       Apart from IDA, other bilateral and multilateral aid agencies such
as CIDA, ODM and UNDP/UNIDO are providing GOB with technical assistance
to improve the operations of the jute industry. Where a specific component
is not covered by assistance from another agency, IDA has been filling the
gap with assistance from its Technical Assistance Credits (Credit 409-BD
and 622-BD). To achieve the most beneficial use of the technical assistance
assistance, arrangements have been made for the various agencies involved to
keep each other informed to ensure coordination and to avoid duplication. In
terms of Action Program requirements, ODM has provided technical assistance
to upgrade the marketing function of BJMC and has also been assisting in
upgrading operations at Adamjee Jute Mill, the largest jute mill in the world,



- 18 -
and is proposing to apply the experience gained at Adamjee to other jute
mills. In addition, ODM will finance consultants required by BJMC to imple-
ment the requirements of the Sixth Imports Program Credit Action Program
relating to: (i) internal marketing and pricing policies of jute (paragraph
38); (ii) the survey of investment requirements for the rehabilitation of
mills not covered by the IDA/BJMC survey (paragraph 39); and (iii) training
requirements for management and staff and the development of incentive systems
(paragraph 43). CIDA is providing technical and financial assistance for the
local manufacture of spare parts for the jute industry and UNDP/UNIDO is
financing a policy advisor who will be joined in 1977 by a team comprising a
production planning advisor, a quality control advisor and consultants for
mill productivity.
Cotton Textiles Action Programs - Under Previous Credits
47.       General.   The main objective of the Cotton Textile Action Programs
for the Fourth and Fifth Credits 1/ was to lay the groundwork for the long-
term development of the industry. In contrast to the jute industry, physical
damage and disorder following independence were minor in the textile spinning
and weaving mills and there was little loss of managerial and supervisory
personnel. Thus, these action programs attempted to tackle selected short-
term technical problems, particularly the need to improve productivity and
the availability of spare parts, and to meet long term problems through the
preparation of studies to: (i) find ways to reduce the foreign exchange cost
in terms of imported raw materials (producing man-made fibers locally) and
determine the foreign exchange costs of domestic spinning versus imports of
yarn; and (ii) lay the basis for long-term investment decisions regarding
creation of weaving capacity in the industrial and cottage industry sectors.
48.       Evaluation.   Annex IV shows the content and present status of the
action programs. The study to determine the foreign exchange costs of domestic
spinning versus imports of yarn, carried out under the Fourth Credit, showed
the economic justification of producing yarn domestically. Based on world
market prices prevailing in FY76, the foreign exchange saved through local
production of yarn at a modern mill was estimated at Tk 4.6 per pound and the
domestic resource cost per unit of foreign exchange saved at Tk 12.3 per US
dollar. However, based on the average cost structure of all mills the foreign
exchange saved in yarn production is estimated at Tk 3.9 per pound and the
domestic resource cost at Tk 16.4 per US dollar, slightly higher than the
official exchange rate. This shows the need to: (i) improve the efficiency
of the existing mills; (ii) rationalize production on the basis of mill
efficiency; and (iii) improve the Bangladesh Textile Mills Corporation's
(BTMC's) ability to manage and control costs.
1/   These actions programs were based on the findings in IDA's Report No.
883-BD, September 1975, Bangladesh - Survey of the Jute and Cotton
Textile Industry.



- 19 -
49.       Progress has been made in improving efficiency in some mills through
greater specialization in the production mix of each mill. A technical review
team has been established within BTMC and is reviewing the status of equipment
and requirements for improvement or replacement of equipment. A study of the
relative efficiency of handloom/small powerlooms vis- a-vis larger mills is
progressing on schedule. Two other studies, one on the potential for produc-
ing manmade fibers, and the other a sample survey/census of handlooms and
small powerlooms, will be completed later than originally scheduled. However,
these delays are not crucial to the overall objective of the action program 1/.
Additionally there may be delays in starting the programs to improve mill
productivity and local manufacture of spare parts which are now expected
to be implemented by UNDP/UNIDO and the Japanese International Cooperation
Agency (JICA), respectively.
Proposed Textile Industry Action Program for Sixth Credit
50.       The proposed action program for the textile industry which has been
discussed and agreed with GOB and BTMC during negotiations aims at improving
the industry's profitability and overcoming weaknesses in its organization
and management control systems. Table 4 shows the proposed action program and
Annex VII discusses the current situation and prospects of the textile industry
in more detail.
51.       Although progress has been slower than planned originally, the
studies under the past action programs to tackle the long-term issues facing
the textile sector have been launched. The work needed to tackle the tech-
nical problems of the mills will also start soon. However, the textile
sector has recently faced severe financial problems. The most important of
these relate to selling prices as well as to the autonomy of BTMC in purchas-
ing raw cotton and in staffing decisions. GOB has now agreed to give BTMC
more autonomy in these areas. In addition, there are a number of measures
that BTMC/the mills must take to improve management and control including
the setting of targets on aspects such as production efficiency and profit-
ability. The Action Program for the proposed Sixth Credit has been prepared
on this basis.
52.       A major factor affecting the profitability of the textile industry
has been GOB's pricing policy. BTMC's loss for FY77 is estimated at about
Tk 137 million compared with profits of Tk 26.8 million in FY76 and Tk 120
million in FY75. The deterioration in profitability has occurred because the
increase in raw cotton costs, which account for about 60% of costs of goods
1/   The study of the potential for producing man-made fibers (by UNIDO) will
start in November 1977, instead of March 1977, to fit the availability
of consultants. The sample survey/census of handloom/small powerlooms
will be complete around December 1977, instead of December, 1976.
However, as the study of the relative efficiency of these subsectors
vis-a-vis larger mills is to be completed by December 1977, the delay
in the completion of the sample survey/census should not delay decision
making.



TABLE 4. COTTON TEXTILES, ACTION PROGRAM FOR SIXTH CREDIT
Required Actions Under Proposed
Sixth Import Program Credit                                  Completion Date
A. Rehabilitat.ion/Profitability Improvement
i) BTMC to prepare, on a mill-by-mill                     April 30, 1978
basis, a long term rehabilitation
program for the industry to obtain
a least cost solution to meet
expected demand.
ii) On the basis of the mill-by-mill                       May 31, 1978
survey and taking into account
the projected level of demand,
BTMC would make recommendations
for the closure of uneconomic
units and the selective balancing
and modernisation of others.
iii) COB to prepare a review of its pricing                 December 1, 1977
policies including recommendations
for price increases necessary to
restore the industry's profitability.
iv) GOB to give BTMC autonomy in the purchase              Understanding reached
of raw cotton in order to allow BTMC to                with GOB during
take advantage of seasonal prices.                     negotiations
B. Operational Targets
I) BTMC to prepare operational targets for                April 30, 1978
each mill, with specific targets for
production, spinning efficiency,waste
conversion costs, raw cotton procure-
ment costs, and profits.
ii) BTMC to prepare consolidated operational               May 31, 1978
targets based upon the targets
established for lndividual mills.
isi) BTMC has prepared tentative consolidated
targets for review by IDA. Actual targets              Targets          Projections
are to be established by May 31, 1978.              FY78        FY81        FY85
Tentative targets proposed are:                       -          -     
Production  - Yarn (million lbs)                  110         146         190
- Cloth (million yds)                 100        100          100
Efficiency  - Average per spindle shift
oz.                                 2.26       2.43         2.81
- Average loom shift - yds.          19.7       19.7         19.7
Piofitability (Million Taka)                      122         163         213
Long Term Debt/Equity Ratio                       0.96        0.78        0.50
(See Annex VII for details)
C. Management and System Improvement
i) BTMC to prepare draft Rules of Business                Presented to IDA before
which include specific definition on                    negotiations.
degrees Qf qutonomy for the BTMC
(particularly raw cotton purchasing and
personnel matters) and mills.
ii) GOB to establish a policy that the Chief               Understanding reached
Executive should remain at his post for                with GOB/BTMC during negotiations
at least three years and BTMC will reduce
inter-mill transfer of managers.
Bi)  TMC LO initiate improvements to manage-              December 31, 1977.
ment information and control systems,
together with the increasing and up-
grading of staff.
iv) BTMC to present to GOB proposals for an                March 31, 1978
incentive system for all BTMC and mill
personnel.
v) BTMC to prepare and implement a training               March 31, 1978.
program for BTMC and mill personnel.                   through FY78 and FY79.
vi) BTMC to prepare an overall program, including          December 31, 1977
staff requirement, etc., for the upgrading
of internal audit systems and procedures.
vii) The external audit of BTMC accounts up to            i) Annual audit for FY76 tc
FY77 to be completed,thereafter annual                 be completed by October 31, 1977.
audits to be conpleted within 6 months              ii)Annual audlt for FY77 to be
of the fiscal year end.                                completed by June 30, 1978.
iii)Annual audit for FY78 and there-
after to be completed within G
months of year end.
viii) BTMC to carry out a revaluation of its                June 30, 1978
assets in accordance with sound accounting
principles.



- 20 -
sold, was not matched by increases in selling prices. In September 1977 GOB
announced an average increase of 25% in yarn prices (cloth prices will be
adjusted accordingly) which should give BTMC a satisfactory level of profit-
ability and allow for an adequate debt service coverage of about 2:1. GOB
will further review its long term pricing policies for BJMC by December 1,
1977 taking into account the need to maintain its profitability.
53.       Related to the question of profitability is the need for a pro-
gram to reduce conversion cost through improvements in productivity (Fifth
Credit's Action Program) and equipment rehabilitation. An investment survey
similar to the one on jute is planned for the textile industry. Apart from
cost reduction, the justification of the survey is the need to find the least
cost solution for meeting the expected level of demand. BTMC has been invest-
ing in new textile units while it is likely that additional output could be
obtained more economically through balancing/modernization/replacement (BMR)
investments in existing mills. The survey would guide BTMC on the priorities
for allocating resources to specific mills. BTMC has completed a survey of 16
mills (out of about 50) and has agreed to complete the balance by April 30,
1978 (paragraph C3 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
54.       With regard to management aspects, the proposed action program for
the textile industry is similar to the one for jute. It focuses on Rules of
Business; the problem of autonomy; audit (paragraph C8 of Schedule 3 to the
draft Development Credit Agreement); the need to reduce the transfer of man-
agers; the preparation by March 31, 1978 of an overall training plan; and
proposals for an incentive system to attract and retain suitably qualified
personnel and to improve their productivity (paragraph C6 of Schedule 3 to
the draft Development Credit Agreement). Further, while the need for organ-
izational changes at BTMC are not as acute as for BJMC, the program also
provides for improvements to the management information and control systems
(paragraph C5 of Schedule 3 to the draft Development Credit Agreement). In
addition, BTMC will complete, by June 30, 1978, a revaluation of assets of
individual mills in order to reflect their true financial position (paragraph
C10 of Schedule 3 to the Draft Development Credit Agreement).
55.       The performance targets for the cotton textile industry are shown
in the attachment to Annex VII. Because the targets, for the time being, in-
corporate no improvements in efficiency from equipment rehabilitation, loom
efficiency remains constant at 20 yards/loom hour from FY78 onwards and spin-
ning efficiency shows only gradual improvement as a result of better produc-
tion control. The related targets were discussed and agreed with BTMC during
negotiations subject to revision based on the overall mill by mill survey to
be completed by April 30, 1978 (paragraph C4 of Schedule 3 to the draft
Development Credit Agreement). BTMC made efficiency analyses for 16 mills
prior to negotiations and the mill by mill survey is proceeding on schedule.
Technical Assistance
56.       Within the textile industry, the need for technical assistance is
not as great as in other sectors and assistance is limited to aid from UNDP/
UNIDO, JICA and IDA. UNDP/UNIDO are now expected to provide assistance to



- 21 -
improve mill productivity and training. JICA is expected to assist in the
local manufacture of spare parts and in improving spare parts allocation
procedures.
Pulp and Paper Industry
57.       The Fifth Imports Program Credit initiated work on formulating an
action program for the pulp and paper industry. At the time that the Fifth
Credit was being considered, IDA concluded that before any action program
could be formulated to ensure the future viability of this industry, market
conditions for the various products would have to be assessed and the actual
operating conditions of the major plants appraised. The Fifth Credit was
formulated on this basis and, as shown in Annex IV, all actions have been
initiated satisfactorily although one of the studies will be started with a
few months' delay. No further program for this sub-sector is proposed under
the Sixth Credit as the studies initiated under the Fifth Credit have yet to
be completed. Recent developments in the pulp and paper industry are discussed
in Annex V.
Administration of the Credit
58.       The Credit and Project Summary lists the industries which would be
eligible for assistance under the proposed credit, their estimated total
import requirements and the maximum credit amounts to be allocated to each
category (paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit Agreement.
All industries recommended for inclusion are high priority, namely, export-
oriented industries (jute manufacturing, paper and board, frozen fish, shrimps
and frogs legs, tea processing and leather tanning), industries producing
intermediate goods (fertilizer, cement, steel and industrial chemicals), and
industries producing essential consumer goods (cotton textile and pharmaceu-
ticals). Allocations for imported raw materials and spare parts have been
determined taking into account projected production, current level of stocks,
the existing import pipeline, and commodity assistance from sources other than
IDA. Annex V analyzes the current situation and prospects of these industries
and Annex VIII details the utilization of previous import credits by major
categories.
59.       The following agreements were reached during negotiations:     (i) at
least half of the Credit would be allocated to categories where IDA has estab-
lished action programs (jute, cotton textiles and paper and board) (paragraph
2(d) of Schedule 1 of the draft Development Credit Agreement); (ii) prior to
disbursement for cement and steel billets, GOB would supply information on
current trends of capacity utilization and stocks and future plans on overall
production, import and distribution to ensure that existing domestic capacity
is utilized to the fullest extent possible (paragraphs 2(c) and 2(f) of
Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit Agreement); (iii) prior to effec-
tiveness, GOB will have issued to potential end-users at least 40% of the
licenses to be financed under the proposed Credit (Section 4.01 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement) - this requirement has facilitated more rapid
disbursements during the first months after credits become effective; and
(iv) GOB would deposit taka ftnds equivalent to the amounts withdrawn from the
proceeds of the proposed Credit in an account currently being maintained with



- 22 -
the Bangladesh Bank and would utilize these funds entirely to finance its
development programs. GOB will furnish quarterly reports to IDA on the
amounts actually released from such Counterpart Fund to IDA-financed projects
(Section 3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.       Procurement and Disbursement.   Responsibility for procuring most
public sector imports rests with the various public sector corporations.
The Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) has responsibility for procuring
cement and materials for the private sector, steel and foundry enterprises.
The Chief Controller of Imports and Exports (CCIE), in addition to issuing
all the licenses for imports under the Credit, will be responsible for
handling the allocation of Credit funds to the private sector.
61.       Goods costing $100,000 equivalent or more would be procured, at
GOB's option, either through international shopping, on the basis of at least
three offers invited from major supplies from member countries of the Bank and
Switzerland, or through international competitive bidding, under procedures
consistent with the provisions of the Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits. As was the case with the Fifth Imports Program
Credit, IDA would review GOB's procurement decisions after signing of such
contracts and prior to the submission to IDA of the first withdrawal applica-
tion in respect of such contracts. For imports under $100,000, normal com-
mercial channels would be used. In the past, these procedures have worked
satisfactorily. Withdrawal applications will be prepared by the Bangladesh
Bank and forwarded to IDA. The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed
within 24 months, i.e., by December 1979.
62.       Reporting Requirements.   In addition to the above matters concern-
ing the administration of the Credit, GOB agreed with IDA during negotiations
on revised reporting requirements covering (i) developments amongst the eligi-
ble industries with particular emphasis on jute and cotton textiles; (ii) status
of implementation of the agreements reached, particularly the action programs
(Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement); and (iii) utilization
of the proceeds of the Credit and Counterpart Funds (Section 3.04(d) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement, and the text of
a draft resolution approving the proposed Credit are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
64.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special inte-
rest are referred to in paragraphs 37 to 45 and 50 to 55 of this report. The
issue of import licenses covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating not
less than US$30.0 million has been made an additional condition of effective-
ness (see section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Special



- 23 -
conditions of disbursement require that (a) half of the proceeds of the pro-
posed Credit be disbursed for jute, textile, and paper and board industries;
(b) no withdrawals for steel billets be made until the Borrower has furnished
to the Association a program satisfactory to IDA for meeting the demand for
steel billets, and (c) no withdrawals for cement be made until a similar
program for cement has been received (draft Development Credit Agreement,
Schedule 1, paragraphs 2(d), 2(e) and 2(f) respectively). The agreed action
programs for the jute and cotton textile industries are set out in Schedule 3
to the draft Development Credit Agreement.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
J. Burke Knapp
November 8, 1977



-2
'.9                                                                                                                                                                                   5
l58                                                                                                                                                            NJ
Sr                              A   .1 -i
00,,    Sr       o,    s, eso'      N   Sr     0        9N4
-1 J                                   i                                                                                         so  a  S  a
-     9
OS
2   75
2Z* 45
o .9 S
5.5 5090         0     ON     51.-NI1N     -.ft  0   000     *     00        00                           *               O0''             CO   0   Nt                          00O.
ha  190          .0   -..0    499005"      ,54  It   CNN     0      ON        oft                                          ON?-             N>   N   40                            SrS.-5
,,  . 9          51   r- .0   N.-USO                   S I9         9--       ,-,-                                         .r-                  -     1-                       9-  N
7     SN                N                                                                                                   -                                                        ..   S
5J                                                                             .0                                                                                                         5
9-953     9                                                                                                                                                                                   5
91St      0                                                                                                                                                                                  9
91953     9                                                        -                                                   s-si       uS                                                        S
 SO      S                                                        -IA                                                            '-S
a S       SN         N    520     00  .90      NO   0     NON    ft -             cc                  .       . .     Cr-N      000             9-C   N  C-fl       S      S         00>09
* S    - to          -            -.   9N      aisfi ft   NOS'S  N.-              00                                  S-s    S'500            C-    -.  ON                         0-tue
9-*     599-.        N    Sr-a          C           -     505                     a,.-                                C-,jsr-j  NS            ON    -     -                        -   N   9
49     *9                                                                                                             Or--H    -                                                             S
09      De                                                                        0                                   0)                                                                     9
*    09                                                                                                                                                                                    S
*9        5                                                                                                                                                                                  9
05                                                                                                                                                                                           S
09                                                                                                                                                                                           9
9-0                                                                                                                                                                                          9
49                                                                                                                                                                                           9
.-9 9
939       5                                                                                                                                                                                  9
09        S                                                                                                                                                                                  S
4ZS     S.-  S
.0591                                                 *t-1   .91                                                                                                                 4
*                   -S                                                                                                                         S
*  *95.-  5
.91.99   0090          51  (1(     a-oa             o    r--.r--               . :                                       o                 * N     sO                          *-tONS
-                                                                                         go     ,.             *                                     o .N9
WON,,       t19*-  0   Oc.>,   ..                 is'
enS      9-9-         9-   tflsi    SNON                    -2-2                    0   -.                                       S'             Sr    -.   As                             N   S
9-0*    9-05-               SCO        -                                            C's
a *   a, 9                                                                                                                                                                                   5
SIC     S                                                                       S's                                                                                                        S
99t       9                                                                                                                                                                                  9
553     9                                                                                    ,9Ii9LS1L99I  ,CIIAI   S'LI'M   es
SO   09                                     *                                                '5'5SNi    SNS     NS'.,N,   -j                                                            S
            -    oo     .soc.-         * -t                             Na  *        r-.aoo      o.,       ea      a                      a*                          N-tv--CS
5.4  -40          -    '-Cl    CAIN    -    iN    0                             o           CN9-ft       ft -..    NON     o                or    a   -                           .0000.
97      Sq        P-   00       0N                                              NP-          0    -      N         OSAili   N               SO-s  -                                  N
4     5               .45-       -                                           -                                   .05-.
90      S                                                                       N                                   9-N91                                                                  S
*       S                                                                       PSI                                   9                                                                    9
19        9                                                                                                                                                                                  5
9    o9                                                        N.J                           ...-                                                                                         5
CS      .050        0     co        905*Sr                      NC        .      ON   *       .C'S300        .      Nee         5            C,NN                   S   C          **N  55
49     ft5*          .     S                                             -S                     ....         .-        ...      ...    .                   .       S   -      *
.95    - .0              00       @9-    S'               $0-,   --               0.0          soar-                  CON                      NC    0'                                 4   9
@0        94                                                                      CC'-         ..SS  -                NON                       S    -
15        9                                                                                                           ONe                                                                    S
.9                                                                               9-                                   ON.                                                                   S
09                                                                                                                                                                                           9k
0        s-a                                                                                                                                                     5>
DO                                '-S                                    a               ;   ha                                                .-      9 ha
>005-                                                                       0                    ft                                                        90
S9Ss-     .3    4>2-                                   C.-.        ha                  0505.,                9- .4                                                         5
5 2              59-             -                    1 2      9- 55      ft Sr ft US 95  - 50 2     9 0    7   WI -,           C                                 C C ft  5 2
*90         S   ..N.1      0       5-                  9-ha     7510         NOOCt     25533          051    0   8   5            535-.           9-                 84    50
Sr 55-S          DDS-S-ha   -      95             C-,           oat'       rj.j..9..9  a 5.9-         Sue    I.-    -       C    04               WI     9'       VS  9105
05.4       a     CC     9- S.     9-            .-.    .o       ant        -cocia      e.g          28       0>0            S-  5-553          .,C      ha        CD   *505
5-5.4      D     115-                             S-*   ft't     7.5-       t1321       J9C'            4    #02    .5     C-     >1    .-.     71       9-        1(0552
- S -      9-    9-9-.0    -      ft  9-         4              9)19       kShaShab    2 5  N       55514  5 .-04   -       4    CS5.5  Sf      05'-     a        - I iS 90
9- SS      .4    N N 4      9     0   7          ft    (5      1 WIC      0 Sr aCe a  * *  -      t* 79-   0      51      0    ft 19- SI-     aS-   > .555         9-0   5 5.
a  9       VS    -.SS.ft9- 7  4       ha       CS     9- 5.5   5-. 5.50      VS VS 1 VS  90  9 0    .-. ... o  ft N SO a  -      A   2          ft U  9-SI 7       ft   ft  9 9-
9 -      94           C   0      9S  U                         SIO        55 (5 C C 0   9  9-    5 ) US ft  C ft. 530     9-      0 ftP 53    vs    ... r 2 -    ftC C ft 5, 9
S        09     350    9  S'    5*599- so         -   8     tS 9-S.C   .4ft       ft-i     urYrt       09a      79.0.9       981    so      7   aOrro.-         -a   tisof)'-'    *SIS* Sr
0.-I       -     9-  0     9-9-9-5-9-            '                     kaS    750            7 9oss   OP inc     ,-   ..  n       9  02C.4s-e           eos-..4S.a      .0%     9..-
ft   . . a.    9-99   S. .59  a4..-.atS   9-     7   PUCU,fl  053    7        5945    955555.tft ft  4 9......9  .59072  .4k.57   (5      1 afl-.SSDftft      I 2.50-a   S        .-.lft St
DI    050    Ii) S   000.4ZD      U      0    00        C  on,         ft  0  S-.S20000       .49  .4  9-5        *01 -    I       .9O1 .4530.        flS.,-9-079-    a   *
.59   >95.-   zo     -    oC      r      -     --C    or    2.S        9-7    9-9S-             500    s5000      C        9-     .4094(9,8CC          0.4  alt'.-       OCON    SC'
O 9         5    9 N   ftj   S.- N 2S- 9- C  ft   9- 5* ha 53 2  a ftC - - ft  ft 9-. N  D 9  5*95 5495  9- 5 5.9.  ft S SC hi SI WI 99 0 2  N  (5 2 Sr C  2 7 a  a a ft haN  9*  53* - 53 9
25       45    09      O9Jft  959-9-@tS@  5.5     -   09>0     70    2  C              a 9930000       09,-a    9-509*     05-5,94         05-9  105304           5353.4          >4    090
9-9      9    25       SN    5-040530             .4 WI       5)5*  209        Ok.     5-.99-  9-NO     S      WIS                         zattir     SiC      ft *9-ftI.4-JO     saft-t.0
9       -5   052    70     *-S-.5Il&k'   2      WI  9-059'   CC    0094       (Sic   054            29      7S222      40   1   5,     hI  00045)5,         5,00   jJ9-     5, 9-   90
9      *9      Sr   rD's    OCt    150   C      ft  5-1.40   7     aC-       5 95t   9-9>9-5-       05Cr        Srrr     9-5121  9-        So       a9-       a    CCC,      2 SS195-9- S
45 .09 29 5-5 5009- 5-59 0 0 WI 4 ftStt *9- - SCO* a Sso 09,9-9- 559 C' S00-90*9-7 5-. 0 9- Ut US 553535975u.
.S CS.- 5-959' rhahal Sr 9-VJW S err. *... GUS 29 tS C' s-Cs k,s,u,a 9- SOt 299-5-5. 0*SC 5- 79*,- 70005.4 05155 ft 0.4 090009-9k,
* *..J4C    9  9-590   -        ooos,'     ---        9-9-9-9-  hal  9-haS  539    .4  959* 1I5..4b3    55.55.5  -5C')             . flS9-10     0.50         25-swia    ha 9-9    200   59-
.0940     09      S4   .400    4WIfttC      49-4   2   a        CC    4945   19.408       5   43030    0922        *4...,  5.1.409  3   9-909-9409-9-  9-   050009       .4   S SUft'9-0 SC
99-0   bbS   49D    DIha    400200       DOt    4    00599     7    a0    99.01      SI 959-55-500  - St I    I SWIDWI    40      9- 9- SDftk9*ftO.4      2 99,DSsftJb900  = Ss-s9,5-9a 92
o 96,0   09    .49*    *SS    9-94940.459  *9- WI 0   53 .-4   sir.  1 CD   C 99-ftft'  I 9  I I .44   ft 900   9-500*     091*VS 5-S 5094*pjo9-                              WI 9C'9'hat S
* 99-4      9  WISIS  C)     so            C      ft  SI       9599  4      .459007    09              9-9      .49(50(5   55       59  9490     ha  C  N   00539.)  5-1  D    a 904.451953
0 9      * 9   ft 9*  a                    a          4        - SC ft      9 5 9- a -.9 Si S -        a S a. -  - 9 8 9 IS ft      N   0 9 0    9   0  -   VS 98CC  4   0     7 90 0 5.57 SftS
49       75    05                                                           15         29             soS      919                     09                   05                05          99,
CS 9  09                                                           haS        -9             C9       29                      ft'S                IS                945         9



Page 2 of 4 pagst
'Nlgas otherwise doted. data for 1960 refer to any year berneen 1959 and 1961, for 1970 beeween 1968 and 1970. and for meet Recent EStImate
bere,n   1973 and 1975.
The 1970-75    oplaio      r-ch r3ta to eanormal17 low d4e co the effects of the car of indapendewe and "eas population, navat. a"rees
ch. borders during chat Period.      presently. ch.    -vrage population groveh is estimated se 3% per amnnu.
-Selection of 'falimvseaa     ad objeci-e countev is based on Malayvial         success in salntaind.ng a high rate of economic growch add adequate
le-1 of Welfare cocurrently cith di,rersi7yi.g its scononc stru.cture.
BANCLASH      1960   /.Ratio of popuLation under 15 add 60 add over to total labor fords;                /b  1963-64:     /c  Registered, not all
practicing i. che    moutry;      'd  Goverrmenc hospital establishmants onlP;         La   Appromlwata *snroll.oant as
percenacge of popuLation Ln 6-1O add 11-1.5 age grdup. -epectively,              /f  kge group 15-59 and 60 and over reepecti-ely.
1970    A   1966-67,    '/b  1967-68;    /c   Registered, not &ILl practicing In the country;         /d  Covnmmoet hcospital
establlsamneentn  only;   /.   overage for 1969-71;      rf  Appro-iata anroilLenct a      Percentage of population in 6-10
and 11-IS age groups r.epactilyl.
4701 9RECENT -STDIAMO     /a  Ratio of Population under 10 and 60 add over to total labor force;            lb   Mainly ubemployed    Worker.
steeking their floa,t job:     /o  Including 'ndive          d   1972;     /a  Age group 10-59 and 60 aod ower
ruapectively.
3 p7cg A        1970   ;a   PAtio of population under 15 aod 65 and wver to total labor force;           -/   Pereona,m1 in govrnoment services only;
c   1964-66.
!VT~n   1970   'a   1964-66;    lb   Pucbliu school. chich includa technical education cc the post-secondary level.
euC.605A        1970  'a    Waea   Maasa       /b   Registered applicants for cock;       /0   196..-66;   /d   Piped -catr ims,ids.
RIO, May 24, 1977
oU2FrLNTo9. O? SOCIOIL DSICA7ZRIS
'an  sine, thou _en2                                                                        POnul1-on 0 inur 1cm    1aron - PoPulation divided by -ocnre of practicing
IZocal - T-ta  surf aba ares c  pr1irg land area ed Linlad caer.                                al  and faals grad.ate t-r-., "tained" or                       ....ile'  ure . ad
cArio. - m.cc --cec    -Ltoat   of egric.Itur.L ares used               deaarl   or - pain-ciliary personnel cult training ora-           rtne
candy for crops. peecuore.. carkat & kitchen ga-dena, on to lio fallow.                   Ponulatio   per ho-pitel bod - Pepoalonl dividad by .-.or of hoepica1 ad.
aveilable 10 puelit sad private sansra1 ad apctsli..d h.aPita1 add
ClIP per -sOic. ''551   75? per capita  sttt      e a  current esrkt prcs                       ehtabilitation cancer; ..Clodee nursing heac and eacabjLat-oc        for
caclcdby earnon-vrelon othod ae 'do.ld Bsnx Aclae (1973-7i basis) ,                     uatodi.l and peven.tive oars.
1660: 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Per copic. scoot, of veoia(          f -eouirenbenca  - Conpucad frob,anergy
equiv-leet of net food eupplies   -ualbLah    in ..ccory par capita -a day,
Population and vital sttsic-vilable supplies cospti.. doosntic production, Imports                                                                           .   ..e enprns, and
?Publ'tion 'odvs       iioI       u   f July first;   if non avallabla, avsrege                changes in stock; n-c -ipplisa .ecldsl   animal feed, eseda. qu-citie ..   ..d
of twob -n-y-ar .etioatsa . 1160, 1970 and 1970 data,                                       Lo food p-nceaatng and laeeae in distribution; reqniranta        -er  setunaced
by FAO.b.es   on phyniologioal ned.    for norini activity and health conid-
'nnaindeneinn-  pareuaea-'-         dya    poplation par    quats kicewat-               ann   e=      _-nntL ceperetu    , body -ights, ag    and see dia-rlbutiont of
(100 bett..rs.; of  -cal area,                                                              population, and a11loig Ill for cste at household Io.-L
Popnlanton densiy-v   Per soustan of srnt, land - C-Npord .a above for                       Psr ..pit. euoyof orten          rsr  Par day) - IP-nte.n content of per capita
agricuLtura1   an.d only.                                                                    cat suppiy of food par day; net supply of food is defined aa a-va        -eTlra-
mtot for all countries eatablished by U50A cE.-Mi. Resea.rch Se~rvice
Vital  ttaieprovid. for a minion                                                                                      allowance of 60 frea of total probsin per day, snd
C-ode birth r.ane   tsch-cad. a-raos - OnuI ILiv         hirnha par nhou-d     fi              20 grea of anm-l and m Is. proctoL, of ahich 10 Sr-n ehould be ani-al
mod-veer pop  .l.t.on    te-ea                       adIaica agseding i. 1.960 and 1970,     protein; these etandarda ace lor then thooc of 75 are         of total procoi
and fiv--er avrage endicg La 1975 for moat r-,cn       eattoata.                            and 23 arbea of animal protein eanvrgefor the sorld, proposed by F00
Cs-ads deah ..ota. ar houaatd,...v.rsc- AnduuaI deatna p.r thousand of old-year                ic. toe Third world FoodSuvy
PoPulscien.  te-o-a clttI          nragea ending in 1960 asid 1970 and fiv-                Per -spic.  -rtbln o-on1y fren anina1 and visa - Proc.ic supply of fondd
vest.. avr.g. oding io 1975 for most roctc astinatca.                                        d-rived  r-   an.oLsI -p pulaaa    .c groad pot day
:ta, or-alit,c ret. 'to,- Annu.l d-ath           f ofanc    under one year of aga           Deah -ens ( th-,,   aK.s L-   - ktnui d-ehe per tcou-ad in ago group 1-.
par ch-eand lv- circUs.                                                                      yeara, to children in tlIe   sae group, euggestad a. an Lodilc...r of
Life -cp-vc-n     an birth Ipp.  - Average   ofoar of yasos of lifa   mining    se             nalbutrltion.
bircn, usually f i-e-po    avrages sding in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for dansiop-
Log conotrti.                                                                              Educ cion
Crnesnt,rvduolnt      acsvrag       nocber of live daughters a    ea     ill hear            Adluated sttollet     -eic - prt-to..shool - EnrMllowat of all ages as par-
-   -sr  -   Ia r.prv.... IL-- p.riod if ah. nmpeti.e.n..  pr .e.nt  ge-spacIfic             -encg   of prus-n l    oo-g     poiace      . lludea children agd 6-Il     -er
f-tililnre.,usal -         t1 fi---ya  --grsa  ending in .960, 1970 and 1975                 hut adjustad for different .enghs of primary edu.caion, for       -cnries oth
for devalopiog conre.univrersa                                                                          adu..aclon, en-oloant nay .cued 1001 since aea     pupila are halo
P-pultton grnd r    otah     l -  .1na  - Conpocmd asoIa gronth rcaca  of mid-year             or a-v    ts officiAl school    ge..
popul-iai    cor 1950-0,O 1960-7) and 1970-75.                                             Adi..ted enrolL-on   rscic-sopvndar      school - Conputed as above    -aondar
,Populaton gronth rats I72 - u,rban - Cooptotd    Ihe growth rata of toa                        ducation  saquirnes  lAt 1a  four y..r. of approved prinar     loarc-tio..
population; dl ffreo    ,loclcici.cn  of urboan-a cay affenc toprblt            f            provide-a..genral. ',ctionaI or ts...hsrtrinn        idats-tton. for p,pLlt
data among rotocri.e                                                                         of 12 cc I' years of ada; c-rspond.nce course. are .e.. -11selued
Lrbat P.Pcol-ion, (It of tutl)- 6t       of urban c totalC population , different            Yearsr of -th-olia   prpvidsd (fr,t and second lev-1s     - Tuot.1 yesrs of
dafliotiona of    .. oenr.as              -   - fst  enrbillry of data a.-n  countrina.      schooling; at ...cod.ty level    -ociconal idacruction nay ba psrtial.l      or
conpl.cely eatuded.
ASe nts-ottur      - 'ret; - Children (i-tA  -ov    vrcing-ege (15-44 years;,                VOcaIonal o...nILhmot -'. of -aondar.-    - voc.tlonal L-et.ctioe     inc ludo
anaeccc      ,65 ocare an   over; as parnng-f mod-nea          poua-oehnic-o                             . Idustrial or ..t.er  -ror-   -niub apor-t   indapendant.   o1  a
005 p..aderv  r-ate-c.ti 10 Otp      tainader 15 And :5 and Ove        to tos                depar-ret. cc aacoods-c     -tetlti-lca
or  gee B) ;hn... v vi.                                                                   odul~lt  --Ier   -.ce'. - itreadulto         ahls to red and wri-s      apr
ctc1-v1ntc      oc,rsI~         ;   of Popultaion   -ont 15 a-i 65 and ovr tococge                       crotsu.pplto               ag.o 15 ,ars andovr
envoL.,tosce;rs',nualn                 o;    - aol.tlv- runnr of sca.p,ror              cui
o -1crr--rnrol devps-n rssoceo               aInltlly         pl-oiog progras             besn     ar noo   1-ath An-Ovsrg     manrs persons per morn'. -nnapld
s    "c cnP'on                                                                           c-saetioa     duelling.   nuptaes          oelnestueoon-psrnanen
v007 II  -cor-assre           --a cr.d ,,oen,-stp       ae    f naried     -n  of            structurae and utoc'aOisd parts.
r;old nearin  age  S- vess; uno'ass  trtO-nonttl os-i.es cc all tarried         :ccupied d-sl1tne     litouc onped ..ster CT) -Oope        evnlnl'ullg
a nItsaage group                                                                      io 'rts  and rural areas cih.tbu   '..id. or outsode pipas   -str tclts
sapecntg  of all ocpied dasilinga
tool lonncote                                                                                         oeociitC           f all d-lltiooe;   - Convetional dslllnys     itch
Total labor fort    (thocandt     unnull       atv      een     including  -md                   Ilectriclcc  I i.lvitg. qourt.r. - portent of total d-clllngs Ln urbs,    -nd
Icce  ad ienl  uedOc    cetdn.-us          ra    tda..... .ec.., dofloitjona             s-orl    ee
In '         -ros  ontiee are  o  conp-rbla                                                OcalA-I   lno    tnonnntd to    lnrtc .           Conputed   e above Cor s-ra
labor   or-e In .  tutr       T  -  grtcalt-rl labor forte (In faming, forestry,                dllIng, only.
"uccilg and ILahingi as pernent.fe of total1 lana, torte
U'rnlae   0',flabor for-;   L,9- inn e  are usually defined aaper--       n            Cor-optben
area. and ailling -e jae        ob0, ou  of a joh on a give. da.     e   -td ou           .fdto r.c.lv-re  (par tou non; - A1l typsa of re-ei-re     fen radio hroadc-ec
of a Job,..ad ....ning cork for a epeified micLeo      perbd not ecta-ding on..o.A-r1 puoblic psr cnouand of pouain                             ecua     nlsoe       eevrs
sek, nay nor he conparsele her-e       -ountia   dus co different dafinitions                ic countries and in yer     whan r.isrtinofrdI           easac1efct
of uneplord and eorte of data, a g. , inplo.         t office ettatce-, ._,I.                dat. far rsnet ceas     nay cot b. neap-rble since not counries aboLished
-acvye. ceptolery tomlvet acrents,                                                           licensig.
P...enner cars (per thou eo; .     aeene     care -opri-e nocor tare esrn
!Iota  di, tnlbutio  -Pretg        ofpri-ece i-ce      (bth In cash endbkind)                  laa   thae eignt pereen, noludeeebln          a   hearese and nilLtar
rscevad  v rons 5 St  rinhe  107., poores  21.ad pors         0   f hocos               obola
holds                                                                                      flactricir   (huh/yr per cap) - Annasul ceamoaptmon of inddetrial.1c,       tti
publicadpiae           crcr      in bilowtt boone per capita. g .ner-lly
Diocrlbutlo    fln     oeasi      -Pret of      ofrn      we    ycstis                           ae    nproduction data, without abwnefor Ideas            In grids but allo-
aco poor-e 10?. of land                                                                       L.ar.n  far Laporte sod eMprta ofeinriv
Neweriet (kgt,r per -peS - P.r capita annual noaoot            . Iskilogre_
'ealtOo and 4nutritIon                                                                          ..tL-nted fron donsetic production pias cat Imparta of _anprici
1opuoal-n car ph,vt ciAn - Population divdad be vcbr of precti,lng
p-'rici... qualIfied foes . nad ial enbooi at 1e-sentle



A2NNEX I
-page 3 of 4 page
Av.
Actual                   Estime ed                  1960-      1963-       1973-       1967-69 1974/75 1976/7
Av. 196 7-69  19 72/ 73  94            19 75 /76  1976/77              1965       1970       1977
MATIONA.L A~CCZ1TS
InCnsat     1972- 1973 Prices & E:chsanze Pates          Average Annual Growth Rates           As Pe-cent of 5.DY
Gross Domestic Product              6,012    5.833     6,514            7,295      7,561                4.7        3.3         67         9.       0.        U.
G.ir.s from Term.s of Trade (-         9         -      -117            -145       -148                                                    1.5     -1.8    -2.0
.5ros: Domestic Income             6,101      TTl                        . 1-50    7,413                5.6        2.5         6.2       TM7      -          0.
Imrport (ioel. SETS)                 879        747       703             646        S00               20.6        6.8       -7.4         14.4     11.0       6.7
Eroorts    "  (Import CaPacity)       598       369       197             200        210               12.3      -14.6      -12.6           9.8      3.1      2.8
Resource Gap                         -81        t7        m               -446       290                                                   46       7.9       3.
Consumption Zrpenditures            5,668    5,817     6,403            7,0l62     7,230                5.7         3.6        5.6         92.9    100.1     97.6
investment        (incl. stocks)      714       394      499              534        473               13.3        8.8         6.7        12.9       7.8      7.4
Domestic Savings                      433        16        -6              98         183               4.3        10.0       81.0          6.8     -0.1      2.4
National Savings                      416        32        10              110        200                8.7       20.5       57.0          7.1      0.2      2.6
HERC!{AX1ISE -1PADE                           Annual Data at Current Prices                                                               As Percent of Total
nmorts
Capital goods                        ..       100       135             213         268                 ...                 25.7           ..      16. 8   28.6
Tnitermediate goods ~~' fuels)       ..       176       386             3.16       250                  ...                 12.8           ..     30.4     26.7
Fuel.s and related materials
of which:   Petroleum              .         23       155             126        144                  ..                  49.8           .      10.0     15.4
Consu-.ntion goodLs                  _.        U        726l            541         275                 .           .       -6.6                  i"....~ ..  2L.2.
7ot-al Me.-Ch. Lcports (ctf        54 7      727     1,402            1,266        937                                       8.6                 100.0    100.0
Z)oort3
.ri.tary products ~Ect. fusls)       ..       145       119             156         168                 .                     2.9                40.9     42.0
Fluels and related -iaterials
or which:   Petroleum
"tIctrdcoods                  ..       195       239             225         242                 ....                  5459.1                       58.0
C alMerci. -cots(o)              8         40        35 8          **l                                                     3.8        -      100.0    100.0
Trourism and Borcer   Traae
Merchandise Trade indices                        Average 1972-73     100
Exc-ort Price Index                 61       100       133              109        III.                            .         2.4
importc Price :-ndex                52       100       215              195        1899                 .                   16.3
Terms or Trade Index               118       100        62               56         59                  .           .      -11.7
Zxports Volume :ndex               148       100        80              106        123                  ...                   3.9
V JEALZEm BY SECTCR              Annial Data at 1972- 73Prices anci Exchange Sate~s               Average Annual Growth Pates          AsPretoTta
Agricu.ltu.re                    3,542     3,403     3,712            4,078      4,140                                                     59     79        87
industry and Mining                420       4,12      466              527        567                 4.8.7 7.8
Servrice                         2.050     1.4       2,4              2.333      2.04...                                     78.          34      31       35_
T-;t al                          6,012     5,663     6,324            6.938      7.211                                       6.1         too     ICC      100
?~~~~~Mic _71ANCE ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percent of 3IP
kOentr3.'_ Z.uvernment)
Current Receirts                   317       280       469              775        877                 ...                   42          5.3     7.2     11.2
Cu_rrent Zxoenditures              365       364       419              600        686                                      16.8         6.1     6.4      8.7
Buc.3etary Sav-ngs                 -4        84        5-0              17 5       T91                                                  -0.8     0.8      2.5
Other Public Sector..                          .                          .          .....
PubL-c Sector Investment           421       239       248              295        350                 ...                   03          7.0     3.8'     4.9'
US $   'Ii.on-
327T ~cPTSmIZ~P!  ZTAZ:S               Actual                    Estimated               TETI.7 ON                             At Av.      1972/ 73 P and ER
As ~~ Tctal. C rren- Excend.)      1969/70   1 972 /73  19 74,175  19-75,/7-6  19-76/7-7       PUBLIC S-CTOP.                       ;irst ?!&n    ~   ci' F;tal
.oucat:oo                  ..      1~~~~~~-4.8  1S.5      13.6      13.3           flSVEST.,=  PP~?X!A                      17/7          977
Cther Social1 Services               ..         .4.0     4.2         4.4        4.2           Social Sectors                             758         15.3
Agron-ulture  and                                                                              Agriculture                              1,302         26.4
Other Econmaic Services              ..      11.2        7.2         6.8       6.7           Industry and Mining                      1,024          Z0.7
Ad',nistration and Iefense             .       6 7.4     68.1         66.8      68.9           Powr                                       529          10.7
( tIer                                          2.7       5.0          6.4       6.9           Transport and ccmmr.icatior.s              802          16.3
Tc-al Ci"rrent Ex;enditures                  71oo 100.0 10o-                 1 0.0           O tier                                      52L4        10.
Total E:xpenditures                      4,940         100.0
SELECMD :TDICATOPS                                    1960-      -1965-        1973-            F-irZANCO2G
(Calculated from ~-yea.r a';eraged data)              1965     _  1970        1976                  Domestic Borroving                      784         15.9
Average ICZ)R                                          ..         3.74         0.89                  Public S.-ctor Savings               2,022         40.9
fripor- Elasticity                                     ..         1.29        1.11                  Program aid counterpart              1,009          20.4
S-trginal Domestic Savings Ratsa.                                 0.22        0.05                  Foreign Project Aid                  1.125          22.8
MArgir-al Niational Sa7ings Rate                -       .          .35        0.05                  Total Financing                      4,940         100.0
L,AScR FORCE ANDS                                 Total Labor Force                                   Value Added Per Wokeg192             3  Prices &        Px. ates)
OUT?JT P~~~ WC?~~?      In Mil~lions         -ofotl11                      73        in U.S.Bolls.rs       ?cetO         vrg190-7
1960/61     19 72/ 73 1960/ 61  1972/73   Growth Rate           1969/70    19 72/ 73   1969/70    19_72/73    Growth Pate
Agriculture                         16.1        20. 5      85        78         2.0                 ..166                  ..76
Industry                             1.0         1.8        5         7         5.0                ..229                   ..        105
Service                              1.8         3.9       10        15         6.7                ..484                   ..        222
Tztal                               18.9        26.2      100       100         2-.8              248          217        100        100          -4.9
n ot applicasle                -   il or negLigible
not available               --less than half the smallest unit shown
No t e:  Ftgures are on fiscal year basis (July 1-June 30).      Data prior to 1972/73 pertain to erstwhsile East Pakistan
/1-     These are original plan targets.



P.S. * of * polo.
8ALU7C2 07 PAf.T 7U0W. 4. A3S5U!A AiC DDT
(_t      L. . 124    of O.S. dollA.: *C eCo      ploi.)
A4 tuli1                         l.oatimt?100                         Aw?8.. AfnlO4 amn,0   P.O.
1969770   1972/73   1973/7X   11747           19S5/16   1976/77       19                      :974 - 1978
5ClbAAT  .AMQC OP PATllS
-MS(.o..7)                         51.3      369       339       358              381       '00          423                       5.5
two::. (tool. ~~~~~7S) ~-439             -767      -958    ..1*i02          -1.290      -937       -1.274                        7.4
l...o.oz0e 2.1.oo. (2-94)                 -124      -78       -61.9  -1.40              -909      -337          449                        6.2
7t.or.st (0.0)
Diroco t1,.nmo    I:cp    I
W.    R' X..     0        I                ..         45        10         7               1        25            15                        _
Cujrror Tranaf.:. (n.c)   I                                                                         _                                      _ ~1  .
SomFe. on CUrrC ACcou.                               i                  0 -t037  _                5l2 3 S 2
PrNit  lDi-et L .n..c    -00
Offttl C.J P   l0 iro?.                              482       204       397             236       238.          340                      13.6
Pu51tc 961.7 2.000
20o00m0.oo00                             . .        76       297      527              578       314          476                       16.0
-l.roo..o0.                 ..         ~~       ~~~       ~~       ~~- 410  -23  -78 i~           -31-
N;. Dtb.rs.o0                              ..         76       2a7      502              500       293           145                      13.7
Oth.r 9L7 L 0
-9;oThpnOOs                                         -
9.0i  Iajoor.nr0                           ..         ..       ..        ..              ..         ..
C p     rDO.CotOD n                       .        -205        78      334             122         33           91
13006. 10 9.? NCR rv.. C - * tbe..r...               -20        43     -196              50        -72          -32                           Acruol                ________d
0rr.. t.s.r.   (ond ?7r1Od)                :.        107        67      263             213        265          317                1971/72    1372/73    974/75     1975176   19777
C7A)r T  50D LOA  C Oe I-17 TS
Otfli.ct -l  t. S Cront-Llk.                         514       150      368             3a0       DIIT ASD DEBT SERVICE
PubLic D0bt Out. & D.lb.... d       36        187       998        1,809     2,245
Nubli. 9LT LO-..                                                                                   Iter..t o    Public Debt           -         -         10           20        26
;5R0                                                -           -              -       _          1p.yCo. on Public D.bt            -          -         25           67        2I
IDA                                                 8         74     130             187         To.oL Public D2b. S0.-0*0          _         _         35           37        4'
Ooh7or wulo1lcer1.                                  11         17      87              22        Oh*r Debt S.-0Let (0.t)
Co.,  orr ..                                       204        329     678             332         T.c.1 0bt S.-L.. (C.t)
Soppl.l..                                           45 S7              17              -
71,onoial to*ol:rtouoino.                           -           -      -                9       !urd~ ofi JD Lrpot E.o89 (7t
?ubI     . M&L-:.  L0.. .                                              _                          Pbli-. D.bt S.o-:..                                   9.8         22.8      11.
,o. l*     * PbIOU SSL. 0                  ..s                  14a:67  S32             330        7Totc  2.b6 S.-.v..
ThS4.Oirooo love.:.to              ..        . 
A4.U.l  .0 2.           OD* J.  30  1976
1107!9..4AL 1 85                                    1.4.r-.od Onl          ?.r ...t                Avorog. To.-. of Pobilo 3.bt
World 3A-                                            .4     -   -            3.0
IDA                                                    380                 21.0                     toc, as Ft Prir T..r O&D                              2.3          2.0       1.
One.                                                   25uloOorOl  15       1.4                    A-por  .. Z  Preoi  T-o. D360                         5.7          6.7       1.2
Go.  0o -.t                                          1.230                 69.1
SuppiI,-                                               90                   5.0                  1B4L 2.b6  Ot. 6 Di.4u. d
7ioooo.l I   rto1_tu:ion.                                9                  0.5                     .* t            2b.i   06D        - -                 5 5          3.0       2.1
Sonod                                                                        -                          ^ I Public 3.40 S.r0ic.       -          -         -            . 8      7.0
Public 2.00. n. .1t
T-001 Public 81LT 72b0                                1.309                100.0                  IOA D:b.ZOo: 6ib.urod
a. t of Publi  2.0bt 060       -        8.6       25.5         2i.0 D     7.7
Sthe---    0 b rdl.b. .o *                                                                                t P0blie 2.b6 So.-cu.       _         _         3 1          2.5 S..
Sloro- -r- 0.60 (31.0 b 02/1
sot .pplIcobl.                     e   stolE e.oftoOt
not ovoU.410                        -   oil or o..ligibl.
Io        d -v1ttl7 oopornt.ly DUt  -   1... 0h1 D.1f ch. oD   l..:
::clud.d In total                       UnIt Jboh..
rp 19377



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of September 30, 1977
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                      Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                 Purpose                     Amount  Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Five Credits Fully Disbursed                                 206.4        -
339        1972      Cyclone Area Reconstruction (replaces
Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)            25.0       7.6
340         1972     Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970)            13.0       4.5
341         1972     Tubewells (replaces Credit No.
208-PAK of 1970)                       14.0       2.3
343         1972     Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)           7.3      1.3
353         1973     Small-Scale Industry (replaces
Credit No. 192-PAK of 1970)             3.0        .2
367         1973     Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)              7.0        .8
368        1973      Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
replaces Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                  13.2        .9
381         1973     Foodgrain Storage (replaces Credit
No. 83-PAK of 1966)                     19.7       .3
407        1973      Education (replaces Credit Nos.
49-PAK and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                  21.0       7.7
408         1973     Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                               25.0      12.8
409        1973      Technical Assistance                      4.0       1.7
410         1973     Cereal Seeds                              7.5       6.1
424        1973      Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation     8.7      2.5
487        1974      Second Telecommunications                20.0      18.2
527        1975     Ashuganj Fertilizer                       33.0     25.0
533        1975      Population                               15.0     13.7
542         1975     Barisal Irrigation                       27.0      25.7
591         1975     Imports Program IV                      100.0       2.4
605         1976     Karnafuli Irrigation                     22.0      18.2



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of September 30, 1977
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CON'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                    Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                 Purpose                   Amount   Undisbursed
621        1976     Agricultural and Rural Training        12.0        12.0
622        1976     Technical Assistance II                 7.5         7.2
631        1976     Rural Development                      16.0        15.9
632        1976     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                 25.0        24.5
676        1977      Imports Program V                     75.0        46.5
724        1977     Shallow Tubewells                      16.0        16.0*
725        1977     Muhuri Irrigation                      21.0        21.0*
729        1977     Extension and Research                 10.0        10.0*
735        1977     Inland Water Transport II               5.0         5.0
SUBTOTAL                  779.3      310.0
Principal Repayment                              0.4
Effective Credits held by Association          778.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087       1975     Consolidation Loan                     54.9        0
TOTAL                  833.8      310.0
*Not yet effective



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
I/
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-;/
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:   US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Project performance has improved and, although still 2-1/2 years
behind schedule, it is no longer falling further behind. Following reevalua-
tLoii of the design, the cyclone shelter program is now moving ahead with 124
modified shelters expected to be completed between mid-and-end 1978. Strength-
ening of the shelters already constructed will commence shortly. Arrangements
for supervision of shelter construction still need to be strengthened. Four of
the five primary roads are now finished with the fifth road scheduled for
completion in 1978. The IDA financed portion of the feeder road program is
nearing completion. Construction of towers for the telecommunications sub-
project is behind schedule but this subproject should be completed by December
1977. The fisheries subproject, including distribution of boats to groups of
local fishermen has been completed. Work on the repair or new construction of
inland water transport terminals is almost completed.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:   US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The project should be completed by December 1978. Delays have been
due to major flooding, labor problems, shortages of materials, equipment,
breakdowns, ineffective management, and delays in provision of local funds.
While problems remain, substantial progress has been made recently both in
physical construction and agricultural extension. The main regulator is now
operational, although utilization of the irrigation works will be delayed
due to land acquisition problems (now resolved) which interfered with work
on irrigation channels. An extension of the Closing Date by about eighteen
months will be required. Project audits are not being received in a timely
fashion. Proposals for the recovery of project water charges have not yet
been received.
1/   These notes are-designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: March 30, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Completion of the Project is expected within a year. About
90% of the wells under contract have now been drilled, and verticality prob-
lems have largely been corrected by the contractors. BADC has decided to
recontract for 285 wells not yet drilled. Pumphouse construction and engine/
pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. The agricultural development
component of the project, also behind schedule, has been incorporated in the
Extension and Research Project. Project audits are not being received in a
timely fashion. Arrangements for extending consultants' services have been
agreed. The Closing Date has been extended to March 30, 1979.
Jr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;   US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
)f 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
?ension of disbursements. Three of the four microwave systems have been
zommissioned and the balance by November 1977, two years behind schedule. The
:ontract for the fourth microwave system (which substitutes the coaxial cable
system in the original project) has been awarded together with contract for
similar systems under Credit 487-BD. This system is expected to be commis-
sioned by June 1978. The Closing Date has been extended from December 31, 1975
to June 30, 1978.
:r. No. 353    Small-Scale Industry Project; US$3.0 Million Credit of
January 19, 1973:   Effective Date:  May 14, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
The Project is administered by the Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Endustries Corporation (BSCIC) and a consortium of commercial banks. Dis-
3ursements up to September 30, 1977 amount to approximately US$2.8 million.
Thile the credit was fully committed by the end of 1974, agreements by
;uppliers to provide equipment were cancelled in a few cases and new suppliers
iad to be found. In early 1976, IDA therefore agreed to extend the Closing
)ate by nine months to allow for disbursements under outstanding letters of
zredit. To permit all credit funds to be disbursed, a further extension of
:he Closing Date, from March 31, 1977 to December 31, 1977 has been made. An
[DA mission visited Bangladesh in March 1977 to explore with Government ways
nd means for improving BSCIC activities. A second operation involving BSCIC
nd commercial banks was appraised in July/August 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973, Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: October 31, 1977
After two years of organizational and procurement difficulties,
progress in 1976 and 1977 to date has been satisfactory. The project is now
expected to be completed in early 1978 over 2 years behind the schedule estab-
lished in 1973. Despite substantial rate increases and improvements in bill-
ings and collections, WASA's financial problems remain serious because of high
operating costs and the large quantity of non-revenue water. Progress has been
made in most areas of an agreed action program to improve the finances but a
decision on public hydrants is still under consideration. Revenue requirements
are expected to increase in FY78 because the project will be completed and the
Authority must begin repaying the Government loans for the project. A fourth
extension of the Closing Date to June 30, 1978 is currently under consideration
and will be dependent upon further actions, now pending, to make the Authority
financially viable.
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
October 31, 1977
Project progress atnd the Dacca WASA's financial problems are similar
to those of Chittagong under Credit 367-BD above. A fourth extension of the
Closing Date to June 30, 1978 is currently under consideration and will be
dependent upon further acticons, now pending, to make the Authority financially
viable.
Cr. No. 381    Foodgrain Storage Project; US$19.7 Million Credit of May 18,
1973; Effective Date: July 17, 1973; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The Project is also financed by credits from the Kingdom of Sweden
totalling 30.0 million Kroner. The project was originally financed by US$19.2
million IDA Credit No. 83 of 1966 and a 25 million Kroner credit from the
Kingdom of Sweden. The project was almost completed at the time of Bangla-
desh's independence, and 95% of the reactivated IDA and Swedish credits was to
be used for repaying the previous credits. Substantial delays occurred in
hiring consultants and in design and construction of ancilliary civil works.
In addition, there was serious deterioration in the silos mechanical equipment
due to inadequate maintenance and management, under staffing in the Directorate
of Silos and delays in ordering spare parts. Since January 1976 however
significant progress has been made in accordance with an action program agreed
with IDA/SIDA, particularly in constructing ancillary civil works and staffing
the project agency; one silo has been put back into operation, consulting
services for a silo maintenance improvement program have been obtained and
jetty rehabilitation started in February 1977. Therefore, the Association
agreed to a third extension of the Closing Date to September 30, 1977. The
project was completed on June 30, 1977 and the final withdrawal applications
are being processed.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Cr. No. 407     Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1978
This project was originally financed by Credits 49-PAK and 98-PAK
and by December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had
been disbursed.   Progress on the Agricultural TUhivPrsty portion of the proj-
ect is about two years behind schedule due to initial difficulties in reaching
agreement with the consultant architects on a revised contract and shortages
of building materials and delays in the preparation of equipment lists and
furniture designs. However, significant progress has been made beginning in
late 1976. The academic buildings now under construction are expected to
be completed by the end of 1977 and the remaining works by July 1979. The
University has taken steps to improve the relevance of its agricultural train-
ing and research programs to Bangladesh's practical problems in agricultural
and rural development but further progress in this direction is needed. The
teclnical education portion of the project is about 18 months behind schedule
due to past delays, but is expected to be completed by the end of 1977. The
graduates are facing severe problems of unemployment and a committee has been
established to revise the curriculum to make it more relevant to job require-
ments.
Cr. No. 408     Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
Several project elements are now nearing completion, including the
Sitalakhya Bridge, ferry improvements and the Keane Bridge which was officially
opened in June 1977. However, the Feni bypass is still seriously behind
schedule and completion is unlikely before May 1979. Construction of the
Roads and Highways Directorate building has commenced. An action program
calling for a review of project progress against avrQeedl itiagets has been
established for purposes of considerblgr an extension of the Closing Date.
Cr. No. 409     Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Contracts have been signed with consultants for thirteen sub-projeci:;
4vth an allocation from this Credit of about US$3.9 million. Completed studies
have played a key role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing. Due
to delays in initial commitment of credit funds, disbursements are 2 to 3 years
behind initial estimates. The Closing Date for this Credit was extended by two
years, to December 31, 1977 and a further extension will have to be considered
to complete ongoing projects.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  January 30, 1974; Closing Date:   December 31,
1977
Although the project is about 20 months behind schedule,implemen-
tation has improved considerably in recent months. Orders for farm machinery
and laboratory equipment have recently been placed. After contract negotia-
tions with the lowest bidder for the seed processing plants had broken down,
proposals for simplification of plant design were agreed and tenders are now
being processed. After substantial initial delays work is now proceeding
on improvements at the seed multiplication farms and production of seed,
especially wheat, is increasing.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Procurement of spare parts and equipment was slow initially but
almost all funds for these purposes have now been committed. Regarding the
Chittagong off-shore oil terminal, detailed investigations indicated that
damage was more severe than previously believed and consultants' recommenda-
tions providing a supplementary credit of US$4.6 million was approved and
signed in late 1975. Two used tankers have been procured, repaired and
equipped for lighterage service at Chittagong and now being put into operation.
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommtnications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The project is 18 months behind schedule due to delays in procurement
and civil works. Thirty percent of the original target for the exchange
installation for the first two years has been achieved on the local telephone
network. Most project equipment has been ordered. Work on the long-distance
telephone exchanges has yet to commence. A Telegraph and Telephone Board has
been established, a year behind schedule. Consultants financed under the
Credit are assisting the T&T Board in establishing a commercial accounting
system and valuation of assets.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soils analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site is being carried out to protect the



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
plant against earthquake risks. Currently the project is about eighteen months
behind schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial
slow progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning
for construction. Revised cost estimates are being finalized. Allowing for
the additional site work and the delays, costs are expected to be signifi-
cantly higher than lender funds currently available. Discussions with
Government on means of providing the project with sufficient foreign exchange
funds have been scheduled for early December 1977.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:   US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of about US$25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Notwithstand-
ing the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government has made sub-
stantial progress in project implementation. The organizational structure of
the Population Control and Family Planning Division (body responsible for the
population program) has been defined and its headquarters staff has been placed
in position; most field staff is being recruited. Population programs in five
non-health ministries are underway. The Building, Planning and Design Unit of
the Ministry of Health, with the assistance of consultants, has completed a
master plan for the project's construction program and contracts for construc-
tion of project buildings are being awarded. Preliminary drafts of a study
on Population legislation and a management study for the Ministry of Health,
Population Control and Family Planning have been completed. Most of the
required consultants and advisors for other parts of the project have been
appointed.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
The project is behind schedule due to initial delays in hiring
project consultants and in assignment of Water Development staff members to
the project, and delays in land acquisition. The staffing position has
improved and field survey and design activities are now progressing satis-
factorily. Principal field activities have been survey work, procurement
of materials and housing and office construction. Two pilot areas have
been developed which have been useful in testing the project concept and in
identifying potential problems. Construction of irrigation channels had been
delayed by problems of land acquisition but these have now been resolved.
Cr. No. 591    Fourth Imports Program; US$100 Million of November 25, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
Withdrawal applications are being processed and the balance of
the credit is expected to be fully disbursed by November 30, 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project is behind schedule due to initial delays in hiring proj-
ect consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the project
began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness is limited by delays
in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. Work is now underway to prepare
construction contract documents and to facilitate equipment procurement. The
fisheries component of the project made virtually no progress until recently.
Key staff have now been appointed and a contract with a fisheries consulting
firm has been signed.
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on preparation for construction is about five months ahead
of schedule. Most sites, have been selected and acquired. Progress has also
been achieved in the preparation of sketch plans for project buildings and the
Government has been working on revised, more economical plans for the Bogra
Rural Development Academy. The inservice training program supported under
project has been delayed due to delays in allocation of local funds; delays
are also being experienced in hiring consultants for the project.
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Five subprojects have been approved with an allocation from this
Credit of about $4 million. Other subprojects are under consideration.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The reorganization of pump groups into cooperatives under the
Integrated Rural Development Program is being completed, and adequate progress
has been achieved in reschedu:Ling loans.- As part of a nationwide effort to
revitalize the extension system, modifications are being introduced to the
project's agricultural extension system. Procurement under various project
components, benchmark and fish pond surveys, land and draft animal registration
are in progress. After some initial delays, the construction of feeder roads
and thana buildings is proceeding on schedule. However, the project has
experienced some implementation problems in part due to lack of proper coor-
dination among the various implementing agencies, inadequate supervision of
field level staff, and inconsistencies which have developed among various
ongoing rural development programs. A mission will visit Bangladesh in



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
November to review the implementation of this project and discuss with the
Government institutional and policy issues affecting rural development in
general. Following this mission, some modifications are expected to be made
to the project approach.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of September 30, 1977, IDA had committed $5 million and $0.5
million disbursed. It is anticipated that the Credit will be fully committed
by December 1979 and that disbursements will be completed by the Closing
Date.
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
As of September 30, 1977, disbursements were US$28.5 million.    In
addition about US$8.1 million of letters of credit are outstanding.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981; Credit not yet effective.
Delays have occurred in obtaining Government approval of the Project
budget, in obtaining evidence of the establishment of the project revolving
fund and in submitting the legal opinion. As a result, the effectiveness date
of the Credit was postponed from September 29 to November 30, 1977.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983; Credit not yet effective.
Delays have occurred in obtaining Government approval of the project
budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for hiring the
engineering consultants, submitting a legal opinion, and signing a contract
with the Contractor who will construct the Ferri Regulator. Because of these
delays the effectiveness date of the Credit was postponed from September 29
to November 1, 1977.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Closing Date: April 30, 1981; Credit not yet effective.
The effectiveness deadline for this project, originally September 29,
1977 has been extended to November 30, 1977 to allow the Government more time
to complete pending conditions of effectiveness (approval of the project
budget, appointment of key management personnel, submission of the legal
opinion, and establishment of revolving fund) and to work out arrangements
concerning the role of field level extension personnel in some new agricul-
tural development programs.
Cr. No 735     Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Closing Date June 30, 1980; Credit not
yet effective.



ANNEX III
Page I
BANGLADESH
SIXTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
--ction I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
3 months (March 1977/May 1977)
(b) Agency which prepared project:
Government of Bangladesh (GOB) and IDA.
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
During supervision mission for Imports Program Credits
IV and V during March/April 1977.
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
IDA pre-appraisal and supervision mission for Imports
Program Credits IV and V.
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:
June 1977.
(f) Completion of negotiations:
October 11, 1977
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
60 days after signature.
Section II: Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
A.        Assurances have been obtained from the Government that:
(a) Agreed Action Programs for the Jute Industry
(Table 2, page 13a and 13b of text) and the Textile Industry
(Table 4, page 19a of text) will be implemented.
(b) Prior to the effectiveness of the proposed credit, at
least 40% of the licenses to be financed under the credit
will have been issued.
(c) As a condition of disbursement for cement and for steel
billets, Government would present to the Association an
acceptable detailed program for such commodities outlin-
ing expected demand, pricing and distribution policies,
planned levels of production and imports and measures
designed to implement the program.
(d) GOB shall deposit taka funds equivalent to the amounts
withdrawn from the proceeds of the proposed credit in
an account currently being maintained with the Bangladesh
Bank and to utilize these counterpart funds entirely to
finance its development programs. GOB will furnish
quarterly reports to IDA on the amounts actually released
from such Counterpart Fund to projects financed by IDA.



BANGLADESH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
PAST ACTION PROGRAMS
JUTE ACTION PROGRAM
CGopLeted Actions Under Fourth Program                             Status of Actions Program Agreed Under Fifth Program                               Technical Assistance Source
(Credit 591-BD) 1975                                                    (Credit 676-BD) 1976
A. WORLD MARtET STUDY for jute products                i. Action:  The 1976 Market Study for jute products to be reviewed sad updated
completed March 1976 STUDY TO BE                               for FY78 by 4/30/77.
UPDATED ANNUALLY.
Status:  Study has been updated and submitted to IDA on 6/29/77.
ii. Action:  Marketing Consultants to be hired by April 30, 1977 to                              ii. OM (UK)
study requirements of Marketing Directorate, organise training programs,
market studies and  promotion programs overseas.
Status: A marketing advisor from PA Management Consultants under phase one                  I
prepared a diagnosis report for Marketing Department; TORs for two
consultants for 24 months to implement recommendations have been agreed
with BJMC . Formal   request by GOB to UK for assistance is   in proceas.
B. PRODUCTION PROGRAMS                                   i. Action:  BJMC to review monthly the production programs for period 1/1/76 -
(i) Production program for FY76 & 77                                30/6/76 and to send IDA an interim report on production planning
completed on schedule                               j               by 1/31/77.
(ii) Inventory of productive capacity per
mill completed by July 1976                                Status:  Review completed.   Interim report sent IDA February 1977.
(iii) A Production Planning Directorate
established and Director appointed in                   ii. Action:  BJMC to prepare and submit by June 30, 1977 a production program for
Sept. 1976.                                                         FY78 taking into account productive capacity and efficiency of
individual mills.
Status:  Production program for FY78 completed on schedule.
iii. Action:  BJMC to establish by 6/30/77 plant productivity advisory team of one               iii. UNDP/UNIDO
consultant and two counterparts for each jute zone (excluding Adamjee)
to review production problems (other than maintenance).   Consultants
to be employed and commence work by 7/1/77.  Each feam expected to
review at least 4 mills during first 12 months of operation.
Status:  Three consultants for Dacca Chittagong and Khulna now expected to
arrive November1977. Each team expected to review at least 4 mills
during first half of their 24 months period of operation.
C. MAINTENANCE                                           i. Action:  (work started under 4th Program Credit)                                               Financed under IDA
(i) Maintenance Task Force (MTF). Consultants                                                                                                             Technical Assistance
and counterparts were hired and comenced work               Status:  MTF has been working in four zones and copies of their report                        Credit 409-BD
August 1976 to initiate preventative maintenance                     to BJMC on preventative maintenance programs and equipment inventories
programs, set up equipment inventories and                           are expected. BJNC has decided to continue to carry out the preventive
assist in implementation of recommendations in                      maintenance program started by MTF using their own staff.
16 mills.
(ii) A Stores and Spares Department headed by a
Deputy Director was established and is                 ii, Action:   BJNC to prepare by 3/31/77 a complete spare parts production capacity
responsible for procurement and local manufacture                    inventory.
of spares. Spare parts production facility at
Gulfra Habib transferred to BJMC.                           Status:  A completed spare parts inventory was prepared and-compleeed as
scheduled. Report on capacity of jute mills zonal workshops,
Adamjee and Culfra Habib was submitted to IDA.                                      , 
am
iii Action:   Consultants to advise on spare parts production to be recruited and                 lii. CIDA agreed to supply         -X
begin work not later than 6/30/77.                                                       and finance three               C
Consultants and
Status:  Three Consultants (an Industrial Engineer, a Plant Engineer and a                        machinery.
Cost Accountant) originally expected by June 30, 1977 are now
scheduled to arrive by July 1, 1978, to initiate local manufacture
of spare parts at Gulfra HNbib. Arrival date postponed to allow
for delivery of spare parts production machinery. (Consultants'
TOR's awaiting ERD's approval).



17"
,"I
oM60,0                                                                          IIA.
AA
tA
It,
4u
'A       044
ov              Ijl
ri
t's, P,
Sp    0                                                                                 fc",
rloO                    INbt
Si
q,;atf
tat eo,                                                                                                              I L
vro?o                                                      f-03,
.,to:.
,,,jm                             T'-'                                                  jor
rc
3t tL
klil' X-5
I
tx,
"t-                                                          VLN
Or,g,-,
91,
.jt;AW
LIM



COTTON TEXTILE ACTION PROGRAM
A. (i) Production Program BTHC completed on           Action:  BTMC to develop a revised FY78 production program by 6/30/77 taking
schedule a production program including mill                   into account the relaave efficiency of individual mills, optimal
specialization on not more than 14 yarn                        utilization of capacity and optimal utilization of available foreign
counts.                                                        exchange.
(ii) BTMC established on schedule a Marketing
and Production Directorate acceptable to IDA.         Status:  BTMC completed on schedule and submitted to IDA for satisfactory
production program for FY78.
BTMC undertook preliminary work on the               Action:  By 3/31/77 GOB to initiate a pre-feasibility study of potential for
possibility of local production of man-                       locally producing man-made fibers to be completed 9   nmoths later.
made fibers.
Status   A consultant has been appointed and is scheduled to arrive in Darts in                 UNDP/UNIWD
October   1977 an~d complete study by about January 1978. TOP's
drafted by UNDP include in addition a review of, capacity of existing
spinning mills to utilize man made fibers and minimize foreign exchange
expenditures.
In 1976 GOB initiated a sample survey of the          Action:  Handloom sector survey and census of small powerloom weaving to be
handloom sector and a census of small power-                   completed by 12/31/76.
loom weaving sector.
Status: Bureau of Statistics cunpiling the data which is now expected
to be ready by 12/31/77.
BTMC completed in July, 1976 a study of              Action:  GOB to complete by 12/31/77 a study of efficiency of handloom/small
relative foreign exchange costs of                            poverloom vs larger mills.
domestic spinning vs. imports of yarn.
GOB initiated on 12/76 a study of .                  Status   The Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies (BIDS) carried out
efficiency of handloom and small power-                       the study and their report is expected on 12/31/77.
loom sector versus larger mills.
BTMC started discussions with UNDP/UNIDO             Action:  BTMC to initiate by 12/31/76 programs to improve mill productivity and
on assistance to improve mill productivity                    spare parts manufacture using T.A
and local production of spare parts.                 Status:  A team of two consultants hired by UNIDO visited Bangladesh during May 1977 to
design a technical assistance project that would include assistance in mill           UNDP/UtNIDO
productivity and spare parts allocation procedures. Their report is expected
in December 1977. Meanwhile, 17NDP/BTMC are preparing a project scheduled to
be started by December 1977 to include training, sill productivity and possibly
spare partd.  In 1975 and l176 the Japanese International Corporation Agency (JICA)
carried out a study regarding local manufacture of spare parts. Request by
BTMC for financial and technical assistance to implement recoamendations
made to GOB and to JICA.
PULP AND PAPER
i. Action   Bangladesh Chemical Industries Corporation (BCIC) to undertake with                            IDA
assistance of comsultants employed by 6/30/77, a study to recommend
rehabilitation measures for North Bengal Paper Mill (NBPM) including
pricing, power availability, raw materials availability with due
regard to pollution. Study to be completed by 3/31/78.
Status   GOB submitted on 7/1/77 a subproject to be financed under IDA's
second T.A. Credit 622-BD to employ a consultant for the NBPM Study.
ii. Action:  BCIC to employ by 12/31/77 a consultant for 6 months to advise on
long term development of pulp and Paper Industry and assist in
evaluation of studies undertaken.
Status   GOB submitted on 7/1/77 a subproject to be financed under IDA's                                IDA
second T.A. Credit 622-BD to employ consultant on TO0R cleared with
IDA.
iii. Action:  bCIC by 9/30/77 to establish a special unit in the Planning Cell
of BCIC, to mosnitor the pulp and paper industry assisted by the
consultant.
Status: The special cell vas created in BCIC and a qualified person
appointed to head it, but as the pulp and paper consultant
has not yet been appointed, the unit is not fully operational.



ANNEX V
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SIXTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
THE CURRENT SITUATION AND PROSPECTS FOR MAJOR INDUSTRIES
I. BACKGROUND AND RECENT TRENDS
1.        The industrial sector, although accounting for only 8% of GDP, is
an important element in the Bangladesh economy; it produces basic consumer
goods, provides agriculture with key inputs, accounts for about 60% of export
earnings and employs some two million workers. Industrial performance has
at the same time a critical bearing on resource mobilization and is poten-
tially an important source of rapid economic growth. The basic industrial
structure has changed little since independence. Large and medium scale
enterprises are mainly in the public sector and concentrated in jute, cotton,
textile, paper, steel, sugar refining and engineering. They represent about
65% of the total value added in industry. Handloom weaving and food proces-
sing units constitute a major portion of the small scale and cottage sectors.
After independence, the ownership and management of "abandoned" units were
transferred to the Government. In addition, all jute, cotton textile and
sugar mills were nationalized. At present the public sector comprises about
400 units, including those under several public sector corporations. GOB
has recently decided to disinvest about 150 of these units.
2.        A large number of industrial units in Bangladesh originally had been
established to supply the two wings which comprised Pakistan. The separation
of these markets after independence substantially reduced capacity utilization
in the industrial sector. This has been compounded by a shortage of foreign
exchange to purchase raw materials and spares, inexperienced management and
labor unrest, especially in the years immediately succeeding independence.
The overall index of industrial productions has yet to surpass the FY70 level
and capacity utilization remains at low levels, perhaps less than 50% in most
industries. After achieving about 94% of the FY70 level in FY74, total indus-
trial production showed no sizable increase in the following two years,
largely in response to a slackening of consumer demand. Industrial production
during FY77 is provisionally estimated to have increased by 7-10% over the
FY76 level as consumer demand has picked up gradually.



ANNEX V
Page 2
II. CURRENT SITUATION
3.        A discussion of the jute and cotton textile industries is contained
in Annex VI and Annex VII respectively.
4.        The paper and newsprint industry depends critically on export mar-
kets since local consumption accounts for less than 25% of installed capacity
for newsprint and 30-50% of installed capacity for printing and writing papers.
Due to poor quality and inefficient marketing, production in FY76 of newsprint
and paper was only 20,000 tons and 18,000 tons, achieving only 40% and 38%,
respectively, of production capacity. In FY77, the industry showed some
improvement in export sales. Sales of newsprint and paper in FY77 are cur-
rently estimated at 20,000 tons and 21,000 tons, showing an increase of 39%
and 14%, respectively, over the FY76 level. However, production of newsprint
in FY77 improved only by 5% due to a high level of accumulated stocks of
finished products.
5.        The financial position of the paper and newsprint industry has been
very poor due to the Government policy to set domestic sales prices of its
products much below production costs as well as low export prices. Domestic
sales prices were raised in 1976 to levels sufficient to cover operating costs
and export prices also improved substantially in FY77. Consequently, tile
industry is expected to have made profits in FY77 for the first time sinc2
independence.
6.        The short-term prospects of the paper and newsprint industry depend
on its ability to dispose of its surplus production in export markets. As a
result of aggressive marketing efforts initiated by the industry, export pros-
pects are reasonably good. Sales are picking up in its traditional export
markets in the South Asia region and some orders have been placed by several
countries in East Asia and the Middle East. Efficiency in the existing mills
is low due to their poor physical and operating conditions. Investment require-
ments for these mills are being examined through technical assistance from IDA
and bilateral aid agencies.
7.        Performance of other major export-oriented industries in FY77 was
excellent. Exports of tea benefited from higher export prices as well as a
good tea crop. Tea production increased from 65 million lbs. in FY76 to 73
million lbs. in FY77 and tea exports from,US$18 million to US$36 million.
Largely due to an increase in export price, exports of tanned and semi-tanned
leather increased from US$31 million in FY76 to US$39 million in FY77.
Exports of frozen shrimps also increased from US$12 million in FY76 to US$17
million in FY77 due to better export prices and increased supply of shrimps.
8.        The short-term prospects for these non-jute export commodities depend
on the availability of raw materials and the level of export prices. The latter
is determined by factors beyond the control of Bangladesh. In order to improve
the quantity and quality of their supplies, a number of measures need to be



ANNEX V
Page 3
implemented. Replanting ot tea bushes and balancing and modernization of
factories are required to improve efficiency in the tea industry. In order
to increase exports of leather, both quantity and quality of hides and skins
should be improved and further processing of semi-tanned leather encouraged.
For the purpose of increasing the supply of shrimps and fish for exports, the
trawling and catching facilities should be expanded, and the supply of fresh
water shrimps increased by culture and breeding.
9.        Cement production in FY77 increased significantly to 314,000 tons,
as compared with 159,000 tons in FY76. The Chittagong Clinker Grinding
Plant, which began operations in 1974 with a rated capacity of 300,000 tons
per annum, produced only 80,000 tons of cement in FY76 due to lack of con-
sumer acceptance and the Government's failure to coordinate imports and local
production of cement. During 1976 GOB adjusted its pricing policy on cement
so as to allow a small discount on locally made cement and increased the
number of distribution centers. Furthermore, a committee under the Ministry
of Commerce was established in order to ensure coordination of imports and
local production. As a result, sales of cement from the Chittagong Plant
improved significantly and production reached 210,000 tons in FY77. The
Chattak plant has been operating at a level slightly above its normal capa-
city of 90,000 tons per annum.
10.       Since costs of imported cement are greater than costs of producing
it locally, local cement plants are generating profits. The present level of
cement consumption in the country, estimated at about 600,000 tons per annum,
is greater than the total rated capacity of both plants. The Chattak plant
needs investment for balancing and modernization for which the financing
has been arranged. The Government has a proposal to build a cement plant
combined with limestone mining; financing has not been arranged. However,
there is some doubt that domestic demand will be able to absorb the output
of the unit. Furthermore, a proposal for setting up another clinker grind-
ing plant is being prepared by the Government.
11.       Ingot steel production at the Chittagong Steel Mills, in spite
of machine breakdown early in the year, reached 100,000 tons in FY77 (about
67% of effective production capacity), about 11% higher than the previous
year's level. The short-term prospects for the steel industry depend on the
availability of foreign exchange required to import its basic raw materials
as well as the level of consumer demand for its products. Since some of its
products such as heavy plates are produced at costs much higher than the costs
of importing them, the structure of the industry needs to be rationalized.
12.       Fertilizer production in FY77 is expected to remain at the pre-
vious year's level. Urea production, in spite of the shutdown of the Ghorasal
plant in March and April for overhauling and some difficulty in its gas supply
system, reached 282,000 tons in FY77. Production at the TSP complex remained
at 45,000 tons, well below the rated capacity because sales continued to lag
behind output and stocks reached the limit of available storage capacity.
Sales of fertilizer are made by another public agency and there exists con-
siderable consumer resistance to the locally produced TSP in the form of dust



ANNEX V
Page 4
as compared to the more popular granular form. Possible improvements in the
efficiency of the existing fertilizer plants including the TSP complex are
being examined in connection with the on-going Ashuganj Fertilizer Project.



ANNEX VI
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SIXTH IMIPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
THE JUTE INDUSTRY
General
1.        In 1975, IDA conducted a study of the Jute Industry in Bangladesh
(Report No. 883-BD of September 25, 1975). On the basis of the findings of
that study the jute industry action programs for the Fourth and Fifth Imports
Program Credits were developed. This Annex updates the information on the
jute industry and forms the basis for the Action Program for the proposed
Sixth Imports Program Credit.
Principal Trends in Output and Exports
2.        The general economic situation facing the jute industry has changed
considerably from that prevailing in early 1975. During FY76 the industry's
exports in volume terms reached their highest level since independence and
Bangladesh's share of the world market for jute products rose to its highest
level. However, due mainly to rising raw jute costs, the industry was faced
with a heavy financial deficit substantially above that of previous years.
3.        In the area of external marketing, a major change has been the
aggressive marketing of jute products which, coupled with a decline in the
export price of jute, has resulted in greater competitiveness of Bangladesh
jute goods in the world market. As a result, Bangladesh's share in world
exports of jute goods increased from 33% in FY75 to 47% in FY77.     However
it is expected to remain at this level as the Indian industry is also taking
steps to rehabilitate its equipment and improve efficiency. Despite an im-
provement in price competitiveness of jute goods vis-a-vis synthetics, total
world exports of jute goods did not show any improvement during this period
due to recession, although the trend in favor of synthetics was halted. It
is also possible that the short term elasticity of demand between jute goods
and substitutes is less than one, although the long-term price elasticity is
estimated to be greater than one.
4.        In FY76, exports of jute goods reached 438,000 tons and produc-
tio- 478,000 tons, showing a gain of 16% and 8% respectively over the FY75
levels;. Export demand remained firm in FY77 and export volume reached
452,0,0 tons.   Production increased to 491,000 tons, 3% above the level of
the previous year and the jute industry contributed about 20% of the value
added in the industrial sector. However, despite an expansion in volume
export earnings from jute goods declined from US$213 million in FY75 (a
posL independence peak) to US$180 million in FY77 as prices have continued
to fall. Product composition of exports has changed slightly: the share of



ANNEX VI
Page 2
carpet backing in total export volume has increased from 11% in FY75 to 15%
in FY77 (July-February), while the share of sacking declined from 48% to 46%
during the same period. Of particular importance is the trend toward the
production of lighter fabrics in which Bangladesh has become highly competi-
tive with synthetics. Average yardage per ton of jute goods has increased
from 3,600 yds. in FY75 to 3,940 yds. in FY77 (July-January) for hessian, and
from 1,000 yds. to 1,250 yds. for carpet backing. On a yardage basis, hessian
output in FY77 is expected to be 12% higher than in the previous year, while
carpet backing is expected to increase 20% in the same time period.
5.        The taka devaluation in May 1975, as well as the subsequent deval-
uation of sterling (to which the taka is linked) in relation to the dollar,
have been the main factors permitting the improvement in competitiveness for
Bangladesh's jute manufactures. In the principal markets, its jute goods are
currently selling in most cases at prices below the levels prevailing for
competing synthetics as well as below that for other jute producers. The
major exceptions are the heavier hessian cloths (and, more recently, primary
carpet backing) where the relative importance of the raw material in total
costs of production is unfavorable for jute-based goods.
6.        Another important element has been the modification of the market-
ing procedures and organization of BJMC itself. A large degree of decentral-
ization of sales on a zonal basis has been adopted; however, for carpet
backing, the product which has shown the most dynamism in recent years, the
structure of the market has encouraged a more centralized marketing system
which appears to be efficient and has been beneficial. With further im-
provement in management experience at mill level gradual decentralization
of marketing, on a mill by mill basis, could be considered in the long term.
Prospects
7.        Export prospects for the immediate future remain relatively favor-
able with economic conditions generally improving in the developed countries
which are the principal importers of carpet backing and hessian cloth; FY78
is likely to show a rise in exports of the same order of magnitude as occurred
in FY77. As regards sacking, demand, principally from primary producing
countries, also is likely to remain more or less at recent levels. There
are however possibilities for recapturing some lost ground in the markets
for Australian woolpacks (based on a hessian cloth) and cornsacks and for
cotton bagging, provided quality requirements can be met and prices kept at
competitive levels. There are also good prospects for exports of yarn (of
carpet backing quality).
8.        Medium-term demand outlook for jute products remains problematic
with technological trends continuing to reduce jute consumption and to
strengthen competition from synthetics in other uses. Given the high quality
of its raw jute and relatively cheap labor, the Bangladesh industry appears
capable of maintaining a strong position in the market with appropriate price
and production policies. Longer-term growth of the industry will require a
substantial research and development effort to find both new uses for tradi-
tional products as well as new end-uses of jute. Strengthening of marketing
and promotion efforts can also play a role in increasing jute consumption.



ANNEX VI
Page 3
9.        In addition to efforts in external marketing, restoring the indus-
try to a condition such that it can make its appropriate contribution to the
economic well-being of the country requires simultaneous action in three
separate areas: raw jute prices; the productive efficiency of the industry;
and BJMC's managerial capability. Obviously, the ability of BJMC to influence
these elements, and the impact of factors outside its control, vary substan-
tially within these areas.
Raw Material Supplies and Prices
10.       Although export prices in FY77 were slightly below the average
prevailing in the previous year, the'major factor causing the financial
deterioration has been the increase in raw jute prices, which on average
were 35% over the FY76 level. In spite of the improved raw jute/rice price
relationship which prevailed at the beginning of the FY77 season, raw jute
acreage did not increase to earlier levels although it was higher than in
the previous two years. Moreover, heavy rains at harvesting adversely
affected the lower quality (white) jute and reduced the crop below expecta-
tions. With export demand for raw jute continuing to recover, and with
stocks at low levels following the relatively small crops of the previous
two years, total available supply barely met demand and prices of raw jute
began to rise by the end of calendar 1976. BJMC was, moreover, constrained
from covering its requirements early in the season because of working capital
shortages and credit restrictions, as well as a ceiling on the price it could
pay for jute, fixed by a committee of the Ministry of Jute, which reduced the
flexibility of the mills' purchasing officers.
11.       In the absence of any strong upward price trends for final products,
financial viability of BJMC in the short and medium term will depend upon lower
raw jute prices and reduction in conversion (manufacturing) costs. Some relief
from the current high raw jute price is expected later in the FY78 season but
again, because of early rains, the crop is not expected to be much larger than
in FY77. Further, reduction in manufacturing costs will require a major effort
by BJMC and will take some time to bear fruit, as outlined below. GOB has
taken a number of measures to encourage a larger jute crop and to permit BJMC
to purchase its requirements in a timely fashion, mainly through ensuring
adequate credit facilities, and the proposed credit tackles the problem of
raw jute marketing and pricing policies.
Factors Affecting Production Efficiency
12.       The report by IDA in 1975 put major emphasis on the need to increase
the production efficiency of the industry which was estimated to be working
at about 43% of its theoretical capacity in 1974. Among the principal factors
were the poor state of the equipment, which had suffered from both inadequate
supplies of spare parts and a virtual lack of appropriate maintenance programs,
and the shortages of skilled labor and management personnel which was closely
related to the first problem.



ANNEX VI
Page 4
13.       There has been little if any change recently in overall effective
utilization of equipment. There has been considerable increase in capacity
utilization of carpet backing looms. However, this has been offset by a
further deterioration in effective utilization of hessian looms. Under the
conditions now prevailing in the mills, in particular the state of the spin-
ning equipment, the total level of output of the industry appears to be close
to its maximum.
14.       The major bottleneck to expansion is found in the spinning depart-
ments of the mills which have not been able to produce yarn in sufficient
volume and of adequate quality to permit looms to operate at their optimal
level of efficiency. Three factors 'have contributed to this problem. The most
important is still the poor condition of the equipment as a result of the lack
of appropriate maintenance procedures and inadequate imports of spare parts;
spinning equipment is more dependent upon imported spares than looms. Foreign
exchange allocations have increased considerably in the last two years and are
now adequate. However, actual delivery of spares is only slowly increasing,
due in part to normal manufacturing time lags but in part also to inflexible
purchasing procedures used by BJIC which are now being changed. Some effort
is underway to improve mill maintenance practices (see paragraph 16). The
second factor is equipment "failure." Two of the three makes of spinning
frames have not reached their design levels of output; the two manufacturers
concerned have, in fact, ceased making these particular items. Of the total
spinning capacity existing in the mills, these obsolete pieces represent about
20%.
15.       The final factor has been the shift to lighter fabrics in both
hessian and carpet backing. To meet the input requirements for operating
looms for a given period, lighter yarns require more spinning time than heavy
yarns; as a result the relationship between spinning equipment and weaving
equipment has changed requiring more of the former to keep a fixed number of
looms operating.
16.       The deteriorated condition of mill equipment observed during the
first survey in 1975 prompted IDA to give high priority to BJMC's under-
taking a special effort to-improve maintenance and spare parts utilization.
Agreement was reached under the action program for the Fourth Imports Program
Credit to organize a maintenance task force (MTF) in each zone with expatriate
assistance. Operation of these groups began in August 1976. Preliminary tests
conducted in one mill of spinning equipment overhauled by the MTF in accordance
with proper maintenance standards shows potential for almost a 25% increase in
efficiency through both increased' yarn production and yarn with fewer defects
which led to reduced machine down-time in weaving. Additional tests in other
mills where this reconditioning has been initiated are being carried out to
determine cost effectiveness.
17.       To overcome the yarn bottleneck, it is urgent that BJMC intensify
MTF activities and recondition the largest number of spinning frames possible
(excluding the obsolete makes and perhaps the oldest of the standard makes).
This would also contribute substantially to the cost reduction required if
the industry is to become financially viable (see paragraph 25).



ANNEX VI
Page 5
18.       It must be realized that an improvement program as outlined above
is only one element in ensuring increasing efficiency of the industry. There
remains the shortage of skilled managerial and operational personnel which
contributed to the problem in the first place. In this regard, there is a
continued lack of systematic training programs to improve the supply of such
personnel. Prior to independence training programs had existed in a number
of the mills but little attempt has been made to restore these activities,
the major exception being at Adamjee mills under UK technical assistance.
19.       Given the apparent excess capacity of the looms in relation to
expected demand growth, there remains the need for rationalization of output.
Major emphasis should be given to the condition of equipment and the expen-
diture needed to bring it to acceptable operating efficiency. For example,
there are a few mills which have a very large proportion of obsolete spinning
frames in their spinning departments and, particularly for the smaller mills,
it would appear more rational to cease operations than to replace this equip-
ment. Careful consideration should also be given to other factors which
contribute to efficient operations where deficiencies have so adversely
affected efficiency as to make profitable operations virtually impossible.
For example, some mills have been constructed poorly or suffer from inade-
quate structural foundations resulting in machine damage and difficulties
in operations.
Organization and Finances
20.       The main change in BJMC's organization since 1975 has been the addi-
tion of a Production Planning Directorate and of a Jute Purchase Directorate.
The Finance, Marketing, Research and Quality Control, and Technical Director-
ates remain headed by the same individuals as in 1975, although under a new
Chairman, who joined in March 1976. Too frequent transfers of Chief Executives
of Sector Corporations has been a problem.
21.       Although there have been some improvements over the last two years,
BaIC needs to increase substantially its effectiveness in fulfilling its role
of supervising and coordinating the operations of the jute industry. Its orga-
nizational structure is excessively centralized and the Chairman and Directors
spend much of their time dealing with administrative problems of the 77 jute
mills. There is need for greater delegation of authority to the mill managers
and for streamlining the span of the industry's overall management into smaller
units, by strengthening the zonal offices, with BJMC's head office concentrat-
ing on establishing performance targets, exercising control, coordinating,
and setting policy. Aware of this problem, BJMC recently created Boards of
Directors for each mill but there is still need to coordinate and streamline
the functioning of these Boards to ensure that they do not become just another
tier in the decision making process.



ANNEX VI
Page6
22.       At the staff level, besides the need for a systematic approach
to training the personnel of both BJMC and the mills, there is need to review
salary levels, consider the establishment of an incentive system, and curtail
inter-mill transfers of managers. In terms of autonomy, the main problem
areas, both for BJMC and the mills, are in personnel matters and raw jute
purchasing where it should be possible to take prompt corrective action.
23.       The main instrument of financial planning has been the budget, which
is prepared annually by the mills following guidelines given by BJMC.    However,
some mills prepare unrealistic budgets and most do not make adequate use of it
for control purposes. As agreed for the Fifth Credit, BJMC has recruited con-
sultants to help improve financial planning, as well as the accounting system,
which should improve with provision of actual and standard costing of the
products at the various stages of processing. However, coupled with the need
to streamline the organization, a review and redesign of the management inform-
ation system also appears necessary.
24.       Internal audit has improved with the expansion of the Internal Audit
Department's functions and the scope of the audit is appropriate to BJMC's and
the mills' present circumstances. Recruitment to fill the present vacancies
in this department is under way. The external audit program is slightly behind
schedule although progress has been made and it should be possible to have the
accounts for FY78 audited by January 1979 and thereafter within 6 months of
the end of each fiscal year. In addition to the internal and external audits,
BJMC and the mills also undergo a statutory audit by GOB.
25.       The 77 mills together incurred a loss of Tk 332 million in FY74,
Tk 239 million in FY75, Tk 285 million in FY76 and Tk 237 million in the
first half of FY77. The estimated loss for FY77 is about Tk 533 million. By
product line, hessian accounted for about three quarters of the loss during
FY76, while its share of the production by weight was only one-third, and
carpet backing the balance. This is of concern because hessian and carpet
backing are expected to account for any market increases in the future while
the demand for sacking, the only product which has been making profits, is
expected to remain constant. However, the industry, including hessian, is
still covering its variable costs, so it is justified to continue producing
until the long-run prospects for improving profitability become clearer.
26.       Any future program for improving profitability should take into
account that the main factors affecting profitability are raw materials,
selling prices, conversion costs, and interest charges. Raw materials costs,
which account for 50%-60% of costs of goods sold, have varied considerably
among mills and actually have made the difference between the six mills that
made profits and those that made losses. Regarding selling prices,
Bangladesh's industry would have made profits if its selling prices had been
at the level of India's. It may be possible in the long-term for Bangladesh
to have its prices at a level closer to India's, but this would happen only
when the quality of product improves. However future price levels will



ANNEX VI
Page 7
depend on cost developments in synthetics. Conversion costs per unit of
output can be reduced through better controls and through an equipment
rehabilitation program. Assuming that a 15% reduction in conversion costs
per ton would be attained following an equipment rehabilitation program
(paragraph 16), losses would have been reduced by 60% in FY76. Further,
the high level of interest also has a major impact on profitability and it
should be possible to reduce this with a capital restructuring program.
27.       This capital restructuring program is imperative since, due to the
continuous losses over the past few years, the mills when taken together now
have have a negative equity base. GOB has indicated that it will convert
Tk 1,000 million of the mills' liabilities (mainly to commercial banks and GOB)
into equity, which would reduce the long-term debt/equity ratio to about 4:1.
In addition, BJMC has asked for further share capital of Tk 635 million which
would bring the debt/equity ratio to 2:1 and also improve liquidity. GOB has
indicated that it will provide this share capital to the mills over a three
year period. However, to speed-up the process and as GOB has obtained re-
scheduling of debts (to about 50 years) on some of the borrowings by the mills
from BSB and BSRS (which have to repay in about 10-15 years), GOB should con-
sider eliminating a part of these debts by the mills while at the same time
eliminating the same amounts of debt to GOB from the development banks. In
this way, the capital structure of the mills could be corrected promptly with-
out adversely affecting the financial viability of the banking system, and at
a relatively low cost to GOB. Further, the lower debt would reduce interest
charges, and thereby help profitability and liquidity. At the present time
BJMC is revaluing its assets which it expects to complete by December 31, 197-.
The capital restructuring program will be finalized after the revaluation of
assets is completed when the amounts of additional capital or reduction in
debt can be determined with greater accuracy.
28.       It should be possible through combined action on the points out-
lined above (paragraphs 26 and 27) to make the industry profitable and to
re-establish its financial stability. However, this will be an extremely
difficult task which will take time. Further, it will require concentration
on the most promising mills in terms of what is required to rehabilitate
their equipment and improve profitability. As rehabilitation for a number
of mills would increase output, and market prospects are limited, closure of
a number of uneconomic mills may become necessary which should be coupled
with a program to relocated redundant staff. Moreover the mills' performance
would have to be closely monitored against quantitative targets, which would
also be used by IDA in following up the progress made under the action pro-
grams.



Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
Performance Targets and Other Indicators
FY78-FY85
Actual                1/T a r g e t s
FY74       FY75      FY76         FY77         FY78      FY79      FY80     FY81      FY85
A. MARKET PROJECTION
1.  Total World Exports for Jute Goods (000 Long Tons)
Hessian                      363        411        380          379          385       393      401       410       425
Sacking                      370        363        300          325          325      325       325       325       325
Carpet Backing               228        143        210          L82          191      200       210       220       240
Total (incl. others)        1114       1041       972           963          990     1017      1046      1075     1120
2.   ExDorts by BJMC (000 Long Tons)
Hessian                      145        137        159          157          160      163       167       170       184
Sacking                      206        181        198          205          205      205       205       205      205
Carpet Backing                61         43         62           66           74        78       82        86       107
2/   3__ _       _ _ _53/
Total (incl. others)         438        379        438          450          469 -     74r      TUT      _513     ____
3-   Production by BJMC (000 Long Tons)
Hessian                      172        146        161          165          169       173      177       181       199
Sacking                      227        228        221          230          235      240       246       251       275
Carpet Backing                66         40         71           70           74        78       82        86       107
____  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~   ~    -  3/
Total (incl. others)         500        444        478          490          512 -     529      547       565       645
1/ Based upon unaudited actual results to June 30, 1977 and GOB estimates.
2/ This does not include domestic sales which are estimated at 35,000 tons p.a.
3/ These targets do not reflect the levels set by GOB for exports and production which are 525,000 tons and
575,000 tQns% respectively.



Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
Performance "'argets and nther Indicators
FY78-FY85
Actual                                            T a r g e t s
FY74      FY75       FY76         FY77        FY78      FY79     FY80     FY&l      FY85
B. EFFICIENCY TARGETS
4.  Spinning Performance (Production lbs./spindle Hr)         lbs.   %      lbs.  %  lbs.  %  lbs.   %  lbs.  %  lbs.  %
Hess  WARP                                                .585  70      .602 72  .626 75  .651 78   .668 80  .685 82
Hess Weft                                                 .602  59      .622 61  .653 64   .673 66  .694 68  .714 70
Sack WARP                   NA         NA         NA      .632  59      .653 61  .685 64  .707 66   .728 68  .749 70
Sack Weft                                                1.78   60    1.83   62 1.90  64 1.96  66 2.02   68 2.08  70
C. B. WARP                                                 580  73      .595 75  .636 80  .659 83   .675 85  .691 87
C. B. Weft                                                .541  73      .555 75  .593 80  .616 83   .630 85  .645 87
5. Weaving Performance(Production lbs./Loom Hr )
Hessian                                                  6.05   48    6.05   48  6.55 52  6.8   54  7.56 60  8.7  69
Sacking                     NA         NA         NA    17.57   60   17.57   60 18.45 63 19.33 60 20.21 69 21.96 75
Carpet Backing                                          14.21   60   14.21   60 L4.92 63 15.64 66 16.35 69 17.77 75
6.  Wastage Percentage                                             8.86         8.3      7.8       7.3      6.8      6.5
7.  Conversion Costs per Ton
Tk per ton                 1840       2106     2243          '2328        2261      2213     2165      2121     1953
1/
8.   Raw Jute Consumption Ratio
Ratio of Av. BJMC Jute Cost   1.23       1.09     1.19         1.20        1.18     1.15     1.10      1.10      1.08
to Av. Market Price
1/ This ratio reflects i) buying efficiency; ii) wastage and iii) batch mix variances.



Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
Performance Targets and Other Indicators
FY78-FY85
Actual                                            T a r g e t s
FY74      FY75       FY76          FY77        FY78     FY79     FY80     FY81     FYE
C Capacity Reouired
9 Nusber of Looms Aperating
Hessian                       NA        NA        12,165       12,727       13,035    12,325   12,147  11,173    lC.i74
Sacking                                            5,939        6,109        6,242     6,070    5,939   5,796    '5,345
Carpet Backing                                     1,806        1,565        1,655     1,661    1,666    1,671    i.,75
10  Percentage of Idle Looms (based upon installed as of 6/76)
Hessian (14,514 Looms installed)                      16            12          10        15       16       23       27
Sacking(2,445 Looms installed)NA        NA            20            18          16        18       20       22       22
Carpet Backing (2,168 Looms installed)                17            28          24        23       23       23        9
D. Capital Structure Targets.
11       Debt/Equity Rates
LTD/Equity Ratio       20.2:1      NEG         NEG        4.1:1           2:1       2:1     2:1        2:1    2:1
TD/Equity Ratio       10.0:1      NEG         NEG        8.5:1         3.5:1     3.5:1   3.5:1      3.5:1   .5:1
E. Effects of B and D on Profitability.
(See page 4, 5, and 6)



Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation - Consolidated
12.                                      Performance Targets and Other Indicators l_
A CTUA L              _2/                       TAR     F   S
Profitability (Tk per Ton   Sold)    vl74     FY75     FY76   FY77       FY78     FY79    FY80    FY81     FY82   FY83    7Y85
Sales-m                         3487     4978    5928  5913        6176    6015     6020    6045    6070    6075    6075
Raw Material-4/                  1867    2674    3147  3612        4175    3443     3294    3293    3263    3233    3233
Conversion Costs                 1840    2106    2243   2328       2261    2213     2165    2121    2074    2031    1953
Depreciation                      227     262     291    307        293     284      275     266     257     248     233
Inventory Adj.                   (269)   (233)   (15)  (180)       (100)   (100)   (100)    (100)   (100)   (100)   (100)
Cost of Goods Sold               3665    4809    5696   6067       6629    5840     5634    5580    5494    5412    5319
Gross Profit                     (178)    169     232   154)       (453)    175      386     465     576     661     756
Interest   E/                    (292)   (497)   (543) (614)       (596)   (547)    (500)   (455)   (420)   (405)   (380)
Other Expenses                   (228)   (251)   (263) (289)       (280)    (270)   (261)   (253)    (245)  (235)   (222)
Net Profit (Loss)                (699)   (579)   (574)(1057)      (1329X   (642)    (375)   (243)     (89)    21     154
Net Profit/(Loss)(Tks Millions)                         (533)      (670)   (340)    (203)   (133)     (50)    12      93
1.  The targets for FY78-FY85 are based upon the unaudited actual results for FY77 and have been expressed in constant
FY77 values.   The targets for FY79 onwards will be revised each year to reflect the actual performance in the
preceding fiscal year and the effects of any major changes in goverrnent policy, and supply and demand within the
market.
2.  Based upon unaudited actual results for FY77.
3.  Selling prices per ton for FY78 have been conservatively estimated taking into account actual selling prices of
shipments up to September 30 rV71,     e &Ml0 as long-term trends in the prices of lute goods and synthetics,    Selling
prices per ton for FY79-FY85fremain constant and the variations reflect changes in product mix, A selling price
reduction in FY79 was assumed to allow for possible market adjustments after the increase in FY78, It should be
noted that the assumptions on constant selling prices as well as raw jute costs (see note 4) for FY79-FY85 do not
reflect expected policies; estimates will be revised after existing market studies are completed in 1978.
4.  Raw material costs for FY78 assume an average market price (AMP) of Tk 130 and Usage Efficiency (UE) of 1.18.       For
FY79 -FY85 raw material cost is based upon an estimated AMP of Tk 110 p.m. x UE.
5.  Conversion costs for FY78-FY85 have been based upon constant FY77 expenses, with a mix of 67% fixed and 33% variable
expenses.
6.  Interest expenses have been computed upon the basis of FY77 cost adjusted in FY79-FY81 to reflect an equity capital
infusion of Tk 200 million per annum.



Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation - Hessian
13.                                      Performance Target and Other Indicators
A C T U A L                              T A R G E T S
Profitability (Tk per ton)             FY74     FY75     FY76    FY77     FY78    FY79     FY80    FY81     FY82    FY83     FY85
Sales                           4223     5994     6543     6873    7000     6800     6800    6800     6800    6800     6800
Raw Material                    2104     3046     3399     3837     3790    3451     3451    3451     3451    3451     3267
Conversion Costs                2459     2864     3029     3071     3019    2974     2929    2887     2R46    2809    2681
Depreciation                     308       334     358      366      355     350      340     330      325     320      300
Inventory Adjustment            (267)    (119)       4      (95)    (100)   (100)    (100)   (100)    (100)   (100)    (100)
Cost of Goods Sold                    4604      6125     6790     7179    7064     6675    6620     6568    6522     6480    6148
Gross Profit                    (381)    (131)    (247)     (306)    (64)    125      180      232     278      320     616
Interest                        (385)    (613)    (718)    (810)    (790)    (770)   (500)    (485)   (475)    (465)   (440)
Other Expenses                   (74)     (332)   (318)     (334)   (326)    (320)   (310)    (300)   (295)    (290)   (275)
Net Profit                             (840)   (1076)   (1283)   (1450)   (1180)   (6 5)    (630)   (553)    (492)   (435)     (99)



14.                                      Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation - Sacking
Performance Targets and Other Indicators
A C T U A L                                 T A R G E T S
Profitability                         FY74    FY75     FY76        FY77   FY78     FY79     FY80    FY81    FY82     FY83   FY85
Sales                          2745    4171      4993       4758    5000     4800    4800     4800    4800    4800    4800
Raw Material                   1530    2353      2618        3072   3130     2995    2995     2995    2935     2935   2844
Conversion Costs               1380    1582      1589        1643   1618     1596     1570    1550    1530     1500   1460
Depreciation                    158     153       164         167    163      160      155     150     145      145    140
Inventory Adjustment          (253)    (760)       77         (97)   (75)     (70)     (65)    (65)    (65)     (65)   (65)
Cost of Goods Sold             2815    3328      4448        4785   4836     4681     4655    4630    4545     4515   4379
Gross Profit                    (70)    843       545         (27)   164      119      145     170     255      285    421
Interest                        (193)   (303)    (301)       (312)  (305)    (195)    (190)   (185)    (180)   (175)  (165)
Other Expenses                   (73)   (358)    (216)       (218)  (215)     (209)   (204)   (200)    (195)   (190)  (182'
Net Profit                          (333)      182        28       (557)   (356)    (285)   (249)    (215)   (120)    (80)    74



Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation - Carpet Backing
15.                                            Performance Targets and Other Indicators
AC T UA L                                  T A,RG ET S
Profitability. (Tk per ton)          FY74    FY75      Fy76         FY77   FY78      FY79   FY80    FY81     FY8     FY83    FY85
Sales                           4697    6029      8089       8060    8200     8000    8000    8000    8000     8000   8000
Raw Material                    2485    3566      4294       4778    4230     4150    3963    3963     3963    3963   3895
Conversion Costs                2058    2973      2813        2982   2874     2779    2691    2609     2522    2442   2292
Depreciation                    -364     648       576         643    610      575     550     525      495     465     420
Inventory Adjustment              29   (211)        13        (113)    -        -       _
Cost of Goods Sold              4986    6976      7696        8290   7714      7504   7204    7097     6980    6870    6607
Gross Profit                   (239)   (947)       393        (230)   486       496    796     903     1020    1130    1393
Interest                      (455)    (1012)   (1152)       (1247) (1179)     (666)  (635)    (600)   (575)   (540)   (48!1
Other Expense                   (47)    (340)    (401)        (403)  (380)     (360)  (345)    (325)   (310)    (295)  (265)
Net Profit                           (741)   (2299)    (1160)      (1880) (1073)     (530)  (184)     (22)    135      295    643



ANNEX VII
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SIXTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
COTTON TEXTILE INDUSTRY
General
1.        In 1975, IDA conducted a study of the Cotton Textile Industry in
Bangladesh (Report No. 833-BD of September 25, 1975). On the basis of the
findings of that study the textile industry action programs for the Fourth
and Fifth Imports Program Credits were developed. This note updates the
information on the textile industry and forms the basis for the Action Pro-
gram for the proposed Sixth Imports Program Credit.
2.        The basic structure of the cotton textile industry, which accounts
for about 17% of value-added in the industrial sector, has remained virtually
unchanged since 1975. Then, as now, the industry consisted of three subsec-
tors: (i) the cottage industry comprised of units with one or two handlooms or
simple power looms; (ii) the small and medium-sized privately-owned units and
(iii) the public sector comprising the medium to large units nationalized after
independence and currently under the control of BTMC. The units controlled by
BTMC represent the whole of the country's yarn-spinning facilities and account
for a major part of the country's weaving capacity. However, there have been
considerable changes in the operating environment which have had serious impact
on the current and future financial viability of the industry. The key issues
relate to GOB's policies regarding raw material purchases (paragraph 5) and
setting of selling prices of finished products (paragraph 16).
General Trends in Production and Sales
3.        In FY75, the production of both yarn and cloth by BTMC peaked at
92 million lbs (91 million lbs in FY74) and 85 million yds (79 million yds
in FY74) respectively. However, due to inefficient marketing and distribu-
tion policies 1/, stocks of finished products accumulated at the mills and
BTMC was forced to reduce production during FY76 to 88 million lbs of yarn
and 74 million yds of cloth. To help reduce the large stocks of yarn and
cloth, the Government liberalized marketing for yarn and cloth to allow BTMC
more scope for direct sales. As a result, the sales of yarn increased
1/   Until 1975, the Bangladesh Small Industries Corporation (BSIC) and the
Bangladesh Jatiya Samabaya Shilpa Simny, Ltd (BJSSL) were responsible
for the marketing and distribution of yarn and cloth.



ANNEX VII
Page 2
substantially from 60 million lbs in FY75 to 84 million lbs in FY76.
However, sales of cloth did not improve, falling slightly below the FY75 level
due to the increased competition from the handloom weaving sector and from
cloth imported under the Wage Earners' Scheme 1/, at a time when overall
demand was depressed.
4.        Demand increased during FY77, but production of both yarn and cloth
was constrained, initially due to some labor problems which seriously affected
a few mills, and more recently, due to a shortage of raw materials. Production
of yarn and cloth in FY77 is currently estimated at 83 million lbs and 68
million yds, showing a decline of 6% and 8% respectively below FY76 levels.
However, stocks of finished goods, particularly yarn, have been reduced sharply
and are now below normal levels.
Raw Material Procurement
5.        The shortage of raw materials which BTMC experienced in FY77 was
extremely severe and some mills had to close for several weeks. The disrup-
tion in supplies was partly due to bad planning by BTMC, but mainly resulted
from the requirement that the Ministry of Industry must approve procurement
awards for raw cotton; during the year, the latter rejected two awards on
the ground that the prices were too high. BTMC was unable to speed up sub-
sequent procurement to assure the necessary flow of raw cotton. While the
question of autonomy for raw cotton purchases is still under review GOB,
some steps have been taken so that the problems faced last year do not recur.
BTMC will now be given enough finance to enable it to keep an import pipeline
of raw cotton of up to 5 months' requirement.
Factors Affecting Production Efficiency
6.        With production constrained in the last two years, initially due
to demand problems and more recently to the raw material shortage, there has
been a notable decline in efficiency. In the case of yarn, average output
per spindle shift (eight hours) in FY76 was down to 2.44 oz, the same level
as in FY74, after rising to 2.56 oz in FY75; for FY77 it is estimated at
2.19 oz. In contrast, production efficiency in other Asian countries averages
about 3.5 oz.
7.        Installed spinning and operable capacity has risen in the last two
years as a result of completion of some new mills whose construction had been
initiated prior to independence, as well as installation of new spindles in
existing mills ordered, (and in some instances even delivered) prior to 1972.
However, BTMC reported approximately the same number of spindles actually
operating in FY76 as in FY74; some of the older equipment was removed from
operation in view of the current production/demand relationship.
1/   Remittances by Bengalis residing abroad can be used by the beneficiaries
to import specified commodities with tariff concessions.



ANNEX VII
Page 3
8.        In these circumstances, and given that the UNDP/UNIDO program to
improve productivity has not started, it is difficult to evaluate some of
the measures which have been taken by BTMC to improve efficiency during
this period. The most notable step has been the attempt to increase spe-
cialization by reducing the number of yarn counts produced in individual
mills. Virtually all of the spinning units are now producing no more than
six counts; the only exceptions are a few integrated mills which are pro-
ducing some special counts for use in their weaving operations.
9.        The lack of proper maintenance and the non-availability of spare
parts has continued to be the major and critical factor affecting production,
and there has been little change in the situation identified at the time
of the 1975 review. Some administrative changes relating to the procurement
of spare parts have been made, but as yet no benefits have materialized.
In 1975 and 1976, the Japanese Industrial Corporation Agency (JICA) carried
out a study of BTMC spare parts requirements. The report was submitted to
GOB and GOB is currently negotiating with the Japanese Government for aid to
implement the report's recommendations.
10.       The operation of inefficient installations and obsolete equipment
has also affected operating efficiency and reduced production. BTMC has
established a technical team to review this situation and it expects that
a large quantity of equipment will be found inadequate and scrapped.
11.       Longer-term rehabilitation of the industry will require intensifi-
cation of efforts to raise production efficiency of the mills to more normal
levels and further review of mills to determine other installations whose
equipment conditions are so poor as to make continued operation uneconomic.
The extent of replacement of mills to be closed and the pace of further ex-
pansion, particularly of spinning equipment, will depend upon demand trends
as well as on the availability of resources to obtain the needed raw material.
Another factor inhibiting longer-term growth of the industry is the heavy
foreign exchange burden arising from the dependency on imported raw materials.
Efforts are under way to produce indigenous fiber supplies and there is also
need to examine export possibilities for textile products.
12.       Although the closure of or equipment replacement in, some mills
and the rehabilitation of others should improve efficiency - and profit-
ability - this improvement will not be sustained unless action is taken at
the mill level to train skilled staff, not only machine operators but more
importantly, skilled mechanics to carry out the maintenance programs, the
lack of which contributed to the condition of the plant originally. BTMC
is expecting UNDP/UNIDO technical assistance to develop appropriate programs
for this purpose. In addition, it will be necessary to revise and improve
existing incentive wage programs for the purpose of retaining trained staff
as well as reducing absenteeism.



ANNEX VII
Page 4
Organization and Finances
13.       Notwithstanding the large number of mills under its direct control,
BTMC's organization has functioned with reasonable efficiency. The main
changes that have taken place in BTMC's organization since 1975 has been the
delegation of considerable authority to the mill managers and the creation
in FY77 of a Ministry of Textiles which has resulted in additional delega-
tion of authority as BTMC's Chairman also functions as Joint Secretary for the
Ministry. However, the transfer of the Chairman at frequent intervals has
hindered continuity and the proper development of management. There is also
need to reduce inter-mill transfer of managers within BTMC.
14.       Although the Board of BTMC delegated extensive authority to mill
managers (excepting on personnel matters where both the mills and BTMC were
until recently constrained by Government), the main tools of mill management
control need strengthening. Individual mill budgets, the keystone of the
management control system, are usually prepared in a mechanical and academic
fashion. The other components of the control system, although sound in con-
cept, are weak in application, due in part to the lack of trained accounting
officers. Further, there is a need to review the management information/
control systems both at the BTMC and mill level to relate them to the current
operating situations.
15.       The internal audit is used by BTMC as a management control tool.
At present, although subject to some weaknesses, the approach adopted is
appropriate to BTMC's current state of development.   However, there is a need
to refine the role of the internal audit function by upgrading audit programs
and increasing the number of qualified staff.   There is also a need to speed-
up the completion of the external audit so that the   audit for FY77 could be
available by the end of FY78, and thereafter within 6 months of the close of
the fiscal year.
16.       A major problem facing BTMC was the rapid deterioration in profit-
ability. In FY74, the mills earned a pre tax profit of Tk 151 million and
in FY75 a profit of Tk 120 million. However, for FY77 a loss of Tk 137
million is estimated.
17.       The principal factor underlying the poor financial performance of
the industry have been the effect of GOB pricing policies while at the same
time imported raw cotton prices were rising sharply. The Government's failure
to permit price adjustments for textile products to reflect rising raw mate-
rial costs has eliminated profit margins resulting in a severe financial
strain on BTMC. There are indications of rising sales margins in retail trade
reflecting the recent improvement in demand conditions. Thus, this attempt
to keep prices of essential commodities relatively low seems to have only
affected distribution of profits between BTMC and traders and not substan-
tially benefited consumers. GOB has since reviewed BJMCs prices and in
September 1977-approved increased yarn prices averaging 25% which should
provide for adequate profitability.



ANNEX VII
Page 5
18.       In addition, there is need for rationalization of the industry.
While BTMC has been investing in new spinning projects, it is likely that
the required additional output could be obtained more effectively through
balancing, modernization and replacement investments. Further, although
most mills are now operating at a loss, the losses were concentrated in
seven mills considered sick and 10 specialized mills. These units made a
loss of Tk 65 million in FY76 without which BTMC would have recorded pre-
tax profits of about Tk 40 million. During the first half of FY77, these
units accounted for Tk 42 million or 63% of BTMC's losses. Thus, there is
need for a mill-by-mill survey to determine the optimal way in which BTMC
can allocate resources and to serve as a basis for a program to improve
productivity, which should include the setting of targets on criteria such
as efficiency and profitability.
Prospects
19.       The structure of the industry has suffered a sharp dislocation
since independence. In prior years, a complex internal trade had developed
with the former West Pakistan, involving raw cotton, yarn and cloth, with
the latter two categories of goods moving in both directions; these aspects
were discussed in more detail in the 1975 IDA Report. Since 1972, production
and consumption in Bangladesh have been severely affected by foreign exchange
shortages, price controls and marketing policies. Moreover, some 60 to 70%
of total cloth supply originates in the cottage handloom and small power loom
subsectors, data on which are inadequate; basic information on these aspects
are now being collected under the action programs. Finally, in the last two
years there have been increased imports of cloth under the wage earners'
scheme; the official data are available only in value terms and are believed
to understate actual trade.
20.       Besides the need to tackle the problems of profitability (where
some action has been recently taken), productivity and the establishment of
an improved management system, there are also a number of important issues
which could affect long-term prospects. One is the possibility of finding
an indigenous source of raw material and the second is the possibility of
exports. As regards the first point, the Bangladesh Council for Scientific
and Industrial Research (BCSIR), with funding under the IDA Technical Assist-
ance credit, is examining the feasibility of mixing a chemically-treated jute
fiber with cotton. As regards exports, BTMC has recently received a contract
for small quantities of grey cloth from an overseas buyer; weaving mills which
can produce export quality cloth are few in number but this possibility, expe-
cially the domestic resource costs of the foreign exchange earned, will have
to be examined in connection with the programs to improve mill productivity.



ANNEX VII
Attachment 1
BANGLADESH TEXTILE MILLS CORPORATION
Performance Indicators and Other Targets'
ACTUAL                 ESTIMATED                    TARGET
FY74       FY75        FY76       FYT77        Y78       FY79        FY80       FY85
1.  Market Projection2
Yarn lbs (Million)                        128.5       133.9      147.4      161.4       175.9      191.1       206.8       288.6
Cloth Yards (Million)                     513.8       535.8      589.4      645.4       703.7      764.4       827.3      1154.2
2.  Production by BTMC -/
Yarn lbs (Million)                         95.5       100.6       91.1        94.3      110.0       129.8      145.8        190.2
Cloth Yards (Million)                      78.7        85.9       75.9        70.9      100.0      100.0       100.0        100.0
3.  Efficiency Targets: Spinning-
i) Installed capacity ('000) 51         858.1       889.5      905.5       925.8      988.5     1125.8      1200.8       1325.8
ii) Capacity utilisation (%) -            80.4        81.7       76.5       77.5        83.0       83.0        83.0        85.0
iii) Lbs.per spindle average                -           -
iv) Average per spindle shift oz.         2.31        2.31       2.36        2.19       2.26        2.32       2.43         2.81
4.  Efficiency Targets: Weaving:
i) Installed capacity (No.)            7375       7563        7636       7863        7982       7982        7982        7982
ii) Capacity utilisation (%)              61.4        66.5       66.6       60.7        74.6       74.6        74.6        74.6
iii) Average loom shift yards              21.4        21.1       18.4       18.3        19.7       19.7        19.7         19.7
6/
5. Wastage percentage-
a) Yarn (Raw materials) in lbs.            15.7        14.1       12.6        10.6        9.0         9.0        9.0          8.0
b) Cloth (Yarn) in yds.                     4.8         4.0        4.7         4.5        4.0         3.8        3.8          3.8
6.  a) Cotton procurement-/
(Ratio/Market value)
USA     ) BTMC/
Egyptian) Liverpool                 1:0.71      1:0.91     1:1.12     1:1.02         -          -           -           -
Russian ) market
b) Requirement of Raw Materials
i) Cotton (Million lbs)        )      .10  7       105.5       019       105          84.6       99.9       112,1       124.0
ii) Staple fibre (Million lbs) )          3         1           1.         1  5        36.3       42.8        48.1        82.7
7.  Labour Utilisation
a) Employees per spinning unit
(Running spindle per worker)            16.4        17.2       18.0       21.0        21.5       22.0        22.5        25.0
b) Employees per loom                       -           -          -           -          -           -          -            -
8.  Capital structures -/
a) Long term debt/equity ratio            3.5:1       2.2:1      2.0:1      1.0:1       0.9:1      0.8:1       0.8:1       0.5:1
b) Total debt/equity ratio                2.1:1      4.0:1       5.0:1     10.0:1       5.6:1      2.8:1       2.3:1       1.5:1
c) Debt Serving/Net Profit (after
taxation) and non-cash items           2.5:1      2.6:1       1.3:1      1.5:1       2.5:1      2.3:1       2.0:1       2.0:1
9.  Profitability (at current prices)
Sales -           (Tk Millions)          1266.1      1462.8     1763.5      1747.2     3213.0     3824.0      4336,0      5598.0
Cost of Production:
Raw macerials 10/                         688.6       943.5      959.2      1116.7     1648.0      2090.5     2347.4       3050.4
Conversion cost 1/                        321.0       427.7      459.9       459.3      510.8       584.5      643.9        927.5
Depreciation                               29.0        31.2       35.4        33.8       52.1        95.6      111.3        115.0
Inventory adjustment                       (06.8)    (147.5)     184.5       175.8        -          _           _         _
Cost of goods sold                       1031.8      1255.1     1639.0      1785.6     2210T.      2770,6     3105.6       4092.9
Gross profit/loss                         234.3       207.7      124.5(-)    (38.4)    1002.1      1053.4     1230.4       1505.5
Interest                                    -          19.7       27.5        27.0       41.0        69.4       83.1         92.5
Other expenses                              82.9       68.0       70.2        72.0       73.0        74.0       75.0         80.0
Net profit                                 151.4      120.0        26.8     (137.4)     888.1       908.0     1072.3       1333.0
Operatir.g profit to sale                   18.5       14.0        7%         -          31.2        27.5       28.4         26.8
Net profit to sale                           12%        8%         1.5%       -          27.6        23.7       24.7         23.7
12/
10. Unit cost (in Tk)1-
a) Yarn per lb (32 counts)                 10.8       ,13.6       16.0        17.3       21.0       21.4        21.5         21.8
b) Cloth per yard (54 pick)
Grey fabrics                           3.6         4.4        5.4         5.7        6.6        7.0         7.0          7.1
Processed fabrics                      4.5         5.4        6.9         7.3        8.0        8.4         8.5         8.8



NOTES
1. FY77 estimated performa2nce is based upon unaudited actual results for the six months to December 31, 1977.
Targets for FY78-FYS5 incorporate known investment decisions. The targets will be revised annually on the
basis of BTMC's actual performance for the preceding fiscal year, government policies and overall market
conditions.
2.  Market projections are based on the following assumptions:
i) Growth of population from FY74 at 3% with sliding rate of .05% each year up to FY79, .1% in
FY80-FY81, .2% in FY82-FY83 and .3% in FY84-FY85.
ii) Consumption of cloth per head has been estimated at 6.8 yds in FY74 and an increase of 0.5 yds
per head per annum reaching 12.30 yards per head in FY85.
3. The increased production of yarn in FY85 is due to the installation of 125,000 spindles over the years
FY81 to FY85. No increase in production of cloth has been shown as no new looms will be installed. Additional
production of cloth is for the moment assumed to take place in the non-mill sector. The production target for yarn
for FY78 has been taken at 110 million lbs on 32 counts average. (The actual production on 32 counts average
during July-March 1977 was 73 million lbs). The production target for FY78 is 16.5% higher compared to actual
normal production of FY77. This target is considered achievable if there is no bottleneck in the release of
Foreign Exchange for procurement.
4. Expansion in spindlage would be 275,000 by FY80 and 125,000 assumed to be installed from FY81 to FY85.
5. Average capacity utilisation is assumed to increase due to the availability of spares, BMR of old mills and
installation of new spindles.
6. Wastage is assumed to decrease due to a higher ratio of staple fibre use.
7. BTMC's purchase price ratio is 1:1.02 and this is assumed to continue.
8. For new projects long-term loan financing has been assumed to be 49% of the total project cost with interest at 10%
per annum.
9. During FY78 an overall increase of 25% on selling prices has been provided.
L0. The per lb cost of cotton and staple fibre has been estimated as:
FY78                FY79-80                 FY85
Raw cotton                73.5                80 cents               84 cents
Staple fibre              60.0                60 cents               63 cents
L1.  Conversion  costs have been assumed to be mainly variable costs and to move in sympathy with production.



BANGLADESH TEXTILE MILLS CORPORATION
COST STRUCTURE - 32 COUNTS
(Tktlb)
ACTUAL              ESTIMATED                TARGETS
FY74      FY75     FY76       FY77      FY78      FY79      FY80     FY85
ELEMENTS OF COST
A) Variable cost
i) Raw materials              7.2      9.4      10.5       11.8      16.1      16.1      16.1     16.0
ii) Stores & Spares            0.5      0.5       0.6        0.7       0.4       0.5       0.5      0.5
iii) Power & Fuel               0.2      0.4       0.6        0.5       0.4       0.4       0.4      0.4
Sub-Total               7.9      10.3      11.7      13.0       16.9      17.0     17.0      16.9
B) Fixed cost
i) Salary & Wages             1.8      2.2       2.4        2.2       2.0       2.0       2.0      2.8
ii) Depreciation               0.2      0.3       0.3        0.3       0.4       0.7       0.7      0.6
iii) Interest                   0.2       0.1      0.2        0.2        0.3      0.5       0.5       0.4
iv) Other Expenses             0.7      0.8       0.9        1.0       0.8       0.7       0.6      0.5
Sub-Total                2.9      3.4       3.8       3.7        3.5       3.9      3.9       4.3
C) Excise duty                      -         -        0.5       0.5        0.5       0.5      0.5       0.5
Total Cost              10.8     13.7      16.0      17.2       21.0      21.4      21.4     21.7
__e       =DDGGS   fln==l     a==fl$=    ==C===    =e_====    w==       3===
COST STRUCTURE - 54 PICKS
(Tkfydd)
ELEMENTS OF COST
A) Variable cost
i) Yarn cost                  2.7      3.4      4.0         4.3       5.2       5.4       5.4       5.5
ii) Stores & Spares            0.2       0.2     0.4         0.4        0.4      0.4       0.4       0.4
iii) Power & Fuel               0.1       0.1     0.2         0.2        0.2      0.2       0.2       0.2
Sub-Total               3.0       3.7      4.6        4.9        5.8       6.0      6.0       6.1
B) Fixed cost
1) Salary & Wages             0.4      0.5      0.6         0.6        0.6      0.6       0.7       0.8
ii) Depreciation               0.1       -       0.1         0.1        0.1      0.1        -         -
iii) Interest                   0.1       0.1     0.1         0.1        0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1
iv) Other Expenses             0.1      0.1      0.1         0.1        0.1      0.1       0.1       0.1
Sub-Total               0.7       0.7      0.9         0.9       0.9       0.9       0.9      1.0
C) Duty                             -         -       -           -          -    -             -         -
Total Cost               3.7      4.4      5.5         5.8       6.7       6,9       6.9      7.1
n: GD                                 inD        flD = =   - = = ===   = = = = = =



ANNEX VIII
BANGLADESH
FIFTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
UTILIZATION BY SECTOR OF THE FIVE PREVIOQS IMPORTS CREDITS
(in US$ Million as at 09/30/77)
Credit       Credit     Credit     Credit       Credit
345-BD      458-BD      515-BD     591--BD      676-BD      Total
Category
Agricultural Equipment                  8.4          N.E.       Nil         N.E.         N.E.         8.4
Fertilizers & Raw Materials
for Fertilizer Manufacture              5.5          2.2        9.0         3.9         1.1          21.7
Components, Chemicals, Raw Materials
Spare parts, Equipment and Packing
Materials for:
Jute Industry                        1.6          3.8        4.9        4.5          0.1          14.9
Textile Industry                     9.8         11.4       18.6       49.9         21.5         111.2
Paper & Board Industry               0.9          2.9        6.5         0.3         0.1          10.7
Food & Allied Products Industry      3.1          2.8        N.E.       N.E.          N.E.         5.9
Chemical & Pharmaceutical Industry   7.3          9.6        7.3        16.4         1.5          42.1
Sugar Industry                       0.3          1.0        0.9         0.7           -           2.9
Steel & Foundry Industry             0.5          7.3        9.6        8.7          1.1          27.2
Selected Export-Oriented Industries N.E.          N.E.       0.7         0.9           -           1.6
Commercial Vehicle Industry          6.3          3.4        2.7         2.6          N.E.        15.0
Small-Scale Industry                 1.5          0.4        0.5         N.E.         N.E.         2.4
Construction Industry                1.3          4.3       14.3         9.7          3.3         32.9
Shipbuilding Industry                3.3          0.9        N.E.        N.E.         N.E.         4.2
Telecommunications Industry          0.2          N.E.       N.E.        N.E.         N.E.         0.2
50.0         50.0       75.0        97.6        28.7         301.3
N.E. - Not Eligible
SOIURCE:  IBRD, Disbursements Division



ANNEX IX
8ANGLADESH
SIXTH IMPORTS PROGRAM CREDIT
PRODUCTION TRENDS OF S ELECTED INDUSTRIES
Production                                        Production Change 5.
1969/70   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77      1977/78             1976/77
Industries                               Units.               --------------   -----------(Actuals)--------__  _(edtimate)  (target)             1975/76
Jute Textile
Hessian                         (thousand long tons)         560      446       500       444       478        49t           521                 2.7
Sacking                         (                  )         228      155       172       146       161        162           160                 0.6
Carpet Backing                  (                  )         279      210       227       228       221        233           255                 5.4
Others                          (                  )          33       54        66        40        71         70            80                -1.4
20       27        35        30        24         26            26                 8.3
Cotton Textile
Cloth                               (million yds)             59       58        79        89         74        68            96                -8.1
Yarn                                (million lbs)            106       81        91        92         88        82            97                 -6.8
Paper & Board
Newsprint                           (thousand tons)           36       28        26        29        20.0       21            24                 5.0
Paper                               (             )           31       21        24        25        18.0       25            32                38.9
Reyon Yarn                          (             )            2.7      1.9       2.1       1.6       1.2        1.5           1.8              25.0
Paper 8oard                          (       .                 6.8       3.6       7.6       8.0       7.1        8.2          8.5               15.5
Cement                                 (             )           53       32        53       143       160       314            350                97 5
Steel Ingot                            (             )           54       68        74        76        90        100           125                11.1
Petroleum Products                     (             )          916      788       329       768        150      900              na.               5.9
Engineering Products
Diesel Engine                       (thousand  nos)            1.3      1.4       1.7       5.2       0.9        1.4           n.a              55.6
Pumps                               (                                   0 -  0.9  2.1       7.5       -         2.8            n.a.
Commercial & Heavy Vehicles         (             )            0.5      1.2       2.1        1.3      0.6       0.9            n.a.             50.0
G. 1, & M. S. Pipes                 (    )                     5.1      2.8       3.7        2.7      4.8       3.4            na.             -29.2
Radio                               (       0     )            6.0      5.0      11.0       8.7       4.0        3.9           n.a.             -2.5
Fertilizer
Urea                                (thousand tons)           96      211       279        69       282       282            300                 0 0
TSP                                 (             )            -        -         -        26        49        45             70                 8.2
Ammonium Sulphate                   (       "     )                      6        10         5         6        10            10                66.7
Footwear                               (thousand doz.)          586      448       391       280       285       255            344               -10.5
Pharmaceuticals
Tablets                             (million nos)              -      121       209       253       225        225           326                 0.0
Liquid                              (million bottles)          -        2.8       4.5       5.1       7.9       7.1            7.0             -10.1
Soaps                                  (thousand tons)            8.7      8.0       10.4      5.9       8.3        7.7          10 6              -7.2
Glass sheet                            (million ft)               7.2      7.2       5.7       5.7       5.6        6.0           6 7               7.1
Matches                            (million gross boxes)          13.0      5.9       6.2       6-2       6.9       8.0           n.a.              15.9
Sugar                                  (thousand tons)           93       19        88        98        87.0      139           141                59.8
Molasses                               (             )           51        10       45        52         39.0      59            60                51.3
Tea-                                   (million Ibs)             67       53        61         71       iS        74            75                 13.8
Food & Allied Products
Edible & Vegetable Ghee             (thousand tons)           19.1     14.1      18.4      15.4      19.1       22.8          22.5               19.4
Fish Processing                     (million lba)              3.8      2.3       3.0       2.7       5.1        7.5           6.0               47.1
Soft Beverage                       (thousand cases)         264      330       258       271       235        204           250                -13.2
Cigarettes                          (billion sticks)           17.8     11.4      11.9      10.4      12.2      12.5           n a.               2.5
Biscuits & Bread                    (thousand tons)             3.9      6.4       4.4       4.        4,.0      4.0           4 6                0.0
/a Public sector only except tea. cigarettes and matches
7S Production season of tea is April - March
Source   Nationslized Industries Division, Public Sector Corporations, Planning Commission, and Bureau of Statistics



