CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 752 BD
Development Credit Agreement
(Sixth Imports Program)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 30, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 752 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 30, 1977, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "BJMC" means the Bangladesh Jute Mills Corporation
(formerly the Bangladesh Jute Industries Corporation) or any
successor thereto; and
(b) "BTMC" means the Bangladesh Textiles Mills Corporation
(formerly the Bangladesh Textile Industries Corporation) or any
successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to seventy-five million dollars ($75,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the


﻿-2-
Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods
and services required for the Project described in paragraph (b)
of this Section and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
(b) The Project forms part of the Borrower's program (i) to
make available foreign exchange to eligible importers for the
import, into the Borrower's territory, of industrial components,
chemicals, raw materials and spare parts required by high priority
industries, and (ii) for improving the operational efficiency and
the profitability of the jute and cotton textile industries in the
Borrower's territory in accordance with the action programs
referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or services to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit with-
drawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1988, and ending October 1,
2027, each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-3-
Section 2.09. The authorized representatives of the Bangla-
desh Bank are designated as representatives of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and
Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project,
or cause it to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) promptly upon receipt of appropriate applications
from the eligible importers issue, or cause to be
issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to carry out the Project;
(ii) make available, or cause to be made available to
the eligible importers promptly as needed, such
amounts of foreign exchange as shall be required to
import goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit; and
(iii) take all such action as shall be necessary to
facilitate the timely importation of goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or
cause adequate provision to be made for the insurance thereof,
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower or the importer, as the case may be, to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: (a) maintain records ade-
quate to record the progress of the Project (including the cost


﻿-4-
thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project; (b) enable the Association's accredited representa-
tives to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (c) furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, the program (referred
to in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement)'of which the Project is
a part, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall deposit amounts in
Taka, equivalent to the amounts disbursed by the Association
pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement, in an account
currently being maintained with the Bangladesh Bank, which amounts
are to be described in accordance with standard praccice, as the
proceeds from "IDA Credit No. 752 BD".
(b) The amounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
shall be utilized entirely to finance the Borrower's development
programs.
(c) The Borrower shall, not later than July 31 of each
calendar year, inform the Association of the local currency pro-
visLons made in the Borrower's Annual Development Program for
the fiscal year which began on the preceding July 1, for the
development projects being financed by the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall inform the Association on a quarterly
basis of the amounts of takas actually released for the projects
being financed by the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 3.06. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall implement each of the programs described in
paragraphs 2 (e) and 2 (f) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement after
its approval by the Association.


﻿- 5 -
Section 3.07. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall take, or cause to be taken, the actions des-
cribed in Schedule 3 to this Agreement for the improvement of the
operational efficiency and the profitability of the jute and
cotton textile industries in the Borrower's territory.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower has issued import licenses
in respect of goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit covering foreign exchange allocations aggregating not less
than $30,000,000 equivalent.
Section 4.02. The date January 30, 1978 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.06 and 3.07 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twelve years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE V
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 5.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary or Deputy Secretary of the External Resources Division
of the Ministry of Planning of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Planning
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh


﻿-6-
Cable address:
BAHIRSAMPAD
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s/ S. R. Karim
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of imported goods
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and the
maximum amount of the Credit which may be withdrawn in respect of
each such Category:
Maximum Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                  Dollar Equivalent)
INDUSTRY: Raw materials, spare parts,
chemicals, components and
packaging materials for:
(1) Jute industry                                   15,000,000
(2) Textile industry                                35,000,000
(3) Paper and board induztry                        7,000,000
(4) Fertilizer industry                             10,000,000
(5) Steel and foundry industry                      20,000,000
(6) The following export-oriented                    5,000,000
industries: frozen fish, shrimp
and frogs' legs, tea processing
and leather tanning
(7) Chemicals and pharmaceuticals                    5,000,000
(excluding proprietary items)
CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES:
(8) Cement, raw materials and spare                 18,000,000
parts for cement manufacture (in-
cluding packaging materials) and
other intermediate building ma-
terials
I


﻿-8-
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(b) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
this Agreement;
(c) payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
(d) expenditures under Categories (4) to (8) inclusive in
excess of the aggregate equivalent of $37,500,000;
(e) expenditures for steel billets under Category (5) until
the Association has received from the Borrower, in respect of
steel billets, a program satisfactory to the Association for the
Borrower's fiscal years ending 1978 and 1979 showing demand
projections and setting (i) planned levels of import and local
production, (ii) detailed pricing and distribution policies,
and (iii) actions to be taken to implement the foregoing; and
(f) expenditures for cement under Category (8) until the
Association has received from the Borrower, in respect of cement,
a program satisfactory to the Association having the same scope as
the program described in the foregoing paragraph (e).
3.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 2
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or
more shall be let, at the Borrower's option, either through inter-
national shopping, on the basis of not less than three offers
invited from major suppliers from member countries of the Bank and
Switzerland, or through international competitive bidding, under
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines). The
award of any contract shall be made to the supplier whose offer is
the lowest evaluated offer. However, whenever the Borrower and the
Association shall be satisfied that goods of a specific type,
design or manufacture shall be required in the interest of equip-
ment standardization or of other valid considerations relating to
the efficient utilization of existing productive capacity, such
goods may be procured on a negotiated basis on terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent may be
procured through normal commercial channels.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to any contract for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract, (a)
two conformed copies of such contract, (b) the details of the
offers sought, the names of the firms invited to submit offers and
a summary of the offers submitted for goods subject to interna-
tional shopping, (c) the bidding documents as well as a report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received for goods
subject to international competitive bidding and (d) such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. In the
event the lowest offer or bid is not accepted, the Borrower shall
also furnish to the Association the reasons for the award of the
contract to the successful supplier. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of such contract was not consistent with
the provisions of this Schedule or the Guidelines, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 10 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding para-
graph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 3
Actions to Improve the Operational Efficiency
and the Profitability of the
Jute and Cotton Textile Industries
A.   General
1.   Dates by which actions are required to be taken pursuant to
this Schedule may be extended by notice from the Association to
the Borrower.
2.   All consultants to be employed pursuant to this Schedule
shall have adequate qualifications and experience and shall be
employed pursuant to terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
B.   Jute Industry
1.   The Borrower shall:
(a) not later than December 1, 1977, employ consultants to
assist the Borrower in carrying out:
(i) a study of the Borrower's marketing and pricing
procedures and policies for raw jute and jute
goods; and
(ii)   a study of medium and long-term .world supply and
demand prospects for raw jute, jute goods and jute
substitutes; and
(b) not later than December 31, 1978, furnish to the Asso-
ciation for review a plan (including an implementation schedule)
based on the results of the studies referred to in (a) of this
paragraph, to establish, in consultation with the Association, and
thereafter daintain improved jute pricing mechanisms.
2.   BJMC shall, not later than February 28, 1978 furnish to the
Association for review a survey of each jute processing mill of
BJMC which shall (a) identify equipment requiring rehabilitation,
(b) determine investment requirements to improve its operating
efficiency, (c) estimate the incremental outputs and savings in
manufacturing costs resulting from the proposed investments and
(d) calculate financial and economic rates of return.


﻿- 12 -
3.   The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1978 furnish to
the Association for review BJMC's recommendations, together with
the Borrower's proposals, for (a) the selection of mills where
investments are economically justified and (b) the actions to be
taken with respect to uneconomic units, such recommendations to be
made on the basis of (i) projected levels of demand and (ii) the
results of the mill-by-mill survey referred to in paragraph 2
above.
4.   BJMC shall: (a) continue to carry out its program aimed at
appraising the preventive maintenance systems of its mills,
making recommendations for their improvement and implementing such
recommendations;
(b) by March 31, 1978, furnish to the Borrower and the
Association for review a report on the progress of such program
including (i) the number of mills inspected by BJMC and (ii) the
specific actions taken in each of BJMC's mills to improve the
condition of its equipment and its overall maintenance system; and
(c) by July 1, 1978, employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to
the Association to assist BJMC in continuing to carry out such
program if the Borrower and the Association, following the review
referred to in (b) above, shall have determined that such con-
sultants' services are necessary to improve the implementation of
such program.
5.   BJMC shall, not later than March 31, 1978, furnish to the
Association for review (a) its assessment of the progress of
BJMC's mills in manufacturing their spare parts requirements and
(b) its proposals to implement improved spare parts purchasing
procedures, such proposals to include the provision of greater
autonomy to BJMC's mills for the local procurement of spare
parts.
6.   BJMC shall: (a) not later than February 28, 1978, furnish to
the Association for review (i) the operational targets for 1978
through 1982 prepared for each mill of BJMC, including specific
targets for production, spinning and weaving efficiency, conver-
sion costs per ton, raw jute consumption costs, wastage and
profits and (ii) consolidated statements on such operational
targets for all mills of BJMC; (b) not later than October 1
of each fiscal year until 1981, furnish to the Association its
review of such targets in the light of the actual results of the


﻿- 13 -
preceding fiscal year together with the said results; and (c) from
time to time, inform the Association on any changes in such
targets.
7.   The Borrower shall, from time to time, exchange views with
the Association on the implementation of the Borrower's program to
provide BJMC with (a) more autonomy in raw jute purchasing and
personnel recruitment and (b) better timing of credit availabil-
ity, in order to reduce the raw jute purchasing costs of BJMC.
8.   BJMC shall, not later than July 1, 1978, furnish to the
Association for review a report on the implementation of its
program to (a) decentralize its organization in order to delegate
greater authority to its zonal offices and its mills and (b)
design adequate management information and control systems both
for BJMC's head office and for BJMC's mills.
9.   BJMC shall, not later than May 31, 1978, furnish to the
Borrower for approval its proposals for an incentive system aimed
at attracting and retaining suitably qualified personnel and
improving their productivity.
10. BJMC shall, (a) not later than December 1, 1977, furnish to
the Association for review its proposals for a training program,
to be completed by June 30, 1980, designed for the personnel of
(i) BJMC's offices and (ii) BJMC's mills and (b) thereafter
implement such program.
11. BJMC shall (a) furnish to the Association audited balance
sheets of each of its jute processing mills for the fiscal year
ended 1977 by October 31, 1978 and for the fiscal year ended 1978
by March 31, 1979 and (b) thereafter have the balance sheets of
its mills for each fiscal year audited not later than six months
after the end of each such year.
C.   Cotton Textile Industry
1.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 1, 1977, inform
the Association of the Borrower's plans for price increases
necessary to restore the profitability of the cotton textile
industry in the Borrower's territory.
2.   BTMC shall, not later than April 30, 1978, furnish to the
Association for review a survey carried out for each of its mills
which shall (a) identify equipment requiring rehabilitation,


﻿- 14 -
(b) determine investment requirements to improve its operating
efficiency, (c) estimate the incremental outputs and savings in
manufacturing costs resulting from the proposed investments and
(d) calculate financial and economic rates of return.
3.   The Borrower shall, not later than May 31, 1978, furnish to
the Association for review BTMC's recommendations, together with
the Borrower's proposals, for (a) the selection of mills where
investments are economically justified and (b) the actions to be
taken with respect to uneconomic units, such recommendations to be
made on the basis of (i) projected levels of demand and (ii) the
results of the mill-by-mill survey referred to in paragraph 2
above.
4.   BTMC shall: (a) not later than April 30, 1978, furnish to
the Association for review (i) the operational targets for 1978
through 1982 prepared for each of its mills, including specific
targets for production, spinning efficiency, waste, conversion
costs, raw cotton procurement costs and profits and (ii) consoli-
dated statements on such operational targets for all mills of
BTMC; (b) not later than October 1 of each fiscal year until 1981,
furnish to the Association its review of such targets in the light
of the actual results of the preceding fiscal year together with
the said results; and (c) from time to time, inform the Associa-
tion on any changes in such targets.
5.   BTMC shall, not later than December 31, 1977, initiate, in
consultation with the Association, a program acceptable to the
Association to improve BTMC's management information and control
systems.
6.   BTMC shall, not later than March 31, 1978, furnish to the
Borrower for approval its proposals for an incentive system aimed
at attracting and retaining suitably qualified personnel and
improving their productivity.
7.   BTMC shall (a) not later than March 31, 1978, furnish to the
Association for review its proposals for a training program
designed for the staff of (i) BTMC's offices and (ii) BTMC's
mills; and (b) thereafter implement such program.
8.   BTMC shall (a) not later than December 31, 1977, furnish to
the Association for review its proposals for an overall program
(including appointment of required staff), for upgrading its
internal audit systems and procedures and (b) thereafter implement
such program.


﻿- 15 -
9.    BTMC shall (a) furnish to the Association audited balance
sheets for each of its mills for the fiscal year ended 1976 by
October 31, 1977 and for the fiscal year ended 1977 by June 30,
1978 and (b) thereafter have the balance sheets of its mills for
each fiscal year audited not later than six months after the end
of each such year.
10. BTMC shall, not later than June 30, 1978, furnish to the
Association detailed statements showing that the assets of each
of its mills have been revalued in accordance with sound account-
ing principles.


