RESTRICTED
Report No.    PE-40a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT:
AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
INDONESIA
February 16, 1972
Education Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US $1.00           = Rp. 4il4
1 Rupiah           = US $0.0024i
1 mil1ion Rupiahs  - US $2,415
?1EASUR&S
Inm           = 1.09 yd
1 m2          = 10.76 sq yd
1 km2         - 0.38 sq mi
1 hectare     = 2.47 acres
1 km2         = 100 hectares
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT: AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .....    ................i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION .......     .........................    1
II.   THE SETTING .................................2
Socio-Economic Background .....   .........      2
Labor Force ........    ....................     2
Agricultural Development Strategy   ......       3
III.   AGRICULTURAL TRAINING .....      ..................   4
The Ministry of Agriculture ....   ........      4
Farmer Training .....      ...................   5
Training of the Ministry of Agriculture
Staff   ................................       5
Formal Agricultural Education      ..........    5
Agricultural Training Requirements               6
IV.   DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY FOR AGRICULTURAL
TRAINING   ..................................       7
V.   EDUCATION FINANCES ......      ....................   9
VI.   THE PROJECT .......      ..........................  10
General   ................................      10
Agency for Agricultural Education and
Training   .............................      11
Agriculture In-Service Training Centers         11
Agricultural Training Institute    ........     12
Agricultural Senior Secondary Schools ..        13
Forestry Technician Training Center  ....       13
Technical Assistance .....    ..............    14
Project Cost ........    ...................    15
This report is based on the findings of a preparation/appraisal mission which
visited Indonesia during June, 1971. The mission consisted of Messrs. A.C.
Tsantis (Economist), G.F.F. Gayle (Agricultural Educator), S.M.A. Noor (Gen-
eral Educator), J.L. Scearce (Architect), A.G. Apodaca (Agricultural Educator,
FAO), and S.R. Santos (Agricultural Educator, Consultant to FAO).



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)                                     Page No.
VII.   IMPLEMENTATION ......       ........................   17
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION    .......       18
APPENDIX I     The Education System
APPENDIX II    Manpower and Training Requirements
APPENDIX III   Education Finance
APPENDIX IV    External Aid
APPENDIX V      Technical Assistance and Fellowships
ANNEXES
1.   Comparative Education Indicators
2.   Education Level of Manpower in the Ministry of
Agriculture, 1971
3.   Educational Attainment of Teachers in Agricultural
Senior Secondary Schools, 1970
4.   Central Government Expenditures on Education and
Training, 1969/70-1971/72
5.  Project Cost by Type of Expenditure
6.   Capital Cost in New Project Institutions
7.   Use Factor and Class Sizes in Project Institutions
8.   Contingency Allowance
9.   Project Implementation and Expenditure Schedule
10.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
11.   Education:  Structure, Enrollment and Teachers, 1970
CHARTS
1.   Structure of the Educational  System
2.   Organization of Ministry of Agriculture
3.   Organization of Ministry of Education and the
Administration of Primary Education
4.   Total School Enrollments for 1970 and Projections
for 1975
MAP



INDONESIA
BASIC DATA 1
1970
Estimated Population                                        121.1 million
Rural Population                                              99.0 million
Urban Population                                             22.1 million-
Primary Jchool Enrollment as a
Percentage of 7-12 Age Group                               71.0%
Secondary school Enrollment as a
Percentage of 13-18 Age Group                              13.0%
Post-Secondary School Enrollment as a
Percentage of 19-24 Age Group                               1.0%
Central Government Expenditures on Education and Training (1971/72 Est.)
a.  As a percentage of recurrent expenditures               20%
b. As a percentage of capital expenditures                   6%
c. As a percentage of total expenditures                     06%
d. As a percentage of revenue                               20%
Distribution of Central Government Expenditures on Education and Training
(1971/72 Est.)                                         Rp. Million       %
a)  Recurrent Expendit-ures                              73,250        100.0
of which:  Ministry of Home Affairs                 (39,475)       53.9
Ministry of xducation                    (20,905)       28.5
Ministry of Agriculture                  (  161)          .2
Other Ministries                         (12,709)       17.4
b)  Capital Expenditures                                  8,973        100.0
of which:  Ministry of Education                    ( 6,651)        74.1
Ministry of Agriculture                 (   371)         4.1
Other Ministries                        ( 1,951)        21.8
/ ComparativeJ education data in Annex 1.






INDONESIA
APPRAISAL OF A SECOND EDUCATION PROJECT: AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project for the improvement of agricul-
tural education and training in Indonesia for which an IDA credit of US$6.3
million equivalent is proposed. This would be the second education proj-
ect in Indonesia financed by IDA. The first, for which a credit of US$4.6
million equivalent was approved in October 1970, is assisting in the finan-
cing of construction and equipment of five technical training centers. Until
the government completes, by 1973, its intensive review of the educational
system with assistance from Unesco and Ford Foundation, IDA is assisting in
the financing of education projects in areas of obvious priority which re-
quire immediate attention.
ii.       Indonesia has a predominantly rural economy with a prominent ele-
ment of subsistence agriculture.  Agricultural production has been increasing
at a slightly higher rate than population, but it is short of food crops for
domestic consumption. Self-sufficiency in food is the top priority goal in
the current five-year development plan, which therefore places a major em-
phasis on the development of the agricultural sector. Agricultural training
and extension, currently inadequate, must be improved in support of this pro-
gram.
iii.      Responsibility for agricultural training rests mainly with the
Ministry of Agriculture, which has five Directors General administering
training programs independent from each other. This lack of coordination
results in duplication of effort, under-utilization of facilities and
teachers, and uneconomically small institutions.
iv.       The first IDA education project did not include agricultural
training items because of the unsatisfactory organization for training
within the Ministry of Agriculture and because of insufficient information
on existing agricultural training programs and institutions. It was then
agreed that a study of agricultural training should be conducted to determine
existing training capabilities and to recommend appropriate remedial action.
In October 1970, a FAO mission initiated the study which was concluded in
April 1971.
v.        Based upon the recommendations of the FAO mission, the government
has formulated a two-phase strategy to improve its agricultural training
capacity. The first phase comprises action to: (a) reorganize its admin-
istration of agricultural training to improve its efficiency and effective-
ness; and (b) upgrade and expand selected middle level agricultural train-
ing institutions consistent with the manpower needs. The second phase
comprises (a) reorganization of the extension services into one integrated
service, and (b) an improvement in the introduction of modern techniques



- ii -
to the agricultural labor force through the extension service. The first
phase can now be implemented with the aid of the proposed IDA credit. The
second phase will require further study before implementation and is under
review with aid by the IBRD resident staff in Djakarta.
vi.       The first and most important step in the lmplementation of the
above strategy is the establishment of an Agency for Agricultural Education
and Training, at the General Directorate level within the Ministry of Agri-
culture, which will be gradually assigne(d responsibility for all Ministry
of Agriculture training programs. This Agency will be given broad powers
to effect the desired rationalization of all training programs.
vii.      In addition, the Agricultural Training Institute at Tjiawi, which
offers in-service training courses to senior staff of the Ministry, will be
renovated and re-equipped, and laboratories and workshops will be added to
enable the Institute to offer agricultural secondary school teacher training
programs. Furthermore, middle level in-service training will be consolidated
into thirteen existing centers which will be renovated, expanded, and re-
equipped. For the more specialized requirements of forestry, a inew techni-
cian training center will be constructed at Saxiarinda, in addition to another
already under construction. Newly constructed and equipped laboratories,
workshops, and farm buildings will be provided at 14 national agricultural
senior secondary schools to enable their curricula to be reoriented towards
practical training.
viii.     The proposed project, in addition to the institutions listed in
the preceding paragraph, would include:
(a) a project implementation unit;
(b) technical assistance for specialists to assist in thie
implementation of the present program; and
(c) fellowships for counterparts to the specialists and for
staff of project institutions.
ix.       A project implementation unit would be established within the Min-
istry of Agriculture to provide overall supervision of the project. The
project institutions are dispersed over a large area: in most instances con-
struction works involved are small and consist of relatively minor extensions.
It is planned, therefore, that full international competitive bidding proce-
dures would be used only for the larger institutions whose construction costs
are estimated to exceed US$200,000. For smaller construction works interna-
tional advertisement would not be required, but interested foreign firms
would be permitted to submit bids. Contracts for furniture and equipment,
for which foreign bidders are likely to compete, would be awarded in con-
formity with the Association's guidelines for international competitive
bidding. Domestic manufacturers who add substantial domestic value would
be accorded a margin of preference of up to 15% of the c.i.f. price of com-
peting imports, or the existing level of customs duties, whichever is lower.



- iii -
x.        The proposed project is estimated to cost US$12.3 million, with a
foreign exchange component of US$6.3 million (about half of the total cost).
The project is suitable as a basis for an IDA credit of US$6.3 million to
Indonesia.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The first IDA education credit to Indonesia (No. 219-IND), signed
in November 1970, provided US$4.6 million to help finance five technical
training centers for improving the quality of technical secondary education.
A project unit has been established and is functioning satisfactorily. The
implementation of this project is about seven months behind schedule because
of delays in the government's evaluation of potential consultant architects
firms, and the unsuccessful negotiations with the first firm selected. Nego-
tiations with the second selected firm are expected to be completed within
the next few weeks.
1.02      During appraisal of the agricultural items that had been proposed
for the first project it was determined that although a prima facie case
existed for assisting in the development of agricultural training; the pro-
vision of training in the Ministry of Agriculture was inadequately organized
to ensure the effectiveness of such assistance. Furthermore, various agri-
cultural programs were being offered by the Ministry of Education, provinces,
and local governmental bodies. The number and level of such programs, and
the number, location, size and condition of the training institutions were
unknown.
1.03      It was decided, therefore, not to include the agricultural items
in the first education project and to request a mission under the IBRD/FAO
Cooperative Program to conduct an extensive study of the administration and
structure of middle level agricultural training in Indonesia which would
provide information on existing programs and institutions, and recommend
appropriate measures to improve the efficiency of agricultural training.
1.04      This study was initiated by a FAO mission in October/November
1970. The mission returned to Indonesia in January/February 1971 to com-
plete its field work and to review the data collected in the interim by
Indonesian task forces which had assisted in a physical survey of all agri-
cultural training institutions in the country. The FAO mission report,
submitted in April 1971, recommended a strategy for up-grading the Ministry
of Agriculture staff and for the development of agricultural training in
Indonesia, based on the establishment of a new agency within the Ministry
of Agriculture which would rationalize existing programs. The report was
discussed with the government in May 1971 by an IDA/FAO mission and agree-
ment was reached on project items that could be considered for IDA assist-
ance. In June 1971, a mission comprising Messrs. A.C. Tsantis (Economist),
G.F.F. Gayle (Agricultural Educator), S.M.A. Noor (General Educator), J.L.
Scearce (Architect), A.G. Apodaca (Agrictiltural Educatcr; FAO) and S.R.
Santos (Agricultural Educator, Consultant to FAO) visited Indonesia to help
prepare and appraise the project.
1.05      The prnjec4-, ba:cd te'on 1_e abcve FAO sLu,y, cqncentrates upon
measures required to assist the Ministry of Agriculture to: (a) reorganize
its ad,ninis-r:: tion uf agr±cul'u.-il train-ing to improve its efficiency and



- 2 -
effectiveness; and (b) up-grade and expand selected middle level agricul-
tural training institutions consistent with the manpower needs. The gen-
eral education system under the Ministry of Education is not treated within
the text of this report, but is described briefly in Appendix I.
II. THE SETTING
Socio-economic Background
2.01      The Republic of Indonesia extends over a sprawling archipelago
of five large and about 3,000 smaller islands. It has a land area of 1.9
million km2; about 64% is forested, 7% is cultivated and the rest is un-
cultivated land or mangrove swamp areas. A total of 20% (24 million ha)
of all forested land is estimated to be suitable for commercial exploita-
tion at present, while another 15% (18 million ha) is suitable for conversion
into farm lands. About 43% (six million ha) of land under cultivation is in
rice which, as the staple of the Indonesian diet, is both the major crop and
the largest food import.
2.02      The population, made up of a variety of ethnic groups and esti-
mated at 121 million in 1970, is the fifth largest in the world and is
growing at the high rate of about 2.7% p.a. The government has launched a
family planning program (for which IDA financing is being considered) to
reduce population expansion. Because of uneven population distribution,
the population pressure is particularly great in certain areas: about two
thirds of the population is concentrated on the islands of Java and Madura
which account for only 7% of the land area. The urban population is esti-
mated to have remained about 15% of the total during the last decade.
2.03      The economy is predominantly rural with agricultural production
contributing about 50% of the national product. Domestic industries are
generally small in scale and handicapped by a shortage of finance and man-
agerial skills. Manufacturing, probably accounting for less than 10% of
the national product, is in its early stages of development. In response
to incentives recently provided by the government to foreign investors,
large investments have been and are being undertaken to exploit Indonesia's
abundant natural resources, which include rich deposits of oil, tin, bauxite,
copper and nickel.
Labor Force
2.04      Reliable data on total labor force are not available, but the
1969 labor force was estimated at 39 million. About 69% were believed to
be in agricultural or related occupations. Estimates on the educational
background of the labor force indicated that it is generally low: 17% had
completed only primary education, 5% had completed secondary, and .2% had
graduated from higher level institutions.



2.05      Among the major constraints to Indonesia's development is its
administrative system which is still recovering from years of maladmin-
istration prior to 1966. There is an excessive number of civil servants in
some major departments, but a shortage of key personnel in nearly all.
Salaries have been very low and multiple jobs common, with inevitable effects
on efficiency. Recently, however, levels of compensation have improved
(basic salaries have doubled in the last two years), efficiency in some
areas of government has risen and the first steps towards rationalizing
government employment and staff policies have been taken.
Agricultural Development Strategy
2.06      The five year development plan, 1969/70 - 1973/74, places major
emphasis on the development of the agricultural sector, especially on the
promotion of programs to intensify and accelerate food crop production,
primarily of rice which has been in chronic shortage. Rice production has
a major impact on the structure and level of internal prices. The govern-
ment's objective is to make the country self-sufficient in rice, the pro-
duction of which has increased by 25% in the last three years and amounted
to about 12 million tons in 1970. Almost all food crop production, including
rice, is undertaken by numerous (12 million) small farmers. Their farm
yields are very low because of farm fragmentation and traditional methods of
cultivation. Because of this, the government is making substantial efforts
to increase farm yields by promoting, through the Ministry of Agriculture's
7,500 extension agents, the use of modern production techniques, improved
seed varieties and fertilizers. The Association has made eight credits
totalling US$123.5 million to support the government's efforts in stimula-
ting agricultural development. The credits include three for the rehabili-
tation of irrigation systems, three for agricultural estates, one for a
modern seeds industry and one for a fertilizer plant.
2.07      The strategy in forestry is to provide investment incentives to
foreign firms to import the necessary capital and skilled manpower now in
short supply in Indonesia. The response has been good, and production in
1970 increased to levels exceeding the plan's target of 9 million m3 pro-
jected for 1973/74. Also indicative of the rapid growth of the sector,
export earnings are estimated at over US$90 million in 1970/71, compared
to US$4 million in 1966. Encouragement of foreign investment will be con-
tinued in order to achieve the target production of 20 million m3 by 1980.
Most firms are involved only in logging, but will be encouraged to expand
into the production of wood products.
2.08      The geography of the country is favorable for fisheries develop-
ment. The seas surrounding the Indonesian islands contain rich and varied
stocks of fish. A UN study has estimated that the Indonesian seas have an
average fisheries potential of 0.84 tons/km2. The potential for fisheries
development is also great in about 350,000 ha of inland water ponds and
irrigated fields as well as in 10 million ha of mangrove swamps. Presently,
the inland fish catch accounts for 36% of the total annual fish catch of
1.3 million tons.



- 4 -
2.09      The government's objective is to accelerate the growth of the
annual fish catch, marine and inland, now in the order of 2%-3% p.a., so
that an abundant source of protein will be available for local consumption
and exports. Efforts will be made to (a) encourage foreign investments
(eight ventures have been formed thus far with a total investment of $12
million); (b) train local fishermen to construct and operate modern fishing
gear; and (c) promote the growth of inland fisheries through appropriate
farmer training in fish maintenance and culture techniques. The marine
fisheries program was assisted in 1970 by an IDA Credit of US$3.5 million
equivalent for the development of the skipjack tuna industry.
III. AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
The Ministry of Agriculture
3.01      Responsibility for all types and levels of agricultural training,
except for university level, rests primarily with the Ministry of Agricul-
ture.  The Ministry (Annex 2) employs 43,770 persons and comprises five
principal operational divisions: Agricultural Services (18,500 employees);
Forestry (11,100); Animal Husbandry (6,680); Fisheries (5,250); and Planta-
tions (990). Prior to 1966, the latter four divisions functioned as separate
ministries. Since being made part of the Ministry of Agriculture, some co-
ordination of their activities has been achieved, but each continues to enjoy
a very high degree of autonomy. This is especially true in their training
activities, and has resulted in duplication of effort, under-utilization of
facilities and teachers, and in many instances, uneconomically small train-
ing institutions.
3.02      The compartmentalization within the Ministry of Agriculture adverse-
ly affects the administration of extension services and the performance of
the technical field staff. In addition, because of limited availability of
transport means, low allowances and a pre-occupation with data collection,
the extension workers spend little time on advising the farmers. Finally,
there is no effective system for keeping extension workers up-to-date on
new developments in agriculture.
3.03      Of the total staff employed by the Ministry of Agriculture, 14,250
are administrative personnel (33%) and 29,520 are technicians. The educa-
tional level of the staff is low; about 59% has completed only primary school
and 20% junior secondary school. Among the technicians, where one would ex-
pect higher qualifications, 73% has an education below the senior secondary
school level. The Ministry recognizes that before it can adequately cope
with the much-needed task of up-grading the skills of the agricultural labor
force, it must up-grade its own staff and also up-grade training institutions
tOt whicih It is responsible.  The latter is necessary in order to improve
tihe quality of agricultural pre-service training, as the majority of the
graduates of these institutions find employment in the Ministry of Agriculture.



-5-
Farmer Training
3.04      Although 310 village education centers to provide non-formal farmer
training are registered in the Ministry of Agriculture records, many of them
are inoperative and the remaining ones are greatly handicapped by a lack of
funds. These centers are maintained by the provincial governments and ad-
ministered by the provincial agricultural services of the Ministry of Agri-
culture. The little training offered is ineffective because of lack of
appropriate facilities, equipment, and funds to hire teaching staff.
Training of the Ministry of Agriculture Staff
3.05      In an effort to up-grade its staff, the Ministry has developed
two types of in-service courses: (a) one to nine weeks courses for high
level officials in the central and regional offices of the Ministry of Agri-
culture; and (b) one to four week courses for field technicians. Much remains
to be done, however, in improving the quality of these programs and in sys-
tematizing their presentation; the short courses for technicians especially
have operated on an ad hoc basis, often in borrowed premises without equip-
ment.  The courses for high level officers were initiated within the last
three years at the Agricultural Training Institute near Bogor, but substantial
equipment and extensive renovation of the buildings are required to satisfy
the training requirements.
Formal Agricultural Education
3.06      The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for a sizeable system
of formal agricultural education, ranging from junior secondary schools to
post-secondary academies, as described below.
3.07      At the junior secondary level (Chart 1) 101 agricultural schools
enrolled 10,000 students and graduated about 2,500 in 1970. These schools
are generally administered by the provincial governors and supervised by
heads of the agricultural services in the provinces. They are supported
chiefly by local governments, operate on extremely limited budgets, and have
very poor facilities; teaching materials and textbooks in most cases are
non-existent. Because the schools lack realistic objectives they are being
converted into training centers for young farmers; their conversion will be
completed within the next 3-5 years.
3.08      At the senior secondary level, 96 (16 national, 51 provincial and
29 private) agricultural schools train middle level technicians primarily
for service in the Ministry of Agriculture. In 1970 total enrollment was
about 11,300 with about 2,800 graduates. These schools offer curricula
divided equally among academic subjects, agricultural subjects and practical
work. Although many courses are specialized, most of the schools operate
with almost no instructional equipment or suitable areas for practical
courses. In addition, the staff of most schools is inadequately trained
and only about 23% of the 1,592 teachers work on a full time basis (Annex 3).
Gradutes from these schools are poorly trained, with virtually no experience
in practical work, and are ill-fitted for the duties of agricultural exten-
sion agents.



-6-
3.09      At the post-secondary level, six academies offering a three year
terminal course had an enrollment of 796 students and graduated 136 tech-
nicians in 1970. Interest in the academies has declined because their
graduates do not enjoy the same status as university students who have
completed a similar three year course. As a result, the government has
decided to phase out the academies except for one which offers specialized
training in marine fishery.
3.10      The Ministry of Agriculture is not responsible for any university
level agricultural program; the 56 faculties of agriculture and related
fields are under the administration of the Ministry of Education. Offer-
ing three and five year programs, they enrolled a total of 5,000 students
and graduated approximately 400 in 1970, an indication of the inefficiency
in student flows at this level. A demand for agricultural graduates exists,
but the academic education they receive is not preparing them sufficiently
for the tasks for which they are employed. Few faculties have proper phys-
ical equipment and land for practical instructional purposes, and their staff
are often poorly trained. In order to up-grade the agricultural faculties,
the government embarked on an improvement program in 1969, through which a
consortium of foreign specialists and staff of the better agricultural facul-
ties in Indonesia was formed to give technical assistance to the poorer
agricultural faculties.
Agricultural Training Requirements
3.11      To promote agricultural development, training programs must be
up-graded and expanded for (a) the agricultural labor force at large and
(b) present and prospective employees of the Ministry of Agriculture.
3.12      For the agricultural labor force, programs must be devised and
disseminated to encourage adoption of improved techniques in farming, animal
husbandry, and inland fish culture. The training needs of farmers are
tremendous, but the existing farmer training centers are not meeting these
needs because of lack of funds and trained staff. This situation is not
likely to change much until an appropriate technical and administrative
infrastructure is developed and staffed within the Ministry of Agriculture
to assess and implement plans for meeting these needs. Especially needed
are trained extension service personnel in agricultural crops, animal
husbandry and fisheries.
3.13      The minimum annual demand for trained technical staff including
extension workers in agriculture, animal husbandry and inland fisheries is
estimated, for the next ten years, to be about 900 (Appendix II). About
550 will be required to meet the demand arising from middle level technical
staff attrition, about 200 for development projects and provincial needs,
and the remainder for other agencies, e.g., agricultural banks, private
estates and the private sector. The expected supply of technical staff from
the national agricultural secondary schools would meet more than 80% of this
demand while the remaining requirements would be met by graduates of the
better provincial. and private schools.  But there exists a qualitative and
qujnntitative imbalance in meeting the manpower requirements for agricultural
technical staff. With current enrollment trends prevailing, an apparent



- 7 -
annual surplus of over 2,000 graduates, most of them of poor quality, of
agricultural senior secondary schools is anticipated after 1972, unless
measures now being planned to coordinate and regulate agricultural training
at this level are implemented. Training will have to be concentrated in
fewer schools that would be better equipped and staffed to provide instruc-
tion in practical courses.
3.14      In forestry, trained workers are required for managing the govern-
ment's supervision of logging operations and for logging operations of pri-
vate firms. The annual average demand for technicians for the supervision
of lozging operations and for forest development, forest marketing, survey-
ing and mapping, is estimated at 250 (Appendix II). As the annual output of
technicians from the only existing forestry training center is expected to
be 80 by the end of 1972 and 150 by 1975, a serious shortfall of trained
forestry personnel will persist unless new training accommodations are pro-
vided.
3.15      In fisheries, trained manpower are needed for local crews for
government and joint ventures and personnel to train local fishermen in
new fishing techniques. The existing training capacity is sufficient to
meet the foreseeable requirements for mates, master fishermen and boatswains,
but improvements are required in the training program to relate better to
employment opportunities.
IV.  DEVELOPTENT STRATEGY FOR AGRICULTURAL TRAINING
4.01      In agreement with the recommendations of the FAO mission (para
1.04), the government has formulated a strategy to meet its agricultural
training development needs. This strategy is divided into two distinct
phases: the first phase consists essentially of measures required (a) to
up-grade, by the most economical and effective means the administrative
and technical personnel of the Ministry of Agriculture and (b) to develop
selected training institutions for which the Ministry is responsible. The
latter is necessary in order to improve the qualifications of the graduates
primarily for subsequent employment in the Ministry. The second phase com-
prises the measures required to effect (a) the reorganization of the exten-
sion service into one integrated service to improve the efficiency and econ-
omy of the organization; and (b) an improvement of the effectiveness of the
system employed by the Ministry to introduce modern techniques to the agri-
cultural labor force. The first phase can now be implemented with assis-
tance by the proposed IDA lending. Implementation of the second phase will
be possible only after further study; the requirements of the second phase
are under review with aid by the Bank's resident staff in Djakarta.
4.02      The first and most important step in the implementation of the
above strategy is the establishment of an Agency at the General Directorate
level within the Ministry of Agriculture (Chart 2) which will be assigned
responsibility for the management and operation of all Ministry of Agricul-
tujre training programs, and be given broad powers to effect the desired



- 8 -
rationalization of these programs.  It will be known as the Agency for Agri-
cultural Education and Training and will be established by Presidential Decree.
Its functions will be specified by a Ministerial Decree. This Agency will
correct the current misallocation of resources in establishing and operating
of agricultural training facilities. It will identify and rank agricultural
training priorities consistent with the national objectives, and in liaison
with the Directorates of the Ministry and other appropriate agencies, it will
develop and implement short and long term agricultural training plans. It
will also establish standards of accreditation for the provincial and private
agricultural schools, in effect supervising and controlling their growth with
a view towards eliminating the current over supply of their graduates (para
3.13). The proposed project would assist this Agency by financing necessary
furniture, equipment, and related technical assistance in agricultural edu-
cation planning and curricula development.
4.03      With regard to the urgent needs for Ministry of Agriculture staff
up-grading (para 3.12), the Ministry intends to bring its middle level tech-
nical staff at least up to the level of graduates of agricultural senior
secondary schools. This will be accomplished in two ways: (a) by replacing
regular attrition and by meeting requirements for new development projects
with graduates of such schools, and (b) by up-grading the Ministry's staff
through in-service training. For the replacement strategy to work, the
agricultural senior secondary schools will first have to be improved: they
will have to be reoriented to offer more practical training related to the
real needs of farmers, and their teaching staff will have to be up-graded.
The government has therefore decided (a) to construct and equip laboratories,
workshops and farm buildings necessary to implement the new curriculum start-
ing with the 14 national agricultural senior secondary schools whose output
would meet manpower demands (para 3.13); and (b) to expand the teacher up-
grading program. The government would be assisted in accomplishing this by
the proposed IDA credit.
4.04      The Ministry had decided to consolidate middle level in-service
training into thirteen selected existing training centers, instead of allow-
ing separate schemes to be run under the Ministry's various Directorates.
The proposed credit would assist in the implementation of this program by
rehabilitating and/or expanding thirteen centers and providing equipment
necessary for their multi-purpose training functions.
4.05      The Agricultural Training Institute at Tjiawi, which has been of-
fering in-service training courses to senior staff of the Ministry of Agri-
culture during the past three years, would be renovated and re-equipped to im-
prove the quality and to broaden the range of courses offered, and to double
the number of senior staff trainees per year. In addition, laboratories and
workshops would be added to enable the institute to offer agricultural second-
ary school teacher training, a program temporarily and inadequately taught
in an agricultural secondary school. Up-grading and expansion of this
institution would also be included in the proposed project.



- 9 -
4.06      To meet the shortfall of technicians and public supervisory person-
nel in the forestry sector (para 3.14), the government intends to expand en-
rollments at the Madiun forestry training center and to construct a new
center in Samarinda, both areas of high forestry activity. Equipment and
construction for needed facilities involved would be included in the project.
The curriculum for the forestry technician training offered in these institu-
tions would be revised to facilitate the graduates' entry into the labor
market.
4.07      In fishery training, no major expansion of training facilities for
technicians is anticipated until the results of ongoing training programs
are evaluated and the needs for personnel for various types of commercial
fishing are better defined. In the meantime, with UNDP assistance, curri-
cula of existing institutions are being improved and short training courses
for local fishermen are being provided (para 3.15).
V. EDUCATION FINANCES
General
5.01      Central government allocations to education and training have in-
creased to Rp. 82 billion, or 16% of the government's total expenditures in
1971/72, as compared to Rp. 41 billion or 13% of the government's total ex-
penditures in the first year of the development plan 1969/70 (Appendix III
and Annex 4). Central government capital expenditures on education and
training amounted to Rp. 9 billion or 6% of the total in 1971/72 and the
recurrent expenditures were Rp. 73 billion or 20% of the total. Of the
recurrent expenditures, about 54% are transfers to regional authorities for
the salaries of the public primary school teachers. There is a chronic
shortage of funds for teaching materials and for maintenance of equipment
and buildings; close to 90% of the recurrent expenditures are spent on
teacher salaries. In most schools, student fees ranging from US$0.2 to
US$2 per student a year are levied and collected by parent/teacher associations.
These funds are marginally supplementing the very low teacher salaries and
complementing the meager supplies of teaching materials. External aid has
increasingly assisted the government in implementing its programs for
educational planning, curriculum development, selected staff improvement and
upgrading of training (Appendix IV). The Ministry of Education and Culture,
the recipient of most of this aid, received assistance of about US$6.8
million in 1970/71, or 13% of its total expenditures that year. Total
private expenditures on education have been estimated by the government in
the order of 20% of the central government's total.
Agricultural Education
5.02      The training system of the Ministry of Agriculture, although size-
able in absolute terms, is small in comparison with the total central govern-
ment's educational program. The Ministry of Agriculture's recurrent training



- 10 -
expenditures were only 0.2% of the central government's recurrent expendi-
tures on education and training; its capital training expenditures were 4%
of the central government's capital expenditures on education and training.
In terms of its own budget, the Ministry of Agriculture allocated 10% of its
recurrent funds and 4% of its capital funds to training. This share of the
budget for training is low. The allocation of resources to the Ministry for
agricultural training has not varied much in the first three years of the
five year plan, as most of the training activities undertaken by the General
Directorates are of a routine nature. Despite that, however, the duplication
of physical facilities is continuing, paradoxically, at a time when suffi-
cient funds are not available to operate existing facilities efficiently.
This situation will be corrected by the Agency for Agricultural Education
and Training (para 4.02) as it will be empowered to coordinate all agri-
cultural training and to ration the limited financial resources to priority
programs.
5.03      The implementation of the first phase of the agricultural education
development strategy would require annual operational funds in the order of
Rp. 560 million by 1975 or about double the funds presently allotted for this
purpose (Appendix III). The funds required cannot be reliably compared,
however, with present recurrent allocations for the same institutions and/or
training programs because of the prevailing practice in Indonesia of including
in the development budget funds of a recurrent nature that cannot be readily
identified from appropriations for capital expenditures. The estimates, in
1971 prices, include an average 150% supplement to the current earnings of
the teaching staff (Rs. 75 million) which accounts for almost a third of the
projected increases in expenditures. However, salary adjustments in this
order of magnitude are likely, by 1975, for all civil servants. The rest
of the additional recurrent expenditures are for teaching materials, main-
tenance of grounds and equipment, upkeep of animals, transportation allowances
and boarding costs for trainees. Disregarding possible savings from the
proposed consolidation of training and the unified budgeting for training
by the Agency the remaining additional recurrent funds required, about Rp.
220 million, would be provided by the central budget authorities from govern-
ment revenues and would be small in comparison with expected government
revenues, which were Rp. 380 billion in 1970 and are expected to grow at
about 13% per annum by 1975/76.
VI. THE PROJECT
General
6.01      The proposed project would provide a) furniture and equipment
for the proposed Agency for Agricultural Education and Training and the Project
Implementation Unit; b) the construction and equipment of 3 new and 27 expanded
institutions listed on the next page; and, c) technical assistance for the
project institutions.



- 11 -
Additional
Number of    Student Places       Accommodation
Item            Grades Institutions Additional Total Boarding Staff Housing
Ex-     New or
panded Relocated
Agricultural In-
Service Training
Centers              /a     13      -         -       710    545         21
Agricultural Train-
ing Institute       /a       1      -        -        120     -          -
Agricultural Senior
Secondary Schools  10-12   12       2        -      3,000  1,650        126 /b
Forestry Technician
Training Center      13      1 /c   1        80       230     80         10
Total                    27      3       80      4,060  2,275        157
/a   Not applicable because training would be offered to Ministry employees
with varying educational backgrounds.
/b   Housing for farm help, 88 housing units, not included.
/c   Equipment only.
Agency for Agricultural Education and Training
6.02      This item would provide the furniture, equipment and technical as-
sistance needed for the operations of the Agency for Agricultural Education
and Training (para. 4.02). The texts of the Presidential and Ministerial
Decrees, establishing the Agency and specifying its functions have been dis-
cussed with the Association during negotiations. This Agency is essential
for (a) the effective management of agricultural education and training in
Indonesia and (b) the administration of the agricultural senior secondary
schools and inservice training centers proposed for assistance in this proj-
ect and all other agricultural and related training institutions. During
negotiations assurances were obtained from the government that it would
appoint the Agency's staff within six months from the date of the Credit
Agreement and that it would complete the transfer to the Agency of the op-
eration and management of all agricultural training institutions, administered
by the Ministry of Agriculture, by April 1, 1975.
Agriculture In-Service Training Centers
6.03      This project item would strengthen thirteen in-service training
centers for upgrading Ministry of Agriculture staff by rehabilitating exist-
ing facilities as required, expanding or converting space to classroom use
and providing for equipment required to carry out their multi-purpose train-
ing functions.



- 12 -
6.04      The centers would have a total training capacity of 710 places
and would be fully residential as they would cater to regional training
needs and are located in outlying farm areas. The capacity of each center
would vary from 30 to 60 places depending on the staff upgrading requirements
of the regions they are to serve. The length of courses would vary from one
to four weeks. Some salary adjustments, commensurate with the training
program successfully completed, would be made for trainees, within the
existing provisions of the civil service salary codes. The Agency for
Agricultural Education and Training (para. 6.02), in consultation with
the various Directorates of the Ministry of Agriculture, would plan for the
use of the centers which are to be operated 10 months a year. The criteria
used for selecting each project center include (a) proximity to the regional
administrative center of the Ministry of Agriculture and to regional centers
of crop research, (b) land availability and suitability and (c) minimum con-
struction and equipment costs.
6.05      The government provided assurances, during negotiations, that all
middle level in-service training for the General Directorates of Agricultural
Services, Animal Husbandry, Plantations (Smallholders), and Fisheries
(Inland) would be centralized in these thirteen centers; this would ensure
more efficient utilization of available resources and permit more effective
control of the quality of the training programs.
Agricultural Training Institute
6.06      This project item would consist of renovating and equipping a
section of the Agricultural Training Institute at Tjiawi to improve exist-
ing academic accommodations and boarding facilities for a total of 120
trainees. The Institute would offer an increased number of in-service
training courses for the Ministry of Agriculture's high level manpower and
a teacher training program to continue the upgrading of agricultural teach-
ers (para. 4.05).
6.07      The in-service training program for the Ministry's high level man-
power would provide training to approximately 400 persons per year in ad hoc
courses of one to three months duration, in such fields as management and
administration, general agriculture, accountancy, and project analysis. This
would constitute almost a doubling of present in-service training provision
for the Ministry of Agriculture senior staff.
6.08      The current agricultural teacher training program, presently of-
fered temporarily in a secondary school, would be continued and upgraded to
include agricultural technology and more modern science. The program would
be transferred to the Institute upon completion of laboratories and workshops.
By 1974, a total of 40 in-service training centers' staff and 170 full-time
agricultural senior secondary school teachers will have received training
in the existing program and will then be eligible for further instruction
in the upgraded program proposed in the project. Because teachers from
national, provincial and private agricultural senior secondary schools
participate in this program, assurances were obtained from the government



- 13 -
during negotiations that, beginning in 1972, priority for teacher upgrading
would be given to the full-time teaching staff of the project in-service
training centers and of the national agricultural senior secondary schools so
that their training would be completed by the time the new facilities of
the project institutions become operational. Upon completion of the above
program, the staff of selected provincial and private agricultural secondary
schools would again be eligible for such training.
Agricultural Senior Secondary Schools
6.09      This project item would provide training facilities and laboratory,
workshop and farm equipment for twelve national agricultural senior secondary
schools. This item, although not adding student places, would permit the
application of a new practically oriented curriculum by focusing on the
rehabilitation and conversion of existing space into laboratories and work-
shop. The IDA credit would also finance the relocation and equipping of
another two schools - presently unsuitably located in central urban areas -
which would permit field work for their students. In full operation, total
enrollment of the fourteen national agricultural senior secondary schools would
be 3,000 and the annual graduates about 900.
6.10      A new curriculum for the agricultural senior secondary schools,
designed to be related to the needs of farmers, has been developed by the
government with the aid of IDA preparation/appraisal mission. The curri-
culum includes courses in agronomy, animal husbandry and inland fishery
with emphasis on laboratory and field work. Each school would have suffi-
cient farm land for use, about 85 ha, to permit adequate participation by
students in farming. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
government that the new curriculum would be introduced as soon as the new
facilities and equipment in the project institutions become operational.
6.11      Eleven of the schools would have an enrollment of 240 students
each, while the remaining three, serving less densely populated areas, would
have 120 students each. As all schools would be located in and serve large
outlying areas, boarding capacity would be 75% of enrollment for the eleven
larger schools and 100% for the rest. At present, many of these schools are
under-utilized because insufficient boarding facilities prohibit rural youth
in distant areas from attending.
Forestry Technician Training Center
6.12      This item consists of construction and equipment for a new 80
place forestry technician training center at Samarinda and equipment for
another with a capacity of 150, now under construction at Madiun.  These
post-secondary institutions, when fully operational, will have a combined
enrollment of about 230 students and about an equal number of graduates.
Both institutions will be located in areas of high forestry activity.
6.13      A new curriculum oriented to preparing technicians for specific
jobs in the private and public forestry activities has been prepared by
the government with the aid of IDA preparation/appraisal mission. This



- 14 -
curriculum would be more fully developed with the assistance of a forestry
specialist, provided by the technical assistance in the project. During
negotiations, the government provided assurances that the new curriculum
would be introduced in the project institutions as soon as the new facili-
ties became operational.
6.14      Teaching Staff Development:  The project institutions would have
a resident staff composed as follows: three for the in-service training
centers; five for the Training Institute; 13 for the larger agricultural
senior secondary schools and eight for the smaller ones; and five for the
new forestry training center. Any additional staff required to teach
specialized courses would be employed on a part-time basis from nearby
university faculties and the regional senior staff of the Ministry of
Agriculture, as required. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
from the government that after 1974 the qualifications of new teaching
staff in the in-service training centers, the Training Institute, national
agricultural secondary schools, and the forestry training centers would
be a university degree in agriculture and a course in pedagogy. Also,
assurances were obtained from the government that salary supplements would
be provided to ensure the full time availability of the teaching staff of
the project institutions when the new facilities become operational.
Technical Assistance
6.15      The project would provide for eight specialists for a combined
total of 24 man years to assist the Agency for Agricultural Education and
Training in:
(a)  planning and coordinating all national agricultural education
and training activities and supervising of all other such
activities, provincial and private (para 6.02);
(b)  organizing and assisting in the initial operation of the
in-service training centers (para 6.04);
(c)  improving the agricultural teacher training program by
including agricultural technology and more modern science
(para 6.08);
(d)  introducing the new curriculum in the agricultural senior
secondary schools (para 6.10); and
(e)  developing the curriculum for the forestry training center
and assisting in its initial operation (para 6.13).
During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the government that
(i) all specialists would be acceptable to the Association and would be
employed on terms and conditions agreed with the Association; and (ii) the
counterparts to the specialists would be appointed in consultation with the
Association.



- 15 -
6.16      In addition, the project would include a total of 28 man years of
fellowships. Of these, eight man years would be for overseas training of
selected local staff who, upon their return, would be qualified to become
counterparts to the technical assistance specialists (para 6.15). The local
staff would receive training in educational planning, management and organi-
zation of agricultural schools and centers, and the development and intro-
duction of new agricultural curricula. The remaining 20 man years of
fellowships would be for training and orientation of selected staff of the
project institutions (Appendix V, page 3). The fellowship programs, accepta-
ble to the Association, would be worked out by the Agency for Agricultural
Education and Training in consultation with the technical assistance specialists.
Project Cost
6.17      The estimated cost and foreign exchange component of the various
parts of the project are summarized below:
Rupiah (Millions)       US$   (Millions)    % of
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Total
Civil Works, Furniture
and Equipment
1.   Agricultural
In-service Training
Centers                   344    484    828   0.83    1.17   2.00   20%
2.   Agricultural Post
Secondary Institutions   108    178    286   0.26    0.43   0.69    7%
3.   Agricultural Senior
Secondary Schools       1,130  1,012  2,142   2.72    2.45   5.17   53%
1,582  1,674  3,256   3.81    4.05   7.86   80%
Services
1.   Project Adminis-
tration and Agency
for Agricultural
Training                 78      23    101   0.19    0.05   0.24    2%
2.   Professional
Services                214      58    272    0.52   0.14   0.66    7%
3.   Technical Assistance        87    335    422    0.21   0.81   1.02   11%
Sub-Total             1,961  2,090  4,051    4.73   5.05   9.78  100%
Contingencies
Physical (11%)            224    215    439    0.54   0.52   1.06    -
Price (15%)               335    282    617    0.81   0.68   1.49    -
TOTAL PROJECT COST            2 520  2,587  5 107    6.08   6.25  12.33    -



- 16 -
6.18      Costs.    The distribution of cost by category of expenditure is
given in Annex 5. Academic and communal facilities account for 25% of the
project cost; boarding 11%; staff housing 11%; equipment and furniture 24z;
teclinical assistance and project administration 13%; and professional serv-
ices and site development 16%. Construction costs are based on revised 1970
costs established by the government for the various geographic locations.
All costs based on US$ have been adjusted, as required, to reflect the rela-
tive changes in the values of international currencies. The costs of the
institutions compare well with similar Bank/IDA financed institutions else-
where (Annex 6).
6.19      Use Factors.  The use factors of classrooms will be in an accept-
able range. The use factors of practical rooms will be 75%-82% for the
larger agricultural senior secondary schools but will be only 50%-60% for
the smaller schools (Annex 7). These smaller schools are located in remote,
isolated and thinly populated regions (West Irian, Ambon, and S. Kalimantan)
and satisfy regional needs for agricultural technical personnel, which cannot
be expected to be met through transfers of graduates of similar schools in
other regions. The provision of a combined total of two laboratories and six
workshops is more economical than sending students from these areas to the
nearest agricultural secondary schools 500 to 1100 miles away.
6.20      Contingencies.  The project cost would include a physical contin-
gency element equal to 15% for civil works and 10% for furniture and equip-
ment. These allowances are slightly higher than usual because of: (i) the
high proportion of extensions to existing institutions and (ii) lack of
detailed information on some existing accommodations. Contingencies would
represent 26% of the total project cost: 11% would be for physical addi-
tions and unforeseen events and 15% for price increases (Annex 8). With
contingencies included in the project cost, they would represent 21% of the
total.
6.21      Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component of
US$6.3 million equivalent, representing 51% of the total project costs, has
been calculated as follows: (i) civil works 42%; (ii) professional services
20%; (iii) furniture 17%; (iv) technical assistance 75%; (v) fellowships
100%; (vi) project administration 19% and (vii) equipment 90%.
6.22      IDA Credit.  An IDA Credit of US$6.3 million equivalent would
cover about 51% of the estimated cost of US$12.3 million and would finance
all foreign exchange expenditures.
6.23      Recurrent Costs.  The project institutions would be operational
by 1975. Their proper utilization and maintenance would increase expendi-
tures on agricultural education and training by about Rp. 300 million, in-
cluding staff salary supplements (para. 5.03 and Appendix III). The govern-
ment, which assigns a high priority to the rationalization and development
of agricultural training, is prepared to provide the required funds.



- 17 -
VII. IMPLEMENTATION
7.01      Administration.  A project unit would be established within the
Ministry of Agriculture and would be responsible for: (i) supervision of
the project implementation, (ii) coordination with the ministries and other
parties involved in the project, and (iii) liaison with the Association.
The unit would include, on a full-time basis, a project director, who would
report to the Executive Secretary of the Agency for Agricultural Education
and Training. It will also include a project architect, an accountant, and
a procurement officer. The nomination of the project director and architect
would be in consultation with the Association. The establishment of the
project unit and the appointment of the project director and project archi-
tect would be a condition of effectiveness of the credit. During negotia-
tions, the government provided assurances that (i) the procurement officer
and accountant would be appointed according to a timetable agreeable to the
Association and (ii) the project unit would be provided with adequate facil-
ities and supporting staff. For project implementation, the following costs
for the project unit would be included in the total project cost: (i) sal-
aries, (ii) local transportation costs for supervision and related subsist-
ence costs, and (iii) furniture and equipment costs. The foreign exchange
cost of furniture and equipment for the project unit would be financed by
the credit. All other costs would be borne by the government.
7.02      Professional Services.  For the planning and supervision of the
construction of project institutions, the services of the Ministry of Public
Works and local consulting firms would be utilized. Consulting firms, accept-
able to the Association, would be employed on terms and conditions agreeable
to the Association.
7.03      Sites.  Of the 30 project institutions, 27 are institutions to
be converted, upgraded and/or expanded on existing sites; the three remain-
ing sites have been selected. The provincial governments or other government
agencies hold title to land and buildings which will be used in the construc-
tion and expansion of all project institutions. During negotiations, assur-
ances were obtained from the government that it will obtain user rights,
acceptable to the Association, of all these land and buildings of project
institutions prior to the scheduled start of construction. Land and exist-
ing facilities would be provided without cost to the project.
7.04      Procurement.  The project institutions are dispersed over a large
area and in most instances construction works involved are small and consist
of relatively minor extensions. It is agreed, therefore, that full inter-
national competitive bidding procedures would be used only for the larger
institutions whose construction costs are estimated to exceed US$200,000.
For smaller construction works international advertisement would not be re-
quired, but interested foreign firms would be permitted to participate in
the bidding. For all works, maximum use of local labor intensive construc-
tion technology is expected. Procedures for prequalification of civil works
contractors would be acceptable to the Association. All contracts for the



- 18 -
supply of furniture and equipment would be awarded under procedtures consist-
ent with the Association's guidelines on international competitive bidding.
Detailed furniture and equipment lists would be prepared during the design
stages of project implementation and would be reviewed by the Association
prior to procurement. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to
form sizeable bid packages and to permit bulk procurement. Domestic manu-
facturers who add substantial domestic value would be accorded a margin of
preference equal. to the existing rate of customs duty applicable to compet-
ing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. prices, whichever is lower.
7.05      Disbursements. The Association would disburse (i) the c.i.f. cost
of directly imported goods, 100% foreign cost of specialists' services, fel-
lowships, and consultants' services and (ii) an agreed percentage of the cost
of civil works and furniture. Construction is expected to be completed in
about 3 years after the signing of the Credit Agreement (Annex 9). The esti-
mated schedule of disbursement is shown in Annex 10.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      During negotiations, agreement has been reached with the govern-
ment regarding:
(a)  the timetable for the appointment of the staff of the
Agency for Agricultural Education and Training, the
operation of the Agency and the transfer of the agri-
cultural educational and training institutions to its
jurisdiction (paras 6.02 and 6.05);
(b)  the agricultural teacher upgrading courses and staff
qualifications (paras 6.08 and 6.14); measures to
retain the teachers at the project institutions on a
full-time basis (para 6.14); the introducti,on of new
curricula in the project institutions (paras 6.10 and
6.13); the recruitment of specialists and the organization
of fellowship programs (paras 6.15 and 6.16);
(c)  the establishment of a project unit within the Agency for
Agricultural Education and Training to be responsible for
the overall supervision of the project (para 7.01).
8.02      A condition of the effectiveness of the credit would be the estab-
lishment of the project unit and the appointment of the project director and
project architect on a full-time basis (para 7.01).
8.03      The proposed project is suitable as a basis for an IDA Credit of
US$6.3 million to the Government of Indonesia, representing about 51% of the
total estimated project cost.



APPENDIX I
The Education System
General
1.        There is no effective centralized control of education in Indonesia.
The responsibility for overall planning of the educational system, curriculum
development and administration of secondary schools (without vocational ori-
entation) and curriculum development of primary schools rests with the
Ministry of Education. The Ministry of Religion runs a very large number of
Islamic schools at the primary and secondary levels and other ministries
organize and administer their own education/training programmes at secondary
and post-secondary levels. The provincial governments administer the public
primary schools (Chart 3). Private schools can easily be established, often
using the facilities and staff of public schools.
2.        At the primary level, enrollments in recent years have grown by
about 4.5% p.a. and in 1970 were estimated at 13.4 million or 71% of the age
group 7-12 (Annex 11 and Chart 4). Although as many as 85% of the children
receive two years of primary education, less than half of them finish grade
six. The increases in enrollments have not been accompanied by adequate in-
creases in teacher supply because of the freeze in public hiring. Of the
existing teachers, only one fourth are considered qualified. While reliable
data on private school enrollments are lacking, it is estimated that 20% of
the primary school children are enrolled in private schools.
3.        At the secondary level, total 1970 enrollment was about 2.04
million, 13% of the age group 13-18; of those, 26% were following programs
in fields other than general education. Students have options to follow
general, vocational, technical or agricultural programs at the junior
secondary level and, in addition, teacher training at the senior secondary
level. Most schools are without sufficient equipment, books and teaching
materials. About 35% of the junior secondary and at least 40% of the senior
secondary students are enrolled in private schools.
4.        At the higher level, total enrollment is 127,000 of which 28,000
are in teacher training, 37,000 in science facilities and the remaining in
arts and humanities.
Agricultural Education and Training*
Agricultural Junior Secondary Schools
5.        The agricultural junior secondary schools are under the juris-
diction of the Ministry of Agriculture and are generally administered by
the provincial governors and supervised by the heads of the agricultural
services in the provinces.
*    This section is mainly abstracted from the Draft Report of the Indonesia
Survey Mission on Agricultural Education and Training, FAO, Rome, April
1971.



APPENDIX I
Page 2
6.        When these schools were established, the original objective was
to give vocational training to students for future farming. However, few
graduates entered farming because the students, who were normally 13 to 15
years old, were too young for vocational education and preferred to con-
tinue their education. These schools actually provide an agriculturally
oriented general education to pupils whose real objective is to enter the
agricultural senior secondary schools.
7.        The provincial governors are discontinuing the agricultural junior
secondary schools and converting them into training centers for young farmers.
In Java where the bulk of these schools were concentrated, only 55 remain,
all of them in West Java. None are left in East and Central Java. A similar
situation exists in West Sumatra where the agricultural junior secondary
schools are being discontinued. In due time it is expected that none will
be left.
8.        In addition, there are eleven agricultural junior secondary schools
in Indonesia, which are administered by the Ministry of Education. These
schools are called Junior High Schools of Agricultural Technology. The
objectives of these schools are ill-defined and no definite plans had been
made for their future.
Agricultural Senior Secondary Schools
9.        These schools include 86 specializing in agronomy, 4 in animal
husbandry, 3 in plantation crops, 2 in fishery and 1 in forestry. The main
objective of these schools is to train prospective middle level technicians
for the different agricultural services of the Ministry of Agriculture. As
a consequence, each of the five services has its own type of school, although
the same basic curriculum is followed.
10.       The first agricultural school was established in 1903 by the Dutch
colonial government mainly to provide assistant advisers to estate planta-
tations personnel. It remained the only agricultural school until Indonesia
won its independence in 1945. After independence, the Ministry of Agricul-
ture was reorganized, substantially spreading its services to the provinces.
This created a great demand for trained people in agriculture.
11.       To meet this demand, the Ministry of Agriculture, the provincial
governments and the private sector, working independently of each other,
progressively established agricultural senior secondary schools. At the
time of the FAO survey, which started in October 1970, there were 96 schools,
16 of which were established and are controlled by the state, 51 by pro-
vincial governments and 29 by the private sector.
12.       Only 70% of the schools had the complete number of grades (1st,
2nd and 3rd), the rest having been newly established. All the schools,
taken together, had a total enrollment of 11,302 in 1971. By the end of
1972, when all of the schools will have become fully operational, it is
estimated that they would have an output of 3,000.



APPENDIX I
Page 3
13.       Twenty-three percent of the teachers in the agricultural senior
secondary schools are full-time teachers. The rest are employed on a
part-time basis. This gives an average of four full-time and 13 part-time
teachers per school. Fifty-seven percent of all the teachers have a uni-
versity education. The rest (43%) are only senior secondary school graduates
and many of them are products of the existing agricultural senior secondary
schools.
14.       Considering that the average number of students per school was
only 120, the schools had enough teachers. However, none of the teachers
had pre-service training in agricultural education. Only 64, or four per-
cent of the total number of teachers, attended a 5-6 month in-service train-
ing course on the teaching of agriculture.
15.       The curricula of the schools have now been revised and are basically
sound, taking into account the main objective of training middle level
technicians for the Ministry of Agriculture. The proportion of general edu-
cation to technical courses (40-60) and that of theory and practice is
satisfactory in Agriculture and Sciences (50-50). Still some improvement
is required, however, on the number and scope of the subjects in the tech-
nical aspects of the curricula.
16.       Each curriculum offers no less than 15 required technical subjects
which are treated as separate sciences. This makes it difficult for the
students to integrate and to relate this knowledge with the efficient and
effective production of crops, livestock, fisheries or forestry, as the case
might be. A regrouping and reorientation of subjects is necessary to make
the courses more relevant to the desired goals.
17.       Many of the agricultural senior secondary schools operate with
practically no instructional facilities or equipment. The schools, in
general, have enough classroom space. They are, however, short of office,
laboratory and class demonstration space and only a very limited number
have auditoriums where the student body as one group could meet when the
need arose. Most are deficient in farm buildings and none of them has a
workshop, nursery or animal sheds. An insignificant number of schools have
provision for indoor class demonstration in farming practices and skills.
18.       Most provincial and private schools do not provide housing for
their staff and students, since a great majority of their teachers work only
part of the time and their students come from the surroundings of the commu-
nity. Some housing facilities are, however, provided by the national schools
as they have more full-time teachers than the provincial and private schools
and their catchment area is much greater. Free housing forms an important
part of the payment received by Indonesian employees, both private and public.



APPENDIX I
Page 4
19.       Besides the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Education also
operates 23 "Senior Secondary School of Agricultural Technology" which are
similar to the agricultural senior secondary schools of the Ministry of Agri-
culture. However, the objective behind the establishment of these schools
is ill-defined and they can only be considered as agriculture-oriented general
secondary schools. There are no figures available on the total enrollment
of these schools.
Agricultural Academies
20.       There are six academies, all located in Java.  These academies
were established within the last ten years: three by private foundations,
two by provincial governments and one by the central government. Their
specialization is: two in agriculture (agronomy), two in marine fishery,
one in forestry and one in plantation crops.
21.       The agricultural academies offer a three-year terminal course,
following agricultural senior secondary school, primarily for the pre-
service training of high level agricultural technicians. These technicians
are intended for employment in agricultural research institutes, agricultur-
al experimental stations, agricultural senior secondary schools (as teachers)
and in the agricultural services (as extension supervisors and subject-
matter specialists), mostly under the Ministry of Agriculture.
22.       The level of training offered by the academies is regarded by the
government as equivalent to three years of a university education, but
academy students have become increasingly disenchanted because they do not
enjoy the same status as students who have completed three years at the
university, and with whom they have to compete for employment. As a result,
the government has decided to phase out the academies, except for one which
offers very specialized training in marine fishery.
Higher Agricultural Education
23.       There are 41 government-operated universities and institutes, and
these have the following agricultural faculties:
Faculties
22       -     Agriculture
4       -     Veterinary Medicine
14       -     Animal Husbandary
9       -     Forestry
2       -     Agricultural Engineering
5       -     Fisheries
56
Administratively, all higher education is under the General Directorate of
Higher Education of the Ministry of Education.



APPENDIX I
Page 5
24.       There are two groupings of agricultural faculties:  the first,
composed of the Agricultural Institute in Bogor and the complex of Gadjah
Mada in Jogjakarta are functioning quite well and have been benefitting, in
recent years, from international assistance from US AID and a US AID spon-
sored organization of several U.S. universities that provide technical as-
sistance to foreign universities. The second group is composed of the
remaining faculties, and it suffers from deficiencies in the administrative
structure, curricula, faculty and student policies as well as in facilities
and accommodations. Their operation is quite inefficient as indicated
by the very few students who graduate every year when compared with annual
intake.
25.       A consortium has been formed that combines technical assistance ex-
perts from foreign agricultural faculties with the two Indonesian faculties
in the first group above, in order to up-grade the quality of the other
agricultural faculties.
Informal Training
Farmer Training
26.       Farmer training is conducted by the agricultural development
services through normal extension programs, especially with farmer leaders
and appointed village officials responsible for agricultural development.
Occasionally courses are offered for farmers' wives.
27.       Data from the Ministry of Agriculture covering the period 1960-70
show the type and scope of activities performed by the agriculture extension
service as follows:
(i)  Rice production demonstration       2,660 plots
(ii) Flip chart presentation on rice
production                          8,100 flip charts produced
(iii)  Radio broadcast                        45 radio stations serving
300 groups
(iv)  Distribution of extension          60,070 publications on 179
pamphlets                                 subjects
(v)  Distribution of quarterly               4 issues - 4,000 copies
agricultural magazine                     each
(vi)  Crop production competition        Rp. 200,000 spent for awards
Subjects offered in these centers include inland fishery, rice production
and animal husbandry for farmers, and have economics, health, science,
sewing, food technology and cooking for farmers' wives.



APPENDIX I
Page 6
Youth Training
28.       Farmer training is provided for youth in youth training centers;
the main objective is to train prospective farm leaders who can help pro-
mote agricultural development in the villages where they, themselves, are
farming.
29.       Records at the Ministry of Agriculture show that there are 36 of
these centers in Indonesia, administered by the provincial governments. It
is doubtful, however, whether all of these centers are functioning.
30.       Trainees in operating centers are selected and given full fi-
nancial support by their respective provincial governments throughout the
training period. The requirements for admission are as follows:
i)   at least 6 years of education;
ii)   17-25 years old;
iii)   experience in farming;
iv) parents must have farm land.
31.       The curriculum includes various subjects in agronomy, animal
husbandry and farm management. In addition, extension techniques are
offered to prepare the trainees for their future role as farm leaders.
Half of their daily school hours are spent in theoretical lessons and
the other half in field practice. The duration of the training course
is one year.
32.       As in the case of other training centers in Indonesia, these
too, suffer from lack of funds which prevents continuous and systematic
operation. They are greatly in need of teaching materials, farm equipment
and supplies. Field practice is confined to whatever farm enterprise the
center can afford to undertake, which makes the farm experience of the
trainees very limited. The trainees could gain more practical and broader
farming experiences on their own farms under supervision.
Training within the Ministry of Agriculture
33.       The Ministry of Agriculture has a total of about 43,770 personnel
stationed all over the country. Approximately 14,250 or 33% were adminis-
trative personnel and 29,520 were technicians. Of the technicians, 21,680
or 73% had education below the senior high school level.
34.       The existence of such a large number of unqualified technicians
in the agricultural services can be traced back to 1945, when the Ministry
of Agriculture started expanding its agricultural services. At that time



APPENDIX I
Page 7
only one agricultural senior secondary school existed and therefore trained
manpower in agriculture was very scarce. Even in 1955 when seven agri-
cultural senior secondary schools were beginning to turn out graduates, there
still were not enough to meet the demand. As a consequence, many with only
primary education were hired as middle level technicians.
35.       As agriculture in the country advanced, higher standards of pro-
duction were set, which made necessary a higher quality of agricultural
technology. Most of the technicians of the Ministry of Agriculture lacked
that competence, but after being employed for several years they could not
be dismissed and replaced. In-service training, therefore was begun as
a means of upgrading those technicians.
36.       Two general types of in-service training courses have been
developed: (a) those for high level officials of the central and regional
offices of the Ministry of Agriculture with each course lasting from three
to six months, and (b) those for field technicians including similar subject
matter, but of shorter duration, usually ranging from one to four weeks. A
certificate attesting to satisfactory completion was issued in the first
type.
37.       The training of high level officials of the Ministry of Agricul-
ture is given at the Institute of Training and Upgrading. Data are avail-
able for the Directorate of Agricultural Services and they showed that some
563 officials from all over Indonesia successfully completed courses in
1969-70, from that one Directorate alone.
38.       For field technicians (middle and lower level) in the provinces
outside Java, 17 courses were offered in the same period and attended by
3,302 technicians. In the provinces of Java, however, only 7 of these
courses were offered and attended by 2,795 technicians.
39.       It is difficult to determine the actual number of agricultural
training centers where the above training is taking place, because many of
the above courses are conducted on an ad hoc basis, in borrowed rooms or
buildings, but are referred to as training centers. Only very few provinces
have established training centers for officials of the agricultural services
with their own building facilities. It is common for a province to have one
or more of these courses during a given year and to discontinue them for
indefinite periods thereafter. This situation arises because the operation
of a training center largely depends upon two factors:
i)   the availability of funds to pay the teachers and to support
the trainees during the training;
ii)   the availability of those teachers at a given time.



APPENDIX I
Page 8
Training in the Plantation State Enterprises
40.       Only approximate figures are available for training within the
state enterprises (plantations, fisheries, forestry, fertilizer distri-
bution and mechanization). This sector employs about 15,000 skilled and
technical personnel, of which some 11,000 are primary school graduates,
about 3,800 are secondary school graduates, and approximately 200 have
higher education. Of the 3,800 secondary school graduates, some 3,000
are employed as middle level technicians.
41.       Training for the high level manpower of the plantation state
enterprises is carried out at the Jogjakarta Plantation Institute. The
Institute has an excellent new building and has, besides training the
Plantation Enterprise personnel, been carrying out research on plantation
crops. The trainees are generally agricultural senior secondary school
graduates, but recently employees of private enterprises have also been
admitted.  General courses of one-month duration and upgrading and special
management courses, compulsory for promotion for employees on state planta-
tions, are being given. Special courses are also provided in accountancy,
laboratory research and administration.
Training in Forestry
42.       The General Directorate of Forestry is responsible for the organi-
zation and administration of forestry training, except for the forestry
university faculties which are under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Education.
43.       At the higher level there are about 1,000 university forestry
students enrolled in nine faculties of forestry. Only two of the faculties
are equipped to train forestry engineers and the lack of laboratory facili-
ties, equipment for field practice and qualified teachers have forced the
universities in the outer islands to send their students in Java for at
least the final two years of the course. There also exists one provincial
Academy of Forestry Sciences which graduated 23 trainees in 1971.
44.       At the secondary level, two lower forestry senior secondary
schools have been converted, one to an inservice training center and the
other into both a technician training center and an in-service training
center. Technician training, which requires one year of post secondary
training is given in forest management, engineering and surveying and in
planning. There also exist two provincial forestry senior secondary schools
which offer training for forest rangers.



APPENDIX I
Page 9
45.       Finally, there are seven forest police schools (3 owned and operated
by the Central Government and 4 by the Provicial Governments). Most of the
students of these schools have been with the Forest Service and are candidates
for the post of Forest Police Resort Chiefs. The training offered in these
schools has a very narrow objective and the government is thinking of con-
verting these schools into forestry junior secondary schools that would
provide specialized technical courses for low level foresters.
Training in Fisheries
46.       Training in Fisheries is organized and administered by the General
Directorate of Fisheries, except for the university faculties which are under
the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Education.
47.       At the higher level, there exist five fisheries university faculties
but no information is available as to their enrollment, annual intakes and
graouates. An Academy of Fisheries has been established in Djakarta. It
admits senior secondary school graduates for a three year training course.
The annual intake is 50. About half of the enrollment and graduates study
fishing techniques and the other half study fish processing technology. The
training offered in the Academy is mostly theoretical due to lack of appro-
priate equipment for practical training. With UNDP assistance, the curricula
of the Academy would be reviewed and revised and equipment would be modernized
in order to relate training better to the developing fishery industry's need.
48.       At the secondary level, one of the three fisheries senior secondary
schools is providing training in inland fisheries. In 1970 it had an enroll-
ment of 85 students.  Until recently, all graduates of this school were
placed by the government at the district level to supervise inland fishing
operations and to give advice to farmers on inland fish maintenance and
culture. As most of the positions have now been filled, the government is
attempting to relate the training curriculum of the school to the private
industry's needs, so that the graduates of this school would find employment
with the private sector.
49.       The other two fisheries senior secondary schools are for marine
fisheries training and enroll a total of 200 students. Their graduates,
mostly mates, are employed by state and private ventures. With UNDP as-
sitance, one of the schools will also start offering a fishermens' training
course of 2-3 months in duration to about 150 local fishermen per year.
The purpose of this course is to provide adequately trained manpower to meet
the demand for fishermen of the joint ventures.
50.       Finally, three formerly fisheries junior secondary schools have
been converted to fishermen training centers where brief courses are being
offered. The courses are designed a) to qualify fishermen for work on vessels
of joint venture firms and b) to increase the productivity of local fisher-
men by teaching them new fishing techniques.






APPENDIX II
Manpower and Training Requirements
1.        The estimates of requirements for graduates of the agricultural
senior secondary schools and for the in-service training of the Ministry of
Agriculture personnel are based on data gathered by two successive FAQ
missions to Indonesia. 1/ These missions surveyed Indonesia's agricultural
education and training system and collected information on the composition
and educational background of the Ministry of Agriculture personnel.
2.        Requirements for Agricultural Secondary School Graduates.  The esti-
mates of these requirements are based on a) the attrition of Ministry of
Agriculture middle level technical staff (of the central and local govern-
ments) that is replaceable by graduates of the agricultural senior secondary
schools and b) the absorption of new technical staff by the public and private
sectors. The large majority of the graduates of the agricultural senior
secondary schools is employed by two Directorates in the Ministry of Agri-
culture, those of Agricultural Services and Animal Husbandry. The middle
level technical staff of these Directorates was estimated at about 10,000 in
early 1971, of whom at least one fourth had only primary education. Because
this latter segment of the staff lacks the general background required to
accomplish effectively assigned job tasks and has limited potential for
development through in-service training, the Ministry's policy is to reduce
it to a negligible proportion of the total staff as fast as it is financially
feasible. As a result, two different assumptions have been used in calcula-
ting the manpower requirements of the above two Directorates over the next
ten years. First, the attrition rate applied on the middle level technical
staff that has had some or a complete secondary education is 2.7% p.a. (This
attrition rate is not applied to the new staff to be hired after 1971, in-
cluding about 800 BIMAS extension workers, to be hired by 1973, for whom
funds have already been approved by the government). Second, it has been
assumed that by the end of the next ten year period the Ministry will have
replaced the great majority of its technical staff that has had only primary
education. This appears to be a feasible target because of the high age
distribution of this segment of the staff. Under the first assumption the
requirements for graduates of the agricultural senior secondary schools are
about 220 p.a. and under the second assumption an additional 250 p.a.
3.        Graduates of the agricultural secondary schools are also employed
within the Ministry by the General Secretariat and Directorate of Plantations
(Small Holders and State Enterprises). The FAO survey estimated the middle
technical staff of these two subdivisions of the Ministry at about 3,500.
The attrition of this staff that could be met by the graduates of the project
institutions is estimated at about 70 p.a. while the remainder of the attri-
tion would be met by graduates of general secondary schools.
1/ FAO, "Report of the Indonesia Survey Mission of Agricultural Education
and Training (below university level)", Two Volumes, September 1971.



APPENDIX II
Page 2
4.        The demand for additional technical staff, over and above attrition
and replacement requirements, is difficult to estimate. Some information has
been gathered on the absorption of graduates of agricultural senior secondary
schools by the private sector. But often, in Indonesia like in other develop-
ing nations, the quality of training received by individuals determines the
demand for their services. It is expected that the project institutions will
provide the type of training that would lead to the creation of a strong
demand for their graduates as soon as the improved quality of training is
recognized. The following estimates of demand, therefore, based on adjusted
current trends and projects in the pipeline, represent minimum requirements
for graduates of the agricultural senior secondary schools. They also do not
include any allowance for the manpower provision of a BIMAS type project for
animal husbandry, presently being discussed, which would create a demand for
about 2,000 additional middle level technical staff. (IDA agricultural
projects often include provision for training of the staff required for the
successful operation of the projects.)
5.        The additional demand for graduates of agricultural senior secondary
schools is estimated as follows:
(a) demand for agricultural technical staff by the provinces:
100-150 per annum. Currently, about two-thirds of the Ministry's staff is
appointed by the provincial governments and paid through provincial budget
provisions;
(b) absorption by agricultural development projects is expected to
average about 50-100 per annum. (This estimate excludes the on-going expan-
sion by 800 extension workers of rice production intensification and accel-
eration programs);
(c) demand by public institutions, such as the Agricultural Bank,
private estates and the private sector at large: 100-150 per annum.
Requirements for In-Service Training
6.        The requirements for upgrading of the Ministry of Agriculture
middle level staff are based on information, gathered by the FAO mission, on
the educational background of the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and
provincial agricultural and related services in each of the 26 provinces of
Indonesia. In order to improve the agricultural services' productivity the
government intends to upgrade those with some or a complete secondary educa-
tion to a level that would be almost equivalent to the background the new
graduates of the agricultural senior secondary schools would have. As the
staff have practical experience, it was determined by the Government and
the preparation/appraisal missions that a systematic six month training pro-
gram (not necessarily continuous) for those who have had only junior secondary
education and a program of two months duration for those with senior secondary
education would be sufficient to accomplish the Ministry's targets for its



APPENDIX II
Page 3
staff upgrading. Accordingly, the 26 provinces were aggregated in 10 groups,
each representing the region for which the in-service training centers would
implement the regional program of upgrading. On the basis of the educational
background of the staff, the training requirements for each region were
established and are as follows:
Required In-Service                      Required In-Service
Region              Training               Region            Training
Man/Months                               Man/Months
Atjeh                       600                 C. Java               6,250
N. Sumatra                  800                 E. Java               3,700
W. Sumarta                1,800                 W. Nusateggara        1,800
S. Sumatra                1,400                 S. Sulawesi           2,150
W. Java                   4,300                  S. Kalimantan        1,750
7.        The above estimates, made also for the purpose of providing guide-
lines for the capacity of the project in-service training institutions, ex-
clude the in-service training requirements for the Directorate of Fisheries-
Marine, (the staff of which will be trained in more appropriate existing
training centers); Plantations-State Enterprises (which provide their own
in-service training programs); and, Forestry, which organizes training pro-
grams in three areas of high forestry economic activity, where most of its
staff is located.
Manpower Requirements for Forestry Technicians
8.        The requirements for forestry technicians include personnel for
surveying and mapping, road construction, log pond management, yarding,
forest exploitation and development and nature protection and conservation.
Except for the Ministry of Agriculture - Directorate of Forestry and PERHUTANI,
the state forest enterprise, no much information exists on the composition of
manpower employed in the fast growing operations of the private sector. A
survey carried ouit in March 1971 indicated that over 4,000 foreign technicians
and heavy duty equipment operators were employed by the private forestry
firms, but no breakdown of their occupational composition was obtained.
9.        The Ministry of Agriculture employed about 1,400 technicians in
its forestry subdivisions. The Ministry forestry staff is unable to cope with
the great growth of forestry activity which has taken place in the last four
years. The Forest Service is short of personnel to check and control the
exploitation operations in the concessions, nor does it possess a sufficient
number of adequately trained people to grade timber and measure logs for
royalty assessment. As a result there is waste in the forest operations and
some loss of royalties. In addition, the regeneration of forests is largely
neglected because of lack of staff. The expansion of the Ministry forestry
staff is limited both by budgetary constraints and the lack of training
institutions to provide the appropriate training for the job tasks of the



APPENDIX II
Page 4
staff. However, because of the importance the forestry activities are
assuming in Indonesia, the Ministry of Agriculture will be allowed to hire
additional personnel for Forest Service, as soon as qualified candidates
graduate from the project institutions. It is expected that a minimum of
40 such technicians will be hired annually for work in the fields of forest
exploitation, forest development, and nature protection and conservation.
10.       PERHUTANI employs on a permanent basis a staff of 12,500 of whom
about 9,000 are technicians and skilled workers and the rest administrative
staff. In addition, the state forest enterprise employs about 20,000 un-
skilled and semi-skilled workers on a daily basis. Most of the technicians
in PERHUTANI have arisen from within the lower ranks of the enterprise.
Selected staff has often been sponsored for technician training in govern-
ment institutions and it is expected that such practice will be expanded with
the completion of construction at the technician training center in Madium
and the new project center in Samarinda. It is estimated that 10-12 PERHUTANI
technicians will receive training per annum in the two forestry institutions.
11.       Manpower requirements for forestry technicians of the private
sector have been estimated on the basis of information a) provided in the
FAO Indicative Plan of Agricultural Development; b) collected in the field
by the mission and the Institute of Forestry, Education and Manpower Plan-
ning of the Directorate of Forestry; and c) provided by the FAO Survey missions.
12.       The following methodology was used to derive the estimates.  The
basic logging unit composition was established with particular attention
given to factor use and qualification required for accomplishing the job
tasks. Each logging unit is composed of about 10-12 sections (each responsible
for a specific task such as surveying, surfacing, road construction, log
felling, etc.), and each such section requires at least one technician. The
annual volume of production of a logging unit was determined, taking into
account such factors as the adverse effects of the rainy season on annual
production. This volume was estimated at 8,000-10,000 cubic meters per month.
Using future production estimates of about 20 million cubic meters by the end
of the decade, an annual average demand in the order of about 200 technicians
was estimated.
Manpower Requirements for Technicians in Fisheries
13.       Estimates of manpower requirements in fisheries have been derived
by establishing: a) the new requirements per boat type (like pole and line,
long line, trawl boats and their gross tonnage) and b) the number of boats
of the government and joint ventures which are expected to be in service by
1975. Boats of joint ventures already in service are included in these esti-
mates because of the present dominance of foreign crews. (There is a legal
requirement that at least 80% of the crews should be Indonesian within three
years of operation). Estimates beyond 1975 would not be appropriate because
of the uncertainty prevailing with regard to the particular line of fishing
that will develop commercially in the future.



APPENDIX II
Page 5
14.       The requirements for middle level manpower, (estimated here for
general information purposes as the project doesn't include a fisheries
component) have been assessed at about 1350 of whom, about 460 would be for
about 190 pole and line boats, 400 for the 50 long line boats and 490 for
the 80 trawl boats. By occupational distribution, the requirements have
been estimated as follows: fishing masters/captains about 330, mates 260,
engineers 510, radio operators 200 and boatswains 50.






APPENDIX III
Page 1
Education Finance
1.        Central government recurrent expenditures on education and training
amounted to Rp. 73 b. in 1971/72. This includes Rp. 39.5 b. in transfers to
provincial governments, through the Ministry of Home Affairs, for the sala-
ries of the public primary school teachers. Total central government devel-
opment expenditures amounted to Rp. 9 b. for the same year. The basic dis-
tribution of both recurrent and development expenditures on education and
training is given below (in Rp. billions):
1971/1972
Recurrent  %        Development  %
Total                                     73.2   100            9.0      100
of which:  Ministry of Education          20.90  28.6           6.12    68.0
Ministry of Home Affairs*   39.47  53.9              -         -
Ministry of Agriculture         .16   0.2            .36      4.0
Ministry of Religion           8.79  12.0            .60      6.7
Ministry of Manpower            .07   0.1            .10      1.1
Ministry of Defense            2.33   3.2            -         -
Other Ministries               1.48   2.0           1.82    20.2
* Transfers to provincial governments.
2.        There does not exist an effective separation between recurrent and
capital expenditures in the country's budgetary system, although two separate
budgets - a "routine" and a "development" one - are prepared. Some expendi-
tures for equipment are included in the recurrent budget and the capital and
recurrent expenditures of all five year development plan projects are includ-
ed in the development budget. Even funds for programs of an operational
nature only are included in the development budget and are initiated as
"projects" under the five year plan. An additional difficulty in getting
a profile of expenditures appropriated through the development budget
is that there is a lumping of recurrent and capital expenditures of a proj-
ect financed by the development budget; these two types of expenditures are
not shown separately anywhere in the budgets. As a result, it is not pos-
sible to establish accurate assessments, separately, of the country's cur-
rent and capital fund commitments to various projects and programs.
3.        The recurrent budget of the Ministry of Agriculture finances the
recurrent expenditures of the headquarters, the expenditures of the "verti-
cal" units such as schools, institutes, and research, the salaries of per-
sonnel at headquarters and the salaries of the outposted central government



APPENDIX III
Page 2
personnel. The central government's development budget finances almost all
of the development operations at central and provincial levels. The central
current budget amounted to Rp. 7.9 billion in 1971/72 and revenues of the
Ministry of Agriculture to Rp. 2.1 billion (mainly from forestry royalties).
There is no data centrally available on expenditures on agriculture includ-
ing education and training, by the provinces and districts.
4.        A breakdown of the Ministry of Agriculture recurrent and develop-
ment expenditures is given below for 1969/70-1971/72 (in Rp. million):
Recurrent Expenditures      Development Expenditures
1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72
Office of Secretary
General and Inspector    359.5    299.6    385.8    331.6    299.0    315.0
General
General Directorate of:
Agriculture             240.1    290.0    312.3  3,910.8  3,200.0  4,223.0
Forestry                149.0    213.1    254.6  1,399.5  1,200.0  1,205.0
Animal Husbandry         81.6    137.4    159.9    310.0    579.0    543.0
Fisheries                77.0    171.2    190.4    468.5    676.0    883.0
Plantations               23.4    115.1    175.9    277.5    616.0    689.0
Total             930.6  1,226.4  1,478.9  6,697.9  6,570.0  7,858.0
5.        The Directorates' expenditures on education, training, and extension
have varied over the first three years of the development plan from 9% to 38%
of their recurrent budgets, and from 2% to 26% of their development budgets.
A breakdown of these expenditures, by Directorate, is given below for 1971/72.
Education           Training   Extension
Recurrent Development (Develop. (Develop.
Budget     Budget         Budget)    Budget)
(in Rp. 000)
Office of Secretary General       -           -           16,000         -
General Directorate of:
Agriculture                  60,700     64,510          31,580     318,762
Forestry                     26,600     48,900         35,400       39,600
Animal Husbandry             18,200     27,000          14,190     112,133
Fisheries                    55,000      17,000        57,000         -
Plantations                    -          -              -         300,090
Total           160,500    156,410         154,170     770,585



APPENDIX III
Page 3
Expenditures on extension include farmer training and staff training. For
example, a breakdown of the development budget expenditures for extension
of the Directorate of Agricultural Services available for 1970/71 indicates
that a) demonstration and farmer training were allotted Rp. 21.3 million or
3% of the funds for extension in that year; and b) agricultural training,
which is mostly staff training, was allotted Rp. 166.9 million or 23% of the
funds for extension.
6.        All training and upgrading courses are organized and financially
supported by the Ministry of Agriculture. But, funds from development bud-
get appropriations for extension are transferred to provincial governments.
Some of these funds are presumably used for training and the maintenance of
the training centers (most of the training centers in the country are owned
by the provincial government, which is responsible for their upkeep, while
the central government finances their operation). An illustration of these
fund transfers is given below for 1971/72.
Development Budget for Extension
Total           Transfers to Provinces
General Directorate of:
Agriculture                    Rp. 319 million           Rp. 181 million
Animal Husbandry               Rp. 112 million           Rp.  55 million
Plantations                    Rp. 300 million           Rp. 273 million
In view of the above, total allocations in the development budget for agri-
cultural training far exceed the amount reported under the heading "Training/
Upgrading", if pulled together from under different budget headings. These
expenditures cannot be estimated accurately but they should be at least in
the order of twice the amount reported under "training/upgrading" in the
development budget.
7.        The operation of most of the Ministry's institutions and training
centers is basically uneconomic because of underutilization of staff and
facilities. Because of unavailability of data, reliable estimates of unit
recurrent costs for the Ministry's educational and training program are not
possible. In most cases, however, these costs should be relatively low be-
cause of the low teacher salaries and lack of funds for teaching materials
and maintenance.
8.   Recurrent Costs of the Project Institutions
The recurrent expenditures for the economic and proper operation
of all project institutions and the Agency have been estimated at Rp. 560
million. A brief description of the various estimates and the basic assump-
tions used, follows. Teaching staff salaries have been increased by 150%
over present levels in all cases.



APPENDIX III
Paze 4
a)   Agency for Agricultural Education and Training:
Annual operational costs have been estimated at Rp. 16 million. These esti-
mates include transportation costs (and related subsistence allowances) for
100 trips. To the extent that staff for this Agency would be transferred
from within the Ministry, the recurrent expenditures are overestimated.
b)   Agricultural Senior Secondary Schools:  The required opera-
tional funds for the proper use of the facilities and equipment in these
schools are estimated at Rp. 200 million versus Rp. 82 million currently
expended from the recurrent budget. The projected increases are primarily
due to: (i) the assumed salary supplements (which alone account for about
40% of the increase in expenditures); and (ii) increases in funds required
for teaching materials and for the operation, maintenance and depreciation
allowances for equipment. Recurrent unit costs have been estimated at about
Rp. 70,000 (US$170) per student place in the schools with 240 enrollment and
about Rp. 79,000 (US$190) per student place in the schools with 120 enroll-
ment. Both compare favorably with unit costs in institutions of other coun-
tries offering similar type of training.
c)   In-Service Training Centers:  The annual funds required for the
operation of these centers have been estimated at Rp. 240 million. The fixed
costs of the training centers (salaries of permanent staff, maintenance of
grounds and animals and utilities) have been estimated at about Rp. 70 mil-
lion. The variable costs, which depend on the training programs to be of-
fered and include allowances for transportation costs of the trainees, ac-
count for the rest of the expenditures. The variable costs for a three
week training program, for 30 trainees, have been estimated at about Rp.
700,000. The recurrent costs per trainee place are estimated at about
Rp. 34,000. (US$810) on the assumption that the centers would offer ten
courses of three week average duration during their annual ten month opera-
tion. The funds required for the operation of these centers exceed the
present development budget allocation for training/upgrading. But, in view
of the discussion earlier (this appendix paras. 5-6), they are lower than
the amount of funds allotted for the training of the Ministry's staff al-
together. One of the tasks of the Agency would be to identify the exact
amount of expenditures on agricultural training and the savings from the
consolidation of this training in the proposed centers.
d)   Training Institute.  The annual funds that would be required for
the operation of the Institute are estimated at Rp. 30 million. The recur-
rent budget of the Institute was Rp. 16m. for 1971/72. The annual fixed
costs (salaries, maintenance and utilities) have been estimated at Rp. 8
million. Variable costs have been estimated as follows: for a training
course, of one month duration and enrollment of 75 trainees: Rp. 1.6 m.;
for a two week training course, with 90 enrollment: Rp. 1.15 m.; and for
a five month teacher upgrading course for thirty: Rp. 3.5 million. All
cost estimates include transportation costs for the trainees. The annual
recurrent costs for the Training Institute have been based on the assump-
tion, made only for this exercise, that each year there would be offered:
two teacher upgrading courses, 6 upgrading programs of one month's duration
and 5 upgrading programs of two weeks duration.



APPENDIX III
Page 5
e)   Forestry Technicians Training Centers:  The required annual funds
have been estimated at Rp. 30 million for Samarinda and Rp. 50 million for
Madium. Presently, the small scale operation of Madium requires Rp. 8 mil-
lion. A large proportion of the recurrent funds (about 40% for the center
in Samarinda, for example) is required for the operation, maintenance and
depreciation allowances of the equipment, which includes some heavy duty
pieces. Recurrent unit costs are estimated at about Rp. 375,000 per trainee
place or $900. If the institutions were allowed to keep revenue earned from
selling logs, the production of which is a by-product of the training pro-
cess, the net recurrent cost burden on the Government from the operation of
these institutions would be reduced. Since the graduates of these institu-
tions would be employed either by the Government or the foreign firms operat-
ing in the area, it would appear that an alternative way of operating the
centers would be to allocate a certain percentage of royalties, paid to
the Government, for the operation of these training centers.






APPENDIX IV
External Aid
Education and training programs in Indonesia have been assisted ex-
tensively through grants and loans from private, public, multilateral and bi-
lateral agencies. The Ministry of Education has developed administrative
procedures to ensure that external assistance is channelled to projects which
have been approved by the central planning authorities and are directly re-
lated to the priority needs of educational development. This includes the in-
ception of an "informal club" system in October 1969 in which interested par-
ties representing various countries and agencies discuss the needs of the edu-
cation sector and exchange views on the requirements for external aid. About
US$7.3 million has been so channelled or committed up to the beginning of
1971, most of it to finance the costs of the services of experts and consul-
tants, of fellowships, teaching aids and some equipment. For the first quar-
ter of 1971/72 about US$2.9 million had already been committed from external
agencies and donor countries for the same purposes.
Additional external aid specifically aimed at the development of
agricultural education and training include: a project for up-grading high-
er agricultural education (USAID $2.3 m.); a recently signed UNDP/FAO project
strengthening fisheries training (UNDP contribution: $924,000); a teacher up-
grading project for the agricultural senior secondary schools (Netherlands,
$200,000) and seed inspector's training project and farm mechanization (Japan,
$100,000). A number of additional projects have also been undertaken in ex-
tension services, fisheries, forestry and animal husbandry; donor countries
include Australia, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, USA and Nether-
lands.






APPENDIX V
Technical Assistance and Fellowships
1.        The project would include provision for 24 man-years of specialist
services to assist the Government in implementing the project and training
local counterparts. The cost of this technical assistance is estimated at
$.84 million. The implementation period would extend through the fourth
year of project implementation (this Appendix, page 2). Specifically, the
technical assistance would include:
(a) Three man-years of specialist's services in agricultural
education planning to assist the Agency develop short
and long-term agricultural educational and training
plans based on manpower requirements, financial resources
and available training facilities (para. 6.02);
(b) twelve man-years of specialists' services in modern science
and school management and organization to assist in the
implementation of the new curriculum and improve the ad-
ministration of the agricultural senior secondary schools
and training centers (paras. 6.04 and 6.10).
(c) six man-years for two specialists in the teaching of agri-
cultural technology and modern science to assist in the
expansion of the teacher training program (para. 6.08);
(d) three man-years for a tropical forester educator (with
experience in technician training), to assist in the
development of the curriculum and training programs and
techniques for forestry technicians (para. 6.13);
2.        In addition, the project would include provision for 28 man-years
of fellowships mainly to train local counterparts to the technical assistance
experts. The cost of fellowships is estimated at $.18 million. The fellow-
ships would be offered over a four year period (this Appendix, page 2).
Specifically, these fellowships would include:
(a) three man-years for studies in planning, statistics and
administration for the staff of the Agency (para. 6.02);
(b) twenty man-years for counterparts to the specialists and
selected staff of the agricultural schools and training
centers in organization and administration of educational
institutions, agricultural technology and farm management,
farm machinery and teaching of modern science (paras.
6.04 and 6.10);
(c) three man-years for the staff of the agricultural teacher
training unit in the teaching of modern science, agri-
cultural technology and farm management (para. 6.08);
(d) two man-years for the counterpart of the forestry techni-
cian training specialist (pars. 6.13).



TIME SCHEDULE FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IMPLEMENTATION
Year of Project Implementation
First     Second   Third    Fourth           Man
Specialists                                Number    1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4          Months
Agency for Agricultural Education and Training
Agricultural Education Planner (Manpower)                        1            x X   X X X x X  X X x    x1              36
Agricultural Senior Sec. Schools and Training Centers
Organization and Adninistration                                  1            XX   X X X  X X X X   X X X               36
Agricultural Technology and Farm Management                      1            X X   X X X X  X X X X  X X               36
Modern Science                                                   1            XX   X X X X  X X II  X X                 36
Farm Machinery                                                   1            XX  X X X  X X XI XX                      36
Teacher Training
Modern Science Trainer                                           1            XX   X X X  X X X X  Z  X X               36
Agricultural Technology and Farm Management                      1            X X   I X X X X X  X X   X X              36
Forestry Training
Forest Education and Management                                  1            XX   XX X  X X X   X X X                  36
Total   288
t14



TIME SCHEDULE FO I FELLOWSHIPS ThIPLEnENTATION
Year of Project Implementation
First     Second   Third    Fourth         Man
Type of Personnel                          Number           1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4    Months
Agency for Agricultural Education and Training
Director                                                  1                    X                                      3
Statistician                                              1                         X X                               6
Educat. Planner                                           1                         X X XX  X X X X                  24
Iounterparts to Specialists
a) Agric. Secondary Schools and Tr. Centers
School Organ. and Administration                    1                        X X X X                          12
Agric. Technology and Farm Management               1                        X X X X                           12
Modern Science                                      1                         X X X X                          12
Farm Machinery                                      1                        X X X X                           12
b) Teacher Training
Modern Science                                      1                        X X X X                           12
Agric. Technology and Farm Management               1                        X x X X                           12
Fellowships for Staff of Project Institutions
Agric. Secondary Schools' Directors                      14                           X X                            84
Training Centers' Directors                              13                           X                              39
Agric. Secondary Schools' Teachers                                                        /                          28
Agricultural Technology                                14
Farm Management                                        14                              It/                         28
Modern Science                                         14                                                          28
Forestry Training Centers' Directors                      2                         X X                              12
Forestry Training Centers' Teachers                       2                             X X                          12
Total   336
a/ 2 months






22,-                                                                  m          e            $>                     2  B        O2 _0.E    ww2f    9 2w  
c x R R b  t a "  " .    9                  °      if         ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~            "
t.n  V6.\  So  o6  oo      oo  SS  S S  SS  S S;o  S0  So  oS  oS  oS  o o  S w  SS 2SS  SS 
O          g2S__WXW    OWCO<(                              C =kMMW   _O>WOO)H>              >NO       BOC 
.II2                      oo.0  :°oL2@ I6-@                $t~           >o w w sos-ow                       _     °w'w'S               M
a w0 w2                                                           222          21 sa<w ww                    oowwtwwo2   222 w 2 w 22       cw ~    j
nwnt     S        v     S~~ll;W_           a ww=> o6  S                G>      _o   Gw    __              8       _S98S99            w      _ 2   
o S 6)  o c _  s S w2000.2
D                            1oG_>ww- o6                  
8~~~~~~~ 0 0   0 ,    0                                   0 L   0       .    0  o0000                    0       0   _0  o                   0 _0                                  
8iFn ~ ~    ~      ~      ~      ~     0000           00 0 00 0 ..0 0 0 G6'0                                 000000 ,'                  :0 2-wwo   >~F t>s   ;Wat6_wpoFw >c G6Fo 
0   00   00    0     j    0    0  W0 0  0  0     D  0  0  0      00   0   0  0   0 0   0   O0 0    W0           0  D0   0W   S0  W  0    0     0            D          01>nDnW    
Z ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      0    0    0     0    2    0    2           020 0-                       -                         22           22c>_8 W Sog @ &t  wW,v g o   _ cc   8o      s    
0W            00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0                             *. -8tgS 8     000 woo  0;S               0   -tS8>St>SS  SGG  2YGS¢Y  w2
_GY,S  Y8_YS_GS SYSW@    tsow YWOD~G=SSWOO&G>N                  gS    8-S-  06  °          W         W,8
0 9, 6             A0 W O                                           00 X0 0 0 0 0 g0               
a _       -    , s0 0 0 - -s  .00   w          0 0  H H  --  _ G _ - -0   -  .,,-   0  n0 0   n0 - 0   >      n  >  ~ ~ -- -   n 0 - -      -     W.M_ ..  






INDONESIA
EDUCATION LEVEL OF MANPOWER IN THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, 1971
(units)
PRIMARY SCHOOL              _MIDDLE LEVEL EDUCATION                                        UNIVERSITY                     TOTAL
_______         Jr. and Sr. Sec. Echools   Senior Sec. Schoo S  Onlv
echnical  Admin.  Total  Technical  Admin.  Total  Technical  Admin.  Total   echnical  Admin.  Total  Technical  Admin.  Total
.______ _  Staff    Staff           Staff    Staff               Staff    Staff               Staff    Staff              Staff    Staff
General Secretariat         211       327     538        222      260      482      (145)      (118)   (263)    177       44        221        610      631    1,241
Agricultural Services   5,733    3,961   9,694          6,537   1,614   8,151   (3,396)        (749) (4,145)    625        66        691    12,895   5,641   18,536
Animal Husbandry          3,046    1,843   4,889        1,150      237   1,387      (784)      (125)   (909)    327        75       402      4,523   2,155    6,678
Fisheries                 1,442    1,567   3,009        1,325      653   1,978      (366)      (215)   (581)    236        29       265      3,003   2,249    5,252
Plantations                 243       298      541        233      158     391      (150)       (71)   (221)       43      16         59       519      472       991
Forestry                  5,202    1,941   7,143       2,429   1,089   3,518   (1,248)         (167) (1,415)    340       69        409      7,971   3,099   11,070
Total             15,877    9,937  25,814    11,896   4,011  15,907   (6,089)   (1,445) (7,534)  1,748    299               2,047    29,521  14,247   43,768
*  Including staff of the Rice Production Program (BIMAS)
Source: FAO Mission Survey






INDONESIA
EDUCATIONAL ATTAINMENT OF TEACHERS IN AGRICULTURAL SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS, 1970
Educational Attainment
Full-Time                                            Part-Time
Number                           Senior        Below                                    Senior       Below             Grand
Type of Schools        of                             Secondary    Senior   Total                             Secondary   Senior   Total   Total
Schools  Masters   Bachelors   School         Secondary          Masters   Bachelors  School        ,econdar
Degree    Degree       Certificate  School             Degree    Degree       Certificate School
NATIONAL
Agriculture            11        13         39            14          -        66        34         45           49          -        128     194
Animal Husbandry        3         8          2             -          -        10        40         16           20          -         76      86
Inland Fishery          1         3          2             -          -         5         1          9            3          -        13       18
Marine Fishery           1        -          1             3          -         4         -          3            6          -          9      13
Sub-Total              16        24         44            17          -        85        75         73           78          -       226      311
PROVINCIAL
Agriculture            50        21         75            78          3       177        85        199          334         10        628     805
Forestry                1         1          -             4          -         5         -          -            -          -          -       5
Sub-Total              51        22         75            82          3       182        85        199          334         10        628     810
RIVATE
Agriculture            25        16         34            29          4        83        18        103          154          1        276     359
Animal Husbandry         1        -          5             -          -          5        3         11            -          -         14       19
Plantation Crops        3         1          5             -          -         6        12         54           21          -         87      93
Sub-Total              29        17         44            29          4        94        33        168          175          1        377     471
GRAND TOTAL            96        63        163           128          7       361       193        440          587         11       1231    1592
Per Cent                         18         45            35          2        100       16         36           47          1        ]Do
Source~ FAO Mission Surver



ANNEX 4
INDONESIA
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURES
ON EDUCATION AND TRAINING, 1969/70 - 1971/72
(Rp 1,000,000)
1969/70   1970/71      1971/72
Recurrent Expenditures
1.   Total                                      216,500   310,700       364h100
la. Ministry of Agriculture                  931     1,226         1,475
2.   On Education/Training                       32,500    48,979        73,250
2a. Ministry of Education                 12,677    16,701        20,905
2b. Ministry of Agriculture                   77       125           161
3.   2 as % of 1                                 15.0%     15.8%         20.1%
4.  2b as % of la                                 8.3%     10.2%         10.9%
.   2b as % of 2                                   .2%        .3%          .2%
Capital Expenditures
1.   Total                                       90,240   115,800       154,900
la. Ministry of Agriculture                6,698     6,570         7,858
2.  On Education/Training                         8,515     8,538         8,973
2a Ministry of Education                   5,583     5,651         6,651
2b Ministry of Agriculture                   375       449           371
3.   2 as % of 1                                  9.4%       7.4%         5.8%
4.  2b as % of la                                 5.6%       6.8%         4.7%
5.   2b as % of 2                                 4.4%       5.3%         4.1%
Source: Ministry of Agriculture and Finance



INDONESIA II - PROJECT COST BY TYPE OF EXPENDITURE
RUPIAH (MILLIONS)                U.S. DOLLARS (MILLIONS)
% Of
Local     Foreign       Total      Local       Foreign     Total       Total
1. CONSTRUCTION
Academic & Communal            580         412         992       1.40         1.00       2.40         25%
Boarding Facilities            264         186         450       o.64         0.45       1.09         11%
Staff Housing                  275         195         470       o.66         0.47       1.13         11%
Site Developnent               224        159          383       0.54         0.38       0.92          9%
Professional Services          214          58         272       0.52         0.14       o.66          7%
Sub-Total 1                   1557        1010        2567       3.76         2.44       6.20         63%
2. FURNITURE                      162           31         193       0.39         0.08       0.47          5%
3. EQUIPMENT                        77         691         768       0.18         1.67       1.85         19%
4. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             87         335         422       0.21         0.81       1.02         11%
5. PROJECT Ai4INISTRATION           78          23        101        0.19         0.05       0.24          2%
& AGENCY FOR A-RITJTAil
TRAINING
Sub-Total 2                  1961         2090        4051       4.73         5.05       9.78        100%
6. UNALLOCATED                     559         497        1056       1.35         1.20       2.55          -
PROJECT TOTAL                 2520        2587        5107       6.08         6.25      12.33                _



INDONESIA II - CAPITAL COST IN NEW PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
(Professional Services and Contingencies not included)
US$
CATEGORY                        UNIT      GROSS AREA m2   COIJSTRUCTION    FURNITURE      EQUIPMENT       TOTAL
1. ACADEMIC & COMMUNAL
Agricultural Senior Secondary
a) classrooms/labs/communal                      8.7
b) Farm buildings                                3.8
Total                                      12.5              835              69            257          1,161
Median  4/ a)                               8.8              641              46            829           1,400
____________________________________ Ca) Cd
Agricultural Post Secondary
a) classrooms/labs/communal                     12.8
b) Farm buildings                                3.6
Total                                      16.4            1,395             114          2,476          3,985
Median 2/
2. BOARDING FACILITIES
Agricultural Senior Secondary                      6.4              475              39              -             514
Median" 1/                    h a           7.4              538              86             _              652
Agricultural Post Secondary                        6.4              593              49             _              642
Median 1/                                   8.4            1,116             123                         1,258
3. STAFF HOUSING 3/
Agricultural Senior Secondary                     87.3            6,506             533             _            7,039
a,- 4'
Agricultural Post Secondary                       77.0            7,171             586              _           7,757
Median 1/                                 130.0           14,283              -                         14,283
1/ 1970 prices in "Unit Costs in Education Projects" - Education Projects Department Memorandum No.28.
2/ Diploma level forestry training institution has not been financed by Bank Group.
j/ Housing (88 units) for farm employees not included.



ANNEX 7
I N D O N E S I A
USE FACTOR AND CLASS SIZES
IN PROJECT INSTITUTIONS
Use Factor for        Number of
Type of                           Practical Weekly
Institutions             Classrooms  Rooms       Periods    Size of Classes
Agricultural Senior Secondary
a.  Enrollment 240 students        83%       75%-82%     4o        (Lectures:  40 students
b.  Enrollment 120 students         72%      50%-60%      40       (Laboratories: 40 studerts
(Workshops: 20 students
Forestry Technician Training
Center at Samarinda                           *40                 Lectures: 16-32 students
Laboratories and
Workshops: 16 students
The curriculum will be finalized with technical assistance.



INDONESIA II
CONTINGENCY ALLOWANCE (US$ THOUSANDS)
Agency for Agri-
cultural Training
Site                                                                       Professional          Technical         &  Project        Total
Development         Building            Furniture           Equipment           Services            Assistance       Administration   Project
Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign   Local   Foreign
a) Physical Increase            15%      15%       15%       15%       10%       10%       10%       10%       -         -         -         -         -         -          _
(Unforeseen)
b) Price Increase               19%      16%       19%       16%       17%       12%      13%       11%       11%        9%       12%       12%       14%       10%         _
(Escalation)
c) TOTAL                       34%       31%       34%       31%       27%      22%       23%       21%       11%        9%       12%       12%       14%       10%         -
TOTAL COST OF PROJECT          540       380       2700      1920      390        80      180       1670      520       140       210       810       190        50        9780
(without contingencies)
CONTINGENCIES
a) Physical Increase           81         57       405       288        39         8        18      167        -         -         -         -         -         -         1063
b) Price Increase             103         61       513       307        66        10        23      184        57        13        25        97        27         5        1491
c) TOTAL CONTINGENCIES        184        118       918       595       105        18       41       351        57        13        25        97        27         5        2554
TOTAL COST                    724        498      3618      2515       495        98       221     2021       577       153       235       907       217        55      12,334
(including contingencies)



INDONESIA II - PROJECT IMPLE24ENTATION AND EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
(US$ MILLIONS)
Years                 1                        2                        3                        4
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE                         _- _-                          __
Quarters     1      2     3     4     5      6     7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16
CIVIL WORKS                           US$ M
Agricultural Sen. Second. Schools    4.03                           ***   ***   +$$   $-=   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   VVV
In-Service Training Centers           1.15                          ***      ***   +$$   $==   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   VVV
Agricultural Training Institute       0.13                    ***   ***   +$$   $=   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   VVV
Forestry Tech. Training Center        0.23                    ***   *      *+$   $$G   =XX   XXX   XXX   XXX   XXX   VVV
Total          $ 5.54
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE        288 Man Months         _     _    24    24    24    24    24    24    24    24    24    24    24    24    -          _
FELLOWSHIPS                 336 Man Months         _     _     -      3    30   139   97    55       3      3     3     3    -      -      _     _
EXPENDITURE SCHEDULE
Civil Works                           5.54         _     _     _      _     _     _    0.02  0.60  0,90  1.25  1.40  1.10  0.27   -        -     _
Furniture                             0.47         _     _     _     _      _     _    0.05  0.07  0.08  0.18  0.05  0.04   -       -      _     _
Equipment                             1.85         _     _     _     _      _     _    0.85  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20  0.20   -        -     _     _
Professional Services                 0.66         -   0.06  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.06  0.06  0.05  0.05  0.05  0.04  0.04  0.04   -          _     _
Tech. Assistance                      1.02         -     -    0.07  0.07  0.09  0.15  0.12  0.10  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.07  0.07   -         -
Project Admin. & Agency for Agri-    0.24          -     -    0.03  0.04   -      -    0.02  0.04   -      -    0.02  0.03   -       -    0.03  0.03
cultural Training
Total          $9.78         -   0.06  0.17  0.18  0.16  0.21  1.12  1.06  1.30  1.75  1.78  1.48  0.38  0.07  0.03  0.03
Unallocated                          $2.55         -     -     -      -     -     -     -      -     -     -    0.42  0.42  0.42  0.42  0.42  0.45
PROJECT TOTAL                       $12.33         -    0.06  0.17  0.18  0.16  0.21  1.12  1.06  1.30  1.75  2.20  1.90  0.80  0.49  0.45  0.48
PROJECT TOTAL (ROUNDED)             $12.3          -    0.06  0.18  0.18  0.16  0.21  1.12  1.06  1.30  1.75  2.15  1.90  0.80  0.49  0.44  0.50
LOCAL FINANCING               6.0         -    0.03  0.09  0.09  0.08  0.10  0.55  0.52  0.64  0.85  1.05  0.93  0.39  0.24  0.21  0.23
IDA FINANCING (51%)           6.3         -    0.03  0.09  0.09  0.08  0.11  0.57  0.54  0.66  0.90  1.10  0.97  0.41  0.25  0.23  0.27
1/  Implementation starts at the date of effectiveness of the Credit Agreement.
Legend
Selection and appointment of consultants                $  Tendering of bids
# Survey of sites                                             Review of bids and award of contracts
*  Design and construction document phase                  X  Construction phase
+  Review of design and construction documents             V  Guarantee phase



ANNEX ID
INDONESIA II - ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMFNTS
(US$ MILLIONS)
Accumulated           Undisbursed
Quarter *       Disbursements          Disbursements             Balance
1                                                              6.30
2                                                              6.30
3                0.03                   0.03                   6.27
4                0.09                   0.12                   6.18
5                0.09                   0.21                   6.09
6                0.08                   0.29                   6.01
7                0.11                   0.40                  5.90
8                0.57                   0.97                   5.33
9                0.54                   1.51                  4.79
10                o.66                   2.17                   4.13
11                0.90                   3.07                   3.23
12                1.10                   4.17                   2.13
13                0.97                   5.114                  1.16
14                0.41                   5.55                   0.75
15                0.25                   5.80                   0050
16                0.23                   6.03                   0.27
17                0.27                   6.30
* Starting from date of effectiveness of Credit Agreement.



INDONESIA
EDUCATION: STRUCTURE. ENROLLMENT AND TEACHERS 1970
Level               Age Group       Age Group        Enrollment       Enrollment        Teaching Staff           Equivalent    % of Staff    Pupil
Population /1                        as % of                                   Full-Time      Qualified      Teacher
Age Group    Full-Time       Part-time    Teachers                       Ratio
PRIMARY             T-i12       18,848,000          13,380,665         70.9        335,243                                       25           40:1
JUNIOR SECONDARY        13-15         8,348,000          1,505,312         18.0         60,956         20,771                        NA
General                                              1,254,000                      46,823         14,534         50,456                      25:1
Vocational                                              106,470                       7,585          1,620          7,990                      13:1
Technical                                              134,842                       6,548          4,617          7,703                      18:1
Agricultural                                              10,000                        NA             NA              -                         NA
SENIOR SECONDARY        16-18         7,567,000            541,192          7.1         20,402         22,603                        NA
General                                                252,759                      10,422         12,984         14,750                      17:1
Vocational                                               92,006                       3,925          1,712          4,495                      20:1
Technical                                               83,076                       2,679          2,985          3,674                      22:1
Agriculture                                              11,300                         361          1,231            771                      15:1
Teacher T'raining                                           91,051                       3,015          3,696          4,247                      21:1
(Primary)                                                 11,000                        NA             NA                                        NA
Tetcher Training
(Junior Secondary)
HIGHER               19-24       13,084,000            126,787          1.0          3,o48          5,102                        NA
Science                                                  37,434                       1,552          2,245          2,264                      14:1
Teacher Training                                            28,537                         912          1,670          1,747                      16:1
Humanities                                               60,816                         584          1,187          1,177                      51:1
/1   U.N. Medium Variant, Projections for 1965-1985






INDONESIA
STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM
SECONDARY
PRE PRIMARY
JUNIOR             SENIOR                 HIGHER
TEACHER TRAINING           TEACHER TRAINING
TECHNICAL           TECHNICAL              TECHNICAL INSTITUTE
AGRICULTURAL        AGRICULTURAL
GENERAL             GENERAL                    UNIVERSITY
HOME ECONOMICS      HOME ECONOMICS
i H   tHo          ~~~ACADEMY
COMM ERC IAL        COMM ERC IAL
AGE I                                                                     
EPRELIMINARY YEAR     * CENTRALIZED EXAMINATIONS 
IBRD 6079






INDONESIA
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
MINISTER
OF AGRICULTURE                                                                                                ADM NISTRATIVE
LEVEL]
NSTITUTE FOR   |        DIRECTORATE                 EF                        SECRETARY                                           MINISTERIAL              MINISTERIAL
u  FOR PLANTS AND  BUREAU FOR                 OF THE                    ~~~~~~EXPERTS             PERSONNELADUNT
AGRICULTURAL            QUARANTINE               PUBLIC RELATIONS              MINISTER                                            STAFF                    ADJUTANTS
.....  -....  .... 
DIRE   R GENERAL                                                                                                     .... Zi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AGNCY FOR  ICENTRAL
DIRECTOR    CTO       ~        DIRCTO  GNERAL        DIRECTOR GENERAL       DIRECTOR GENERAL        SCEAYRIEINSPECTOR                          SECRtETARY GENERAL       AGRICULTURAL         GOVERNMENT
GENERALFORANIMALFOR YFOR FORESTRY  FOAGRICULTURE  PRODUCT              GENERAL           FOR ADMINISTRATION        D       N
FOR ESTATES        HUSBANDRY
,BOAHOO(BIMARS)                                        NGN'*'RTR NI NG
GOVERNOR
PROVINCIALCORIAR
OFMI.OFVAGRNOLTREROV NCAL
I                                                                                                                                            .
c    DIN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ISIUIN
PRVICILTPOICA
GOVERNMENT
^ pROVINCIAL OFFICE   PROVINCIAL OFFICE      P     IN L OFFICE     PROVINCIAL OFFICE      PROVINCIAL OFFICE
S  RVICU              H OF ANDMAL  |RC       OF PLANTATIONS         OF FISHERY            OF FORESTRY
World Brnk-6077(2R)






INDONESIA
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
AND THE ADMINISTRATION OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
MINISTER OF                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MINISTER
MINISTER OF                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OF EDUCATION
_II
M AD C UTRE
OFFICE or~~~~~~~~~ENAYDIETO                                                             E                       E 
EDUCATIONAL              I                         EC                    GENERAL OF                          
DEVELOPMENT              G                       GENERAL                 EDUCATION                                         YOUCULT
TION ________SPINANCEe)HIGHER  EDUCATIN   c)  MUSEUMS   c)    OMMUNITY  ED ICENTRAL
GOVERNMENT
I               BUREAU or               ~~~~~~~~~~DIRECTORS
HEAD~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~BRA OF
MPLOEMENT                                     ADMINISTRATION          .)PRIMARY EDUCATION         DIRECTORS             DIRECTORS
UNIT   TATION               GENERAL                 ~~~~~~~~~~b)SECONDARY EDUCATION  a)ARTS           a)SPORTS EDUCATION
UNIT                             ~~~~~~~~~~~SUPERVISION &  .) TEACHER TRAINING        b) ARTS EDUCATION     b) YOUTH ACTIVITIES
I     I                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~FINANCE      I)VOCATIONAL EDUCATION     c) MUSEUMS            a) COMMUNITY EDUCATION
EDUCATIONAL
REGE CY 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EEC
PDISTROVINCIAL                                                         MINISTERIAL REPRESENTAT
GOVENSPCOR  ||DSRC
C X  JUNIOR AND SENIOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS |                                                                   ,
ED_ A LTO RE PHASED OUT UPON PROJET COMPLETION 
WORLD RANK - 6075(R)      a.S






INDONESIA: TOTAL SCHOOL ENROLLMENTS FOR 1970 AND PROJECTIONS FOR 1975
SCHOOL
YEAR    AGE
18     24   0.3  0.8
ENRO LLM ENT RATIOS 1970
17      23   15   21                                                                                                   (UNADJUSTED)
16     22    19  27
HIGHER                                                                                                                                    1 .0%
15     21    24  34
14     20    30  42
13     19    38  153
12      18   157   1226
SENIOR        I        7    10        297.1%
SECONDARY        11      17    180X  259
4-
10     16         204  :293
9      15         461 .607
JUNIOR         8       14                      1654~                                                                                     18.0%
SECONDARY                                         1.1           1970
7  13       ~~547            1720         190        1975
6       12        1161                                 ,1586
5       11        1 659                                                 2267                                              70.9%
PRIMARY         4      10         1924                                                           2629
3       9         2342                                                                         '3202
2       8         2894                                                                                           13956
1    7    3400                                                                                                                    ;4650 ,  . X.;tIfIiI..e    ;
0                     1,000                   2,000                    3,000                   4,000                    5,000
(IN THOUSANDS)
SOURCE: Ministry of Educotion and Culture
IBRD 6076






110'                                                          120'                                                            2 30'                                                          140'
THAILAND                                                                                                     '                                                                                     *  0        -  H2iE :IR$TJECr  Sr/rW2M
01 SAlE AlIEN              -                   INDONESIA                                                                                                                                   A L 1S0=Ai J            SMATRA --          IS AT1JEI            aMNTERS
410 SARE ATJEv&                                        EDUCATION   PROJECTI u I                                                                                                                                              ZSE  ,N             t.ATPA    IT.A                         9UMAlh
L            I~~~~'JL.N.I                                                                                                                     - A POLE   TIC        SOMACIA~~~ESELO     "A   RIIA     ~      WMTR
12                                                                                                                                                         hOAR   GA          - JAVA    -  -      1111110*10            JAVA            5'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AV    SV
5- 10* *1110  .                                                                                                                                                                                                = 120 - ,3ATA      - - 0t69   SAPAH  J  >   =  t A  ': E   ;   .fi     AGA  JAVA  !,    1I501AB - -  JAVA  S'
T                     JAM0A  -00   - '230t081                 JAVA
MALAYA              P                                                                       ',/"A*  9                                                                                       1X1     -i    JAVA-    .        23'NIAilALPA)A1       JAVA
- 10111 .A    R   -  10== 0              S240ET,10AE           JAVA
9  0  s3  NG '.- < 00 2  Y ;: J:; k  A  a; 4<t u 0 ,,,, ,_,,C, ,?,, *, X .Y IANICStRAG C5NTE2Sl 00                                                                              501*01ST21*15011                        BAI
l   g  aa   B          wS          0                      KALA\ANtAN                              -      F;             0s         >            -        v                                             0                  m                    _;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ABRAMAT  SLAt
5   ~         1100   2                                              ' N-     ,P R                                    f>     0;         :;         <      6    ;               5\
SEQ  0C1LUMUR                                                                                                                                                                      EC a                     7 :       2011K AIO                  A  A ;  ,  0 A O . ,A_
ETORAWA  - -                 *~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
- - --                   2111*1111             J~~~~~~~~~AVA
A                       KALIMANTAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                              AOMOA
N  V  lS9  ;2fO S3so ;fo 9ze w ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SMut0gARI0 'o                                              0A        ;
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
10'                                 S  J DtD AX2 dR5         9         -  -                   KE0p451AK5 0*                                                   SU=L |AWE/ SI      -           7l9                            -     0     -  -t ,,50   RI   ,,  ;111                         IO'
r~~~~~~~~~AET*IA11GOA*                                      0 O       lf       .  ID                                                                                                           ;'      0j ' -  <                                                                      ft '  dQT;,n     , & 2-67
1010/AN~~~~~~~~~~PIE0                                                                                    BIUN
OCIAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RA
)JIAWATA                            4
9                  T lA5 8001  SPMSAA
SEE  AID                                                MAIANGl21   $0PA0N    --bq C
__________________________I __ J                              JOGJAKARTA                                                                                                      ........ 
W.,                                                 JAVA    -                ina                                                                                      -
10-                 Kd-~~ -                                                                                                                                                                                                    lA f1 AA
FEBRUARY 1~1 S'                                                                              10                                                                                                                                                                                                BRD-3647 



