CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 288 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 9, 1972


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 288 IND
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Education Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 9, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 9, 1972, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02 (h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02 (i) into 6.02 (h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Project Implementation  Unit" means the unit referred to in
paragraph (a) of Section 3.02 of this Agreement; and
(b)   "Agency for Agricultural Education and Training" means the agency
established pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 8 of 1972 of the
Borrower, and whose organization and functions are set forth in the
Ministerial Decree No. 88/KPTS/ORG/2/1972 of the Borrower, as such
decrees may be amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent six million three hundred thousand dollars
($6,300,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accorda ice with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree: (i) the civil
works contracts estimated to cost less than two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000) equivalent, required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured under p procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits, published
by the Bank in August 1969, as revised in May 1971, and in accoriance with,
and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; arid (ii)
goods and other services (other than consultants' services) to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured on the basis of international
competition under the same procedures.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1976 or such (ti
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Associilion.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencin(
April 15, 1982 and ending October 15, 2021, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 15, 1991 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the Unitcd States of AmerL is !reby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿5
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative, financial and
educational practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without limitation    to  the  obligations of the    Borrower under
paragraph (a) of this section, the Borrower shall ensure that sufficient liquid funds
to cover the budgeted expenditures, estimated to be made for the Project during
each quarter, shall be available not later than the fifteenth day of such quarter.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall within its Ministry of Agriculture
establish and maintain a Project Implementation Unit employing, inter alia, a
full-time project director, a project architect, a procurement officer and an
accountant, such   project director !id project architect to be appointed in
consultation with the Association, and such unit to have duties and responsibilities
as specified in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause (i) the procurement officer and the
accountant referred to in the preceding sub-section to be appointed according to
a timetable agreed with the Association; and (ii) the Project Implementation Unit
referred to in the preceding sub-section to be provided with such other staff,
facilities and resources as shall be required for its efficient operation.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association from time to
time evidence satisfactory to the Association that the Borrower, prior to scheduled
construction, has acquired user rights, acceptable to the Association, for the land
and buildings required for the carrying out of Parts A and B of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in planning and supervising
the works included in the Project, the Borrower shall in addition to the staff of
the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works, employ consultants acceptable to, upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to, the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, the Borrower shall employ
contractors acceptable to, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to, the Borrower
and the Association.


﻿6
Section 3.05. (a) In carrying out Part E (a) of the Project, the Borrower
shall employ specialists acceptable to, upon terms and conditions satisfactory to,
the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   In carrying out Part E (b) of the Project the Borrower shall: (i) in
consultation with the Association, select qualified local staff for training overseas,
who, upon their return, would become counterparts to such specialists; and (ii)
through its Agency for Agricultural Education and Training, establish, with the
assistance of such specialists, fellowship programs agreed with the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the contract documents, construction and procurement
schedules and lists of equipment and furniture for the Project and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower shall furnish to the Association for its concurrence,
promptly upon their preparation, all plans and specifications related to the
construction works included in the Project.
(c)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information
as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall, through the local representatives of its Ministry of Agriculture,
make or cause to be made available not later than the fifteenth day of each quarter
all funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the effective utilization,
staffing, equipment, operation and maintenance of the Project institutions.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause the buildings, furniture and equipment of
the Project institutions to be adequately maintained and shall promptly as needed
cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to be made.
Section 4.03. (a) Upon completion of Parts A, B and C of the Project, the
Borrower shall forthwith cause curricula acceptable to the Association to be
introduced for the institutions included in such Parts of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower shall cause each one of the institutions included in Parts
A (a) and B (a) of the Project to be provided with the use of sufficient farm
land (about 85 hectares) for practical student training in farming.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause all middle level in-service training
for the Directorates of Agricultural Services, Animal Husbandry, Pl.ntations
(Smallholders) and Fisheries (Inland) of the Borrower to be centralized in the
institutions included in Part B (b) of the Project.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause the full-time teaching staff of the
institutions included in Parts A (a) and B of the Project to have been adequately
trained by the time such Parts of the Project are completed.
Section 4.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause, after the year 1974, the
qualifications of new teaching staff for the institutions included in Parts A, B and
C of the Project to be a university degree in agriculture and a course in pedagogy.


﻿8
(b)   The Borrower shall, upon completion of Parts A, B and C of the
Project, cause the teaching staff at the institutions included in such Parts of the
Project to be employed at salaries which, together with other emoluments received
as a direct result of their employment in such institutions, shall be at such levels
as shall be adequate to allow such teaching staff to devote their professional
attention exclusively to such institutions.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall: (i) within six months after the date of
this Agreement, appoint the staff and commence the operations of the Agency
for Agricultural Education and Training; and (ii) before April 1, 1975 have
transferred the operation and management of all institutions of agricultural
education and training administered by the Borrower's Minister of Agriculture to
such Agency.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition, in respect of
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any -f its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the operations and financial condition, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.


﻿9
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in efiect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from  all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the decrees referred to


﻿10
in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement shall have been materially
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived, or shall cease to be enforced,
so as to materially affect the operations of the Agency for Agricultural Education
and Training without the prior concurrence of the Association.
Section 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that the events specified in
Section 7.02 of this Agreement shall have occurred.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01 (b) of the General Conditions: the Project Implementation Unit has
been established and a project director and a project architect have been appointed,
all in accordance with Section 3.02 (a) of and Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 8.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the
meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that the decrees
referred to in paragraph (b) of Section 1.02 of this Agreement have been duly
and validly issued.
Section 8.03. The date June 8, 1972 is hereby specified for thepurposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.04. Th  "ligations of the Borrower under Article IV and Sections
7.02 and 7.03 of this   ' ment shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Cred,, Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿*                               11
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 21
Djakarta, Indonesia
Cable address:
Ministry Finance
Djakarta
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBL.C OF INDONESIA
By /s/ SjarifThajeb
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. Burke Knapp
Vice President


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated                % of
(Expressed in              Expenditures
Category          Dollar Equivalent)          to be Financed
I.    Equipment              1,700,000       100% of foreign expendi-
tures
II.   Furniture               100,000         100% of foreign expendi-
tures or 17% of local ex-
penditures (representing
the estimated foreign ex-
change component)
III.  Civil Works           2,350,000        42% of total expenditures
(representing the esti-
mated foreign exchange
component)
IV.   Consultants'            140,000         100% of foreign expendi-
Services                               tures
V.    Technical               810,000        100% of foreign expendi-
Assistance                             tures
VI.   Unallocated            1,200,000
TOTAL            6,300,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower;
(b)   the term  "local expenditures" means expenditures for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower; and
(c)   the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign and local
expenditures.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿14
(c)   If the Association  shall have reasonably  determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement, no expenditures for such
item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association may
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of
the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association s reasonable
opinion represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of local expenditures under Category 1I or
total expenditures under Category III shall increase and no proceeds of the Credit
are available for reallocation to such Category, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:    The construction, equipping and furnishing of the following new
institutions:
Area          Total
(sq. meters     Places
Type                 Location             (approx.)     (approx.)
(a)  Agricultural          Darmaga                5,550         240
Senior Sec-          Goa                     5,550         240
ondary Schools
(b)  Forestry Tech-        Samarinda              2,590          80
nician Training
Center
Part B:    The rehabilitation, conversion of existing space, expansion, and
provision of additional equipment and furniture for the following
existing institutions:
Additional
Area          Total
(sq. meters     Places
Type                 Location             (approx.)     (approx.)
(a)  Agricultural          Sare Atjeh             5,260         240
Senior Sec-          Medan                   2,990         240
ondary Schools        Padang                 2,100         240
Palembang              3,260          240
Bogor                  1,410          240
Jogjakarta             3,960          240
Malang                 2,650          240
Malang                 1,870          240
Mataram                3,710          240
Bandjarbaru            2,160          120
Ambon                  1,900          120
Manokwari              4,000          120


﻿16
Additional
Area          Total
(sq. meters      Places
Type                  Location             (approx.)     (approx.)
(b)   Agricultural          Banda Atjeh             1,350           30
In-Service            Tandjung-Morawa           400           40
Training              Badarbuat               1,410           60
Centers               Martapura                 990           40
Tjihea                  1,360           60
Lembang                 1,280           60
Soropadan               1,630           60
Tegalgondo                730           60
Kendalpajak             1,030           60
Ketindan                1,550           60
Denpassar               1,150           60
Batangkaluku            1,190           60
Binuang                 1,560           60
(c)   Agricultural          Tjiawi                   920           120
Institute
Part C    Additional equipment for the Forestry Technician Training Center at
Madiun.
Part D:    The provision of equipment and furniture for the Agency for
Agricultural  Education  and  Training  and   for  the  Project
Implementation Unit.
Part E:    (a)   The provision of approximately twenty-four man-years of
specialists' services to the Agency for Agricultural Education and
Training as follows:
(i)        approximately  three man-years for a specialist in
agricultural education planning to assist the Agency for
Agricultural Education and Training develop short- and
long-term agricultural educational and training plans;
(ii)       approximately twelve man-years for four specialists in
modern science, agricultural technology, farm management
and school management and organization to assist in the
implementation of the new curriculum of the agricultural


﻿17
senior secondary schools and improve the administration
of such schools and of the in-service training centers;
(iii)       approximately six man-years for two specialists in the
teaching of agricultural technology, farm management and
modern science to assist in the expansion of the teacher
training program; and
(iv)        approximately    three    man-years   for   a    tropical
forester/educator to assist in the development of the
curriculum  and training programs and techniques for
forestry technicians.
(b)   The provision of fellowships for approximately twenty-eight
man-years for studies by local personnel in the fields of
educational  planning,   management     and   organization  of
agricultural schools, and development and introduction of new
curricula, as follows:
(i)         approximately eight man-years for overseas training of
selected local staff who, upon their return, would be
qualified to become counterparts to the technical
assistance specialists; and
(ii)        approximately   twenty    man-years   for  training  and
orientation of selected staff of the Project institutions in
organization   and    administration   of    educational
institutions,  agricultural   technology    and    farm
management, farm machinery and teaching of modem
science.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


﻿18
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    Contracts for Civil Works
1.    Contractors will be prequalified in accordance with       a prequalification
procedure satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association for its approval
the following:
(a)   a list of all contracts for civil works to be awarded in carrying out
the Project, indicating the estimated value of each contract and the
forecast timetable for obtaining it. The contracts will be grouped in
such a way as to encourage international competitive bidding;
(b)   a   description  of the   proposed   advertising  coverage  to  ensure
international competitive bidding, draft bid notices, prequalification
questionnaires and a description of prequalification procedures;
(c)   the consultant's report and recommendation on the prequalification
data submitted and the proposed selected tender list;
(d)   draft bidding documents including draft contracts. The invitations to
bid for the educational institutions included in the Project will, inter
alia, specify that the bidder will submit offers in respect of each of
them, or any combination thereof. The bids shall be opened
simultaneously. The Borrower shall have the option of awarding to
one contractor one contract in respect of all the educational
institutions and facilities, or separate contracts or a combination of
contracts in respect of the various educational institutions and facilities.
The Borrower shall make such additions or deletions in such proposed
tender list and such modifications in such draft bidding documents
and draft contracts as the Association shall reasonably request.
3.    After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower will, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended
award, and will furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed
report by the Borrower's consultants on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, together with the recommendations of said consultants for award.


﻿19
The Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this Agreement,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.    Promptly after a contract has been awarded, and before submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds in respect thereof,
two certified conformed copies of the contract will be sent to the Association.
Two certified conformed copies of any subsequent contract amendment will also
be sent to the Association.
5.    The Borrower will request the Association's concurrence with any proposed
change in a contract involving a price increase of 10% or more of the contract
price or of $ 100,000 or more equivalent, whichever is less, together with an
explanation of the proposed change.
6.    In the event that the estimate as agreed between the Borrower and the
Association of the total costs of civil works required for any of the Project institutes
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be less than $200,000
equivalent, procurement of such civil works shall not be subject to the requirements
of international advertisement set forth in the Guidelines referred to in Section
2.03 (i) of this Agreement, but, subject thereto, the procedures of such Guidelines
.-   and the provisions of this Schedule shall be applicable in all respects to all contracts
for such civil works.
B.    Contracts for Equipment and Furniture
1.    The items to be purchased will be grouped so as to permit such bulk
procurement as shall be consistent with sound technical and procurement practices.
Insofar as practicable, contracts for such groups will be for not less than $40,000
equivalent. Contracts in amounts of less than $5,000 equivalent will not be
submitted to the Association for concurrence or financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
2.    Before inviting bids, the Borrower will send to the Association for its approval
the following:
(a)   lists of all items of equipment (together with corresponding curriculum
objectives) and furniture required for the Project and the proposed
grouping thereof, showing the specifications and the estimated unit
price of each item and the total price of each category of items. Items
will be indexed, coded and numbered for identification with the
educational institution in question and the space for which they are


﻿20
required. Amendments to such lists will also be submitted to the
Association for approval; and
(b)   draft standard documents for inviting tenders, forms of contracts and
a description of the method to be used for inviting bids on an
international basis, including the proposed advertising procedures.
Bidding documents will specify, inter alia, that bidders must :id for
at least 85% of each package. However, at the Borrower s option,
awards may be made for less than one package if such a solution
appears to be more economical.
3.    Procurement will be limited to those items of equipment and furniture
specified in the approved lists mentioned in subparagraph B. 2. (a) above and
identified in contract documents by the same indices, codes and numbers as in
such lists.
4.    For evaluating any competing bids received for imported and for locally
manufactured equipment and furniture, for the purposes of comparison, the
following method will be used:
(a)   The term "Local Bid" means a bid offering goods manufactured or
processed to a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the
Association) in the territofies of the Borrower; any bid offering other
goods shall be deemed a Foreign Bid.
(b)   The comparison bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum of the
following amounts:
(i)        the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(ii)       inland freight, insurance and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
(c)   For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid with any Local Bid
the comparison bid price under a Foreign Bid shall be the sum of
the following amounts:
(i)        the c.i.f. price of such goods;
(ii)       any such taxes, as generally apply to such goods of non-exempt
importers, or 15% of the amount specified in (c) (i) above,
whichever shall be lower; and


﻿21
(iii)       inland frieight and insurance, and other costs of delivery of such
goods to the place of their use or installation.
5.    If (a) Foreign and Local Bids have been so compared, or (b) a contract
is proposed to be awarded to a bidder other than the lowest evaluated bidder
(taking into account, if applicable the foregoing paragraph B. 4.), or (c) a proposed
award involves a difference in price of 15% or more from the original estimate
as shown pursuant to paragraph B. 2. (a) above, the Borrower will, after the bids
have been evaluated and before making the award, send to the Assocation for
its prompt approval, a summary and analysis thereof and a brief justification of
the Borrower's proposal for the award.
6.    Promptly after bids have been evaluated and a contract has been awarded
and before submission to the Association of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, the following will
be sent to the Assocation (if not already furnished under paragraph B. 5. above):
(a)   a certificate signed by the Project Director or his deputy that the goods
covered by the contract are in accordance with the quantities and
specifications in the list approved by the Association;
(b)   a list of the bids received;
(c)   a brief analysis of the bids and justification for the Borrower's decisior
in making the award; and
(d)   two certified conformed copies of the contract.
[he Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract is not
consistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.
7.    Two certified conformed copies of any subsequent amendment to any
contract referred to in paragraph B. 6. (d) hereof will also be sent promptly to
the Association.


﻿22
SCHEDULE 4
Project Implementation Unit
1.    The Project Implementation      Unit, within the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture and under the direction of the Project Director, will be responsible
for the overall management of the Project, coordination with the Borrower's
Ministries and other parties involved in the Project. The Project Director will be
directly responsible to the Secretary General until the Agency for Agricultural
Education and Training is established and, thereafter, to the Director of such
Agency.
2.    The Project Director will be assisted by the Project Architect who will be
responsible for liaison with the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works. In addition,
the Project Director will be assisted by a Procurement Officer and an Accountant.
The Project Director will in particular carry out the functional liaison with the
educational bodies concerned and will ensure that the construction, extensions,
conversions, modifications, equipment and furnishing of all educational premises
be consistent with educational requirements.
3.    The Project Implementation Unit will be responsible, inter alia, specifically
for the following:
(a)   coordination and integration of all Project activities with the Ministries
and other public or semi-public agencies of the Borrower;
(b)   arrangements for the selection of the consultant architects, the
establishment of their terms of reference and administration of their
agreements;
(c)   preparation, with the help of the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works
and the consultant architects, of a comprehensive implementation
schedule based on the Critical Path Method, Gantt Chart or other
satisfactory method, for setting down the planned timetable of
coordinated activities and responsibilities on which the carrying out
of all aspects of the Project will be based;
(d)   arrangements for the review and approval by appropriate authorities
of the reports, specifications and other material submitted by the
consultants and other specialists;
(e)   advice and assistance to the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works and
the consultant architects with the help of the specialists in agricultural


﻿23
secondary school courses, in agricultural teacher training and in service
training and of other specialists from the Borrower's Ministry of
Agriculture or other educational institutions in Indonesia as needed,
as to the educational needs (including equipment requirements) of the
institutions included in the Project;
(f)   preparation   of the documents required under paragraph B. 2 of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(g)   necessary arrangements for inviting bids and awarding contracts relating
to the Project;
(h)   keeping of accounts for the Project and preparation          of interim
evaluation and financial statements therefor;
(i)   preparation for submission to the Association through proper channels
of applications for withdrawals from the Credit Account; and
(j)   preparation   of quarterly   progress reports for submission to the
Association.


