FILE COPY                     RESTRICTED
Report No. DB-37a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not acsept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be publishvd nor may it be quoted as representing- their views.
INTERNA1TIONAL BANK FOR REC'ONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
INTERNATIONAL DEV'ELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION
OF INPIA LIMITED
August Z8, 1967
Development Finance Companieo



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Indian Rupee (Rs. ) = U. S. $0. 13
1 U.S. Dollar        = Rs. 7.5 I/
1/ Following devaluation of June 6, 1966.
The previous exchange rate was
Rs. 4.76 = U.S. $1.



APPRAISAL OF THE INDUSTRIML CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
This report is based on the findings
of a mission consisting of Iessrs. Pollan and NIuramatsu of IFC
and Messrs. Budhoo and Dunn of the Bank
which visited India in March/April 1967
TABLES OF CONTENTS
Page          Paragraph
SUIvTURY AND CONCLUSIONS                           i
I.  THE ENVIRONIENT
Industrial Growth                                 I               1 -  2
Policy Setting                                     2              3-   7
Financing Institutions and Capital Yarket         4               8 - 11
II. THE CORPORATION
Introduction                                      5              12
Share Capital                                     6              13
Resources                                         6              1-4
Organization and Procedures                       7              15 - 19
Critique of ICICI's Appraisal and
Follow.-Up of Projects                          8              20 - 21
Relations with Goverrnment and Business
Communities                                     8              22 - 25
Business Policies and Practices                   9              26 - 29
III. OPERATIONS
Foreign .Exchange Loans                          10              30
Rupee Operations                                 11              31 - 32
Status of Projects and Related Financial
Implic,ations                                  11              33 - 34
ICICI's Role in Industryr and the Economy        12              35 - 40
IV. FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS
Balance Sheet                                    14              1 - 2
Portfolio                                        15              43
Profit and Loss                                  15              44
Reserves, Dividends and Share Yield              17             45 - 46
V. PROSPECTS
The Setting                                      17              47 - 49
ICICI's Future Operations                        18             50 - 52
Resources Needed                                 19              53 - 54
Future Financial Position                        20             55 - 60
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOF^-3ENDATIONS
Evaluation                                       23              61 - 63
Recommendations                                  24              64 - 68
ANEXES



APPRAISAL OF THE INDUSTRIAL CREMDIT AM1 ITN-ITEIT
CO-PORATION OF INDIA LI4iIT-7D
Sumad_anoCnclus-:onl
1.        The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Limited (ICICI) has requested a Bank loan of US$50-60 million to replenish
its foreign currency resources. This would follow six previous IBARD
loans totalling US$140 million, five loans from the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau totalling DM 60 million, and a loan of US$5 million from
AID.
2.        ICICI was established tweLve years ago to assist in the
development of private industry. It is the largest development finance
company with which the Bank is associated. The principal shareholders
are financing institutions in India and abroad, with foreign holcings
being maintained at about 30 percent. The Board of Directors is composed
of distinguished men from industry, finance and law. A competent
professional staff of 88 is headed by capable and experienced manage-
ment. Project appraisals are generally good but staff work on follow-
up needs to be improved, particularly to ascertain potential problem
projects.
3.        At the end of 1966, ICICI's resources invested, or still
available for investment, totalled Rls. 1,492 million (about US$199
million equivalent). They included share capital of Rs. 75 million,
reserves of its. 34 million, rupee borrowings of Rs. 375 million, and
foreign exchange borrowings of Rs. 1,008 million (about US$134 million).
Since inception, ICICI has approved foreign exchange assistance
totalling US$139 million and rupee business of about ds. 735 million.
425 companies have become ICICI's clients, including 73 involving
entrepreneurs entering industry for the first time. The demand for
ICICI's assistance has been strong and on the rise, except for the past
one year and a half when adverse economic and business conditions in India
dampened entrepreneurs' willingness to invest.
4.        ICICI has been able to do business with more forward looking
entrepreneurs and to direct its assistance to many non-traditional
industries. The nature of these industries, particularly metal
products, machinery and chemicals, hlas also given considerable scope
to the participation of foreign interests whose confidence in particular
ventures was often strengthened by active ICICI support. ICICI has been
instrumental in fostering new capital issues, especially through its
numerous underwritings. By its professional standards and frequent
assistance to clients in preparing projects properly, ICICI has had a
lasting impact on many Indian industrialists. ICICI has also rendered
substantial technical assistance to other Indian and foreign
industrial financing institutions. On the other hand, ICICI has
develop.ed little business on its own initiative; in regard to its
foreign exchange operations, it has mainly acted on referrals from the
Government.



- ii -
5.       ICICI'ts portfolio is generally sound. ICICI's activities have
been profitable and in recent years resulted in attractive returns on share
capital and net worth, Net income after tax equaled in 1966 18.6 per-cent
of share capital and 13 percent of net worth. Administrative expenses have
been kept at modest levels.
6.       Following two crop failures, which have largely contributed to
India's current economic stagnation, the pace of future growth is still
uncertain because this year's harvest results have yet to become known.
But Indian industry's growing size, its continued substantial need for
imported capital goods, and its dependence on the support of financing insti-
tutions, should enable ICICI, particularly if it did more to identify and
develop projects on its own, to conduct a growing business over the next
several years. ICICI has forecast a business volume for the period 1967-70
of Rs. 1.6 billion, over one-half of which (about US$121 million) woul d be
for foreign exchange lending. While there is likely to be a shortfall in
actual foreign exchange business in 1967, these forecasts appear reasonable
taking the four-year period as a whole. In recent months the pipeline of
projects beforeICICI has increased and cancellations of earlier foreign
exchange approvals have declined. Another Bank loan is justified by ICICI's
record and operational prospects. A loan of US$25 million would be appro-
priate at this time.
7.       A fresh Bank loan should carry the normal features of recent Bank
loans to development finance companies. As hitherto, the Bank's prior
approval of projects should be required only for those exceeding US$2 million
or more from the proposed loan.
8.       The debt limitation on ICICI under its loan contracts with the Bank
should be revised. Present arrangements restrict ICICI's long-term borrowings
(exclusive of its first three Government loans totalling Rs. 275 million)
to four times its capital, reserves and the outstanding balance of the first
Government loan. Since this limit will probably be reached this year, ICICI
has requested that it be relaxed. Because of the generally good quality
of ICICI's portfolio and its likely comfortable position to meet its debt
service, a relaxation is warranted to enable ICICI to expand its operations.
It is considered prudent to exclude from the borrowing base (i.e. "equity")
those payments on the first Government loan which fall due before any of
the Bank loans to ICICI is repaid, including the proposed loan.   Those
payments, and other long-term rupee borrowing hitherto excluded, should be
included in a revised definition of "indebtedness".  On this basis, a
debt limit of nine times "equity" is recommended. This limitation would,
on the old basis, be equivalent to a ratio of between 5 and 6.to 1.



APPRAISAL OF THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
I. THE ENVIRONMENT
Industrial Growth
1.        The past two years, since the last IBRD loan was made to ICICI,
were characterized by several extraordinary developments in the Indian economy.
In the second half of 1965, a crop failure resulting from an unprecedented
drought practically coincided with the Indo-Pakistani hostilities which led to
dislocations in the economy and to protracted uncertainties about the size and
the financing of the Government's investment program. In June 1966, the
Indian rupee was devalued and shortly thereafter maintenance imports needed
by a wide range of industries were liberalized in expectation of $900 million
of non-project assistance provided by members of the Indian Consortium over
the remainder of the year. These events, of far-reaching importance by them-
selves, were however overshadowed by a repetition of the crop failure.
2.        These developments had incisive effects on industry.   Stepped-up
food imports, though in large part provided on concessionary terms by friendly
countries, made additional in-roads on India's meagre foreign exchange
resources, thus at first squeezing industry further in the availabilities of
scarce imported1 materials. While imports were more easily available follow-
ing devaluation, governmental orders for industrial gcods cn which maniy enter-
prises depend directly or indirectly were cut back, particularly for the
railways program; large amounts of public funds were used to buy, and to
subsidize the prices of, imported food and fertilizer (Rs.2,350 million in
1966/67) and to finance a variety of ad-hoc agricultural programs and relief
measures. The exceptions were increased governmental procurement from indus-
tries producing agricultural implements.  Secondly, roughly 40 percent of
India's industrial output depends on agricultural raw materials and the crop
failures severely hit the supply of important commodities, such as cotton
and jute, to the processing industries. Even so many textile companies have
sale difficulties. Mainly as a result of the food shortage, wholesale prices
rose by about 17 percent in 1966/67 with food prices alone climbing by about
21 percent, the latter causing an increasing diversion of consumers' disposable
incomes to food purchases.  In the face of rising prices, the Government has
been reluctant to increase investment expenditures; and the credit policy
of the Reserve Bank, despite some relaxation in the recent "busy season"
(October 1966 - April 1967), has on the whole been strict. The past two
years have been difficult for Indian industry, which after first contending
with raw material scarcities still has to complete its adjustment process to
the new cost/price relationships following devaluation. Output grew by roughly
5.4 percent in 1965 and by only 2.5 percent in 1966. However, as shown in
Annex 1, production in specific lines has fared differently, with the widely
reported recession principally affecting manufacturers of textiles, metal
products and transport equipment.



-2
Policy Settinu
3.        As in the past, the Government continues to be widel3 involved in
industry, either as an entrepreneur or through controls. The control system
has, however, undergone significant relaxations in 1966, the major steps
being the liberalization of maintenance imports for 59 priority industries,
the further lifting of several price controls (particularly on cement, and
most recently on steel and coal), the abandonment of capital issue controls
if proposed issues meet certain standard requirements, the exemption of in-
dustrial licencing requirements in respect of 44 industries, and a more
liberal position on increasing and diversifying the output beyond thet licenced
capacities of industrial enterprises if no additional imported equipment is
involved. According to recent announcements by the Minister of Industrial
Development, the Governmentts regulatory policies are currently under review
with a view to further relaxations in licencing the establishment or expan-
sion of industrial capacity.
4.        The administrative control system has remained strict, however,
concerning the imports of finished capital goods. The Capital Goods
Committee (CGC), in which representatives of the Industry and Finance
Ministries and the Planning Commission are important members (and the com-
position of which is practically identical to the Industrial Licencing
Committee) disposes of requests for the import of capital goods. CGC approval
is an essential requisite for obtaining an import licence and making defini-
tive foreign exchange financing arrangements, including the use of foreign
exchange loans made by Indian financing institutions such as ICICI.
5.        Before permitting capital goods imports, the CGC ascertains the
indigenous availability of equipment. This aspect has recently gained in-
creasing importance since a wide array of Indian capital goods manufacturers
- including many benefitting from the liberalized import program - have come
into production during the Third Five-Year Plant_/. Many of these are anxious,
particularly in the current stagnation, to enjoy the absolute shelter afforded
by administrative controls rather than relying on protection afforded by
last year's (devaluation of the rupee and the continued sizeable import duties
amounting to 27.5 percent of the cif value of most machinery items. Another
important CGC consideration is the availability and usability of various
types of foresign exchange. Most investments involving imports have no re-
course to India's "free foreign exchange", and have therefore to rely on
private foreign investment and to a much larger extent on various foreign
aid streams, virtually all of which are tied to procurement in the donor
country. Therefore, there is the problem of reconciling the interests of
entrepreneurs, who obviously aim for foreign exchange offering access to
supply sources most favorable to them and those of the authorities which
also wish to promote the use of less convenient aid streams, including some
from Consortium countries and under the so-called "rupee payments arrange-
ment" with Eastern European countries. (Over the next two years, $100 million
1/ April 1, 1961 - March 31, 1966.



- 3-
equivalent from Eastern European countries appear to be available to private
Indian indust.ry). The CGC is also motivated by priority considerations
which have in the past two years increasingly been formed ad hoc because the
actual perfoimance of the economy has not conformed to the Plan targets,
which were thLe original basis for priorities.
6.        While the Indian desire to make maximum use of domestic capital
goods manufacturing capacity is understandable and constraints imposed by
availability and usuability of various types of foreign exchange are real,
the practically absolute protection of local capital goods industry from im-
port competition aggravates existing inefficiencies in Indian industry.
With the relative inelasticities in the foreign demand for indiats tradi-
tional export goods (jute, tea, textiles), it is particularly important that
Indian industry becomes a greater foreign exchange earner and that its com-
petitive position in the world markets and at home be enhanced. Some of
the desired competition should come from capital goods imports. There would
still be a case for protecting a series of Indian industries, but it would
be preferable if such protection were provided by import tariffs rather than
providing an absolute shelter through physical controls. This would leave
to the entrepreneur instead of the CGC the final decision (and the related
risks) as to where to procure capital goods. Possible foreign exchange
effects of adopting such a course wiould be mitigated by limiting entrepre-
neurs' freedom of decision to priority industries as defined by the Government.
Furthermore, if continued non-project assistance permits maintaining the
present liberalized maintenance imports policies, Indian buyers would in-
creasingly place orders on domestic supply sources because of cost reduc-
tions stemminig from the fuller utilization of Indian manufacturers' capacities
due to disappearing scarcities of imported raw materials and components.
7.        If absolute protection of Indian capital gooci6 producers is
abandoned, the Government would continue to have a function, unless all
foreign aid is untied, in allocating foreign exchange with the characteris-
tics of IBRD funds relent by ICICI because their practically world-wide
usability makes them more desirable than many'other aid streams. This
allocation has so far been made on the basis'of detailed equipment lists,
with a view to forbidding the import of items expected to be available in
India. In connection with the recent negotiations on the proposed loan to
ICICI, the Government of India has advised the Bank that for the use of
foreign exchange loans to be made by ICICI, it would relax its allocation
system somewlhat. Thus entrepreneurs would be allowed to approach ICICI on
the basis of broad indications of import needs and, while final CGC approval
would still be given on the basis of a detailed listing of imported items,
the entrepreneur would be permitted a marginal amount of substitution of
imported for domestically available items. While this step would give
entrepreneurs a little more room to make final procurement decisions based
on efficiency and cost, additional steps towards a greater liberalization of
controls over imported capital goods are necessary and would be justified.
The Bank intends to pursue this mat-ter further with the Indian authorities.



Financing Institutions and Capital Market
8.        Institutions.  Since the creation in 1964 of the Industrial Develop-
ment Bank of India (IDBI), the framework of industrial financing institutions
in India has in essence remained the same. The wide-spread network of commer-
cial banks is contributing to industry principally by financing working capital
Small industries look in the main to the 15 State Financial Corporations and 12
State Industrial Development Corporations. Large- and medium-scale industries
are meeting their financing needs for investment from institutions operating
throughout the country, namely ICICI (the only private one), IDBI, the Indus-
trial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI) in Delhi, the Life Insurance Corpora-
tion (LIC), and the Unit Trust of India (UTI). (Further details on the public
sector institutions are given in Annex 2.) The relative importance of assist-
ance disbursed in 1965/66 by the aforementioned institutions is indicated in
the follow:ing table (in Rs. millions):
Loans     Underwriting and Direct Subscriptions    Total
Shares       Debentures         Total
IDBI                   3281/        15             13             28       356
IFCI                   2122/        27             1I             41        253
(31)                                                (31)
ICICI                  169          21              9             30       199
(126)                                               (126)
State Finl. Corps.     161          19              -             19        180
State Ind. Dev. Corps.   3          11              -             11        14
UTI                      -          1031            8             18        18
LIC                                2392             -            239        239
Grand Total            873         342             44            147      1,259
(157)                                               (157)
I/ Including refinance and discounts.
2  Including disbursements on guarantees.
T/ Including purchases from stock exchange.
Note: Figures in brackets show foreign exchange loans at the exchange rate
effective before June 6, 1966 (US$1 = Rs. 4.76).
Source: IDBI, LIC.
9.        Whi:Le IDBI disposes only o: rupees, ICICI and IFCI have significant
foreign exchange resources. The act:ivities of the three instituti-ons have
different emphases. ICICI leans towards the newer industries, such as chemi-
cals, machinery, etc., and invests only in private enterprises. IFCI, for most
of its 19-year existence, has provided substantial assistance to traditional
industries, such as textiles and sugar; but since the hostilities with Pakistan~
it has readjusted its priorities giving preference to industries oriented to
defence, agriculture, exports and import susbtitution. Similar priorities
guide IDBI in its direct assistance, wlhere it is aiming for larger projects in
both the private and public sectors, and in its refinancing of loans made by
other credit institutions. IDBI is also a source of finance to ICICI and IDT12



by purchases of their debentures. Relations among the three leading institu-
tions are well developed, as shown by a series of joint operations, particular-
ly in underwriting, and the informal, but now institutionalized, practice of
monthly meetings of their top officers, in which LIC also participates.
10.       There are no aggregative data in India on gross fixed capital forma-
tion in industry as a whole, nor in private industry, and thus on the relative
contributiorn made by industrial financing institutions. There are, however,
surveys conducted periodically by the Reserve Bank and The Economic Times on
the basis of samples, covering 1,333 and 101 large private companies respec-
tively, regarding the sources of fnids and their application to gross assets
formation in the manufacturing sector. They reveal that in the past 3-4 years
somewhat over one-half of gross assets (with fixed assets accounting for
about 60 percent) was financed by the companies' internal resources, mainly
by depreciation.  While among external sources, capital raised through fresh
issues accounted for only 6-7 percent of gross asset formation, borrowings
contributed about 30 percent. The foregoing highlights Indian industry's
pronounced reliance on serf-generated funds and on external borrowings - with
commercial banks' interest rates hovering around 9-10 percent in recent years
and the relLtively minor role of the capital market.
11.       Capital Market.  The malaise of the stock market, initially provoked
by the Chinese incursion in 1962, lhas continued except for sporadic bullish
flickers.  Thle Reserve Bank's index (1961/62 = 100) for variable dividend
industrial securities has oscillated around 80 in recent years, and debentures
and preference shares around 90. lIajor factors in dampening the enthusiasm
for investment in securities have been uncertainties about the prospects of
the economy, the investing public's apprehension of the uovernment's tax poli-
cies, and alternative more attractive investment opportunities, particularly
in urban real estate. The response to new issues has generally been dull,
with fixed-income issues and new ordinary share issues involving prominent
foreign partners faring somewhat better.  The support of issues by the leading
industrial financing institutions has become increasingly important and large
parts of the underwritten amounts had to be taken up by the underwriters.   The
flow of savings from the public into direct investment in securities has been
negligible except that UTI, following its creation in 196h, collected about
Rs. 67 million through its second unit sales offer in July 1966. LIC has,
through its rising premium income, remained the most important source of fresh
funds entering the capital market.
II. THE CORPORATION
Introduction
12.       ICICI was incorporated on January 5, 1955, with resources totalling
Rs.125 million consisting of Rs.50 million of share capital and Rs.75 million
of Governmeint borrowings. It provides assistance to private industry in India
through medium- and long-term loans, equity investments, underwritings and
guarantee operations.



-6-
Share Capital
13.       In October 1965, ICICI made a rights issue of Rs.25 million, one for
every two of the Rs.50 million of original shares. The issue was fully sub-
scribed and ICICI's paid-up share capital is now Rs.75 million. Foreign share-
holdings remain at about 30 percent as before. The distribution of sharehold-
ings on December 31, 1966, is detailed in Annex 3.
Resources
14.       Up -to December 31, 1966, IICI has had at its disposal resources
totaling Rs.484 million and nearly US$159 million in foreign exchange. As of
that date, the total of resources invested or still available for investment
was Rs.1,492 million (about US$199 million equivalent) as follows:
Rupee                       Rs.Million            % of Total
Share Capital                   75                   5.0
Reserves                        34                   2.3
Government Loans               325                  21.8
IDBY Loan                       50                  3.3
Foreign
IBRD Loans    US$116.1 million (871) equivalent    58.4
AID Loan      US$ 4.0 million (30)                   2.0
Kredlitanstalt
fur Wiederauf-
bau (KfW)
Loans         DM 57,2 million (107)                  7.2
(17OO8                 67.6
Grand Total          1,492                l0OOO
four loans have been made to ICICI by the Government of India and one by IDBI.
The first, for Rs.75 million, was granted when the Corporation was formed in
1955. It is free of interest and repayable over 30 years, including ]5 years
of grace. It is subordinated to all debt and share capital. The remaining
four loans from official sources, which are subordinated to foreign debt only,
were made in the period 1959-66, at interest rates edging up successively from
41 percent to 5-5/8 percent per annum. Repayments on all these loans begin
in the period 1970-72.  (Another Rs.30 million loan from IDBI, from which
Rs.l0 million was made available to ICICI in May 1967, is currently urder
negotiation.) Six I3RD loans were made to ICICI totaling on December 31, 1966,
US$139.2 million net of cancellations. An AID loan of US$5 million was ob-
tained in 1961,, but US$0.5 million was cancelled in August 1966. KfW has
made five loans totaling DM 60 million and another loan of DIvi 5 million is
about to be concluded. Further detaiLs of the loans obtained by ICICI are
shown in Annex 4.



- 7-
Organization and Procedures
15.       The Board.  The present Board has 13 members as listed in Anmex 5.
Three of tRem-have been members since inception and four have been elected in
the past two years. One director is appointed by the Government so long as a
Government loan or guarantee is outstanding. The Board meets monthly and passes
on all loans and investments.
16.       Management and Staff.  Since 1960 ICICI's entire management and staff
have been Indian.  Mr. G.L. Mehta is the Chairman of the Board.   Mr.H.T. Parekh
is the General Manager since 1958, and carries the brunt of day-to-day operations.
Both have continued to exercise the forceful, experienced and prudent leadership
which has characterized their work since they assumed their present posts in
mid-1958. Over the years, ICICI has 'built up a capable staff displaying good
morale. Staff now numbers 156 (an increase by 19 percent over the past two
years), including 88 professionals Qf which 59 are officers.   At present,
no additional recruitment is contemplated. As shown in Annex 6, ICICI has
six departments, officers are concentrated in the Project Department, the
Economics and Market Department, and the Follow-Up Department. The last two,
which used to be smaller sections, have undergone considerable strengthening
over the past two years. Interdepartmental communications function well and ar!
quite informal..
17.       Training. With the completion of its recuitment effort, the emphas_s
of staff training in ICICI has changed from a formal tra-ining pro -ram to in-
service training. ICICI personnel continue to attend training courses in
India and abroad and includes eleven alumni of training programs held in
Washington under Bank auspices. ICICI's expertise has also been contributed
substantially to foreign development finance companies. Senior officers
(e.g. the former Deputy General Manager and a senior officer in the Follow-Up
Department) were seconded to other institutions, and training programs are
conducted in Bombay at ICICI's expense for two foreign trainees per year.
(So far there have been four participants.) ICICI is also giving advice to
other financing institutions in India.
18.       Processing of Projects.  There are still considerable lags between
loan approvals and commitments of funds, and between that stage and the com-
mencement of disbursements. They have, however, been shortened in the past
two years and now amount, on the average, to 9-10 months for the former and
5 months for the latter. Recently, there has been some widening of the gap
between approvals and commitments principally because of the difficulty clients
are facing in completing their financing arrangements. Tne time needed to
obtain an import licence, in most instances 3-5 months after ICICI approval is
now of less weight than in earlier years. (However, much more time is' often
needed for obtaining the Capital Goods Committee approval without which, as a
rule, ICICI does not approve a foreign exchange loan.) Difficulties with land
acquisition, or clients' inexperience in taking necessary steps, are other
factors delaying disbursements.
19.       Disbursements and Audit. ICICI's disbursement procedures are well
organized. ICICI's accounts have been audited since its inception by the
Indian account:ing firms N.M. Raiji & Co. (Bombay) and Ray & Ray (Calcutta),
and were always approved without qualifications.



- 8 -
Critiqua of Icicis Appraisal and Follow-Up of Projects
20o       ICICIls appraisals have shown steady improvement. Their strong points
are financial analysis and especially judgments on technical features of
projects. Market analysis, a field in which many clients are particularly weak,
has been strengthened in recent years though there is still need for wider
checking of assumptions underlying product market forecasts and for greater
emphasis on the competitiveness of a particular client in the changing in-
dustrial structure in India and in rworld markets. The assessment of clients'
managements rests heavily on ICICIs wide knowled.!ae of the business community.
Appraisals have a tendency to focus on projects and less comprehensively on
company situations, aspects of particular importance in judging the resilience
of clients, irncluding their abilities to meet cost overruns which have been
occurring frequently.  ICICIts store of knowledge of industries and companies,
accumulated over twelve years, has not always been brought to bear in the asses3-
ment of new projects0
21.       Staff work on project supervision has been undertaken with less elan
and thoroughness than appraisals and, in the past, has been given tco little
scope for throwing up all the potential problem cases of which ICICI should have
become aware in the normal course of its business. (ICICI's top officers, due
to their wide contacts in business circles, are often better placed than the
staff concerne!d to be alerted to clientst difficulties.) The type of progress
reports required from clients, who dc) not always comply, stresses data on
physical project implementation but not enough to make an assessment of the
clients' financial situation and relative position in their respective branch
of manufacturing. ICICI would have to make a stronger effort - and it has the
tools to do sco, since the recent doubling of the staff of the Follow-Up Depart-
ment - to give project supervision tthe greater weight needed in its operations.
Needed improvements in ICICIts appraisal and follow-up work have loomed very
strongly in the recent loan negotiations0    (ICICI s follow-up work is discussed
further in Annex 7.).
Relations with Government and Business Communities
22.       The far-flung influence of the Government over the economy., ICICI's
continued dependence on the public sector for an important share of its re-
sources, and the fact that a sizeable share of ICICI's foreign exchange
business is referred to it by the Capital Goods Committee, are important reasons
for ICICT to raintain good relations with the authorities0   In fact, virtually
all of the proposals before ICICI are processed fully only after they have had
governmental approval; only afew projects involving imports have come from
businessmen oIr have been developed by ICICI before approval by the Capital Goods
Committee. In effect, therefore, ICICI has been exercising its business judg-
ment on a group of projects selected elsewhere; it has not been an active
agent in bringing important projects to the attention of the Government. (See
paragraph 40.)0
23.       ICICI's Chairman and General Manager have been very effective in
resolving broad policy questions withl the top decision-makers in Government ard
the Reserve Bank. As ICICI recognises itself, more contact is needed, however,
between Goverrnment and ICICI's senior staff to help settle more quickly the
frequently arising project issues involving Government action.



- 9 -
2h.       ICICI's location in Bombay, India's most important financial center
and a major industrial area, has helped ICICI in developing congenial rela-
tionships wiith the financial and business community in the region. Many
ICICI officers come from that same milieu, The bulk of ICICI1s operations
are located in the same area. While ICICI enjoys good relations with many
industrialists in other business centers, it has become Xargely identified
with West India. Much needs to be done to inject ICICI more decis-Lvely
in the industrial financing in other regions, particularly around Calcutta,
Madras and the Punjab,
25.       The institutionts appraisal procedures have at times appeared
onerous to first-time clients, but the caution underlying the fairly strict
requirements of ICICI is now more widely appreciated. Criticism of' ICICI
stems often from weaknesses of would-be clients.  Similarly, there are still
a number of enterprises (directed to ICICI by the Capital Goods Committee)
which only need access to untied foreign exchange and not finance and which
are, therefore, averse to detailed project scrutiny.
Business Policies and Practices
26.       ICICIts operations are governed by broad guidelines formulated
over the years by the Board of Directors, though not laid down in a definiti'ra
policy statement. Generally ICICI aims at directing its assistance! to
the newer industries, and to keep at a minimum its assistance to traditional
sectors, such as jute and textiles. As to foreign exchange loans, it has
to operate within the bounds of the governmental referral and approval
system. IC[CI barely undertakes any promotion in seeking out clients or
projects because for most of its existence there has been a sustained and
rising demand for its assistance.  It is ICICI's practice to relate total
equity investment to its own net worth and an allowance, determined, by
ICICIs judgment of capital market conditions and the quality of its equity
portfolio, for the cushion built into ICICI's risk capital by the first
Government loan which is subordinated to share capital j1.
27.       10ICI has set limits on assistance in all available forms at
Rs.lO million to any one company and at Rs.30 million on foreign currency
loans to any group of associated companies. ICICI generally discourages
rupee loans below Rs.500,000; foreign exchange loans below that amount,
however, havre been made, mainly for balancing equipment.  At the end of
1966, 30 percent of ICICI's loans to companies were below Rs.l million,
while average assistance was Rs,3,2 million per project and Rs.4.2 million
per company. On oceasion loans above the indicated limits are approved when
ICICI feels that departure from the general practice is justified. The
largest operations to date with a single company were foreign currency loans
totaling US$h4655 million made to Scindia Steamship Navigation Companyo
1/ The total of ICICI's net worth plus quasi-equity as at December 31, 196è,
amounted to Rs.183.7 million, whvile its equity portfolio amounted to
Rs.ll6e7 million, Rs.8 million more than its net worth.



- 10 -
28.       Loan Terms. ICICI charges interest of 8 percent per annuri on
local currency and 5M percent on foreign currency loans. (The same rates
are charged by IDBI and IFCI.) It also levies a commitment charge of 1
percent on uridrawn amounts. The lives of ICICI's loans vary between 10
and 15 years including grace periods of usually 2-3 years until projects
come into production. (The majority of ICICI's foreign exchange loans
with IBRD funds have a life of twelve years.) ICICI loans are usually
secured by mortgages on borrowerst assets, and in some cases by bank
guarantees or the pledge of securities.
29.       ICICI's loan agreements contain covenants to protect its position.
Noteworthy among them is the requirement that clients assume the exchange
risk. The right is reserved to appoint a director on a borrowerts board,
and ICICI has done so in twenty-six cases. In many agreements ICIC1 requires
promoters to put up specified amounts of their own funds for financing,
or meeting shortfalls in, projects.  (This helps ICICI's general objective
to have clients adhere to a 1:1 debt/equity ratio.).
III. OPERATIONS
Foreign Exchange Loans
30.       As shown in Annex 8, the rising past trend in ICICI's assistance
in any form was interrupted in 1966 due to business uncertainties following
devaluation ard the general slow-down of economic activities. Foreign ex-
change approvals in 1966 amounted to US$13.6 million as against US$22.6
million in 1965. Applications dropped from US$39.7 million in 1965 to
US$25.1 million in 1966. (Applications on hand at the end of 1965 and 1966
totaled US$1,3.7 million and US$5.4 million respectively.) Cancellations
and reductions in 1966 of previous approvals totaled US$5e7 million, exceed-
ing the 1965 figures by about 150 percent. Following devaluation, ICICI
cut foreign exchange approvals in respect of projects which had madei no
progress for some time; furthermore, several clients requested reductions
in approved Foreign exchange loans because they intended to switch to
local procurement. The 1966 decline in business was even more marked
in respect of commitments which after a steady rise to US$26.9 million
in 1965 dropped to US$10.2 million in 1966. About 89 percent (or US$123c1
million) of ICICI's foreign exchange loan approvals involved the use of
IBRD loans.



Rupee Operaticins
31.       At the end of 1966, rupee assistance approved totalled about Rs.735
million, about; 50 percent for loans and guarantees, 42 percent for underwritings
and 8 percent for direct subscriptions. Rupee loans, often made together with
foreign exchange loans, have been extended for fixed capital investment, except
for a Rs.20 million loan to a textile machinery manufacturer,enabling it to
offer deferred payment terms. Guarantee approvals totalled Rs.23 million at
the end of 1966 including Rs.20 million for a fertilizer project for machinery
imports under suppliers' credits.
32.       Underwritings are usually combined with loans, and for large opera-
tions made jointly with other institutions.   ICICI's share in public issues,
where it part:icipated in underwritings, was 21.1 percent in 1965 and 16.3 per-
cent in 1966. Similar to its experience in the preceding two years, ICICI had
to take up, in view of stagnant market conditions, about one-half of the 1965
totalof Rs.61.4 million underwritten by it and about twqo-thirds of the Rs.h5.8
million total in 1966 Y   As shown in Annex 9, sales from ICICI's industrial
portfolio averaged during the past five years at only three percent of share
portfolio, amounting to Rs.2.1 million in 1965 and Rs.2.7 million in 1966 with
some capital gains. Aside frcom depressed market conditions, this is also part-
1y due to the fact that only a small part of the ordinary shares in ICICI?s
portfolio (20 percent at the end of 1966) represents investments in companies
with a sustained production and profit record. ICICI should, of course, make
a continuing effort to sell from its portfolio.
Status of Projects and Related Financial Implications
33.       Through the end of 1966, ICICI approved assistance for 546 projects.
At that time 96 projects were at the planning stage and 146 under constructicn.
Of 304 completed projects, 145 were completed during the past two fiscal years
including 55 for the provision of balancing equipment. Of the other 90 proj-
ects, only 25 were finished on schedule and 33 uithout cost overruns 2/   Though
complete data are not available, the share of problem-free cases appears to be
even smaller among projects under, planning and particularly those under con-
struction; among the latter close to one-third seem delayed over one year and
cost increases have been marked, though in part due to extraneous factors such
as increased import duties at first and, subsequently, devaluation.
34.       On account of delays, cost overruns and difficulties of sponsors in
securing all required finance, ICICI approved during the past two years
1/  ICICI's 1965 underwritings covered 32 issues by 25 corlpanies totalling
Rs.290 million, of which 5 issues were oversubscribed and 9 had to be taker
up total-Ly by underwriters. In 1966. out of 41 issues by 34 companies
totalling Rs.280 million, only 3 issues were oversubscribed and 24 had to
be taken up totally.
2/  24 projects were delayed over one year.  Overruns were concentrated in the
20-25 percent range; 7 projects showed an excess over 50 percent.



- 12 -
supplemental financing totalling Rs.22 million (i.e. 11 percent of net approv-
als) for 31 projects. In the same period, relief was also granted by post-
ponements totalling Rs.7 million olf principal repay,ments due or equivalent to
6 percent of total repayments received 2Z
ICICI's Role in Industry and the Economy
35.       In recent years there have been no remarkable shifts in the indus-
trial pattern of ICICI's assistance which is showm in Annex 10. Iron and steel
products and chemicals have remained1 in the lead with shares Z'of 21.5 and
13.7 percent respectively. Electrical equipment and machinery manufacture
accounted each for somewhat over 10 percent. Some of the expected developments
of annual capacities, resulting frorm projects financed by ICICI are about 7.5
million tons of cement, 175,000 tons3 of nitrogenous fertilizer, 220,000 tons
of superphosphate and 225,000 tons of steel tubes. ICICI has estimated that
its assistance would result in a total capital mobilization of about Rs.10.2
billion and g,ive employment to about 166,000 workers. Over one-half (222) of
the enterprises assisted involve foreign collaboration agreements and nearlr
30 percent (L20) foreign investments, especially among machinery, electrical
equipment and chemical manufacturers; making these arrangements work often
called for considerable efforts by IECICI and has been among its valued contri-
butions.
36.       Of the 425 companies assistied by ICIC0 , 157 were new including 73
involving entrepreneurs entering indiustry for tlle first time; the manufacture
of 26 products or processes have been introduced to India bv ICICI clients.
292 of the 3() completedprojects were producing at the end of 1966, with
about 50 of them over two years.  Nearly 20 enterprises show output in the
vicinity of rated capacity levels, such as manufacturers of metal products,
machinery, electricals and chemicals. In part helped by tBe generally decreas-
ing scarcities of imported domestic production materials 3, recent output
performance has been particularlyr encouraging among clients making cement,
fertilizer (particularly superphosphate), ball bearings and small tools.
37.       A sizeable number of ICICI's clients have been affected by the un-
settled conditions of the economy in recent years. There are proble!ms in
raising funds and in meeting higher financial and depreciation charges after
devaluation.  Marketing difficulties have been besetting clients making wagons,
refractories, cables, wire ropes, glass and a variety of machinery. The
1/ The resulting delays in repayments under foreign exchange loans are the
main reason for the excess of foreign exchange assets over liabilities in
ICICI's 1966 balance sheet and the exchange profit of about Rs.5.3 million
which ICICI will realize when payments are received.
2/  Representing outstanding amounts at the end of 1966.
3/ About 90 percent of ICICI financed projects fall among the 59 priority
industries participating in the liberalized import program.



- 13 -
general difficulties have compoundecd intra-company problems, such as management
weaknesses and production difficulties, wvhich are attracting ICICI's continuous
attention in 24 companies.
38.       Chronic foreign exchange shortages and the potentially large home
market have given strong impetus to ICICI's clients to sponsor projects for
import substitution. ICICI expects that its 1966 assistance will eventually
lead to annual foreign exchange savings of about US$70 million, particularly
for alloy steel. Potential exports have had less weight (US$3 million per
year to result from 1966 assistance to tool, fisheries and piston projects)
though ICICI clients have accounted for about 5-6 percent of total Indian
manufacturing exports of about US$310 million in 1965/66.   Devaluation has
enhanced the competitive strength of a series of Indian manufacturers vis-a-vis
imports, but many of them, including for example ICICI clients making steel
cables and steel pipes, have production costs above the cif prices of im-
ports. Producers of small tools, certain items of textile machinery, cranes,
forgings and mall appliances are favorably placed.   ICICI has already been
helpful in inproving the production costs of several clients by suggesting
economic sca'les of production (paper), or processing of by-products (chemicals)
and by its substantial financing of balancing equipment l'.   In part recog-
nition of the need to make clients more competitive at home and abroad, ICICI
plans in the near future to convene a conference of clients, similar to the
one held in Nqovember 1964 on problems affecting their projects, to review
ways in which it could help improve its clients' export performance.
39.       ICICI's assistance remains heavily slanted to Western India, with
1Naharashtra and Gujarat accounting'for 51 percent of total approvals through
1966 versus 48 percent through 1964 -. Wlest Bengal/Bihar with a heavy indus-
trial concentration accounted for only 13 percent, and Mladras and the Punjab/
Haryana, where industrial development has been strongly spurred in recent years,
for about 11 and 1.4 percent respectively. (The geographical distribution is
set forth in Annex 11.) While ICICI's assistance is strongly linked to the
more rapid development in the Wlest of the sectors which have benefitted from
ICICI0s assistanoethe pattern also supports the conclusion that ICI'I clearly
could and should do more business elsewhere in the country.
40.       Generally ICTCI acts only after a proposition or project has been
presented either through a promoter or the Government which continues, through
its referrals, to be an important source of the Corporation's foreign exchange
business. (The accommodation of business so allocated is, however, dependent
on ICICI's own judgment   )ICICI's "promotional role" comes to bear once a
1/ Assistance for balancing equipment projects, since inception, amounted to
Rs.149 million (8 percent of the total) for 99 projects.
2 These two States account for about 24 percent of assistance approved through
mid-1966 by IFCI, and for 64 percent of approvals by IDBI.
3/ Of the 261 cases, allocated to ICICI by the Capital Goods Committee in 1965'
and 1966, 115 have not yet or never approached ICICI, 22 were rejected by
ICICI, in respect of 13 the Cormittee's clearance was cancelled, and 3 wera
approved by ICICI but subsequently withdrawn by the respective companies.



:L1 -
proposal has thus come to its attention. This occurs particularly through
shaping proposals into viable propos.itions, by helping clients in trouble,
and notably by its capital market operations.  ICICI has started making efforts
of its own in developing projects, for instance, by recently sponsoring a
fisheries project; it also hopes to develop soon a project for pesticides and
in the hotel industry. But ICICI has to do more in getting potential good
prospects through its door, particularly now when weaknesses of a good number
of clients, wiho approach ICICI at their or the Government's initiative, have
been accentuated by the problems of the economy, In loan negotiations, the
Bank and ICICI agreed that there was a strong need for a more outgoing attitude
on the part of ICICI in finding new business and that new proposals were likely
to be found and be developed more readily if ICICI had a more continuing
presence in industrial centers away from Bombay, Various devices to achieve th-.:Ls
were discussed.
IV. FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS
Balance Sheet
41.       ICICI's comparative balance sheets for December 31, 1962 throughl9056,
which are shown in Annex 12, reveal. a sizeable growth of assets, which in the
last two years alone amounted to 93 percent. A good part of this increase is,
howiever, due to the devaluation wit,hout which assets would have grown only by
56 percent in the same peLriod. Foreign exchange loans now represent about _O
percent of total assets /-as shown below in the condensed December 31, 1966
balance sheet (in Rs. million):
Assets                                   Capital and Liabilities
Loans: Rupee Loans               205     Share Capital                  75
Foreign Currency Loans   5X6     Reserves and Surplus           3
7'1                                   109
Industrial Securities:
Shares                   116     Rupee Loans                   355
Debentures                55     Foreign Exchange Loans:
IBRD                    5
AID                      30
T~~~~~T ~~~~526
Current Assets:
Cash and Banks            52
Government Securities,
etc.                   24
Other Current Assets      31
107
Fixed Assets                       2     Current Liabilities            3,
Total            12(31                    Total        l0o-l
l/  The difference between foreign e,'change assets and liabilities is exgli2'rec
in footnote 1 on page 12.



42.       Devaluation has raised considerably the ratio of long-term debt
(including subordinated debt) to net worth which amounted on December 31, 19663,
to 8.1:1.  (Without the devaluation effect, this ratio would have amounted
to 6.3:1, roughly comparable with the ratio of about 6.1:1 in earlier years.)
Under current arrangements governing ICTCI1s loars from the IBRD, ICICI will
not, except as otherwise agreed, incur any long-term debt 1/ in excess of the
equivalent of four times its capital, reserves and the outstanding balance of
the first Government loan to ICICI. These three items totaled Rs.1&4 million
on December 31, 1966. With debt as defined in the loan contracts amounting to
Rs.631 million /, the ratio amounted to 3h4:1 on that date. ICICI has satis-
factorily man-aged its liquid assets in relation to its current obligations.
Portfolio
43.       ICI[CIs industrial portfolio, which amounted on December 31, 1966,
to Rs.922 mi:Llion, is widely divers:ified. The maximum exposure in a single
enterprise is only Rs.22 million. Trhough the large share of projects yet to
be, or just about, completed introduces some imponderables, the quality of
ICICI's portfolio appears generally good. There are, however, 23 companies,
including some of the "problem casestt mentioned in paragraph 37, with arrears
totaling Rs.8 million 3/ equally divided between interest and principal, in
respect of outstanding loans of Rs o658 million, i.e. totaling 9 percent of
ICICI's loan portfolio. The market value of quoted securities held by ICICI
was also Rs,LO million below the book value of Rs.176 million, partly because
of the slackness of the market and partly because of low prices of old deben-
tures whose repayment will be completed in a few years. A case-by-case review
suggests that a somewhat lower value may also have to be put on the holdings
of unquoted securities with a book value of Rs.19 million. Due to the de-
valuation, security arrangements other than through mortgages, still need to
be raised by about Rs.19 million in respect of several foreign exchange loans.
ICICI is confident that this will be done before long, and that in respect of
most arrears on loans it will recover, though payment extension will be
necessary in several instances. This appears reasonable. Provisions for
doubtful debt may not be charged to expenses for tax purposes and have been
set at only Rs.0.4 million concerning a specific transaction.
Profit and Loss
44.       Summarized income statements for the last five years are shown
in Annex 13. A condensed presentation and analysis follows below:
1/ Long-term means original maturity over one year and debt is defined ae
debt (exclusive of the first three Government loans totaling Rs.275
million) actually drawn down, plus guarantees to the extent contracted.
/ Including guarantees of Rs.23 million.
/ Including Rs.2 million in arrears over one year. Exclusive of postpone-
ments referred to in paragraph 34.



- 16 -
(In Million Ruipees)
1962    1963    19614   1965    1966
Total Income                          16.7    23.6    31.2    40.7    614.1
Financial Expenses                     7.0    11.9    16.9    22.9    37.2
Other Expenses                         1.8     1.8     1.9     2.3     2.7
Profit before Tax                      7.9     9.9    12.4    15.5    24.2
Income Tax 1/                          3.3     4.1     5.5     6.7    10.9
Net Profit 2/                          4.6     5.8     6.9     8.8    13.3
Dividend (g)                           6.5     7.0     7.5     8.0     9.0
Pay-out Ratio (U)                      70      60      54      47      51
Net Profit/Average Net Worth (%)       7.2     8.6     9.8    10.6    13.0
Net Profit/Average Share Capital (5i)  9.3    11.6    13.8    15.1    18.6
The sudden rise in income in 1966 is due to the devaluation which increased
revenues (in rupees) for the period June-December from foreign exchange loans.
The following table shows income and expenses as percentages of average totaL
assets /:
1962    1963    1964    1965    1966
Total income                           6.2     6.6     6.7     6.6     7.4
Financial expenses                     2.6     3.3     3.7     3.7     4.3
Administrative expenses                0.69    0.44    0.41    0.36    0.31
(As a percentage of portfolio)        (0.94)  (0.56)  (0.48)  (0.42)  (0.35)
Profit before tax                      2.9     2.8     2.7     2.5     2.8
Over the years ICICI's profits on total funds employed have remained practical-
ly constant.  This is so despite increases in the cost of resources because
ICICI has been able to raise gradually its lending rates 4/and been successfu]
in lowering the relative weight of its administrative expenses. Owing to
increasing leverage, profits as a proportion of share capital and of net worth
have, therefore, improved.
1/ Amounting to 25 percent on dividend income and 55 percent on other income.
Taxable income represents 90 percent of net income until the time that
reserves equal paid-up share capital.
2/ Excludes capital gains.
3/ Average between the value of assets on the opening and closing date o2 a
financial year.
4/ ICICI's current spread on rupee loans is somewhat below, and on foreign
exchange loans somewhat above, 2-1/2 percent.



- 17 -
Reserves, Dividends and Share Yield
45.       Though ICICI's dividends have been increasing (amounting to 9 percer.n
for 1966) ICICI has been able to allocate in the past three years about 50
percent of net income to reserves which amounted on December 31, 1966 to
Rs.33.75 million (including unappropriated profits of Rs.0.71 million).   This
is equivalent; to 45 percent of ICICI' s share capital or 3.7 percent of its
industrial lcng-term loan and securities portfolio. The latter percentage
is low compared to other longer established development finance companies;
it is in part due, however, to the devaluation without which the percentage
would have beien 4.7.
46.       In line with the experience of other privately owned financing
institutions in India, the price of ICICI's shares have continued to be quoted
below par, i.e. Rs.100. The exceptions were the two or three months preceding
the dividend payment in April 1967. The fluctuations were between Rs.86 and
99 in 1965 and between 92 and 99 in 1966 when about 19,000 shares were
traded.  The most recent quotation cavailable ie 96 on August 4, 1967,
which is still well below the end 1966 book value of Rs.145 1 .   On the basis
of this quotation the share yield amounts to nearly 9.4 percent which is at
the lower range of the yield on shares of other private financing institutioors
at about the same time.
V. PROSPECTS
The Setting
47.       The uncertainties and setbacks in the economy, referred to in
paragraphs 1--2, are largely responsible for the fact that India, which is now
in the second year of the Fourth Plan period 2/ does not yet have an officiall'
endorsed development program. However, the framework of the planners' thinking
is set forth in a Draft Outline of the Plan, published in August 1966, which
calls for fixed investment in industry of over Rs.60 billion with a private
sector share of about Rs.26 billion. Very tentative calculations suggest that,
in real terms, this aim would imply an increase of roughly one-half over ind.s-
trial investments in the Third Plan. However, in view of the slow-down in
economic activities in the past two years, it is doubtful whether investments
of the suggested magnitude will materialize.
48.       Any attempt to assess the outlook for future industrial investment
hinges on the assumption regarding the monsoon, which will largely determine
the results of the Kharif crop a few months from now. If the crop is good,
there are favorable prospects that'buoyancy will return to the Indian economy,
though possibly after a lag reaching well into 1968 - because price levels
1/ Taking into account the lower market than book value of IC'CI s holdings o.f
quoted securities, the "adjusted value" of ICICI's shares would be Rs.132
each.
2/ April 1, 1966 - March 31, 1971.



- 18 -
will probably stabilize, disposable incomiie (particularly of the farners) will-
rise and permit more purchases of industrial goods, bank credit would be
easier, and Government investments could be resumed on a larger sca-Le. Sup-
plies for meeting a pick-up in aggregate demand would also be helped by the
now more liberally available maintenance imports. However, to sustain recov-
ery for the longer run, much will depend on whether export growth and foreign
aid will permit maintaining a liberalized import regime, whether increased
investments, particularly those effected and induced by the public sector,
will smooth out the present capacity imbalances in India's industrial struc-
ture, and on the degree to which Government policies will permit and encourage
Indian industry to cope efficiently with demand at home and abroad. Although
it probably will take until early, 1968 to be in a firmer position to
forecast developments,  there amre hopes, if the forthconing  crop
turns out to be favorable, that imorovements in the economy will become
apparent next year and make themselves increasingly felt thereafter 
49.       The present uncertainties also complicate an assessment of the
future demand for institutional loans in support of private industrial in-
vestment. But if economic activities do, as hoped, accelerate, it may be
more than Rs,.l billion per year over the remainder of the Fourth Plan period,
roughly 30-4;0 percent higher than the Rs.873 million actually provided in
1965/66. (See paragraph 8.)
ICICI' s Future Operations
50.       ICICI has forecast a rising business volume over the period 1967-70.
The forecast; rests largely on the assumption that Indian industry will soon
have made most of the needed post-devaluation adjustments and that towards
the end of this year the economy will revert to a steadier and an upward
path. In preparing itself for the years ahead, ICICI is justified in making
such an assum.ption even before the events triggering an economic recovery
have occurred. ICICI's forecasts. of approvals, com.pared with recent ex-
perierce, are siirinmarized below (in Rs,, million):
Foreign      Rupee   Under-     Direct    Total Rupee
Ecchanae Loans Loans writin     Subscription  Approvals
U-S$ m-ii-on)   ----------- -(Rs. million------------
Actual   1964            19.9         33.9   53.9        3.9         91.7
1965            22.6         55.7   50.2        3.1        189.0
1966            13.6         50.6    33.1       2.3         86.0
Forecast 1967            21           72     45          3          120
1968            24           90      57         3          150
1969            32          114      73          3         1io
19,70           44          Th       91         3          235
Total Forecast          1?1         417      266        12          695
Total Forecast Approvals=Rs.1,602 mil-
lion equivalent



- 19 -
By and large., ICICI reckons on a return in 1967 to about the 1965 levpel of
approvals, and. an increase by roughly 20 percent in 1968 and by close to 30
percent in each 1969 and 1970.
510       ICICIts recent experience, on the basis of business transacted or
pending by August 10, 1967, makes it likely that the total of this year's
rupee assistance target will be attained, but that there would be a consider-
able shortfall in actual foreign exchiange approvals in 1.967 2/. The 'latter
are now estimated to amount to US$9 million only, net of cancellations of
over US$4 million. However, this lag should be caught up within the next two
years or so, aLnd taking the remainder of the decade as an aggregate, ICICI
should, writhout relaxing its standards, be able to realize the bulk of its
foreign exchange lending forecast. In favor of this is first Indian industry'
large and growing size, and its contiLnued substantial need for capital goods
imports in relation to likely restricted foreign exchange availabilities;
secondly, ICICI, if it can continue disposing of untied foreign exchange from
IBRD loans, should renain among the most sought-after sources of financing
foreign capital goods. Generally supporting ICICIl's business forecast is the
reasonable exq)ectation that a considerable number of entrepreneurs will con-
tinue to be lured into industrial investment by the long-range potential of
the large home market for industrial goods and by more stimulation from
Government policies, even if the economy will take longer than hoped to re-
bound. With the outlook for a revival of the capital market still clouded,
entrepreneurs'! own funds and institutiional finance would remain, as in recent
years, the pri.ncipal sources sustaining private industrial investment.
52.       Since many industrial installations, erected in India in recent
years, already provided for enlarging existing capacities, ICICI's future
assistance will probably in large measure be directed to expansion work and
less to new c:Lients, and in fact contain a growing element of financing balan-
cing equipment. This is already in part supported by the pattern of ICICI's
recent and pending approvals   b  Still there is likely to be a noteworthy
number of projects involving new enterprises, especially in technologically
more advanced fields. Some of these, as the chemical, fertilizer and. alloy
steel projects now under consideration, may be of a size which would roquire
even more joint financing than hitherto with other national and, at times,
with foreign and international industrial financing institutions.
Resources Needed
53.       To meet the forecast 1967-70 volume of foreign currency approvals of
US$121 million, ICICI had expected to need, on top of about US$19 million
available for this purpose at the end of 1966, approximately another US&l02
/ Foreign exchange business: US$2.6 million approved, net of cancellations
of US$3.6 million during January-July 1967, and further 1967 approvals,
net of cancellations, estimated at US$6o3 million.
2/ Of the 133 projects approved from January 1, 1966 - March 31, 1967, 17
were for balancing equipment, and of the 37 applications being process&d
at the latter date 5 were for balancing equipment.



- 20 -
milWcn.as-"howh in the table below (in US$ million):
End of
1967    1968     1        1970
Foreign exchange resources avail-
able to cover:
Approvals                         19       -2      -26      -58    -102
Commitments                       45 2     28        7      -18    - 57
Disbursements                     64       45       26        6    - 20
During the period 1967-70 ICICI expects to obtain loans of US$6.25 million equi-
valent from KfW. In addition it asked for another IBRD loan of Us$50-60 million
which, if granted in the higher amount, would just carry forecast approvals into
1970. However, events have made invalid the forecasts for 1967. Resources
available to ICICI should, as it can now be seen, suffice to meet foreign exchange
approvals of about US$10 million in 1968, in view of the likely shortfall from the
forecast of new foreign exchange business in 1967. (See paragraph 51). However,
there has recently been a build-up in ICICI's pipeline of projects; these call
potentially for total investments of over US$17 million and nearly one-half of the
pipeline represents firm and actively considered propositions.     (Furthenrmore,
cancellations, an important factor in the decline of foreign exchange business
earlier this year, have abated markedly since two or three months). Since there
are good possibilities that the pipeline of projects will grow further soon,
ICICI .needs a fresh loan from the Bank at this time to have the necessary re-
sources for a possible spurt in business, which can be expected if the economic
outlook, as appeals possible, improves at the end of this year. In view of the un-
certainties, however, the $50-60 million requested by ICICI would not be justified;
a smaller ]can.would in the circumstances be adequate.
5b.     ICICI will also have to replenish its rupee resources. While repayments
in particular, and to a lesser extent retained earnings and proceeds from invest-
ment sales, are likely to contribute about Rs. 270 million, ICICI will need to
borrow another Rs. 240 million in the period 1967-70 as shown in Annex 14. Rs. 30
million of this year's requirement of Rs. 50 million is already being met by IDBI
and ICICI hopes to obtain another 20 milllon from IDBI later this year. While
this sources is also expected to be available in the coming years, either through
direct loans or through its refinancing facil.ties, ICICI hopes as early as
possible to fLoat a bond issue. In fact such an issue would, aside from sub-
scriptions to its share capital and sales from its port-folio, be ICICI's first
effort to mobilize private capital from the market,
Future Financial Position
55.     ICICI's financial projections for the years 1967-70, which rest on the fore
cast business volume, are contained in Arinexes 15 to 17. (These projections are
used in this appraisal because the probable actual shortfall in 1967 approvals, as
compared to the forecast, is not likely to affect ICICI's financial results
materially in the period under review and because of the reasonable expectation that
these shortfaUls will be made good during the remainder of the decade).  If the
cost of ICICI's various borrowed funds ancd its lending rates remain the same, net
profits after tax are expected to grow as follows:
1/ About US$38 million from IBRD loans and US$7 million from KfW loans.



- 21 -
1966     1967     1968    1969     1970
Net profits (Rs.rnillion)        13.3     15.9     18.8    20.6     24.7
Net profit/average net worth (%) 13.0     14.0     14.8    14.8     15.8
Net profit/average share
capital (%)                    18.6     21.2     25.1    27.1     33.0
In its projections, ICICI has assumed that it will not raise its dividend from
the 1966 level (i.e. 9 percent) for the coming years; thus it would gradually
lower its pay-out rate from about 51 percent in 1966 to about 27 percent in
1970. On this basis, ICICI would practically treble its reserves by 1970 when
they would amount to Rs.91 million, equivalent to nearly 121 percent of its
share capital or nearly 6 percent of its projected industrial portfolio of
Rs.1564 million.  If, as it should seriously consider doing when demancl for
its foreign exchange assistance picks up again, IICI raised somewhat the
interest rate on its foreign currency loans, profitability and appropriations
to reserves (at the prevailing dividend rate) would be further improved.
56.       With increasing recourse to borrowings, ICICI is on the verge of
exceeding the debt limitation established under its contractual arrangements
with the IBRD (see paragraph 42). In order to be able to conduct its pro-
jected business, ICICI has requested that this limitation be relaxed. The
table below contains several ratios relevant to this matter:
1966     1967     1968    1969     1970
(a) Industrial portfolio/net
worth                       8.7     9.3      9.5      9.5     9.4
(Net worth as percentage of
portfolio)                  (11.5)  (10.7)   (10.5)   (10.5)   (10.6)
(b) "Indebtedness"'/Risk
capital %/                  3.4      4.4      4.5     4.6      5.2
(c) Total borrowings/net
worth ?                     8.3      9.5      9.2      8.8     8.9
1/ This is the debt ratio as defined in existing loan contracts with the IBRD.
Risk capital includes net worth and the first Government loan ranking
after share capital in liquidation. It also equals the borrowing base
referred to in paragraph 42.
2/ Total borrowings allow for the successful flotation late in 1967 of a
Rs.75 million 'bond issue, which is not shown in Annex 14. If the issue were
made, it would replace the same amount which ICICI would otherwise have
planned to obtain from IDBI in stages, both in 1968 and 1969. Total borrow-
ings also include guarantees which are assumed to increase by Rs.lO million
per year over the total of the end of 1966 level of Rs.22.5 million and a
Rs.20 million guarantee provided early in 1967.



-. 22 -
57.       In arriving at an appropriate debt limitation for ICICI, the Bank
has to take account of the quality of ICICTIs portfolio, ICICI s ability to
meet debt service and other obligations in the future, and the security of the
Bank's loans to ICICI. The present debt limitation of 4:1, as definecd in
arrangements with the Bank, would be reached during 1967, if the contemplated
bond issue is made later this year (although this is not likely tomaterialize);
and the ratio would come to 5.2:1 at the end of 1970.   (See (b) in the fore-
going table.) The table also shows that ICICI would, at the end of 19,67 and
of 1970, attain ratios of total borrowings to net worth of 9-5:1 and 8.9:1
respectively ('line (c)), and that ICICI's own net worth could cover losses
equal to nearly 11 percent of its industrial portfolio;   this is equi-alent
to a coverage of slightly over 10 percent of total assets 1/. Although ICICI's
portfolio, as discussed in paragraph 43, has some weak spots, it is generally
sound. From the present perspective, which also allows for ICICI's fairly
successful weathering of the unsettling developments of the recent past, it does
not appear likely that ICICI would suffer a total loss of as much as 1.0 percent
of its assets in the future unless a severe and prolonged strain besets the
Indian economy 2/.
58.       Collections on ICICIs fc:eign exchange loans are well matched with
maturities on its foreign exchange borrowingsj but collections on its rupee
loans give amp:Le cushion for any contingency, because repayments on ICICI'srupee
borrowings are not due to begin until 1970, starting with a small amount. Thus
from1967 through 1970, total annual collections from ICICI's borrowers will
exceed debt repayments by about 1.5 times, in any year through 1970. Interest
payments in the same period will be covered by about 1.5 times of tota.l income
after administ:rative expenses  Therefore, ICICI should be in a comfortable
position to meet its debt service. Current assets exceed current liabilities
by roughly 80 percent.
59.       The foregoing would justify a relaxation of the Bank's present
limitation of TCICI's debt. In doing so, consideration needs to be given to
the fact that repayments wilL soon begin on the first Government loan, which
has hitherto been included, 'as part of the "equity" in the borrowing base.
Prudent security for the IBRD requires that only thcse portions of the first
1/ This ignores the fact that, since the first Government loan is sub-
ordinated to share capital, losses would first affect reserves, then this
Government :Loan and subsequently share capital, before other loans
obtained by ICICI according to their ranking were affected.
2/ One also has to bear in mind that, under the Agreement for the first
Government Loan, the Government can (in consultation with ICICI and
the IBRD) require ICICI's liquidation if the total of ICICI's share
capital and the outstanding amount of that loan were impaired by 30
percent. A loss of 7.6 percent of total assets in 1967 (and rising to
8.3 percent in 1970) would trigger such action. As it can be seen
today, such losses appear unlikely.



- 23 -
Oovezwaent loan, wEich mature after IBRD loans are repaid, should be considerel
as "equity". The amounts maturing earlier, as well as other long-term rupee
borrowings hitherto excluded should be included in debt v/.
60.     With the suggested adjustments in the definition of indebtedness anzd equity,
and considering that most ICICI loans with IBRD funds have terms of 12 years, the
debt equity ratio wrould come to 7.7:1 in 1.967, rise to about 7.9:1 in both 1968
and 1969, and reach 8.l4:1 in 1970 ?/. Considering the quality of ICICI's port-
folio, its satisfactory debt service coverage, and the cushion of risk capital
underpinning the IBRD loans to ICICI, a 9:1 (equivalent to a ratio betwseen 5 and 6
to 1 on the old basis) debt limitation on the proposed basis would appear justified
and prudent. It wouLLd give ICICI room to make loans for terms of more than 12
years, but as the y-ears go by, it would either have to adjust its lending program
(in terms, amounts, or both) to any constraint of the proposed limit or to in-
crease its net; worth. In fact ICICI has'indicated during negotiations that; it
intended to raise its share capital as soon as practical after the successful
completion of its contemplated bond issue,
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Evaluation
61.     ICICI compa.res favorably, both in India and elsewhere, with many financing
institutions provicling long-term'finance for industrial development. It is finan-
cially sound. On the whole, ICICI has demonstrated prudence and care in conduct-
ing its affairs and acquired a p6rtfolio'which is generally of good quality.
ICICI's resourcefulness has been an important factor in coping with the adverse
developments which have buffeted Indian industry in the past two years.
62.     Despite the governmental referral system and the fact that Indian :industry
still has some way to go to attain a modern structure, ICICI has been able,
during most of its twelve-year existence,' to do business with more forward look-
ing entrepreneurs and to direct its assistance to many non-traditional industries.
The nature of these industries, particularly metal products, machinery and
chemicals, has also given considerable scope to the participation of foreign inter-
ests whose confidence in particular ventures was often strengthened by active ICICI
support. ICICI has been instrumental in fostering new capital issues, a creditable
contribution in thei face of a stagnant capital market in recent years.  Aside
from its financial contributions, ICICI's professional standards and frequent
assistance to clients in preparing projects properly have had a lasting impact on
many Indian industrialists. This has also set a pattern for other Indian financing
1/ Since the final maturity of the proposed Bank loan would coincide with the
last payment to ICICI on its sub-loans made with IBRD funds, ICICI would in fact
be able, through arranging the terms of its sub-loans, to determine which Late
maturities of the first Government loan would be included in "debt" and which in
"equity". The last maturity of any present ICICI loan from IBRD funds falls in
1979.
I/ On the basis of 1 year terms for ICICI loans with IBRD funds this ratio would
-rise from 8.4 in 1967 to 8.9 in 1970.



- 24 -
institutions with many of which ICICI has developed congenial and cooperative
relations. On the other hand, ICICI's foreign exchange business has in the
main consisted of acting on referrals from the Government and it has played
little part in bringing forward to Government projects of significance.
63.       In the past almost anyone going into industry in India had very good
prospects of succeeding;  hence ICICI was operating in a relatively uncompli-
cated setting.  However, the current difficulties of the economy, the decreas-
ing chances of substituting governmental Plan targets for market analysis, and
the growing complexity of Indials industry make for higher entrepreneurial
risks in launching and operating industrial projects.   They may also affect
the willingness to invest. To adjust to this outlook, ICICI would have to im-
prove its performance further.   It would have to pay more attention -to the
competitiveness of its clients, particularly against the time when greater
competition may be introduced from the desirable dismantling of administrative-
controls on imports of capital goods. There is also need for a more systematic
procedure of following up potentially troublesome projects. ICICI would have
to be more outgoing in finding good prospects and make its facilities more
accessible to enterprises in areas away from Bombay. By strengthening these
aspects of its operations, ICICI would perform still better its role as a
development institution.
Recommendations
64.       IC0CI's projections of its operations over the next few years show
up to the encl of 1969, and probably somewhat beyond, foreign exchange business
of US$58 million in excess of resources at present available. Some US$6-7
million are expected to become available from KfW. In thB absence of any
other sources, which might provide significant amounts on suitable termsp
ICICI is again looking to the IBRD to provide the greater part of its foreign
exchange requirements. ICICI continues to be a suitable borrower and another
IBRD loan is justified by ICICI's record and by its operational prospects over
the next few years. A loan of up to US.25 million would be appropriato at
this tino, considering tho prosent uncertainties regarding tho rato at which
ICICI wrill be able to approve foreign exchange assistance against rcsources
presently available, A loan of this sizo would cover ICICI's needs for About
One 'rear.
65.       The limitation o6 ICICI's borrowings contained in the agreement
for the bank's Sixth Loan should be revised to allow ICICI to incur indebte',-
ness up to nine times a borrowing base consisting of ICICI's net worth and
those parts of the first Government loan falling due after any IERD loans to
ICICI are repaid. The payments on the first Government loan falling due
earlier, and long-term rupee borrowings hitherto excluded, should be included
in indebtedness.
66.       The terms of the proposed loan should generally follow those of t2-
Bankts Sixth Loan to ICICI with the exceptions noted below. Unlike the last
loan, but in conformity with present normal practice in loans to development
finance companies, the interest rate fpr each portion of the loan should bca
the Bank's standard rate current at the time that a portion is credited to
the loan account. ICICI's record also warrants that no excCOtiorn be ma-e ym
the Barik's normal commitment fee arrangement, and the propused :oan S2Ji
therefore carry tle norral fee.



67.       The proceeds of the proposed loan would be used for the foreign
currency cost oi' specific projects submitted by ICICI from time to time. As
hitherto, the Bankts prior approval of projects should be required only for
those using US$2 million or more frcm the proposed loan.
68.       The Bank should arrange for more frequent follow-up missions to
ICICI, to look particularly into appraisal and project supervision.



ANNX 1
INDIA
Index of Industrial Production
(Base 1956 = 100
Percent
change
1/ 1966
Weights    1963    1964    1965  1966-   over 1965
GENERAL INDEX                   100.00   165.8   177.4   186.9   191.5     + 2.5
Mining and quarrying              7.47   176.1   169.1   184.3   190.4     + 3.3
Food manufacturing               13.99   122.7   135.6   144.4   147.8     + 2.4
Cigarettes                        1.49   152.3   175.7   205.8   222.5     + 8.1
Cotton textiles                  32.10   115.6   123.3   123.3   119.9     - 2.8
Woollen textiles                  1.10   165.6   128.1   110.1   102.0     - 7.4
Synthetic fibres                  2.94   169.8   211.3   217.9   212.6     - 2.4
Jute manufactures                 5.62   117.2   121.0   125.7   105.3     -16.2
Footwear (leather)                0.28   214.4   212.2   246.1   265.9     + 8.0
Wood and cork, except furniture   0.24   200.2   202.6   236.1   226.7     - 4.0
Paper and paper products          1.39   226.8   237.8   255.4   282.3     +10.5
Leather and fur products,
except footwiear                 0.18   149.0   138.4   140.2   136.0     - 3.0
Rubber products                   3.04   187.0   198.1   218.0   217.9   no change
Chemicals and chemical products   3.56   204.1   223.5   235.3   244.9     + 4.1
Petroleum products                3.79   196.6   217.2   231.0   285.9     +23.8
Non-metallic mineral products     2.47   204.7   216.0   232.5   230.1     - 1.0
Basic metals                      9.25   292.5   290.2   298.8   315.9     + 5.7
Metal products                    0.99   201.0   225.8   239.8   221.4     - 7.7
Machinery, except elec. machinery  1.15  367.2   411.1   489.7   531.0     + 8.4
Electrical machinery, apparatus,
appliances and suipplies         2.41   239.1   282.4   313.2   341.6     + 9.1
Transport equipment               2.86   151.2   192.5   207.8   188.4    - 9.3
Electricity                       3.68   297.9   297.2   326.5   355.3    + 8.8
1/ Provisional
Source: Government of India, Economic Survey 1966-67.
EFC/IFC
May 31, 1967



AAiaX 2
Page 1
I N D I A
Industrial Financing Institutions
1.     Almost all industrial financing institutions in India other than ICICI are
in the public sector.
Small and Medium-Scale Industry
2.     Small industry in the private sector looks to the National Small Industries
Corporation which focuses principally on the financing of machinery under deferred
payment arrangements, and technical assistance in establishing units and marketing,
The 15 State Financial Corporations established since 1951 under a Central Act,
cater to somewhat larger private units. (As a result of the re-arrangement of
State of Punjab in 1966 there may soon be another four State Financial Corporations).
They make medium to long-term loans up to Rs. 2 million to public limited com-
panies and cooperatives, and up to Rs. 1. million to private limited companies. They
can also underwrite equity and guarantee loans contracted elsewhere by their
clients. The bulk of their resources come from equity subscriptions by the State
governments and the Reserve Bank as well as from bonds issued with the guarantee
of the State governments concerned. The Madras Industrial Investment Corporation
was established earlier than the State Financial Corporations, but serves a similar
clientele; it has been particularly active in underwriting operations.  In the
past four years, State Development Corporations have sprung up in 12 states which
serve largely promotional functions and assist mainly with capital provided by the
States, the development of infrastructure facilities needed by small industry.
Larger Industries
3.     As in the case of ICICI, the institutions reviewed below operate on a
national basis.
4.     Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI): It is the oldest industrial
financing institution serving medium and large enterprises, having been established
in 1948 under a'Central Act.  IFCI maintains offices in Delhi (its headquarters),
Bombay, Calcutta and Madras. ;Its paid-up capital is Rs. 83.5 million, one half of
which is owned by IDBI and the other half by commercial banks, insurance concerns
and cooperative banks. On June 30, 1966, IFCI's other resources consisted of
market borrowings with Government guarantee of Rs. 335 million; borrowings from
the Central Goveirnment of Rs. 526 million, from USAID of US$40 million, from
Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau of DM 75 million, and from the Banque Francaise du
Commerce EKterieiur of Ffrs, 50 million. IFCI's reserves on the same date amounted
to Rs. 65 million. Through December 31, 1966, the net amount of assistance approve(
by IFCI was Rs. 2917 million as shown below (in Rs. million):
Approvals          Disbursements
Total                                     2917                2217
Loans                                            2176                1594
Foreign currency                           428                 203
Rupees                                    1748                1391
Guarantees for Deferred Payments and
Foreign Loans                                    512                 459
Underwriting and Direct Subscriptions             229                 164



v FCI's assistance to various sectors has been remarkably stable over the
nineteen years of its existence. The five major fields aided by IFCI accounted
up the 30th June 1966 for the following share of its assistance:  sugar (mostly
cooperatives) 17%; chemicals and fertilizers 14%; textiles 11%; non-ferrous
metals 10%; engineering and metal products 9%. About 67% of total assistance has
benefited new enterprises. After the hostilities with Pakistan in September 1965,
IFCI's Board of Directors, anticipating lower availabilities of funds for indus-
trial financing in the country as a whole, adopted certain priorities as guidelines
for reviewingr applications. Projects expected to make significant contributions
in the following sectors were deemed to have priorities in that order: defence,
agriculture, export earnings, import substitution, and cement. Adoption of these
priorities which began to affect operations at the beginning of the current
fiscal year, appears already to have altered IFCI's traditional sectoral distri-
bution.
6.     The Board of IFCI is to act on business principles, but it may receive
from time to time official policy directives from the Central Government, through
the agency of IDB;. (The decision to adopt the above priorities was not so
directed). The Board consists of a chairman and two members appointed by- the Cen-
tral Government, four members from IDBI, two from commercial banks and two from
cooperative banks. The Board relies upon staff appraisals similar to those made
by ICICI, and guidlance from Advisory Committees, with expertise on particular
sectors and comprising principally industry representatives, through which all
applications must pass.
7.     Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI):  This institution was estab-
lished on July 1, 1964, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Reserve Bank of India.
IDBI's resources are all in rupees.  Its paid-up capital amounts to Rs. 100 millio.1,
Its authorized capital of Rs. 500 million can be increased to Rs. 1 billion with
Government approval. IDBI obtained at first an interest-free loan of Rs. 100
million fron the Government, repayable over 15 years after a 15-year grace period,
and total outstanding borrowings from the Government rose since then to rearly Rs.
1.09 billion on December 31, 1966. IDBI borrowed Rs. 50 million from the Reserve
Bank's National Industrial Credit (Long-Term Operations) Fund.  It also absorbed
the Refinance Corporation (RFC), and is continuing the latter's activities; it took
over about Rs. 360 million of RFC's funds - principally PL 480 counterpart funds
borrowed from the Government - in the form of rediscounted loans at commercial
banks and State Financial Corporations.  IDBI established in March 1965 a Develop-
ment Assistance Fund which will be fed by Government contributions inclu(ding PL ih3C
counterpart funds; this fund is to provide assistance to such industries, in the
public or private sector, which may not be able to obtain assistance from other
financial institutions operating on stricter business considerations, and yet need
assIstance as a matter of priority in the interests of the industrial development
of the Country. IDBI can accept benefactions and borrow additional amounts with-
o  specified limits but subject to Governmental approval.
IDBIVs heaLdquarters are in Bombay. Its Board consists of members of the
Central Board of the Reserve Bank. IDBI's Vice-Chairman was until a few months
PgC the Chainman of IFCI; otherwise the management and staff have so far been
drawn from the Reserve Bank. IDBI can lend, buy and underwrite equity, refinance,
gu-arantee obligations of other institutions and industrial concerns; it can alsc
lcnd to other financial institutions. IDBI is intended to be an apex instituti-n
concerned with industrial planning, promotion of industrial development, and t-e
coordination of the activities of all institutions providing finance for infustrJ.' 2'
development.



ANNIEX 2
Page 3
9.     By December 31, 1966, IDBi's assistance disbursed since inception was as
follows (in Rs. million):
Refinance (including export credits)                      525
Direct loans'to industrial units                          316
Underwriting'of shares, debentures and convertible notes   88
Subscriptions to shares and bonds of financial institu-
tions                                                     80
Rediscounting of bills                                     57
Total                                               1066
10.    Disbursements of IDBI's'direct assistance to industry (loans and under-
writings) had the following sectoral distribution on June 30, 1966 (in Rs. million):
Textiles (including jute)                                 8.0
Paper and Paper products                                  3.2
Chemicals and Chemical products other than fertilisers   60.8
Fert:lisers                                             117.4
Metal Mining including iron ore mining                   11.9
Cement                                                   3905
Iron and steel basic industries                           3.0
Manufacture of'Machinery except electrical machinery     32.0
Electrical Machinery                                      2.2
Manufacture of Metal products except machinery and trans-
port equipment                                           h.0
Other indcustries                                         1.5
Tota:L                                             279.9
U .    Unit Trust of India (UTI): The Trust was established on February 1, 196b,
under a Central Act. Its head office is in Bombay and there are branches in
Calcutta and Madras. UTI is managed by a Board of Trustees including representa-
tives of the Reserve Bank, industry and other financial institutions. (The
General Manager of ICICI is one of them).
12.    Fifty percent of its initial capital of Rs. 50 million was subscribed by
the Reserve Bank, the balance having been taken up by the Life Insurance Corpora-
tion, the State Bank and other financial institutions. In the summer of 1964,
UTI sold units of rupees 10 each for a total of Rs. 182 million. Nearly Rs. 170
million were bought by a great number of individuals and the balance by institu-
tions. Since thien UTI made another major sale offer in July 1966 and collected
Rs. 67.5 million. UTI is exempt from income tax and unit holders also enjoy tax
advantages. Dividends amounted to 6.1 percent in the first, and to 7.1 percent in
the second year.
13.    By December 31, 1966, racticaIly all of UTI's funds were invested, about
52 percent in shares, about "2 percent in debentures, and the balance in Govern-
ment securities. UTI only invests in securities, principally "blue chips", of
existing private industrial enterprises. As a matter of policy, investment in any
one company should not involve more than 5 percent of UTI's funds or more than 10
percent of the value of securities issued by a company.



ANNEX 2
iL.    Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC): Following the nationalization
of life insurance in India, LIC was established in September 1956 as a public
sector institution.  It took over the business of 245 existing life insurers.
Since LIC's existence, life insurance in force about quadrupled,reaching nearly
Rs. 44 billion in March 1966 and the corporation's life insurance fund more than
doubled over the same period to somewhat close to Rs. 10 billion.
15.    Statutorily, LIC must invest at least 50 percent of its funds in Govern-
ment and other "1approved" securities. The other half can be invested in a variety
of instruments, including shares and debentures of private enterprises. LICTs
net additions to investments in private companies have risen significantly from
about Rs. 100 million in 1960 to about Rs. 250 million in 1965/66.  With LIC's
increasing income (about Rs. 1 billion annually in recent years), this rate is
expected to rise further in the next few years. On March 31, 1966, nearly 20
percent of LIC's total investments was in private companies.
* * * * * * * * * *
16.    There are a few small private investment institutions working with larger
industries, such as the Investment Corporation of India which serves principally
the financing requirements of some of the companies in the Tata group.
TC/IFC
Yia;j 31, 1967



Annex 3
Page 1
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVS TMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREXOLDING AS ON DECEMER 31 1966
No. of
Share-       No. of    Per-
holders      shares    centage
India
Holders of 3,750 shares or more              18
Life Insurance Corporation of India                  126, 680
The Bank of India Ltd.                               40,577
The Central Bank of India Ltd.                       30,865
The United Commercial Bank Ltd.                      28,693
The Bank of Baroda Ltd.                               28,520
The Punjab National Bank Ltd.                         28,000
The New India Assurance Co. Ltd.                      23,973
Unit Trust of India                                   23,930
United Bank of India Ltd.                             20,000
The Century Spg. & Mfg. Co. Ltd.                      14,508
The Indian Overseas Bank Ltd.                        10,000
The Indo-Burma Petroleum Co. Ltd.                     9,491
The Associated Cement Cos. Ltd.                        8,432
The Centra:L Bank of India Ltd.
(A/c H. E. H. Nizam's Charitable Trust)               7,500
Jalanath Insurance Ltd.                                7,500
The National Rayon Corporation Ltd.                   6,500
The Scindia Steam Navigation Co. Ltd.                 5,750
Andrew Yule & Co. Ltd.                                 5,721
Holders of less than 3,750 shares each     1669       99,957
1687      526,597    70.21%
U.K.
National & Grindlays Bank Ltd.                        31,500
Commonwealth Development, Finance Co.Ltd.            22,498
The Chartered Bank                                   14,175
The Hongkong & Shanghai Banking Corpora-
tion                                                  7,500
Mercantile Bank Ltd.                                   4,500
Eastern Banik Ltd.                                     4,500
Royal Insurance Co. Ltd.,                             3,975
British Bank of the Middle East                       3,750
28 others holding less than 3,750
shares each                                         281466
36     120,8614   36.11%



Annex 3
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOIDING AS ON DEKMBER 31, 1966
No. of
Share-       No. of     Per-
holders      Shares     centage
U.S.A.
Bank of America                                      18,700
Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation                  12,500
First Nationai City Bank                              7,500
American Express Co. Inc.                             5,001
The Boston Overseas Financial Corp.                   5,000
Morgan Guaranty International
Finance Corporation                                  4,500
6 others holding less than 3,750 shares
each                                                 862
12       61,263      8.17%
Federal Republic of Germany
Dresdner Bank AG.                                    18,750
Deutsche Bank AG.                                    11,250
2       30,000      4.00%
Japan
The Bank of Tokyo                                     3,750
The Mitsui Bank Ltd.                                  3,750
The Industrial Bank of Japan Ltd.i/                   1,776
3        9,276      1.24%
France
Banque Nationalede Paris                              2,000
1        2,000      0.27%
Total number of shares and share-
holders                                    1741      750,000    100. 00
1/ New shareholder brought in at the time of share capital increase    in
1965 in lieu of other foreign shareholders who did not exercise their
rights to take up additional shares.
IFC/IFC
may 18, 1967



ANNEX 4
Page 1
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
DETAILS OF FOREIGN CURRENCY LOANS CONCLUDED UP TO D3CEMBER 312 196.
Maximum
drawing
without
Loan  Date of                                              Rate of    Creditor's
No.   Agreement       Amount         Terms                 Interest   Approval
IBRD
109   March 14, 1955  Us$ 9.9 mil    15 years including 5  4-5/8%     none
years of grace
232   July 15, 1959   US$  9.8 mil   10 years including 3) Variable.
years of grace      ) Interest   $ 100,000
) wiLl be
269   October 28,1960 US$ 19.7 mil   10 years including 3) applied to
years of grace      ) each por- $ 500,COO
) tion of the
312   February 28,1962 US$ 19.8 mil  Not fixed but re-  ) loans at the
payment to be com- ) Bank's stan-
pleted by April 15, ) dard rate
1977                ) when such $ 500,000
) portion is
340   June 5, 1963    US$ 30.0 mil   Not fixed but re-  ) commited for
payment to be com- ) a specific
pleted by December ) project
1, :L978            )            $2,000,000
414   May 28, 1965    US$ 50.0 mil   18 years including 3
Us$139.2 mil)  years of grace        5-1/2%     $2 000,coo
AID
DLF   March 23,196]   US$ 4.5 mil    16 years including 2
155                                  years of grace        5%         $ 250,000
1W
AL83 April 26, 1963   DM 20,0 mnil   14 years including 2
years of grace        5-1/2%    EM 500,000
AL146 July 27, 1964   DM   5.0 mlil  17 years including 2
years of grace        5-1/2%    DE2, 000,000
AL150 Nov. 23, 1964   DM 10.0 mil    20 years including 2
years of grace        5-1/2%    DM2,000, 000
AL183 June 8, 1965    DM   5.0 mil   25 years including 7
years of grace        5-1/2%    DM2,000,000
AL245 Mar. 23, 1966   DM 20.0 mil    25 years including 7
DM 60o0 mil   yeais of grace         5-1/2%    DM2,000, 000



-THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LTD          Page 2
DETAILS OF RUPEE LOANS CONCLUDED
UP TO DECEMBER 31, 1966
Government Loans:
untO  .
Loan    Date of    (Rs.                           Rate of            Repayment    Ranking vis-a-vis
Number Agreement million) Terms                    Interest          Begins in    Capital and Debt
1     Jan.29/55     75    30 years including                                    Subordinated to all debt and
15 years of grace     Free of interest     1970      paid-up share capital
2     -Oct.26/59   100-   20-years including 10
years of grace        4-1/2%               1971      Subordinated-to foreign debt
only
3     Jul.31/65    100    15 years including 5   5% for Rs. 90
years of grace        million, 5-1/2%                Subordinated to foreign debt
for Rs. 10 million   1970      only
4     Jul.30/66     50    15 years, including
5 years of grace      5-1/2%                         Subordinated to foreign debt
1971      only
IDBI Loan:
1       Nov.l/66      50    15 years including                                    Subordinated to foreign debt
5 years of grace      5-5/8%               1972       only
All loans were fully disbursed except that from IDBI of which Rs. 30 million was drawn as of December 31; the
balance was drawn in January 1967.
DFC/IFC
May 18, 1967



Annex 4
Page 3
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INIEA LIMITED
STATUS OF FOREIGN CURRENCY LOANS AS OF DECEMBER 31. 1%66
SUMARY                         ($ in million)
Source                       Projects     Projects     Amounts      Repaid by    Repaid
Amt.     Approved     Comitted    Disbursed     Borrowers       by
IBRD                US$m    No.   Amt.   No.    Amt.  No.    Amt.   No.   Amt.   _CICI
First Loan           9.9    15    9.9    15     9.9   15     9.9    15    6.5       6.6
Second Loan          9.8    24    9.8    24     9.8   24     9.8    24    4.2       5.4
Third Loan          19.7    37   19.6    37    19.6   37    19.2    36    6.7       8.3
Fourth Loan        1U.8     33   19.8    33    19.8   33    18.3    28    1.5       1.7
Fifth Loan          3U.o    74   29.9    72    29.2   69    23.8    46    1.2       1.2
Sixth Loan          50.     99   34.2    38    13.3   21     2.8     -     -         -
139.2   282  123.2   219   101.6  199    83.8   149   20.1      23.1
Equivalent
Rs. million       lo44.0         923.5        761.3        627.9         150.7    173.8
($ in million)
AID
First Loan           4.5    18    4.5    18     4.5   18     4.5    14      .3       .5
Equivalent
Rs. million         33.8         33.8          33.8         33.5          2.2       3.4
(DM in million)
KFW
First Loan          20.0    37   19.7    37    19.7   36    18.6    35    2.2       2.5
Second Loan          5.o    10    5.6     7     4.0    7     3.1     6      .2       .2
Third Loan          10.0    13    9.4    13     9.5   11     4.6     6      .1       .1
Fourth Loan          5.0    10    4.2     1      .1    -      -      -     -         -
Fifth Loan          20.0     4    7.5     -      -     _      -     _                -'
60.o    74   46.4    58    33.2   54    26.3    47    2.5       2.8
Equivalent
Rs. million        112.5         87.0          62.3         49.4           4.8      5.3
Equivalent
US$ million         15.0         11.6           8.3          6.6          o.6       0.7
Total: All
Foreign Currency
Loans US$ million  158.7   374  139.3   295   114.4  271    94.9   210   21.0      24.4
DFC/'IFC
June 1, 1967



'Xinrex --
Page 1
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIM¢TED
MEMBERS CF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Name                       Age    Principal Present Positions
1.   Mr. G. L. Mehta, Chairman 266     Chairman and Director of ICICI with
executive powers; Chairman, Indian
Investment Centre; Member, Air India
and IAC.
2.   Sir A. aunaswami Mudaliar  79     Chairman, India Steamship Co. Ltd. and
fourteen other companies.
Mr. Kastuirbhai Lalbhai    72     Chairman, Atul Products Ltd.; National
Rayon Corporation Ltd.
4.   Mr. D. M.. Khatau          65     Chairman, Associated Cement Companies
Ltd., Cable Corporation of India Ltd.
5.   Mr.Stafford Morthcote      55     Chitcf GoncrJ l Ln,l er Tho Ch.-rtorcd
Bank, London.
6.   Mr. K. K.. Birla           48    Managing Director, Birla Bros. Pvt. Ltd.,
(Managing Agents for jute, cotton and
other mills).
7.   Mr. D. P. Goenka           51     Partner, Ramdutt Ramkissendas (Managing
Agents and Secretaries and Treasurers on
jute, tea and investment companies).
8.   Mr. N. A. Palkhivala       46    Advocate, Supreme Court of India -
authority on company law and taxation;
Director, Tata Industries Private Ltd.
9.   Mr. B. K. Datta            56     Managing Director3 United Bank of India
Ltd.
1O.   Mr. L. J. l4ulkern         47    Vice President, Bank of America, MN.. v
S.A.
'1.   Mr. C. M. A. Bathurst      47    Managing Director, Shaw Wallace & Cot
Ltd.
1/11embers of the Board's Investment Committee which decides the disnoszt3 ono
ICICI's securities portfolio.



- :nex: .>
Page 2
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTENMT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Name                       Age    Principal Present Positions
12.   Mr. N. M. Wagle           52     Managing Director, Greaves Cotton &
Co. Ltd.
13.   Mr. S. S. Shiralkar (Govern-     Additional Secretary, Department of
ment Director)           51     Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance,
Government of India.
Mr. J. Russel             50     Manager, The Chartered Bank, Cal.cutta;
(Alternate for Mr. W. G.         Director, The Allahabad Bank Ltd.
Pullen)
Mr. G. P. Case (Alternate        Manager, Esso Standard Eastern Inc.
for Mr. L. J. Mulkern)   51     (India Division).
DFC/IFC
May 18, 1967



THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVmSTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LTD.                                        Annex 6
CHAIRMAN -∞0. L. Mehta
GENERAL MANAGER - H. T. Parekh
DEPUTY GENERAL MANAGFR - S. S. Mehta
SECRETARY & CHIEF ACCOUNTANT
(R. C. DOODHMA.L)'ll
I~~~~~~I-F
ACCOUNTS AND DISBURSEMENT DEPARTMENT (19)   SECRETARIAL AND S       DEPARTMENT (25)         PROJECT D3PARTMENT (13) LEGAL DEPARTMENT (8) ECONOMICS AND MARKET      FOLLOW-UP
|   -  - -                      DEPARTMENT (10)          DEPARTMENT (9)
ACCOUNT  SECTION (9)   DISBURSEHNT           S3CWTARIAL               SHARES SECTION (3)
SECTION (10)           SECTION (22)
Maintenance of        Disbursement of        Work connected'with      Maintenance of        Responsible for the     Legal matters       Economic analysis of        Responsible for
accounts, attend-     loans.                 Board and share-         share registers;      engineering and         relating to the     problems of interest        keeping watch on
ing to tax matters.                          holders meetings and     dividend payments     financial appraisal     Corporation's       to ICICI.   Compilation     progress or projects
company law; general     on shares, etc.       of proposals received   financial opera-    and presentation of         after Board approval
administration.                                and preparation of      tions.              overall statistical         and analysing post-
recommendations to                          data on ICICI opera-        approval problems.
the Board.                                  tions.  Appraisal of
market on proposals
financed by ICICI.
Maintenance of library.
Note:  Staff analysis by grade
Senior officers       3
Other officers       56
Assistants            9
Clerks               20
Stenographers        24
Others               4h
156
Numbers in brackets show the number of officers, assistants and clerks.
DFC/IFC
May 18, 1967



ANNEX 7
Page 1
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Supervision of Projects
1.       'ICICIs Follow-Up Department has expanded considerably in the past two
years.  It consists,now of two'senior officers (an engineer and a financial
analyst) and seven junior officers, one of them an engineer. All of thern were at
one time or another:connected with ICICI's appraisal work. Each of them looks after
particular industries. The Department operates under the general direction of the
Economist, one of ICICI's senior officers, who is also looking after the Economics
and Market Department.
2.        The routine aspect of the Department's work is the soliciting and pro-
cessing of progress'reports. Clients have to presernt quarterly progress reports
during construction, monthly reports for about one year after they first start
producing, and quarterly thereafter. During construction, reports are to cover
the physical progress, expenditures and, if applicable, cost overruns. At the pro-
duction stage, datalon sales, stocks and orders received are to be given.   Not
required is information on a client company's financial position, which is available
only in the form of regular annual statements published several months after the
end of the financial year.  About 30 percent of the clients, including some chrcnic
delinquents, are currently lagging in presenting their reports. Keeping after
them has not yet developed into a sustained and systematic effort of the Department.
Short follow-up notes on all clients are prepared once a year and presented to the
Board.
3.        In the past two years, ICICI's officers have made about 70 inspection
visits per year, mainly to projects under construction or just completed and where
some difficulties have become known. These visits consist of a plant inspection
and discussions with clients on current problems. The resulting report is usually
short with stress on the physical project aspects and less on a systematic analysis
of the finances of the clients. Though financial analysis has less emphasis,
information gathered on inspection visits does at times lead to approval of fin-
ancial relief if th'e amounts involved are not large. If additionally needed
assistance is substantial, the project is re-appraised entirely by ICICI's Project
Department.
4.        In the case of more acute "problem projects" which have been causing
concern to ICICI (but not necessarily as a result of difficulties ascertained by
staff work), special follow-up notes have been written for use of the management0
Fifteen of these have been prepared so far including eight in the past two years.
They are comprehensive and a satisfactory basis for evaluating the difficulties
of the clients concerned.
5.        With a clientele numbering more than hOO in a country as large as India,
most of the staff work has beeh limited to tracing the progress of project imple-
mentation and production records, and to furnishing the management with analyses
of well-known problem projects. The lesser accentuation of financial analysis in
follow-up appears to have indirectly drifted over from ICICI's appraisal work



ANNEX 7
Page -
which is stronger on physical project aspects than on the overall assessment of a
client company. Staff work on follow-up) has to become more intensive and systematic
to accumulate a proper foundation for a proper assessment of clients' overall
situations and for ferreting out potential problem cases. More experience has also
to be built within ICICI to handle follow-up work in a manner which evokes the
continuous cooperation of clients and gives the staff involved the acumen to assess
clientst operations on sometimes more fragmentary information than that underlying
appraisals of neT projects.
6.        It is increasingly important to cure these shortcomings, because a grow-
ing number of projects are already, or coming near, producing and because Indian
economic conditions no longer offer, as some years ago, a practically assured
market and profitability to producing enterprises.
DFC/IFC
July 3, 1967



A*TNEX 8
THE INDUST~RIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Summary of Operations                  Direct
Rupee               Equity
Foreign   Loans               Sub-
Exchange    and      Under-    scrip-
Loans Guarantees   writing   tion     Total
1/                         In US$                                 In US$
Approvals~                          million                                mil'ion
equiv.        In Rs. million _         equiv. -
1961                14.3     36.6         5.5      3.0     23.7
19,62               19.0     43.5        31.1      9.8     36.7
1963                23.3     93.3        35.3      3.0     50e9
19,6h               19,9     3309        53.9      3.9     39.1
1965'               22,6     55.7        50.2      3.1     45.5
1966                13.6     50.6        33.1      2.3     27.8 3/
Cumulative since 1955               139.2    369.1       305,8     60.7    223.7
Commitments
1961                12.5     21.1         7.8      6.o     19.7
1962                12.9     26.2        24.3      9.1     25.4
1963                1h.8     31.1        29.7      3.5     28.2
1964                23.1     712         29.5      4.7     45.3
1965                26.9     68.9        52.9      4.3     53.b
1966                10.2     34.4        50.1      2.3     2h.6 3/
Cumulative since 1955               11L.3    298.3       279.4     60.7    196.6
Disbursements
1961                 5.9     16.4         8.4      6.5     12.5
1962                lO.4     30.9        12.8      5.4     20.7
1963                12.9     27.1        12.5      6.6     22.6
1964                15.4     61.0        13.9      4.6     32.1
1965                23.0     44.0        34.8      3.5     LO.2
1966                19.8     50.8        35.6      2.2     35.5 32
Cumulative since 1955                94.8    259.9       147.6     58.7    163.6
N Net of cancellations.
F For conveniencelall totals are shown in US$ equivalent in view of the change in
the par value of the rupee in June 1966.
3/ Out of total rupee approvals (Rs. 86 million) made in 1966 Rs. 36.2 miUion
were converted at the previous rate of exchange.  Similar figures for
commitments and:disbursements were Rs. 36.2 million and Rs. 50.6 millioz.,
respectively.
EFC/IFC
July 10, 1967



Anne-x 9
THE INDUWSTRIAL CREDIT AhD INVESTNENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LINITEED
STATEMENT OF CAPITAL GAINS, 1959 TO 1966 REALIZED
IN RESPBCT OF SALES OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
(Rupees in million)
Capital
No. o;F                           Gains       Per       Tax
Issues                Sale       Before       cent     at      Net
Year       Sold      Cost     Proceeds       Tax       Profit     30%    Gain
1958         4        0.2        0.2          -           -        -      -
1959         9        3.8        6.3         2.5        66%       0.6     1.9
1960        12        4.7        9.2         4.5        96%       1.3      3.2
1961        14        4.0        7.3         3.3         83%      0.9     2.4
1962        19        3.9        6.2         2.3        59%       o.6     1.7
1963        19        2.8        3.6         0.8         29%      0.2    0o6
1964        19       11.6       12.0         0.4          3%     01      0.3
1965        12        1.5        2.1         o.6        40%       0.2     0.1
1966         9        2.3        2.7         0.4        17%       0.1     0.3
117       34.8       49.6        14.8         h3%      4.2    10.8
DFC/IFC
June 1, 19,



.A.In  'L 0
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LLMITEI)
Distribution by Industry of Financial Assistance
(Amount in millions of Rs.)
Net    Approvals
1955   to   1966  Outstanding as of December 31,   i966
Amount          Foreign            In
No.   of      of       %  of Exchange Rupee    vest-  Total  %   of
Industry          Projects    Approvals  Total   Loans    Loans ments    Amt.   Total
Automobiles and
cycles              29         100.2     5.6    24.9     7.5     7.1    39.5      4i2
Cement                20        119.5     6.7    45.2     9.7    13.7     68.6     Lli
Chemicals             71        298.0    16.7    73.1    25.8    28.3    127.2    1*.37?
Electrical equip-
ment                 56         169.3     9.5    72.4    18.9     6.3    97.6     10.5
Electricity, Gas
& Steam                9         47.3     2.7    11.9      -      8.1     20.0     2.C
Food products (other
than sugar)          14          23.4     1.3     6.5     7.5     1.0    15.0      1.6
Glass, pottery,etc.  22          70.3     4.0    26.7    13.3     5.7     L5.7     419
Machinery (other
than electrical)     60         194.1    10.9    33.9    35.1    27.8    96.8     lo..L
Metal- products,
ferrous              99         339.1    19.1   127.8    57.5    14.4   199.7     22-5
Metal products,
non-ferrous          24          63.7     3.6    15.9     0.3    10.1     26.3     2C
Pulp, paper &
paper products       24          98.4     5.5    18.2    10.8    22,9    51.9      5.0
Rubber products       8          17.6     1.0     2.3     3.6      -      5.9      0 S
Shipping              3          34.9     2.0    21.6      -      0.5    22.1      2.'L
Sugar                14          27.2     1.5     1.8     3.9     7.4    13.1
Textiles             67         117.0     6.6    58.O     9.6    10.3     77.9
Wood, cork & hard-
board                 8          20.1     1.1     5.3      -      0.2     5.5      ; K.
Miscellaneous        18          39.9  2-   2     7.7     1.5     7.6    16., 06
DFC/IFC             546      1,780.0   100.0    553.2   205,0   1.7]. J    ær 2i,
June 1, 1967                                           r=-.



THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND ThVESTI1CENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Distribution by State of Financial Approval (in millions of Rs.)
1955-=_1                   l955 - 1966
State  or              No.   of     Net %       o   f No.  of     Net        or
Territory              Projects  Approvals  Total    Projects  Approvals  Total
Western India
Gujarat                 61       130.3     13         92       239.2     13
Maharashtra            120       363.7     35        204       665.3     37
Madhya Pradesh           5        12.5,     1         13        314.2     2
South India
Mysore                  16        78.5;     8         28       123.9      7
Madras                  28       108.8     11         51       196.7     11
Kerala                   8        14.a.     1         11        19.6      1
East India
Andra Pradesh           11        62.2      6         18        90.4      5
Orissa                   6        34.1l     3          8         40o.9    2
North India
Rajasthan                3         9.7      1          6        23.7      1
Haryana        )                                      14        22-9      1
Punjab         )        12        18.9      2          1         1.0      -
Union Territory)                                       5        10.3      1
Uttar Pradesh           12        37.14     4         19        56.7      3
Northeast India
Bihar                   10        43.2      4         15        76.2      4
West Bengal             33        89.8      9         58       16G.0      9
Assam                    3      .19.0       2          3        19.0      1
Total                    328     1,022.9    100        546     1L780.0    100
DFC/IFC
June 1, 1967'



ANNEl 12
THE INDUST'RIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Com>arative Balance Sheets
(in millions of rupees)
December  31
1962     1963     1964     1965     1966
ASSETS
Temporary Investments           28.9     28.8     30.0     24c2     23.6
Industrial Assistance
Shares                       50.8     57.2     75.1     97.9    116.7
Debentures                   25.1     35.1     24 c0    38.0     54.7
Loqns in rupees              63.3     85r5    139.6    169.6    204.9
139t2    177,8    238.7    305.5    376.3
Loanb in foreign currencies 103.2    15247    208.2    291.6    545.9
Fixed Assets                     2.3      2.2      2.1      2.1      201
Current Assets and Advances
Cash and bank balances       40.4     31.2     45.6     50.7     5T.8
Other assets and advances     4.8      8.3     10.3     17.6     31.2
Total              318.8    4O1.0    534 .9   691.7   1030.9
CAPITAL AND LIABILITIES
Share Capital'                  50.0     50.0     50.0     67.2     75.0
Reserves and Surplus            15,8     18.6     22.1     27.2     33r8
65.8     68.6     72.1     94h     108.8
Rupee Loans
Government of India         145,0    175.0    250.0    295.0    325.0
IDBI                           -        -        -        -      30.0
145.0    175.0    250.0    295.0    355.0
Foreign Currency Loans
IBRD                         99.5    144.2    181.6    241.8    451h.1
AID                          14       2.2      4.4     12.6     30.1
KfW                          -          _      11.5     24.8    4b41
100.9    146.4    197e5    279.2    528.3
Current Liabilities and
Provisions                      7.1     11.0     15.3     23.1     38.8
Total              318.8    401.0    534.9    691.7   1030.9



THE  _ DUSI'RIAL CREDIT AND INVESTI ENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LR'aTE7
Comparative Statements of Earnings
(in millions of'rupees)
1962     1963     1964     1965     1966
INCOME
Interest on Temporary Invest-
ments and Deposits             2.95     2.90     2.45     2.39     3.68
Interest on Rupee Loans         4.10     7.05    10.06   12e72    16.35
Interest on Foreign Exchange
Loans                          6.89    10.91   15.62    21.20    38.72
Dividends                       1.95     2.06     1.93    2.76     3.78
Underwritin,g Commission and
Brokerage                      0.55     0.42     o.86     1.19    1.11
Guarantee Commission              -        -        -     0.17     0.09
Other Income                    0.30     0.27     0.26    0,28     0.38
Total Income      16-74    23.61    31.18    4071    64e11
EXPENSES 
Salaries, etc.                  0.74     0.83     1.18    1.38      1.63
Other Admin,istrative Expenses  1.13     0.77    0.69     0.83     1.01
Interest Paid
On Itupee Loans               2.27     4.44     6.53    9.21    12.32
On Foreign Exchange Loans     4s71     7.42    10.33   13.71     24.89
Provision f'or'Doubtful Debts    _       0.22     0.10    0.09     0.09
Total Expenses     8.85    13.68    18.82    25.22   39-94
Profit before Income Tax           7.89     9.93    12.36   15-49    24h17
Less Income Tax                    3.25    4.14     5.45     6.67    10.92
Net Profit                         4.64     5.79     6.91    8.82    13.25
Net Capital Gains *                1.70     0.57     0.31    0.bl     0.35
Dividends                          3.25     3.50    3.75     4.17     6,75
Dividends as % of Share Capital    6.5%     7.0%    7.5%     8.0%     9.0%
Net Profit/Average Net Wlorth      7.2/O    8.6%    9.8%    10.6%    13,0%
Nlet Profit/Average Share Capital  9.3%    11.6%    13.8%   15.1%    18.6%
Dividend/Net Profit               70%      60%     54%      47%      51%
* Net capital gains are not included in net profits.



ANNEX l4
Page 1
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVFSTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Cash Flow Estimates, 1967 to 1970
A. Foreign Currency Operations                 (Rupees in million)
Actual
1966     1967     1968     1969     1970
REQUIREMENTS
Disbursements
Loans - IBRD                  127.1    129.7    126.0    132.7    165.0
AI:D                   11.7       -        -        -        -
KfI                     8.7     15.8     16.5     18.8     19.5
Other                  -          -        -                8.3
147.5    145.5    142.5    151.5    192.8
Maturing Debt
IBRD 1-VI              54.O     63.0     75.0     87.1     83.3
AID                     1.5      2.3      2.3      3.0      3.0
KfM                     3.6      4.9      5.6      6.0      7.4
Other                  _ _                 -        -        -
59.1    _70.2     82.9     96.1     93.7
Total                 206.6    215.7    225.4    247.6    286.5
RESOURCES
Loans - IBRD                  127.1    129.7    126.0    132.7    165.0
AID                    11.7       -        -        -        -
KIM                     8.7     15.8     16.5     18.8     19.5
Other                    -        -        -        -       8.3
147.5    145.5    142.5    151.5    192.8
Repayment by Borrowers
IBRD                   48.9     67.5     78.0     92.3     94.6
AID                     1.6      3.0      3.8      3.8      3.8
KfIr                    3.2      405      5.3      8.3      9.8
Other                    -        -        -        -        -
53.7     75.0     87.1    104.4    108.2
Total                 201.2    220.5    229.6    255.9    301.0
Net balance for the year (A:)     -5.4      4.8      4.2      8.3     14.5



ANNEX ]I
Page    2
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Cash Flow Estimatesp 1967 to 1970
B. Rupee Operations                                        (Rupees in m:illion)
Actu.al
1966     1967     1968     1969     1970
REQUIREMENTS
Rupee Loan Disbursement             50,8     55.6     67.2     87.3    109.7
Equity Participation
Shares                           21.0     31.5     33 :4    37.14   44v2
Debentures                       16.8      7.0     9.2      9.1     11.5
Maturing Debt
Government oi India Loan              -        -        -           11.0
Dividends                          6_8        6.8      6.8      6.8     6.8
Total                            95-.4   100.9    116.6    146.6    189.2
-    -               .-
RESOURCES
Share Capital                        7.8      -        -        -       -
Government of India Loan IV         30.0      -        -        -        -
IDBI Loan                           30.0     20.0      -       -        -
Other Rupee Loans                    -       30.0     50.0    50.0     90.0
Repayment of Rupee Loans by
borrowers                          15,5     26.7     32.3     42.0    46.0
Sale of Investments (at cost) -
Shares                            2.3     140       4.0      7.0      7.0
Debentures                        -        -        -        -      12.4
Surplus (after tax) -
From Operations                  13.2     15.9     18.8     20.6     24.7
From Sale of Investments          0.4      0,7      0.7      1.5      1.5
Total                            99.2     97.3   105.8    121.1    181.6
Net balance for the year (B)         3.8     -3.6    -10. 8   -19. 3   -1.4
Net balance for the year (A) + (B)  -1.6      1.2     -6.6    -11.0    13.1
Cash and bank balances -
Beginning of' the year            -       51.8     53.0     46.4     35.4
End of the yea;r                 51.8     53.o    46.4     35.4     48.5
DFC/IFC
June 1, 1967



AN1NEx 15
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
Proforma Balance Sheets as at December 31, 1967 to 1970                                (in million rupees)
(A-tenl )                                                                       (Actual)
1966     1967    1968     1969     1970                                         1966     1967    1968     1969     1970
LIABILITIES                                                                      ASETS-
Share Capital                      75.0    75.0     75.0     75.0    75.0       Temporary Investments              22.3    22.3     22.3     22.3     22.3
Reserves and Surplus                                                            Unit Trust of India
Capital                         10.9     11.6    12.3     13.8    15.3          Contribution towards Initial
Others                          22.9     32.0    33.9     57.7     75.6          Capital                         1.3     1.3      1.3      1.3      1.3
33.8 *    3.6    56.2     71.5     90.9
.Rupee Loans                                                                    Assistance to Industrial Concerns
Goverrment of India Loans I-IV  325.0   325.0   325.0    325.0    324.0         Debentures                      54.7    61.7     70.9     80.0     79.1
IDBI Loan                      -30.0     50.0    50.0     50.0.    50.0         Shares                         116.7    144.2   173.6    204.0    241.2
Other Rupee Loans                 -      30.0    80.0    130.0    220.0         Rupee Loans                    205.0    233.9   268.8    314.1    377.8
355.0    405.0  -455.0    505.0    584.0                                        376.4    439.8   513.3    598.1    698.1
Foreign Currency Loans                                                          Foreign Currency Loans
IBRD Loans                     454.1    520.8   571.8    617.4    699.1         IBRD Loans                     470.1    532.3   580.3    620.7    691.1
AID Loan                        30.1     27.8    25.5     22.5    19.5          AID Loan                        31.0     28.0    24.2     20.4     16.6
KfW Loans                       44.1     55.0    65.9     78.7     90.8         KfW Loans                       44.7     56.0    67.2     77.7     87.4
Other                             -        -       -                8.3         Other                             -       -        -        -       8.3
528.3    603.6   663.2    718.6   817.7                                         545.8   616.3    671.7    718.8    803.4
Current Liabilities and Provisions  38.8   43.4     48.2     53.5    59.0       Fixed Assets                        2.1     2.0      1.9      1.8     1.7
Current Assets and Advances
Cash and Bank Balances          51.8     53.0    46.4     35.4     48.5
Other Assets and Advances       31.2     35.9    40.7     45.9     51.3
Total                        1,030.9  1,170.6  1,297.6 1,423.6 1,626.6          Total                        1,030.9  1,170.6  1,297.6  1,423.6 1,626.6



ANNEX 16
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF.INDIA LIMITED
Estimated Statements of Earnings =1967 to 1970                                          (in million rupees)
(-Actual-)                                                                      (Actual)
1966     1967    1968     1969     1970                                         1966     1967    1968     1969     1970
EXPENDITURE                                                                      INCOME
Establishment Expenses
Salary                           1.6     1.8      2.0      2.2      2.4      Interest on Securities and Bank
Other Expenses                   1.0      1.1     1.2      1.3     1.4        Deposits                           3.7-    4.5      5.5      5.3      5.5
Interest                                                                        Interest on Rupee Loans            16.4    20.4     23.9     28.2    33.3
On Rpee Loans                   12.3    16.5     19.4     23.6     25.5      Interest on Foreign Currency Loans  38.7   48.2     53.8     59.0     65.7
On Foreign Currency Loans       24.9     32.6    36.9     39.9    44.2
Depreciation                        0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1       Dividends (Gross)                   3.8     5.8      7.0      8.2     9.7
Provision for Doubtful Debts        0.1      -        -        -       -        Underwriting Commission and
Taxation                           10.9    12.4     14.4     15.6    18.6        Brokerage                          1.1     1.2      1.6      1.9      2.4
Net Profit                         13.2    15.9     18.8     20.6    24.7       Miscellaneous Receipts              o.4     0.3      0.3      0.3     0.3
Total                           64.1     80.4    92.1    102.9   116.9          Total                           64.1    80.4     92.1    102.9   116.9
Distribution of Net Profit
Special Reserve                     3.3     4.0      4.7      5.2     6.2
General Reserve                     3.1     5.1      7.3      8.6    11.7
Dividends                           6.8     6.8      6.8      6.8     6.8
Rate of Dividends %                 9%      9%       9%      9%       9%
DFC/IFC
June 1, 1967



i.r'i' :  '7
THE INDUSTIALL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF IirDTA LIMITE)
Assumptions Used in Preparing Projectiwias
1. Approvals, commitments and disbursements are estimated as follows:
(in million Rs.)                 Direct
Sub-
Foreign Exchange   Rupee    Under- scrip-
Year         --Loans 1/     Loans    writing  tion       Total
Approvals
1967      157.5    (21.0)   72.0     45.0      3.0       277.5
1968      180.0    (2)1.0)  90.0     57.0      3.0      330.0
1969      240.0   (32.0)   114.0     73.0      3.0      430.0
1970      330.0    (44.0)  141.0     91.0      3.0      565-O
Commitments2/1
1967      129.0    (17.2)   57.6     39.1      2.9       228.6
1968      152.3    (20.3)   75.3     51.0      3.0       281.6
1969      190.5    (25.4)   95.4     65.0      3.0       353.9
1970      250.5   (33.4)   119.7     82.0      3.0       455.2
DisbursementsY
1967      145.5   (19.4)    55.6     35.7      2.8       239.6
1968      142.5   (19.0)    67.2     39.6      3.0      252.3
1969      151.5   (20.3)    87.3     43.5      3.0      285.3
1970      192.8    (25.7)  109.7     52.7      3.0      358.2
2. Intei'rest receivable is calculated at the actual rates for the past appro-
vals and at 8% on rupee loans and 8.5% on foreign exchange loans for the future
approvals.
3. Interest payable is calculated at the actual rates for existing borrowings5
and for future borrowings at 6% on the proposed Bank loan and 5-1/2% on KfW
loans. The projections also take account of the effect of the Bank's normal
commitment charge on the proposed Bank loan.
4. Dividend income is calculated at 4% of the total equity investment as at
the end of the previous year. (The actual income received in 1965 and 1966
was 3.8%).
1/ Figures in parentheses indicate foreign currency equivalents in millions
US dollars.
2/ Rates of corimitments and disbursements as against approvals are based on
past pattern.
DFC/IFC
June 1, 1967



