Report No. PID10897
Project Name                     NIGER-BASIC EDUCATION SIL (@)
Region                           Africa Regional Office
Sector                           Primary education (90%); General
education sector (10%)
Project ID                       P061209
Borrower(s)                      GOV'T OF NIGER
Implementing Agency
Address MIN. OF EDUCATION
Address: MinistOre de l'Education
de Base et de l'Alphabetisation
P.O Box
11897, Niamey, Niger
Contact Person: Mr. 0. Hamissou
Tel: 227-72 26 77
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                March 24, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date              March 6, 2003
Bank Approval Date               July 8, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Poor coverage by basic education with significant disparities.     Niger's
literacy rate of 15% is one of the lowest in the world.    Not only has
enrollment and completion of primary education been historically low in
the country, but certain groups of youth and adults have had limited
opportunities to attend primary school.
After years of stagnation, primary enrollment in Niger started growing in
1995 at a high average annual rate of 5.5t, increasing the gross
enrollment rate from around 27 % to 41.7% by 2002.   Nevertheless, Niger
continues to rank among the countries with the lowest participation rate
in primary education in the world with marked disparities between
geographic zones, urban and rural areas, the poor and non-poor, and boys
and girls. In urban areas, three in four children enroll in grade 1 of
primary school compared with only one in five in rural areas where 83 % of
the school-aged population resides. These patterns are also reflected by
region where the enrollment ratio varies between about 24 % in Zinder to
99 % in Niamey.
By income group, enrollment mirrors the urban/rural difference with the
wealthiest concentrated in urban areas. The richest quintile enrolls an
estimated 73% of children compared with 24% - 29% of children in the other
income quintiles with only small differences between the poorest quintile
and the others. Nevertheless, rural populations enroll less than urban
populations irrespective of income level, just as fewer girls than boys
are enrolled irrespective of income level. Data from 2000 suggest that an
estimated 51% of all boys and 29% of all girls enrolled in grade 1, as
compared to a 42::18W boy/girl ratio in rural areas and an 86::70%
boy/girl ratio in urban areas. Similar patterns hold in regards to



primary school completion.
Supply issues. Reasons for this low level of participation in primary
education include factors on both the supply and demand sides. On the
supply side, the bulk of primary education is provided by the Government;
private schools account for only an estimated 4.39 of enrollment.    In
1999/2000 6.7T of classes functioned in double shift (located in urban
areas and covered the first four grades) while 18.3t were multi-grade
(mostly concentrated in rural areas). There exist also some community
schools which were created by communities in remote areas in response to
the absence of public provision. At present, these schools are mainly
funded by the communities themselves with support of international NGOs.
The availability of a school located in the village is a significant
predictor of enrollment. In a sample survey of three geographical zones
(Dosso, Diffa and Mirriah), on average, 44t of school-aged children were
enrolled when a school was available in the village, compared with 20t of
children with a school in an adjoining village, and with no children where
there is no school.   In these three zones, between 42 - 70t of villages
have no school nearby.    In addition to the limited availability of
schools, only one-third of the 3,100 public primary schools in the country
offer the full six years of education. All these incomplete schools are
in rural areas. Further, the distribution of teachers and educational
inputs is biased against rural schools, which are known to have one
teacher for 200 students in some cases. Any strategy to increase
enrollment must necessarily address these three issues: availability of
schools with complete cycles, availability of materials, and availability
of human resources to achieve minimum learning outcomes.
Demand issues. Although necessary, the supply side measures will not be
sufficient for Niger to reach the Millenium Development Goals (MDG) of
universal completion of primary education, nor its medium term objective
of 90t completion by 2012.   Estimates from Dosso, Diffa and Mirriah
indicate that even when a school is available in the village, about 42t of
boys and 64t of girls do not attend, suggesting the existence of demand
and/or retention problems. Although there has been no systematic
assessment of the demand side variables, available information points
strongly to a few important and inter-related factors - the cost of
education, particularly relative to the high levels of poverty in Niger,
combined with perceptions of the value of education among parents and
students.
The direct and opportunity costs of education are high. The MOE estimates
that 12t of total public expenditure on primary education represents
family direct expenditure. This corresponds to an estimated 4,300 FCFA
per student, or about 3t of GDP per capita, and much more for poor
families due to both the lower income base and larger family sizes.
Opportunity costs are also high, particularly for rural children where
primary school aged children work between 3 to 4 hours a day. School
attendance for rural children would result in a 60-66w reduction in
household production due to the contribution of the children.
Perceptions of the value of education vary among parents and students.
Interviews conducted with parents and students suggest that the majority
of parents see the value of education as lying in imparting basic
learning, a more open perspective, and entry into the modern world through
- 2 -



employment in the public sector. However, both public and private sector
employment has diminished over the past decade. During the 1990s
employment growth occurred almost exclusively in the non-agricultural
informal sector (at about 7.2% a year). Consequently, parents see less
value in education. Employment creation and private sector development are
essential complements to the Program.
Like their parents, students are aware of the lessening of employment
opportunities in the public sector. The majority aspire to work in the
private sector or create their own enterprises. However, private sector
employment also decreased during the 1990s, and this is likely to have a
similar depressing effect on the demand for education if the trend
continues.
Inequitable public expenditure. The difference in participation rates
among the different groups, combined with the structure of public
expenditure on education, results in an expenditure pattern that is highly
inequitable. An estimated 49% of public expenditure on education goes to
the wealthiest quintile. Urban families receive 3.9 times more the public
expenditure on education than do rural families, while boys receive 50%
more resources than girls.
Expenditure within the education system varies considerably by level of
education and by school depending on the input mix, subsidies and number
of students. Primary education enrolls 70% of all students and receives
44% of public recurrent expenditure.   Variation by school is also high:
schools with 6 teachers can have anywhere from 150 to 300 students.
Over the past 10 years, enrollment in lower secondary education has
increased at a rate of 3.6% per year on average while the gross enrollment
rate has fluctuated around 10%.   Reflecting the already noted disparity
between boys and girls at the primary level, the share of girls in total
enrollment is low (estimated at 39.7% in 1999/2000). For the most part,
supply side factors explain this limited coverage of secondary education
since Government regulates the flow of students between primary and
secondary education.   In 1999/2000, 15% of the students were enrolled in
private secondary schools leaving the bulk of the provision in the
Government's hands. To adjust the demand to the existing limited capacity
in public schools, the Government requires a competitive selection process
of students at entry. Another important issue is the inadequate
geographical distribution of the low secondary schools. Only 30% of these
are located in rural areas, where the environment in general is less
favorable to learning. Without dormitories, students need to find housing
away from home, which further increases the cost of schooling for rural
families and leads to high drop-out rates among those children,
particularly girls.
The poor quality of education, high wastage, and elevated costs. There
is a clear consensus among all stakeholders today that educational
quality constitutes the major challenge for further expansion of the
system, given its adverse effect on demand. Repetition and the drop-out
rate are high throughout the system. In primary schools, the average
repetition rate is 12% for the first five grades, and only 57% of students
entering the system reach the sixth grade (corresponding to 27t of Age
group completing primary school in 2002). About 50% of those are likely to
-3 -



repeat the sixth grade or drop out. Standardized tests show that learning
achievement is also low. In 1998/99, half of tested students scored 35
points out of 100 in mathematics, and less than 49 reached the required
score of  70%. The poor quality of education is explained by a combination
of factors. Teacher pre-service and in-service training are inadequate.
Until 2000/2001, teacher training centers (Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs)
provided about 750 teachers annually, whereas the number required to
respond to growing enrollment is, on average, 2,000 per year. As of 2001,
teacher training was shortened from 2 years to 1, thereby rapidly
increasing teacher production to 2500/year. Support to teachers in the
classroom is also limited. The few existing inspectorates spend most of
their time doing administrative tasks, while the conseillers pedagogiques
focus their efforts on schools close to the city. Consequently, teacher
support nation-wide is limited and unequal. Assessments have shown that
most teachers are visited less than once every two years by their
supervisors. Finally, students lack appropriate pedagogical materials.
Although 2,300,000 textbooks were bought over the last four years for
550,000 enrolled students (i.e. 4 books/student on average), the real
availability of textbooks in classrooms was one book for three students on
average, clearly indicating serious weaknesses in the textbook
distribution and management systems.
Weak internal efficiency translates into significant amounts of wastage
and poor use of sector expenditures. Such wastage then adds to the drain
on public finance which is already weak. Unit costs remain high,
particularly in view of the high level of poverty in the country (63% of
the population considered poor in 1993, and current GNP per capita is
about $200), and alternative policy measures (based on comparisons with
other countries) should take this higher poverty rate into account. In
primary education, the unit cost represents 0.30 times the GNP per capita,
which is, on average, double those of other countries in the region. This
is largely attributed to high teacher salaries, which were around 10 times
the per capita GDP. Salary costs have decreased over the last few years
due to the implementation of the new teacher recruitment policy.
Severe financing constraints and the education financing burden. Niger
is characterized by an extremely narrow resource base and vulnerable
economy, which forces it to work within a narrow macro-economic framework
under severe budget and financing constraints. The education sector
currently absorbs 28.6% of the country's fiscal revenue (in 2001) and 4%
of the GDP although the school-age population is growing at 3.1% per year,
leading to questions on the country's capacity to significantly reduce the
size of the left-out population in the medium and long-run. Even though
the HIPC initiative provides some room to allocate additional resources to
the sector, it is unlikely that the country's macro-economic situation
would allow for a significant increase of the education budget during the
coming years. Preliminary estimates show that the share of the education
sector expenditures would increase from 20% to 229 under the HIPC
program.
The structural distribution of the allocations between the different
levels of the education system has evolved over time, but the primary
education recurrent budget has declined slightly over the past eight years
from 51.8w to 48.2w (excluding VET and other institutions), whereas the
higher education recurrent budget remained at around 19% (see Annex 4).
- 4 -



The sectoral expenditure review work carried out in 1998 showed that the
financial contribution of other stakeholders (NGO, local institutions and
parents) to the functioning of the system, has represented a quite
important share of the sector spending (11.7%). In primary education,
these direct contributions (including tuition fees paid in private
schools) were estimated at FCFA 4,300 per child on average and per year,
with a high variation depending on the area (urban vs. rural), or the
household welfare or gender. In public primary school, it is estimated
that the households in the lower quintile contributed about FCFA 650 per
student, which represents about 2% of the revenue of those living in urban
areas. As a result, these households invest less in girls education (about
10 times less) and to some extent make the decision to merely reduce their
demand for schooling when these costs become unaffordable.
Limited institutional and organizational capacity and diffused
accountability. The sector's ability to efficiently respond to the
educational needs of the country is limited by a number of factors as
shown by an institutional assessment conducted by the Government with the
support of CIDA. The findings are presented in details in annex 11.
First, the division of labor among and within the organizations in the
sector is not optimal. The roles, functions, and responsibilities are not
well-balanced among the central, regional, and local levels. Second, the
sector does not have strong managerial and technical leadership. It lacks
strong managers and high-level technical specialists who provide a clear
strategic and operational direction in a sustained manner. Third, human
resources are not adequately deployed. The number of people working in the
sector's organizations, their skills mix, and the way they are deployed
require improvements. The system lacks clear and good incentives to
motivate people. Fourth, there is a serious lack of material resources,
from buildings and facilities, to furniture, office equipment and
communication equipment. Fifth, work and management practices along with
appropriate incentives, are inadequate, accounting for the fact that
organizations in the sector do not fully or efficiently utilize whatever
human and material resources they have. Finally, the severe shortage of
funds discussed earlier is at the root of many of problems.
A key issue is the move towards "decentralization". The success of this
move depends critically on strengthening the capacity in all of these
areas along with the definition of clear and reasonable functional
division of labor among the center, the regions, and the local
authorities, as well as the establishment of working procedures and
processes that will ensure good performance and accountability at all
levels. Despite some improvement in management capacity and a positive
move towards "deconcentration" of some functions to the regions, the
deployment and allocation of staff and transfer of resources to schools
remain key points on the reform agenda. The budgeting process is weakly
linked to output and outcome objectives, and the monitoring and evaluation
activities tracking progress in education is fragmented and ineffective.
Government Strategy
The achievement of the Program goals and objectives will require the
development of a clear strategy, which has been spelled out in the
Programme de Developpement de l'Education au Niger/PDDE documents. It
- 5 -



encompasses four main axes:
Expanding access to basic education. Giving priority to poor populations,
the strategy aims to: (i) increase the supply side (cost-effective school
construction, teacher recruitment, pedagogical inputs) and alleviate
schooling costs for the poor; (ii) enhance and sustain efforts to promote
girls' education in rural areas in particular; (iii) implement a more
effective delivery of functional literacy services by NGOs and other
private providers, targeting priority rural women and youth; (iv) better
manage public response to the demand for schooling at secondary and
tertiary levels; and (vi) promote private education, particularly at the
post-primary level and in urban areas.
Improving education quality and efficiency. The Government strategy is
to: (i) reform pre-service teacher training by making it shorter (one year
instead of two currently) and increase the existing capacity, (ii) enhance
in-service training through better advising by the Pedagogical Advisors
(Conseillers pedagogiques) and strengthening the exchange of information
and experiences among teachers through restructured Cellule d'Animation
Pedagogique/CAPED; (iii) revise the curriculum, empowering local
communities to adapt the curriculum to their specific needs; (iv) increase
the availability of learning materials in classrooms, particularly in
rural areas; and (v) test innovative school programs.
Improving the use of existing resources. The Government strategy centers
around three main axes, to: (i) systematize the recruitment of contractual
teachers by expanding the existing decentralized management scheme with
close partnership with communities and stabilizing the professional
development of this group; (ii) maximize resource utilization through
multi-grade and double shift (in first grades) methods in rural and urban
areas respectively; (iii) rationalize the utilization of the existing
capacity at lower secondary education, and introduce multi-subject
teachers at that level. Also, in order to ensure adequate funding of the
overall Program implementation, Government will maintain and enhance
priority given to the education sector within public expenditures (no
lower than its current share of 20-, including external resources) and
will increase the share of primary education within the education sector
budget to at least {50%).
Building capacity and empowering local structures and communities. The
Government strategy is to: (i) set up a fully functioning and
progressively decentralized EMIS to support a more effective monitoring
and evaluation system for policy-making; (ii) restructure MOE's functional
and organizational settings, based on the results of the ongoing
institutional assessment with a view to enhancing the roles, and
responsibility of regional entities; (iii) strengthen the capacity of the
regional and local structures through the provision of training and
management tools; (iv) better decentralize budget processes to the extent
allowed by the overall public financial management framework, including
contracting-out; (v) increase accountability at all levels; and (vi)
enhance the role and capacity of school management committees to
effectively drive improvements at school level.
2. Objectives
The proposed project will provide support for the first phase (2002-2006)
- 6 -



of the Government's 10-year Program, designed to be implemented in three
phases. Although in June 2002 Niger was selected for the EFA-Fast Track
Initiative partnership with its accelerated thrust towards the Millennium
Development Goals, the initial objectives of the Project have been
maintained as the most realistic objectives at this time. They are in
line with the initial objectives of the first phase of the Government
Program and are: (i) to increase enrollment and completion in basic
education programs and (ii) to improve management at all levels by
improving the use of existing resources, focusing on rural areas to
achieve greater equity and poverty reduction in the medium to long term.
The project, also in alignment with the first phase of the Government
program, aims at building capacity in the Ministry of Education (MOE) for
the development of policies, expenditure programs, monitoring and
evaluation, procurement, financial, and human resource management, and at
strengthening responsibility for management and results at local levels.
These latter objectives are of the highest importance from The Bank's
perspective in that they will establish the primordial foundations of the
programmatic support lending planned for Niger.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
Following the Dakar Conference on Education for All in 2000, the Bank
played a key role in supporting the Government in its initiative to
prepare a Ten-year program. The Bank provided technical support and
mobilized the other donors to support the process. Given the scope of the
need and the low financial capacity of the country - even with the HIPC
program -- the financial support of all partners, including the Bank is
needed to fill the financing gap. Partners will agree on the areas in
which the various agencies will take the lead in providing technical
support for implementation.
4. Description
The proposed project will support the first phase of Niger's Ten-Year
Program, in collaboration with other partners, focusing on areas
fundamental to an increased attendance and completion of primary school,
and where the Bank has a comparative advantage,
Increased enrollment in basic education. IDA financing will support
programs to increase supply and demand-side factors. On the supply-side,
IDA will support: (i) the primary school construction program targeting
rural areas and community schools, (ii) scaling up double-shift and
multigrade teaching to increase the number of spaces in existing
facilities; (iii) consolidation of the expanded contractual teacher
program to staff the schools; (iv) developing public-private partnerships
in providing lower secondary schooling in urban areas; and (v) expanding
the functional literacy program. On the demand-side, IDA will support the
program to increase girl's schooling by lowering the direct costs for
households (free textbooks and other inputs, particularly in rural areas),
by supporting IEC campaigns to build community awareness, and by
supporting the implementation of local action plans to improve girl's
enrollment and retention. In addition, a detailed map on school supply and
demand sides will be prepared using the 2000-2001 census figures along
with a social assessment of girl's education which is expected to be
funded under the Partnership for Sustainable Strategies on Girl's
Education.
-7-



The primary school construction and renovation program will finance the
construction and furnishing of 600 new hard-walled classrooms and 1,500
improved mud-and-thatch classrooms requested by rural communities which
meet minimum enrollment criteria.   IDA will finance 90t of construction
and equipment costs, and Government the other 10%.     IDA will also finance
the development of a school construction network linking the MOE planning
unit with community management and oversight committees to ensure timely
and good-quality construction of schools. The teacher contractual program
involves the recruitment of 10,850 contractual teachers by the community
and paid by the Government at an initial rate of FCFA 420,000 annually.
Support to pay teachers' salaries would be done through budget-support
instruments such as the Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit (PERAC) or
the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). The project would provide
assistance to evaluate and consolidate the implementation of the teacher
recruitment program. Together with the EU, the IDA credit would finance
the increase and improvements of the four existing training facilities. A
feasibility study would be carried out to assess public-private
partnership possibilities for developing lower secondary schools in urban
areas by contracting out the management of existing schools or selling
schools to the private sector. Simultaneously, the Government policy on
private education would be revised to facilitate and encourage the
establishment of private schools. In collaboration with CIDA, IDA would
support a functional literacy program for youths and young women (about
181,000 beneficiaries) who missed the opportunity to attend school. The
programs will be developed and delivered by NGOs and other legally
established associations according to a procedural manual.
Increased efficiency and quality of basic education. The contractual
teacher program will contribute significantly to cost reduction which is
necessary if access is to be expanded even moderately. In addition, the
following measures will be introduced to lower costs without a loss in
quality -- putting double-shifting into effect in urban areas (limited to
lower grades), reducing the length of pre-service teacher training for
primary education, and training multi-disciplinary teachers for lower
secondary education. IDA would help finance the accompanying investments
to revise the pre-service teacher training programs and materials
necessary for the implementation of these policies. These measures are
expected to save an estimated FCFA 7-9 billion annually (see Annex 4).
To improve learning outcomes, the IDA credit will support the textbook
program which will provide all students with textbooks and teacher's
guides in core subjects (mathematics, reading, sciences) at a ratio of 1:1
book in primary schools and at a ratio of 2:1 in lower secondary schools
in rural areas. Teacher in-service training will be expanded through
reinforcement of the Cellule d'Animation Pedagogique/CAPED (which are
schools where teachers in a surrounding cluster of schools meet to
exchange experiences and learn from each other), and through the training
of school heads in ways to improve teacher productivity, teaching quality
and parent participation in school management. The project will assist
the MOE to prepare an HIV/AIDS action plan to be funded by the recently
approved MAP project. Support would be provided to piloting a rural
school model (200 schools) to respond to the needs of isolated rural
communities that cannot be effectively served by the normal service
delivery scheme. Remediation programs will be piloted in 15 (to be
confirmed during appraisal) targeted localities to help retain girls.
- 8 -



With the support of the French Cooperation and CIDA, primary school
curriculum will be revised with a 20% input from parents to include an
HIV/AIDS module. Also, the Agence Francaise de Development (AFD) will
support the piloting of school innovation projects in 500 targeted
schools.
Strengthened institutional capacity of MOE and empowering local entities
and communities. IDA will support (i) improved division of labor among
the center, the regional, and the local entities, including support to the
implementation of MoE's restructuring plan, with a focus on management
reforms; (ii) enhancing leadership at key levels (particularly that of the
school) by strengthening the capacity to plan and strategize; and
strengthening school management committees to effectively play their role;
(iii) development of managers and management systems in the MoE, with a
focus on financial and procurement management, Human Resources management,
and a development of an EMIS; (iv) provision of training to improve the
performance of technical leaders in the system at the Director level; (v)
progressive establishment of results-based budgeting and execution
mechanisms; and (vi) financing of core studies to help prepare the second
phase of the program, including the preparation of a sustainable framework
for expanding access to secondary and higher education.
Improve access to primary and lower secondary education
Increase quality and efficiency of primary and lower secondary
Strengthen management capacity of MOE and empowering local entities and
communities
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER $142.82
IBRD
IDA $6.50
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK $1.30
CANADA: CANADIAN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (CIDA) $4.30
LOCAL COMMUNITIES $0.31
EC: EUROPEAN DEVELOPMENT FUND (EDF) $1.00
FRANCE: FRENCH AGENCY FOR DEVELOPMENT $7.60
HIPC-DONOR CONTRIB.FOR DEBT RELIEF NOT FLOWING THRU THE BANK $33.86
IDA GRANT FOR DEBT VULNERABLE $23.50
ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENT BANK $1.00
JAPAN: JAPAN INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION AGENCY (JICA) $2.12
Total Project Cost $300.54
6. Implementation
The Education Law (No 98-12) provides the overall policy orientation for
the sector and outlines bottom-up consultation and coordination
mechanisms. Building on these elements, the Program proposes
implementation arrangements, which were discussed and revised with all
stakeholders, including the sector donors. These will be further
fine-tuned during appraisal and the agreed-upon version will be legally
approved before negotiations. The main elements of the framework are
described below. The implementation design of the IDA-financed project
will be fully aligned with the program implementation and coordination
arrangements, with a view to moving towards a sector-wide implementation
approach as the program moves ahead. A number of donors still have project
implementation units in place, but their number is expected to decline
-9-



significantly during the coming years as along new operations are
formulated.
Executing agency. Program implementation will be carried out by the
relevant technical units of MOE at the central and regional levels. The
institutional and implementation arrangements are detailed in specific
technical manuals for each sub-component, and administrative and financial
arrangements are detailed in the project implementation manual. In some
cases, such as the literacy programs, MOE has decided to delegate
implementation to an International NGO (CECI) under a memorandum of
understanding.
Program coordination. A Steering Committee, headed by the Minister of
Education and comprised of the Minister of Higher Education, the Minister
of Social Development Affairs, the Minister of Labor and Civil Service,
the Minister of Youth and Sport, the heads of the regional education
committee, the lead advisers to the Head of State and Prime Minister in
Social Affairs, two representatives of the teacher union, parents
associations, NGOs, and donors will be established to oversee progress in
policy and program implementation, trouble shoot, decide on revisions when
needed, and approve annual work plans and budgets. Day-to-day
coordination of program implementation, as well as donor coordination,
will be the responsibility of the management team of the MOE headed by the
General Secretary.    An operational inter-ministerial committee will also
be established, headed by the Secretary General of the MOE, and comprised
of the Secretary Generals of other Ministries (Finance, Health, Women's
Affairs, Civil Service, Social Welfare) to help resolve implementation
issues in areas that involve their Ministry or areas of expertise such as
budget estimates, school health, girl's education, and civil service/HR
reform in the education sector. The regional education committee, created
under law 98-12, would serve as the steering committee responsible for
approving the regional plan of activities and for monitoring progress at
the regional level. The latter will hold at least two meetings per year
under the leadership of the Prefet of the region.
Program monitoring and technical coordination within MOE.     In line with
his/her normal mandate, the Secretary General of the MOE would ensure the
overall technical coordination of program implementation. A light
coordination team composed of two to three high level staff would assist
him/her in this job, which will consist of the regular monitoring of the
implementation of the agreed-upon plans of activities, the provision of
technical guidance to various technical units as necessary, and the
effective liaison with the sector donors. This unit would also be
responsible for preparing the periodic program implementation progress
report based on the overall monitoring and evaluation mechanism.
Fiduciary management. The Financial Affairs Directorate (DAF) would
manage all fiduciary matters in liaison with the deconcentrated entities,
particularly the Regional Directions of Education (DREB). This
arrangement has already begun in managing the PPF. Two qualified staff
(financial and procurement specialists) have been recruited and are
working with the DAF staff to improve their skills. The procurement and
financial management implementation arrangements are presented in detail
in Annex 6 and might be summarized as follows:
- 10 -



(a) Procurement arrangements. The program will involve several
institutions at the national and regional levels and will include NGOs,
the private sector, and other donors. The coordination of program
implementation as regards work programs or sub-components at the
decentralized level would be carried out by the DAF, DRE, and respective
communities. Procurement would be managed at three levels: national (DAF
), regional (DRE), and community. At the national level, the DAAF would
be responsible for overall procurement activities under ICB and NCB
procedures related to common goods and consulting services under QCBS. At
the regional level, procurement of school construction activities
(classrooms and related school furniture) would be carried out by the
Regional Procurement Committees (RPCs) through qualified local enterprises
selected according to NCB documents. The community level, procurement
will be carried out by associations such as the Parent-Teacher Association
(PTA) for classroom rehabilitation, which does not necessitate heavy
technology nor important financial resources from local contractors. The
DRE will assist the community. Procurement and disbursement would be
carried out according to simplified procedures to be detailed in the
Project Implementation Manual (PIM), including standard formats, model of
contracts, and selection procedures, in addition to procedures to be
followed at the central (DAF) and regional (RPCs) levels. An action plan
has been prepared and agreed upon with the Government to improve the
capacity of key staff at the center and at the decentralized levels. An
action plan will also be developed and agreed-upon for decentralized
structures responsible for activities undertaken at the regional level. A
detailed chapter on procurement in the Manual of Procedures will be
prepared and finalized before ..................
(b)   Financial Management.   Financial management would be the
responsibility of the Director of Financial Affairs (DAF) along with the
deconcentrated structures. At the center, DAF would manage all
financing:  that of IDA, that of other donors such as ........ ??, and that
of its own national budget resources. The Regional Directorates of
Education (DRE) would manage the execution of a pre-planned annual
activity program. The project would support capacity building in such
areas as (i) the development of tools and their distribution; (ii) the
recruitment of additional qualified staff; and (iii) staff training at
both central and regional levels. Each DRE would be staffed with a
qualified accountant. A controller (reporting to the central internal
controller/auditor who reports directly to the General Secretary of the
Ministry) would have the responsibility of carrying out the a posteriori
review of the execution of predetermined expenditures, including physical
controls in the field. Although the accountants and controllers would
initially focus on project activities, they would eventually monitor the
use of the entire MOE budget with a view to improving public spending in
the sector and building up reliable procedures and reporting mechanisms to
prepare the ground for budget support.
Monitoring and evaluation
The development of M&E systems and processes would be supported by the
project in close collaboration with the main sector donors. Under the
leadership of the General Secretary of the Ministry of Education, the M&E
activities would be the shared responsibility of the core technical
departments of the MOE (DAA, DAAP, DEP) with the Regional Directors of
- 11 -



Education feeding the process with necessary information and data from the
field. A progress report would be prepared twice a year to provide
information on the status of program implementation and outcomes as well
as updated data on performance indicators.    Impact evaluations and
incidence analysis work would be carried out periodically to better
measure program impact on beneficiaries, service delivery efficiency, and
effectiveness.   Joint supervision missions with the main donors, in
particular CIDA and the French Cooperation) would be carried out as much
as possible.
7. Sustainability
Results of analytical work indicate that Program sustainability will
mainly depend on the evolution of teacher salaries and the capacity of the
Government with the support of the donor community to adequately finance
its implementation. Estimates show that Program sustainability would
require stable and reasonable economic growth (4t per year, corresponding
to a slight increase of 0.8t of the GDP per capita); and the share of
education recurrent spending in total domestic public revenues remains at
a reasonable level (at least 209). Gains generated by the decision to
recruit exclusively contractual staff for teaching positions and by the
execution of other alternative measures would make possible the projected
expansion of basic education towards the MDG while improving overall
Program sustainability. These efforts alone, however, would not suffice to
meet the goal. In the context of the EFA-FTI, there is a broad consensus
that a long-term commitment of donor community to providing support
throughout Program implementation would be required.
The operational feasibility, sustainability, and related absorptive
capacity aspects were also examined. Recognizing the need to build up
capacity, the Government has initially phased out the expansion of the
system by merely projecting the GER increase during the first four years,
in line with observed recent trends (gain of about 3 points per year). In
the proposal submitted to the EFA-FTI, the Government has identified
measures to address capacity issues under the retained accelerated
expansion of primary education. These include: (i) accelerating the
delegation of program execution at the regional levels along with adequate
capacity building activities (staffing and training); (ii) considering
transitory alternatives when private sector responses could be limited in
the short-run (example of school constructions); and (iii) progressively
introducing results and accountability as new main driving forces of
system management. Program sustainability would also depend on the
capacity of the Government to maintain a minimal consensus among
beneficiairies and the cicil society on key points of the program agenda.
On-going and thorough consultations regarding the Program documents and
the proposed implementation arrangements, including an active
communication plan, are means to address these important needs.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Consensus-building is essential to gain a wider acceptance for reforms
among the various groups affected. Program preparation has taken into
account lessons learned from the Education II Project, by broadening
consultations on main issues and strategy options. During the
implementation phase, involvement of the main stakeholders will be
sustained to monitor and evaluate the progress made during the process.
- 12 -



Community and stakeholder involvement is important to improve education
sector performance. Initiatives taken under the Education III project to
better involve the community, local leaders, and teacher unions about
teacher recruitment and management, school construction, and girls'
education had positive effects on management behavior. The proposed
program would build on this positive dynamic in both the preparation phase
and throughout the life of the project.
Cost-sharing in school construction raised implementation and equity
issues. Under the on-going Education III Project, classroom construction
projects required communities to contribute 10% to the cost of
construction. This led to significant delays in implementation due to the
inability of many communities to mobilize their contribution and
difficulties in financial management among those who did raise the money.
In poor communities where basic health and nutritional needs cannot be met
(the majority of communities in Niger), cost sharing is unrealistic.
Quality improvements require leadership and long-term commitment.
Previous projects, including therecently closed Education III Project, ma
de some gains in improving the quality of education. but they have been
marginal compared to the need because there has been no comprehensive
strategy led by the Government in a sustained manner. Under the
Government's leadership, the proposed Program has been designed to support
a long-term vision and holistic approach.
Contractual teacher arrangements could lead to unrest and will require
sustained political commitment and close consultation with teacher unions.
Building on lessons learned from the Education III project and other
countries in the region, Government has tried to involve the teacher
unions in the design of the Program, accomodating their concerns and
aspirations as much as possible. For example, measures and actions to
stabilize the professional development of the new contractual teachers
have been taken. These include health insurance, a slight increase of
salaries upon contract renewal (every two years) and the opportunity to
become civil service teachers if selected competitively for school head
positions. A study will be carried out under the project to help the
Government consolidate these measures.
Capacity and ownership of technical aspects of reforms are important.
Lessons learned from the implementation of the Public Finance Reform
Credit stressed the importance of capacity building and technical
ownership. In this regard, the project would support the Government to
carry out more effectively and efficiently its main sectoral
responsibilities. Particular attention will be paid to the building of
capacities of local structures and communities.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The project is not expected to generate adverse
environmental effects. The national school construction program will
build schools in selected poor areas. Land for the classrooms will be
provided by beneficiaries of rural communities based on a community
partnership led by the traditional leaders. An environmental assessment,
an environmental management framework, and a resettlement framework policy
have been prepared at the request of the Government, submitted to IDA, and
will be disclosed both in the Public Information Center of the Bank and in
- 13 -



country prior to the appraisal mission.
10. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Rachidi B. Radji
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473-1008
Fax: 202 473-8216
11. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 28, 2002.
- 14 -



