                                                 Document of
                                             The World Bank

                                     FOROFFICIAL USEONLY


                                                                                ReportNo: 25688-NIR




                                     PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                    ONA

                                    PROPOSEDDEVELOPMENTCREDIT

                INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR4.1 MILLION(US$5.62 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
                                      AND A DEVELOPMENTGRANT
               INTHE AMOUNT OF SDR 17.7 MILLION(US$24.38 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                  TO THE

                                            REPUBLICOFNIGER

                                                   FORA

                                       BASICEDUCATION PROJECT

                                                JUNE 20,2003



    HumanDevelopment I1
    Country Department 13
    Africa Regional Office




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                           (Exchange RateEffective 10/30/2002)
                              CurrencyUnit = FCFA
                                 FCFA650 = US$l
                                     US$.15 = 100FCFA

                                       FISCALYEAR
                                 January 1    --December31

                          ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AFD       Agence Frangaisede DCveloppement(French DevelopmentAgency)
AME       Associationdes mires d'tlives (Children's Mothers'Association)
APE       Association des parentsd'tlives (Parenfleacher Association)
CAS       CountryAssistance Strategy
CAPED     Cellule &Animation PCdagogiques(Center for PedagogicalPromotion)
CECI      Centrecanadiend'ttudeet de coopCrationintemationale(CanandianCenter of
          StudiesandInternationalCooperation)
CIDA      CanadianInternationalDevelopmentAgency
COGES    ComitCsde GestionScolaires (SchoolManagementCommittees)
CP        Conseiller PCdagogique(Pedagogical Advisor)
DAAP     Director of HumanResources
DAF      Directeurdes Affaires Financiires (Serviceof FinancialAffairs)
DPS      Direction de la promotionde lascolarisation(Girl's EducationUnit)
DREB/A   Direction RCgionale#Education de I'Alphabttisation (Regional Alphabetization
         EducationUnit)
EA-FTI   Educationfor All  - FastTrack Initiative
EN1      EcoleNormaled'hstituteurs (TeacherTraining School)
ENS      EcoleNormaleSupBrieure(Higher Teacher Training School)
EOP      Endof Project
EMIS     EducationManagementof Information System
GER      Gross Enrollment Rate
GPN      GeneralProcurementNotice
HIPC     Highly IndebtedPoor Countries
MDG      Millennium DevelopmentGoals
MOE      Ministry o fEducation
NGO      Non-govemmentalOrganization
PEACRRSC Public ExpenditureAdjustment CreditPoverty ReductionStrategy Credit
PIM      ProjectImplementationManual
PDDE     ProgrammeDBcennal de DCveloppementde I'Education(Niger 10-yearEducation
         DevelopmentProgram
RPC      RegionalProcurementCommittees
TTC      Teacher Training College
TTL      Task Team Leader



        Vice President:         Callisto E.Madavo
      Country Director:         Antoinette M.Sayeh
       Sector Manager:          Alexandre V. Abrantes
     Task Team Leader:          Rachidi B. Radji                                      I

                                                                        FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                               NIGER
                                                  BASICEDUCATIONPROJECT


                                                             CONTENTS




               A. ProjectDevelopmentObjective                                                          Page

                  1. Project development objective                                                       3
...               2. Key performance indicators                                                          3
    1



              B. Strategic Context

                  1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      4
                 2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           5
                  3. Sector issuesto be addressedby the project and strategic choices                    9

              C. Project Description Summary

                  1. Project components                                                                  10
                 2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported bythe project                         12
                 3. Benefits and target population                                                       13
                  4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       13

              D.ProjectRationale

                  1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                          15
                 2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies       17
                 3. Lessons learned and reflected inthe project design                                  18
                 4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership                      19
                 5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                         19

              E.Summary ProjectAnalysis

                  1. Economic                                                                           19
                 2. Financial                                                                           20
                 3. Technical                                                                           20
                 4. Institutional                                                                       21
                 5. Environmental                                                                       22
                 6. Social                                                                              23
                 7. SafeguardPolicies                                                                   24

              F. Sustainability and Risks

                 1. Sustainability                                                                      24
                 2. Critical risks                                                                     25

     This document has a restricteddistribution andmay beused by recipients only in
     the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
     without W o r l d Bank authorization.

  3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      26


G. Main Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             27
  2. Other                                                                               27

H. Readinessfor Implementation                                                           28

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                                             28



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          29
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                                     33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         42
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary           43
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary    52
Annex 6: (A) ProcurementArrangements                                                     53
          (B)Financial Managementand Disbursement Arrangements                           62
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     66
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                                                    67
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  68
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            69
Annex 11: InstitutionalAssessment                                                        71
Annex 12: Letter o f Development Policy                                                  82

                                                   NIGER
                                      BASICEDUCATIONPROJECT
                                    ProjectAppraisal Document
                                           Africa RegionalOffice
                                                   AFTH2

Date: June 20,2003                                      Team Leader: RachidiB. Radji
Sector ManagedDirector: Alexandre V. Abrantes           Sector(s): Primaryeducation(90%), Generaleducation
Country Manager/Director: AntoinetteM.Sayeh             sector (10%)
Project ID: PO61209                                     Theme@): Educationfor all (P)
Lending Instrument: SpecificInvestmentLoan (SIL)



For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): US$30million, ofwhichCredit: US$5.62million, andGrant: US$24.38 million.

 ProposedTerms (IDA): StandardCreditBlend
Grace period(years): 10                                Years to maturity: 40
Commitmentfee: Standard                                 Service charge: 0.75%
                                                                                  Foreign         Total
BORROWEWRECIPIENT                                                    122.82          20.00        142.82
IDA                                                                    5.62           0.00          5.62
AFRICANDEVELOPMENTBANK                                                 1.30           0.00          1.30
CANADA: CANADIANINTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                              3.60           0.70          4.30
AGENCY (CIDA)
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                                     0.3 1           0.00          0.3 1
EC: EUROPEANDEVELOPMENTFUND(EDF)                                       1.oo           0.00          1.oo
FRANCE:FRENCHAGENCY FORDEVELOPMENT                                     6.60           0.60          7.20
HIPC-DONORCONTRIB.FORDEBTRELIEFNOT FLOWING                            43.00           0.00         43.00
THRUTHEBANK
IDA GRANTFORDEBT VULNERABLE                                           14.38           10.00        24.38
ISLAMIC DEVELOPMENTBANK                                                1.oo           0.00          1.oo
JAPAN: JAPANINTERNATIONALCOOPERATIONAGENCY                             2.12           0.00          2.12
(JICA)
GERMANY: KREDITANSTALT FURWIEDERAUFBAU                                 3.30           0.50          3.80
(WW)
FRANCE:MINISTRY OF FOREIGNAFFAIRS (MOFA)                              3.38            0.00          3.38
OPEC FUND                                                             3.00            0.00          3.OO
SPECIALFINANCING                                                      36.29           0.00         36.29
WORLDFOODPROGRAM                                                      4.46            2.00          6.46
BILATERAL AGENCIES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                     9.52            5.00         14.52
Total:                                                              261.70
                                                                      -              38.80   -    300.50

Responsibleagency: MIN. OF EDUCATION
Address: Ministbrede 1'Educationde Baseet de 1'Alphabetisation
P.0 Box 11897, Niamey,Niger

ContactPerson: Mr.HamissouOumarou




                                     - 2 -

A. ProjectDevelopmentObjective

1. Projectdevelopmentobjective: (see Annex 1)
    The proposedproject will provide support for the first phase (2003-2007) o fthe Government's 10-year
Basic EducationProgram, designed to be implemented inthree phases. The project's objectives are: (i)    to
increase enrollment and completion inbasic education programs and (ii)    to improve managementat all
levels by improving the use o f existing resources, focusing on rural areasto achieve greater equity and
poverty reduction inthe mediumto longterm. Inline with the first phase o fthe Government p r o g r q
the second objective also aims to buildcapacity inthe Ministryo fEducation (MOE) inthe development
o fpolicies, expenditure programs, monitoring and evaluation, procurement, financial and human
resource management, and instrengthening responsibility for management and results at local levels.
These latter objectives are o fthe highest importance from the Bank's perspective inthat they will
establish the primordial foundations for programmatic support lending planned for Niger.

2. Keyperformanceindicators: (see Annex 1)
    Key project targets and monitoringindicators are basedon those developed by the Government in
their preparationofthe PRSP. SinceNigerbecameeligible for the EFA-FTIinitiativeafter the
preparationo f its PRSP, the goals o fthe PRSP will be updated bythe government at the time o f its
upcoming first annual progress report to align it with the FTItargets. The project will support these
higher targets, while recognizingthat they maybe overly ambitious. The project will carefully monitor
the indicators inrelationship to boththe original targets andto the FTIstretch targets inorder to keep the
attention on the higher targets and retain a significant momentum. Dependingon the outcome, additional
resources and/or capacity-building will be envisaged at the Midtermreview to keepNiger on the FTI
trajectory. The EFA proposal was discussed with, and is broadly supported by, the donor community.
Nigeris now among those countries selectedunderthe EFA-FTIinitiative.

OutcomeIndicators
    0    Primary school gross enrollment rate increased from 38% in2002 to 59% in2007.
    0    Percentageo f age group completingprimary education increased from 25.6% in2002 to 44% by
         2007.
    0    Percentageo f grade 4 students achieving satisfactory scores for French (including reading)
         increased from 42% in2000 to 50% in2007.
    0    Percentageo f grade 4 students achieving satisfactory scores for Mathincreased from 55% in
         2000 to 60% in2007.
    e    Girl's shareinprimaryenrollment increased from 39.8% in2002 to 43% by 2007.

OutputAnputsIndicators
    0   Numberofcontractualteachersincreased from 7,774 in2002 to 23,000 by2007.
    0   Number o f days o f in-service training receivedby each teacher per year increased from 3 in2002
        to 11by2007.
    0   Textbook per student ratio for core subjects inprimary schools increased from 1bOOW3 students
        in2000 to 1booWl student in2007.
    0    106,000 adults andyouthbenefit from literacy services by2007, o fwhich at least 65% are
        women.
    0   250 Alternative Rural Schoolpilotedby 2007.
    0   Number o f functioning school management committees increased from 240 in2002 to 4000 in
        2007.
    0   Percentageo f education sector budget (national resources) allocated to primaryeducation



                                                     - 3 -

         maintainedat no lessthan 49% (2001 level) from 2003-2007.
    e    Percentage o fprimary education recurrent budget allocated to non-salary expenditures
         (excluding civil servant staff salaries) andmanaged at decentralized level increased from 66% in
         2002 to 90% in2007.

Process and CapacityBuildingIndicators
    e    MediumTerm Expenditure Framework prepared and implementedby 2005.
    e    Annual progress report covering total program, includingplans for followingyear, submittedon
         time.

B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-relatedCountryAssistance Strategy(CAS) goalsupportedbytheproject:(see Annex 1)
Documentnumber:25203-NIR Date of latestCAS discussion:January 14,2003
   The last full CAS for Nigerwas presented to the Board on January 14,2003. Itrecognized both
Niger's deep poverty and its progress since the return o f democratic governance inlate 1999. It noted
that Niger's prospects are cloudedby a lack o f naturalresources and a highlydegraded natural
environment, explosive populationgrowth, extremely low human and institutional capacity, very limited
international competitiveness, its location ina potentially volatile sub-region, uncertaindonor
commitment    -until  recently-, and years o fpoor governance. The CAS thematic and sectoral choices are
fully alignedwith the NigerPRSPwhichprovides anuncompromising analysis ofpoverty andits
underlying causes and sets forth a national development programaroundfour central pillars. The present
project responds to the thirdpillar - ''(iii) The improvement inthe access o fthe poor to quality social
services, includingbasic education, primary healthcare, reproductivehealth services, HIV/AIDS
prevention, water and sanitation, and adequateurban habitat'' -- and to the first two cross-cutting themes
o fthe PRSP: (i) the effective inclusion o f gender considerations; and(ii) promotion o fgood
                                                                           the
governance. The Basic EducationProject will be one o f the final investment projects underbase-cased
performance assumptions to be undertaken inNiger and will ensurefinancing for basic education, while
preparingthe ground for programmatic lending. Itwill be carried out inclose collaboration with other
donors, setting the stage for a consolidated approach for future programmatic activities, andit will
concentrate on buildingcapacity at all levels, readyingthe entire education sector (including schools) for
decentralized management. Finally, it will focus on girls' education, the most basic entry-point o f all
gender issues, which was one area inwhich the PRSP was weak.

   InFY03, underthe "poorest country anddebt sustainability" status, Nigerwas selectedto receive IDA
grants inthe amount o f $35 million. This amount was usedentirely to finance the Community
Development Program. Based onthe formula usedto allocate IDA grants inFY03, a new IDA grant
amount o f approximately US$24.5 million equivalent is expected for FY04. The exact IDA grant amount
for Niger inFY04 will be determined inthe course o f the month of June 2003. The country team decided
that the funds would be easier to trace andevaluate ifthey were used for one operation. Given its
significant expected impact and focus on poverty reduction, the education project was chosen as the most
appropriate operation to receive the full FY04 IDA grant allocation. Since this amount was not quite
sufficient for the already agreed-upon project costs, a credit amount o f $6.5 million was requested to
complement it. The credit amount will be usedto finance one entire sub-component (pedagogical
inputs), which will coincidently correspond to the amount o fone full disbursement category, thereby
separating these funds from the grant money and facilitatingmonitoring.




                                                     - 4 -

2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
     Poor coverage by basic education with significant disparities. Niger's literacy rate o f 15%
(UNESCO) is one o fthe lowest inthe world. Not only has enrollment and completiono fprimary
education beenhistorically low inthe country, but certain groups o f youth and adults have had limited
opportunities to attend primary school.

     After years o f stagnation, primary enrollment inNiger startedgrowing in 1995 at a highaverage
annual rate o f 5.5%, increasing the gross enrollment rate from around 27 % to 41.7% by 2002.
Nevertheless, Niger continues to rank among the countries with the lowest participation rate inprimary
education inthe world with markeddisparitiesbetweengeographic zones, urban and rural areas, the poor
and non-poor, and boys and girls. Inurban areas, three infour children enroll ingrade 1o fprimary
school compared with only one infive inrural areas where 83 % o f the school-aged population resides.
These pattems are also reflected byregionwhere the enrollment ratiovaries between about 24 % in
Zinder to 99 % inNiamey.

     Byincome group, enrollment mirrors the urbdrural differencewith the wealthiest concentrated in
urban areas. The richest quintile enrolls an estimated 73% o f children compared with 24% 29% o f-
children inthe other income quintileswith only small differences between the poorest quintile and the
others. Nevertheless, ruralpopulations enroll less than urbanpopulations irrespective o f income level,
just as fewer girls than boys are enrolledirrespectiveo fincome level. Datafrom 2000 suggestthat an
estimated 51% o fall boys and29% o f all girls enrolled ingrade 1, as compared to a 42/18 boy/girl ratio
inruralareas andan 86/70 boy/girl ratioinurbanareas. Similar pattems holdinregardsto primary
school completion.

     Supply issues. Reasons for this low level o fparticipation inprimary education include factors on
boththe supply and demand sides. On the supply side, the bulko fprimaryeducationi s provided bythe
Government; private schools account for only an estimated 4.3% o f enrollment. In 1999/2000 6.7% o f
classesfunctioned indouble shift (located inurban areas and covered the first four grades) while 18.3%
were multi-grade (mostly concentrated inrural areas). There exist also some community schools which
were created by communities inremote areas inresponse to the absence o fpublic provision. At present,
these schools are mainly funded by the communities themselves with support o f intemational NGOs. The
availability o f a school located inthe village i s a significant predictor o f enrollment. Ina sample survey
o f three geographical zones (Dosso, Diffa and Mimah), on average 44% o f school-aged children were
enrolled when a school was available inthe village, compared with 20% o f children with a school inan
adjoining village, and with no children enrolled invillages with no nearby schools. Inthese three zones,
between 42%-70% o fvillages have no school nearby. Inaddition to the limitedavailability o f schools,
only one-third o fthe 3,100 public primaryschools inthe country offer the full six years o feducation. All
these incomplete schools are inrural areas. Further, the distribution o f teachers and educational inputsi s
biased against rural schools, which are knownto have one teacher for 200 students insome cases. Any
strategy to increase enrollment must necessarily address these three issues: availability o f schools with
complete cycles, availability o fmaterials, and availability o fhumanresources to achieve minimum
learning outcomes.

    Demand issues. Although necessary, the supply side measureswill not be sufficient for Niger to
reach the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) o funiversal completion o fprimary education, nor its
mediumterm objective o f90% completionby2012. Estimates from DOSSO, andMirriah indicate
                                                                                   Diffa
that even when a school is available inthe village, about 42% o fboys and 64% o f girls do not attend,



                                                       - 5 -

suggesting the existence of either demand or retentionproblems. Although there has been no systematic
assessment o f the demand-side variables, available information points strongly to a few important and
inter-related factors -the cost o f education, particularly relative to the highlevels o f poverty inNiger,
combinedwith perceptions o fthe value o f education among parents and students.

    The direct andopportunity costs o f education are high. The MOEestimates that 12% o ftotal public
expenditure onprimary educationrepresents family direct expenditure. This corresponds to an estimated
4,300 FCFA per student, or about 3% o f GDP per capita, andmuchmore for poor families due to both
the lower income base and larger family sizes. Opportunity costs are also high, particularly for rural
children where primary school agedchildren work between 3 to 4 hours a day. School attendance for
rural children wouldresult ina 60-66% reduction inhouseholdproduction due to the contribution o fthe
children.

     Perceptions o fthe value o f education vary among parents and students. Interviews conducted with
parents andstudents suggest that the majority o fparents see the value o feducation as lyinginimparting
basic learning, a more open perspective, and entry into the modemworld through employment inthe
public sector. However, both public andprivate sector employment has diminished over the past decade.
Duringthe 1990semployment growth occurred almost exclusively inthe nonagricultural informalsector
(at about 7.2% a year). Consequently, parents see less value ineducation. Employment creation and
private sector development are essential complements to the Program.

     Liketheir parents, studentsare aware ofthe lesseningofemploymentopportunities inthepublic
sector. The majority aspire to work inthe private sector or create their own enterprises. However,
private sector employment also decreasedduringthe 1990s, andthis i s likely to have a similar depressing
effect on the demand for education ifthe trendcontinues.

    Inequitablepublic expenditure. The difference inparticipation rates among the different groups,
combined with the structure o fpublic expenditure on education, results inan expenditure pattem that i s
highlyinequitable. An estimated 49% o fpublic expenditure oneducation goesto the wealthiest quintile.
Urbanfamilies receive 3.9 timesmorepublic expenditure oneducation than do ruralfamilies, while boys
receive 50% more resources than girls.

    Expenditure within the education system varies considerably by level o f educationandby school
depending on the input mix, subsidies and number o f students. Primary educationenrolls 70% o fall
students andreceives 49% o fpublic recurrent expenditure. Variation by school i s also high:schools with
6 teachers can have anywhere from 150to 300 students.

    Over the past 10 years, enrollment inlower secondary education has increased at a rate o f 3.6% per
year on average while the gross enrollment rate has fluctuated around 10%. Reflecting the already noted
disparity between boys and girls at the primary level, the share of girls intotal enrollment i s low
(estimated at 39.7% in 1999/2000). For the most part, supply side factors explain this limitedcoverage
o f secondary education since Government regulates the flow o f students betweenprimary and secondary
education. In1999/2000, 15% o f the students were enrolled inprivate secondary schools leavingthe
bulko fthe provision inthe Government's hands. To adjust the demand to the existing limitedcapacity in
public schools, the Governmentrequires a competitive selection process o f students at entry. Another
important issue is the inadequate geographical distribution o f the low secondary schools. Only 30% o f
these are locatedinrural areas, where the environment ingeneral i s less favorable to learning. Without
dormitories, students needto findhousingaway from home, which further increases the cost of schooling
for rural families and leads to highdrop-out rates among those children, particularly girls.



                                                     - 6 -

      The poor quality of education, high wastage, and elevated costs. There i s a clear consensus
among all stakeholders today that educational quality constitutes the major challenge for further
expansion o f the system, given its adverse effect on demand. Repetitionandthe drop-out rate are high
throughout the system. Inprimary schools, the average repetition rate is 12% for the first five grades, and
only 57% o f students entering the systemreach the sixthgrade (corresponding to 27% o fAge group
completingprimary school in2002). About 50% o f those are likely to repeat the sixthgrade or drop out.
Standardizedtests show that learning achievement i s also low. In1998/99, halfo ftested students scored
35 points out o f 100inmathematics, andless than 4% reachedthe required score o f 70%. The poor
quality o f education is explainedby a combination o f factors. Teacher pre-service and in-service training
are inadequate. Until200012001,teacher training centers (Ecole Normale d'lnstituteurs)provided about
750 teachers annually, whereas the number requiredto respondto growingenrollment i s about 2,000 per
year. As o f 2001,the teacher training program was shortened from 2 years to 1, thereby rapidly
increasingteacher production to 2,500 per year. Support to teachers inthe classroom i s also limited. The
few existinginspectorates spendmost o ftheir time doing administrative tasks, while the conseillers
pkdagogiquesfocus their efforts on schools close to the city. Consequently, teacher support nation-wide
i s limited and unequal. Assessments have shown that most teachers are visited less than once every two
years by their supervisors. Finally, studentslack appropriate pedagogicalmaterials. Although 2,300,000
textbooks were bought over the last four years for 550,000 enrolled students (i.e. 4 books/student on
average), the real availability o f textbooks inclassrooms was one book for three students on average,
clearly indicatingserious weaknessesinthe textbook distribution andmanagement systems.

      Weak internal efficiency translates into significant amounts o f wastage andpooruse o f sector
expenditures. Such wastage then adds to the drain onpublic finance which i s already weak. Unit costs
remain high, particularly inview o fthe highlevel o fpoverty inthe country (63% of the population
considered poor in 1993, andcurrent GNP per capita i s about $200), and alternative policy measures
(basedon comparisons with other countries) should take this higher poverty rate into account. Inprimary
education, the unit cost represents 0.30 times the GNP per capita, which is, on average, double those o f
other countries inthe region. This is largely attributed to highteacher salaries, which were around 10
times the per capita GDP. Salary costs have decreasedover the last few years due to the implementation
o f the new teacher recruitment policy.

      Severe financing constraints and the education financing burden. Niger i s characterizedby an
extremelynarrowresource base andvulnerable economy, which forces it to work within a narrow
macro-economic framework under severebudget andfinancing constraints. The education sector
currently absorbs 28.6% o f the country's fiscal revenue (in2001) and4% o f the GDP althoughthe
school-age population i s growing at 3.1% per year, leadingto questions on the c o ~ n t r ycapacity to
                                                                                             ~ s
significantly reduce the size o fthe left-out population inthe medium andlong-run. Eventhough the
HIPC initiativeprovides some roomto allocate additional resources to the sector, it i s unlikely that the
country's macro-economic situation would allow for a significant increase o fthe education budget during
the coming years. Preliminary estimates show that the share o f the education sector expenditures would
increase from 20% to 22% under the HIPC program.

      The structural distribution o fthe allocations between the different levels o fthe education systemhas
evolved over time, but the primary education recurrent budget has declined slightlyover the past eight
years from 51.8% to 49% (excluding VET and other institutions), whereas the higher education recurrent
budget remained at around 19% (see Annex 4). The sectoral expenditure review work carried out in
1998 showed that the financial contribution o f other stakeholders (NGOs, local institutions, andparents)
to the functioning o fthe system, representsquite an important share o f the sector spending(11.7%). In
primary education, these direct contributions (including tuition fees paid inprivate schools) were



                                                      - 7 -

estimated at FCFA 4,300 per child on average andper year, with a highdegree o fvariation depending on
the area (urbanvs. rural), householdeconomic status, and gender. Inpublic primary school, it i s
estimated that the households inthe lower quintilecontributed about FCFA 650 per student, which
represents about 2% o fthe revenue o fthose livinginurban areas. As a result, these households invest
less ingirls education (about 10times less) and to some extent make the decisionto merelyreduce their
demand for schoolingwhen these costs become unaffordable.

    Limited institutional and organizational capacity and diffused accountability. The sector's
ability to efficientlyrespond to the educational needs o fthe country i s limitedby a number o f factors as
shown by an institutional assessmentconducted bythe Government with the support o f CIDA. The
findings are presentedindetails inannex 11. First, the divisiono flabor among andwithinthe
organizations inthe sector is not optimal. The roles, functions, and responsibilities are not well-balanced
among the central, regional, and local levels. Second, the sector does not have strong managerial and
technical leadership. Itlacks strongmanagers and high-level technical specialists to provide a clear
strategic and operational direction ina sustained manner. Third, humanresources are not adequately
deployed. The number o fpeople working inthe sector's organizations, their skills mix, andthe way they
are deployedrequire improvements. The system lacks clear and good incentives to motivate people.
Fourth, there i s a serious lack o fmaterial resources, from buildingsandfacilities, to furniture, office
equipment and communication equipment. Fifth, work andmanagement practices along with appropriate
incentives, are inadequate, accounting for the fact that organizations inthe sector do not fully or
efficiently utilize whatever human andmaterial resources they have. Finally, the severe shortage o f
funds discussedearlier is at the root o fmany o fproblems.

    A keyissue is the move towards "decentralization". The success ofthis movedependscritically on
strengthening the capacity inall o f these areas along with the definitiono f clear andreasonable
functional divisiono f labor among the center, the regions, andthe local authorities, as well as the
establishment o f working procedures and processesthat will ensure goodperformance and accountability
at all levels. Despite some improvement inmanagement capacity anda positive move towards
"deconcentration" o f some functions to the regions, the deployment and allocation o f staff and transfer o f
resources to schools remain key points onthe reformagenda. The budgetingprocess is weakly linkedto
output andoutcome objectives, and the monitoringandevaluation activities tracking progress in
education i s fragmented and ineffective.

Government Strategy

    The achievement o fthe Programgoals and objectives will require the development o f a clear
strategy, which has beenspelled out inthe ProgrammedeDdveloppement de I`Education au Niger
/PDDE documents. Itencompassesfour main axes:

    Expandingaccessto basic education.Givingpriority to poor populations, the strategy aims to: (i)
increase the supply side (cost-effective school construction, teacher recruitment, pedagogicalinputs) and
alleviate schoolingcosts for the poor; (ii)  enhanceand sustain efforts to promote girls'educationinrural
areas inparticular; (iii)implement a more effective delivery o f functional literacy services byNGOs and
other private providers, targeting priority rural women and youth; (iv) better manage public response to
the demand for schoolingat secondary and tertiary levels; and (v) promote private education,
particularly at the post-primary level andinurbanareas.

    Improving education quality and efficiency. The Government strategy is to: (i)      reformpre-service
teacher training by making it shorter (one year insteado ftwo currently) and increase the existing



                                                     - 8 -

capacity, (ii)enhancein-service training through better advisingbythe Pedagogical Advisors (
Conseillerspkdagogiques) andstrengthening the exchangeo finformationandexperiences among
teachersthrough restructuredCellule dynimation Pedagogique/CAPED; (iii)             revise the curriculum,
empowering local communities to adapt the curriculum to their specific needs; (iv) increase the
availability o f learning materials inclassrooms, particularly inrural areas; and (v) test innovative school
programs.

     Improving the use of existingresources. The Government strategy centers around three mainaxes,
to: (i)systematize the recruitment o f contractual teachers by expanding the existing decentralized
management scheme with close partnership with communities and stabilizing the professional
development o f this group; (ii)  maximize resource utilizationthrough multi-grade and double shift (in
first grades) methods inrural andurban areas respectively; (iii)    rationalize the utilization o f the existing
capacity at lower secondary education, and introduce multi-subject teachers at that level. Also, inorder to
ensure adequate fundingo f the overall Program implementation, Government will maintain and enhance
priority given to the educationsector withinpublic expenditures (no lower than its current shareo f20%,
including external resources) andwill increase the share o fprimary educationwithin the education sector
budget to at least {50%).

     Building capaciQ and empoweringlocal structures and communities.The Government strategy i s
to: (i) up a fully functioning andprogressivelydecentralized EMIS to support a more effective
       set
monitoringandevaluation system for policy-making; (ii)        restructure MOE's functional and
organizational settings, based onthe results o f the ongoing institutional assessmentwith a view to
enhancing the roles andresponsibilities o fregional entities; (iii)  strengthen the capacity o fthe regional
and local structures through the provisiono f training andmanagement tools; (iv) better decentralize
budget processesto the extent allowed by the overall public financial management framework, including
contracting-out; (v) increase accountability at all levels; and (vi) enhance the role and capacity o f school
management committees to effectively drive improvements at school level.

3. Sector issuesto be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
     Fast Track indicators versus project indicators: Project indicators will remain coherent with the
first-phase indicators o f the Government 10-year program. The fast track indicators, developed as a
projection to reach MDGbyyear 2015, are too ambitious for Niger. Nonetheless, they will serve as a
comparative tool and as stretch targets inNiger's thrust towards development. They will be referredto
regularly, and the project indicators will be revisedupwardly to the extent possible at the time o f the
Mid-term Review.

    Sustainability: Teacherfinancing (civil service vs. contract-based). Analytical work has shown that
efficiency measuresalone will not suffice to make the projected expansion ofbasic education financially
feasible ifthe salary structure of new teachers i s as highas those o f current civil service teachers.
Government, stakeholders, and the Bank team discussed three options for meeting expected new
demands on the education sector. One option was to increase the share o fbasic educationwithin the
overall education budget. Infact, the Government determined that the basic educationbudget would be
set at 50% o fthe total educationportfolio, but acknowledged that this increase would not suffice to meet
the financing requirements, even taking into account the cost-savings attributable to double-shift and
multi-grade teaching inurban andrural areas, respectively. The second option was to lower the
enrollment target. Government rejected this option since it would undermine Niger's longterm
development prospects while reducingthe chance for the country to reach (or get close to) the MDGs.
The thirdoption was to expand the newly established contractual teachers programwhich provides
significant economies relative to the salaries o f civil service teachers. This final option was adopted by



                                                     - 9 -

the Government, inagreement with IDA. It stabilizes the number o f civil service teachers at its 2001
level and recruits all additional teachers through contract with a salary-base lower (by about 50% per    .
teacher) than the civil service. Ithas beenestimated that the implementation o fthis policy over the
programperiod will result ina notable reductiono f the level o f teacher salaries, dropping from its level
o f 10times GDP per capita in 1999 to 4.4 times GDP by 2012 (under the EFA-FTIprogram). Although
the teacher contracts will be financed through the PEAC/PRSC, andnot through the project (with the
accompanying risk detailed inthe risk section), the project supports the initiativeand will provide
assistanceinthe implementation and evaluationo fthe reform. The associatedpractice o frecruiting
teachers locally andinpartnership with the community i s expectedto contribute to improvingteacher
productivity.

    Reducinginequitiesbetween rural and urban schooling(increasingsupply of traditional schools
in rural areas as well as testingsome community-ledalternatives). The programobjective to accelerate
primary enrollment over the coming decadewill exert pressure on the management system and require
substantial additional inputs. However, traditional methods o f expansion will still not reach the children
left out o f the education system becauseo ftime constraints or disinterest. Therefore, inaddition to
eliminating the direct cost o f schooling to parents andtesting options to reduce opportunity costs to
families, the project plans to support the Government inintroducing, on a trial basis, a Rural School
Model usingflexibility inschool schedulesas decided by the parents, and flexibility inthe academic
program, with 20% o f the programhaving parental and student input.

    Focus on essentialneeds: Although the project as described inAnnex 2 appears somewhat
complicated, the bulko fproject funds and activities will go to supporting ongoing Government
programs. Inorder to keep the IDA FinancingAgreement simple, it was decided to focus only on
primary education at this time, rather thanincludinga lower secondary education program. New
activities (strongly recommendedby the QER) will be limitedto a few carefully selected programs, such
as construction o f "paillote amtliorte" classrooms, the development o f a new model rural school, a
program o f increased community participation for textbook distribution and management, and the
development o f a girls tutorat program. Most project work will buildon already existing structures (DAF
procurement units), will support already existing programs (CIDA literacy program), and will develop
synergies with existing donor activities (French innovative schoolprogram). Other than assisting the
MOEto develop an HIV/AIDSactionplan, the project will leave all other HlV/AIDS activities to the
recently approved M.A.P. project.

C. Project DescriptionSummary
1. Projectcomponents(see Annex 2 for a detaileddescription andAnnex 3 for a detailedcost
breakdown) :
   The proposed project will support the first phase o fNiger's Ten-Year Basic Education Program in
collaboration with other partners, focusing on areas fundamental to an increased attendance and
completion ofprimary school, including literacy, and where the Bank has a comparative advantage.

   Increased enrollmentin basic education. IDA financing will support programs to increase supply
and demand-side factors. On the supply-side, IDA will support: (i) primary school construction
                                                                      the
program targetingrural areas and community schools, (ii)    scaling up multigrade teaching to increase the
number o f spaces inexisting facilities; (iii)consolidation o fthe expanded contractual teacher programto
staff the schools; and (iv) expanding the functional literacyprogram. Onthe demand-side, IDA will
support the program to increase girl's schooling by loweringthe direct costs for households (free
textbooks andother inputs, particularly inrural areas), by supporting IECcampaigns to buildcommunity



                                                    -10-

awareness, andby supportingthe implementation o f local actionplans (plans d`action locale), which are
community activities developed specifically to encourage girls' school enrollment, attendance and
retention. It will also develop an innovative tutoring program ledprimarily by mothers-of-students (AME
),whichwill beopento bothgirlsandboys, butwitha special attentiononthose girlshaving difficulty
staying inschool and excelling. A new school map detailing supply and demand will be prepared using
the 2000-2001 census figures. This, inconjunction with a social assessment o f girl's educationfunded
under the Partnership for Sustainable Strategies on Girl's Education, shouldprovide the project with
clear numbers regardinggirls attendance, dropout, and constraints. Finally, the contractual teacher
policy i s also beneficial to girls' education inthat it increasesthe availability o f teachers inrural areas,
where girls' attendance rates are lowest due to distance from available schools; the Rural School
Initiative also responds to the need o f more schools closer to rural girls' homes; and the proposed literacy
programfor women is likely to have a positive impact on girls' education.

    The primary school constructionand renovationprogramwill finance the construction and hmishing
o f 350 new ciment classrooms and 650 improved mud-and-thatch classrooms requested by rural
communities which meet minimumenrollment criteria. IDA will also finance the development o f a
school construction network linkingthe MOEplanning unit with community management and oversight
committees to ensuretimely and good-quality construction o f schools. The teacher contractual program
involves the recruitment o fabout 15,000 contractual teachers (2002-2007) by the community and paid
bythe Government at aninitial rate o fFCFA 420,000 annually. Support to pay teachers' salaries would
be done through budget-support instruments such as the Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit (PERAC)
or the Poverty Reduction Support Credit (PRSC). The project would provide assistanceto evaluate and
consolidate the implementation o f the teacher recruitment program. A feasibility study would be carried
out to assess public-private partnership possibilities for developing lower secondary schools inurban
areas. Simultaneously, the Government policy on private education would be revised to facilitate and
encourage the establishment ofprivate schools. Incollaboration with CIDA, IDA would support a
functional literacy program for youths and young women (about 106,000 beneficiaries) who missedthe
opportunity to attend school. The programs will be developed and delivered byNGOsandother legally
established associations accordingto an implementationmanual.

    Increased efficiency and quality of basic education. The contractual teacher program will contribute
significantly to cost reduction which is necessary ifaccess is to be expanded even moderately. In
addition, the followingmeasureswill be introduced to lower costs without a loss inquality        --putting
double-shifting into effect inurban areas (limitedto lower grades), reducingthe lengtho fpre-service
teacher training for primary education, and trainingmulti-disciplinary teachers for lower secondary
education. IDA would help finance the accompanying investmentsto revise the pre-service teacher
training programs andmaterials necessaryfor the implementation o f these policies. These measuresare
expected to save an estimated FCFA 7-9 billion annually (see Annex 4). Complementing support o f the
EUand the FrenchCooperationinfour teacher-training centers, the IDAAgreement would finance the
rehabilitationo f classrooms inthe teacher-training center o fTilabery.

    To improve learning outcomes, the IDA financing will support the textbook program which will
provide all studentswith textbooks and teacher's guides incore subjects (mathematics, reading, sciences)
at a ratio o f 1:1inprimary schools. Government will finance books inlower secondary schools, bringing
the ratio to 5 books per 3 students. Teacher in-service trainingwill be expanded through two means: the
reinforcement o fthe Cellules dxnimation Pedagogique (CAPED), which are learninggroups inselected
schools made upo fteachers from surrounding schools who meet at regular intervals to exchange
experiences and leam from each other; and through the training o f school headsinways to improve
teacher productivity, teaching quality, andparent participation inschool management. Other



                                                     - 1 1 -

project-financed programs include the pilotingo fan alternative rural school (250 schools) to respond to
the needs o f isolatedrural communities that cannot be effectively served by the normal service delivery
scheme and remediation programs in 15 targeted localities to help retain girls. With the support o fthe
FrenchCooperation andCIDA, primary school curriculum will be revised with a 20% inputfrom parents
to include an HIV/AIDS module. The project will also assist the MOEto prepare an HIV/AIDSaction
planto be fundedbythe recently approved MAP project. Also, theAgence Francaise deDevelopment (
AFD) will support the piloting ofschool innovationprojectsin500targeted schools.

    Strengthened institutional capacity of MOE and empoweringlocal entities and communities. IDA
will support (i)improved division o f labor among the center, the regional, and the localentities,
including support to the implementation o f MoE's restructuringplan, with a focus on management
reforms; (ii)enhancing leadership at key levels (particularly that o f the school) by strengthening the
capacity to plan and strategize, and strengthening school management committees to effectively play
their role; (iii)
                development o fmanagersand management systems inthe MoE, with a focus on financial
and procurement management, HumanResourcesmanagement, and the progressive development o f an
EMISbasedonexistingdatabases; (iv) provision oftraining to improve the performance oftechnical
leaders inthe system at the Director level; (v) progressive establishment o fresults-based budgetingand
execution mechanisms; and (vi) financing o fcore studies to help prepare the second phaseo fthe
program, includingthe preparationo f a sustainable framework for expanding access to secondary and
higher education.




2. Key policyandinstitutionalreformssupportedbythe project:
   The MOE's strategic framework and Ten-Year Program identifythe following policy reforms that are
key to achieving Programobjectives.

PolicyReform

0   Institutionalizationo fthe policy o fcontractual teacher recruitment.
0   Restructuringand enhancement o f the pedagogic centers (CAPED).
0   Re-organizing the six years of primary education into three sub-cycles along with an automatic
    promotion policy within each sub-cycle; andlimitationo frepetition ingrade 6 to 15 %.
0   Usingprivate firms for textbook distribution and increasing the role o f local leaders and school
    managementcommittees inbook management.
0   Introducingmulti-subject teachers (at least two subjects) inlower secondary schools.
0   Preparing and implementing a rolling three-year program budget and progressive implementation o f
    results-basedbudgetingand execution.
0   Allocatingat least 50% o fthe education budget to primary education.



                                                   -12-

InstitutionalReform

0   Restructuring the MOE, basedon the outcome o fthe institutional assessment through the adoption of
    a new charter and the timely appointment o f staff to key positions before effectiveness.
0   Increase the shareo fthe MoE's recurrent budget managed at the regional level.
0   Strengthening DAAF's role andcapacity to handle fiduciary management and its ability to train and
    oversee deconcentrated financial personnel.

3. Benefitsandtarget population:
   Benefits. The Projecflrogramwill contributeto buildinga foundation on whichNiger will be better
able to strive to reach the MDG (universal completion o fprimary education).

    An additional 290,000 rural children   -- of which 41% girls will attend primary education and
                                                                --
    acquire an acceptable level o fknowledge andskills inreading, writing, mathematics andhealth
    education.
    An additional 106,000 youth andadults     --o fwhich 62% women    --will benefit from quality
    functional literacy training. The education o f girls andwomen i s fundamental for their
    empowerment and for improvingtheir social status, their health status, the spread o f HIV/AIDS, and
    the growth o fthe population rate.
    Public expenditure will become more equitable as increasedpriority is given to rural areas inmost
    delivered services.
    Policy andinstitutional reforms supported bythe programwill generate savings and lay the ground
    for improved sector-financing sustainability.
    Over time, this expansion will improve the average level o f education o fthe labor force from the
    current level o ftwo years to 4 years, improvingprospects for increasedproductivity, economic
    growth, andpoverty reduction.
    The management capacity o fboth the Ministryo f Educationand communities will improve.

Targetpopulation
...Primary school-aged children inrural areas, particularly girls.
   Illiterate youth andyoung women in7 regions.
   Teachers, local leaders, andMOE staff involvedincore management functions.

4. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements:
   The Education Law (No 98-12) provides the overall policy orientation for the sector and outlines
bottom-up consultation and coordination mechanisms. Buildingon these elements, the Programproposes
implementationarrangements which were discussed and revised with all stakeholders, includingthe
sector donors. These have been fine-tuned agreedupon. The main elements o fthe framework are
described below. The implementation design o fthe IDA-financedproject will be fully aligned with the
program implementation and coordination arrangements, with a view to moving towards a sector-wide
implementation approach as the program moves ahead. A number o f donors still have project
implementationunits inplace, but their number i s expected to decline significantly during the coming
years as along new operations are formulated.




                                                    -13-

    Executing agency. Programimplementation will be carried out bythe relevant technical units o f
MOE at the central and regional levels. The institutional andimplementationarrangements are detailed
inspecific technicalmanuals for eachsub-component, andadministrative and financial arrangementsare
detailed inthe project implementationmanual. Insome cases, such as the literacy programs, MOEhas
decidedto delegate implementationto an International NGOundera service contract.

    Program coordination. A Steering Committee (Comid depilotage), headedby the Minister o f
Educationandcomprised, among others, o fthe Minister o f Higher Education, the Minister o f finance, the
Minister o f Social Affairs, the Minister o fLabor and Civil Service, the Ministero fYouth and o f Sports,
the heads o f regional education committees, the lead advisors to the Headof State and Prime Minister in
current affairs, representatives o fthe Teachers' Union, the Parents'Association, NGOs, and donors has
beenestablished. This committee will define andmonitorthe overall sectoral policy orientations, ensure
that program implementation follows the agreed-upon policy framework, will determine the direction o f
any necessaryrevisions, and will approve annual work plans andbudgets. A technical coordination
committee created ineach o f the ministryincharge o f education will ensure day-to-day coordination o f
programimplementation, as well as donor coordination. The regional education committee, created under
law 98-12, would serve as the steering committee responsible for approving the regional plano factivities
and for monitoringprogress at the regional level. The latter will holdat least two meetings per year
under the leadership of the Prefet of the region.

    CommunitySubprojects. The subprojects proposed bymother-of-student associations, COGES, and
other community groups will be reviewed and approved bythe DREB/Aat the regional level, and
included intheir respective regional annual work plans. The terms o ffinancing will be detailed in
subproject grant agreementswhich will be signed betweenthe DREBA andthe beneficiaries. The
procedures relatedto these sub-grants as described in Schedule 3 o fthe DFAand detailed inthe Project
Implementation Manual will be followed inall cases.

    Program monitoring and technical coordination within MOE. Inline with hisher normal
mandate, the Secretary General o f the MOEwould ensurethe overall technical coordination o fprogram
implementation. A light coordination team composed o ftwo to three highlevel staffwould assist
hindher inthisjob, which will consist of the regular monitoringo f the implementation o f the
agreed-upon plans o f activities, the provisiono ftechnical guidance to various technical units as
necessary, and the effective liaisonwith the sector donors. This unitwould also be responsible for
preparingthe periodic programimplementation progress report based on the overall monitoringand
evaluationmechanism.

    Fiduciary management. The Financial Affairs Directorate (DAF')would manage all fiduciary
matters inliaison with the deconcentrated entities, particularly the Regional Directions o fEducation (
DREB). This arrangementhasalready beguninmanagingthe PPF. Two qualifiedstaff (financial and
procurement specialists) have beenrecruited and are working with the DAF staffto improve their skills.
The procurement and financial management implementation arrangements are presented indetail in
Annex 6 and might be summarized as follows:

(a) Procurementarrangements. The programwill involve several institutionsat the national and
regional levels and will include NGOs, the private sector, and other donors. The coordination o fprogram
implementationas regards work programs or sub-components at the decentralized levelwould be carried
out bythe DAF, DREBIA, and respective communities. Procurement would be managed at three levels:
national (DAF), regional (DREB/A), andcommunity. At the national level, the DAFwould be



                                                   - 14-

responsible for overall procurement activities under ICB and NCB procedures relatedto common goods
and consulting services under QCBS. At the regional level, procurement o f school construction activities
(classrooms and related school furniture) would be carried out bythe Regional Procurement Committees
(RPCs) through qualified local enterprises selected according to NCB documents. At the community
level, procurement will be carriedout by associations such as the Associationparents d'dkves (APE)for
classroom rehabilitation, which does not necessitateheavy technology nor important financial resources
from local contractors. The DREB/Awill assist the communities. Procurement and disbursement would
be carried out accordingto simplifiedprocedures to be detailed inthe Project ImplementationManual
(PIM), including standardformats, modelo fcontracts, and selection procedures, inadditionto
procedures to be followed at the central (DAF) and regional (RPCs) levels. An action planhas been
prepared and agreeduponwith the Govemment to improve the capacity o fkey staff at the center and at
the decentralized levels. An action planwill also be developed and agreed-upon for decentralized
structures responsible for activities undertaken at the regional level. A detailed chapter on procurement
i s included inthe Project Implementation Manual.

(b) Financial Management. Financialmanagementwouldbe the responsibility o fthe Director of
FinancialAffairs (DAF) incollaboration with the deconcentrated structures. At the center level, DAF
would manage IDA financing as well as that o f its own national budget resources. The Regional
Directorates of Education (DRE)would manage the executiono f a pre-planned annual activity program.
The project would support capacity buildinginsuch areas as (i)     the development o ftools andtheir
distribution; (ii)
                 the recruitment o f additional qualified staff; and (iii)
                                                                        stafftraining at both central and
regional levels. EachDRE would be staffed with a qualified accountant. A controller (reporting to the
central intemal controller/auditor who reports directly to the General Secretary o f the Ministry)would
have the responsibility o f canying out the aposteriori review o f the execution o f predetermined
expenditures, includingphysical controls inthe field. Although the accountants and controllers would
initially focus onproject activities, they would eventually monitor the use o fthe entire MOEbudgetwith
a view to improvingpublic spending inthe sector and buildingupreliable procedures andreporting
mechanisms to prepare the ground for budget support.

Monitoring and evaluation

     The development o f M&E systems andprocesses would be supported by the project inclose
collaboration withthe main sector donor. Underthe leadership o f the General Secretary o f the Ministry
o fEducation, the M&Eactivities would be the sharedresponsibility o f the core technical departments
of the MOE (DAA, DAAP, DEP) with the Regional Directors o fEducation feeding the process with
necessaryinformation and data from the field. A progress report would be preparedtwice a year to
provide information on the status o fprogram implementation and outcomes as well as updateddata on
performance indicators. Impact evaluations andincidence analysis work would be carried out
periodically to better measureprogram impact on beneficiaries and service delivery efficiency.
Supervision missions and other project activities will be carried outjointly with the other technical and
financing partners under Government leadership (OPSC HarmonizationInitiative).

D. Project Rationale
1. Projectalternatives considered andreasonsfor rejection:
     A sector-wide program. Limitedpublic resources andthe inter-dependence o fthe various levels of
education clearly point to the needfor a sector-wide framework for the development o fbasic education.
However, the depth o fknowledge and analytical work to underpinthe development o f a sector-wide
program are not inplace for secondary and tertiary education. Given the significant positive externalities



                                                    -15-

   associated with basic education, the Government and donors decidedto proceed first with the
   development o f a basic education programand then, during its implementation, do the analyses for the
   secondary and tertiary education work program.

       Programmaticlending. The latest Niger CAS proposes that the Bank move to programmatic
   lending inthe social sectors inNiger. This project, then, is expectedto be the last project under
   base-case performance assumptions to be carried out inthe education sector, with subsequent
   investments made through programmatic lending. However, several conditions are required to ensurethe
   effective participation o fthe education sector ina PRSC or other similar adjustment lending instrument.
   The conditions include: (i) a more efficient level o fbudget execution; (ii)stronger capacity to plan,
   implement, and monitorreforms; (iii)   stronger capacity to prepare and execute a results-basedbudget;
   (iv) ability to channel resourcesto the regional and school level; and (v) better financial andprocurement
   management and accountability. The Public Expenditures Adjustment CreditPEACl addressedsome o f
   these issues. The Capacity BuildingComponent (Component 3) o f the Project i s specifically designed to
   strengthen these areas so that the MOEwill be able to effectively participate inthe PRSC.

       Cost-sharingof schoolconstruction. Community financial contributions to classroom construction
   was attempted under the recently closed IDA project. The practice was unsuccessful because
   communities were both too poor and socially too unstructuredto raise the neededfinancial contributions.
   Furthermore, the management o f cost-sharing attempts incurred hightransaction costs due to the required
-  procurement procedures. Therefore, under the new Program, communities will not be requiredto
   contribute financially but will be involvedindeciding where to locate schools, how to procure land for
   the schools, and insupervising the constructionand schoolmaintenance. Where "improved paillote"
   classrooms are to be erected, the communities will receive the materials (metallic structure and cement)
   and a lump sum (FCFA 30,000 per classroom) and complete the work themselves.

      Literacyprovisionarrangements(publicly managedprovisionsvs. out-sourcingto non-public
   providers). Basedonprevious experience, public provisiono f literacy services to the populationhasnot
   been as effective as it couldbe. Buildingon successful results of a CIDA-fundedproject and learning
   from similar experiences inthe region, the Programwill out-source to NGOs and other qualified
   providers the provision o ffictional literacy education, targeting youth and women, ona demand-driven
   basis. These services will also move progressively towards a program approach by integratingboth IDA
   and CIDA support. One execution agency will be usedfor both donors anda NationalLiteracy Fundwill
   be created bythe endo fthe project.




                                                      - 16-

2. Major relatedprojectsfinancedby the Bank and/or other development agencies(completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                                Latest Supervision
              Sector Issue                            Project                     (PSR) Ratings
                                                                            (Bank-finance projectsonly)
                                                                           Implementation    Development
 Bank-financed                                                              Progress(IP)    Objective (DO)

 Access and quality o fprimary            Education II(completed)                S                S
 education
 Access and quality o fprimary            EducationI11                           S                S
 education and teacher financing
 Community Development                   lCAP (under preparation)
 Other development agencies
 EU                                      IBudget support to education
                                          recurrent costs, school mapping
                                          and rehabilitation o fteacher
                                          trainingcenters
 AfDB                                     Primaryand secondary schools
                                          construction and secondary
                                          teacher training
 FrenchCooperation                        Sector management and
                                          secondary school
                                          improvements
 KFW                                      Primaryschool construction
 CIDA                                     Girls'education, curiculum
                                          reformand literacy programs
 UNICEF                                   Girl'seducationand
                                          community-based
                                          pre-schooling
 Agence Francaise de Developpement        Primary school construction
                                          and school-based innovations
 lICA (Japan)                             Primary school construction
 3PEC \-Fund                              Primary school construction
 [slamic Development Bank                 Primary school construction
                                          and pedagogical support to
                                          bilingual schools
 World FoodProgram                        School feeding program
                                         I




   A number o fdonors andinternationalNGOsare involvedinthe education sector inNiger. These
include bilateral donors (France, Canada, Japan, Belgium, KfW) and multilateral agencies (European
Union, AfDB, IDB, UNICEf, andWFP). New donors such the Netherlands andNorway are coming on
board inthe context ofthe EFA-FTI.These donors cover a large range o f activities. Most are involved in
school constructionalong with IEC activities, but these are generally limited to specific geographical
areas and some times isolated. CIDA, French Cooperation and EUplan to support core pedagogical
reforms such as the revision o fthe curriculumand the teacher pre-service training renovation. A donor



                                                   - 17-

coordination mechanismhas beenestablished about two years ago and has improved over time under the
leadership o fthe MoE o fNiger (see section 4 below)
3. Lessonslearnedand reflectedinthe project design:
   Consensus-buildingis essentialto gain a wider acceptance for reformsamongthe various
groups affected. Programpreparationhastaken into account lessonslearned from the EducationI1
Project bybroadening consultations onmain issues and strategy options. Duringthe implementation
phase, involvement o fthe main stakeholders will be sustained to monitor and evaluate the progress made
duringthe process.

    Communityand stakeholder involvementis importantto improveeducationsector
performance. Initiatives takenunderthe Education111project to better involvethe community, local
leaders, and teacher unions about teacher recruitment and management, school construction, and girls'
education hadpositive effects on managementbehavior. The proposed programwould buildon this
positive dynamic inboth the preparation phase and throughout the life o f the project.

    Cost-sharingin school constructionraisedimplementationand equity issues.Underthe on-going
Education111Project, classroom construction projects required communities to contribute 10%to the
cost of construction. This ledto significant delays inimplementation due to the inability o fmany
communities to mobilizetheir contribution and difficulties in financial management among those who
didraise the money. Inpoor communitieswhere basic health andnutritionalneedscannot bemet (the
majorityo fcommunities inNiger), cost sharing is unrealistic.

    Quality improvementsrequire leadershipandlong-term commitment. Previousprojects,
including the recently closed Education IIIProject, made some gains inimproving the quality o f
education. but they have beenmarginal compared to the needbecausethere has beenno comprehensive
strategy ledby the Government ina sustained manner. Under the Government's leadership, the proposed
Program has been designed to support a long-term vision and holistic approach.

  Contractualteacher arrangementscouldleadto unrestandwill requiresustainedpolitical
commitmentand closeconsultationwith teacher unions. Buildingon lessonsleamedfrom the
Education111project and other countries inthe region, Government has tried to involve the teacher
unions inthe design o fthe Program, accomodating their concems and aspirations as muchas possible.
For example, measures and actions to stabilize the professionaldevelopment o fthe new contractual
teachers have been taken. These include health insurance, a slight increase o f salaries upon contract
renewal (every two years) andthe opportunity to become civil service teachers ifselected competitively
for school headpositions. A study will be carried out under the project to help the Government
consolidate these measures.

   Capacity buildingand ownership of technicalaspectsof reforms are important. Lessons leamed
from the implementation o f the Public Finance Reform Credit stressed the importance o f capacity
buildingand technical ownership. Inthis regard, the project would support the Government to carry out
more effectively andefficiently its main sectoral responsibilities. Particular attention will be paid to the
buildingo fcapacities o flocal structures and communities.

   BlendOperations. Basedonthe experience ofTTLs usingthis new mechanism, it is preferable to
have the grant and credit funds easily distinguishable. The project teamhas decided, therefore, to use the
smaller amount --the credit amount o f $6.5 million -- entirely for one component and one category of
expenditures (Component 2, subcomponent 2 Pedagogical Inputs; expenditure category o f "textbooks),



                                                   -18-

rendering an easy tracking o f those funds. All other components andcategory expenditures will be
covered by the grant funds.

4. Indications of borrower andrecipientcommitment andownership
    IntheI-PRSP, theGovernmentofNigerstressesthecentrality ofeducationtoitspovertyreduction
strategy. The preparationo fthe Ten-year Programwas initiatedby the Government in2000 to invest
more strategically ineducation and improve its progress towards achieving primary education for all.
Technical committees were formed inJune 2000 to prepare the Program. Programdocuments were
drawn up from a dozen thematic pieces and complementary economic analyses, as well as from
conclusions resulting from a number o fworkshops attended byparents, teacher unions, religious leaders,
NGOs, the private sector, and internationalpartners. The Councilo fMinisters helda one-day meeting in
April 2001to reviewthe draft sectoral policyframework andendorse core reformproposals while
providing guidance to the team for refining some of the strategic and operational options.


     Niger's ten-year education program (PDDE)has beendesigned with the intention o fbringingall
donors into a single mode o f implementation and monitoringto ensure greater synergy and
complementarity onthe ground. With this inmind, the Government and donors decided inNovember
2001 to ask CIDA to leadthe intra-coordination process, serving as the liaison agency with the
Government for one year. InSeptember2002, the Government submitteda proposalto the EFA-FTI
initiative, which also encouragesclose donor coordination. This received broad support from the donor
community. InApril 2003, a Partner Framework (CadrePartenurial) was drafted by CIDA and
discussedwith the Government and all donors and with the Bank "Harmonization Initiative" team.
Almost all the sector donors signedthe cadre onJune 8,2003, inNiamey duringa Forumorganized by
the Government on the PRSP implementation. Technical inputswere provided by some o fthe main
donors duringproject preparation, andfairly effective consultations took place onmain themes.
Although sector donor coordination still needs strengthening, there seems to be consensus among all
parties that the Programwill provide a good opportunity to increase the quality and impact o f donor
support.


5. Value addedof Banksupportinthisproject:
    Followingthe Dakar Conference on Education for All in2000, the Bankplayed a key role in
supportingthe Niger Government inits initiativeto prepare a Ten-year program. The Bank provided
technical support and mobilizedthe other donors to support the process. Giventhe scope o fthe need and
the low financial capacity o fthe country -even with the HIPCprogram     --the financial support o f all
partners, includingthe Bank is neededto fillthe financing gap. Partners will agree onthe areas inwhich
the various agencies will take the leadinprovidingtechnical support for implementation.

E. Summary ProjectAnalysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)

n
1. Economic(see Annex 4):
    Cost benefit       NPV=US$million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)

cOther
0Costeffectiveness
           (specify)

    Economic analyses have been conducted onthe efficiency, effectiveness, equity, householdcost, and
financial implications o freachingthe targets under the programunder different growth andbudget
allocation scenarios. Public expenditure reviews were carried out in 1998 and 1999. The results of the



                                                  -19-

analyses ledto the identification o fthe main sector issuesto be addressedby the Program. Inaddition, a
school effectiveness study concludedthat school conditions were highlyvariable interms o f resources,
school size, and staffing. However, a correlationbetween resources and outcomes was not obvious,
pointing to factors at the school level  -- such as management and teacher effort --thatwere inneedo f
improvement. Annual sector expenditure reviews will be built into the Programto monitorthe
efficiency, effectiveness, and equity o fpublic expenditure as a result o fthe Program. Furthermore,
updatedinformationis neededon the benefit incidenceofpublic spendingand onthe magnitude o fthe
direct andopportunity costs of education. Inthe context o f the PRSP, a public expenditure tracking
survey will be conducted which will provide better information on preciselyhow funds are spent. A
householdsurvey will also be conducted which will gather information on educational attainment and
householdspending on education.


2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)


Fiscal Impact:
     Financial sustainability o fthe programwas assessedinview ofexpected Governmentresources
duringthe comingyears. The fiscal impact ofthe programishighwhile the country's financial capacity
i s likely to remain limited. Estimates o fthe fiscal impact o fthe Program have beenmade andrefined in
the context o fthe EFA-FTI. Public spendingonprimary education i s expectedto rise from 1.4 % to
about 2.5 % o fthe GDP by 2012. The estimates also indicate that the annual financing gap will range
betweenFCFA 22 billion ($33 million) and FCFA 94 billion ($145 million) by 2015, under the
assumption that (i)   the economy will grow at 4% per year; (ii) revenue as a percentage o f the GDP
                                                                  fiscal
will increase from 9% in2001 to 14% in2012; and (iii) shareo fnational resources allocatedto the
                                                           the
education sector will decline from 28% in2001 to 20% in2012 (inline with the EFA-FTIindicative
framework). It i s also notedthat 3040% o f the annual gap corresponds to recurrent costs, including
teacher salaries. The gap will be slightly closedwith HIPC resources, but remains high. This situation is
peculiar to Niger andjustifies the strong and sustained support o fthe donor community to meet the
MDG.

3. Technical:
     The project files contain technical notes and major technical reports prepared bythe Bank, the
government, andother donors. A quality at entry review conducted by a panelo fexperts inJune 2002
offered goodrecommendations. Inview o f the country's heavy poverty reduction agenda andlimited
implementationcapacity, the project will focus on essential issues while establishing strong synergy with
other donor support. It will address the issues o f access, equity, and education quality with a view to
creatinga foundation for accelerated improvements inthe future. It will also focus on capacity needs in
the hope o f creating conditions for an effective participation ofthe MOE ina budget support process.
The design o f the innovative activities (Rural school Model and the Tutorial program) was based on
analytical work andexperiences inthe region. Their implementationwill be inaccordance with
acceptable standards and monitoringindicators.

      Investment andrecurrent cost estimates for the project will be based onprevailingmarket unit costs,
with acceptable allowance for inflationandphysical contingencies.




                                                     -20-

4. Institutional:

    A CIDA-financed study done in2001-2002 providesa good assessment o fmajor institutional issues
facing the Ministryo fEducationand outlines actionplans to improve the situation inthe short, medium,
and long term. The study addresses core issues such as organizational setting, leadership within MOE,
human andmaterial resources, and current practices. Complementary work was conducted with Bank
support under the PPFto define a core inventory o f capacity buildingneeds, focusing on essential
functions. Recommendations from this assessment have been incorporatedinto the project design and
costing.
4.1 Executing agencies:
   The MOEi s the main executingagency for the proposed Credit, with the exception o f the literacy
program. Capacity buildingactivities will be executed to accompany the streamlined executiono fthe
project activities by MOE's technical departments. The literacy programwill be executedby CECI (an
international non-governmental organization) under appropriate service contract agreements. An
assessment o f the CECImanagement procedures hasbeen carried out and an action planhas been
preparedto ensure anadequate compliance with IDA procedures.
4.2 Project management:
   The project management structure has beendesigned accordingto the MOE's institutional reform, the
Ten-Year programimplementation and coordination framework, and the objective o fmovingtowards
budgetsupport. Measures and actions havebeenidentified to fillcapacity gaps incritical areas right
from the start. For example, the DAFwould manage all fiduciary matters incollaboration with the
RegionalDirectorate o f Education, which would execute and monitordelegated activities. To this end,
additional qualified staff both at the center and in the region will be recruited andplaced with the
support of theproject prior to effectiveness. Onthe other hand, the Govemment has chosen to delegate
the Literacy Programmanagement to anNGOuntila NationalLiteracyFundcan be developed and
established in2007. The innovative activities component would be managedby localNGOs and
associations inthe field inliaisonwith MOE's deconcentrated units.
4.3 Procurement issues:
   A country Procurement AssessmentReport (CPAR) was completedin 1998. Itrevealeda significant
number o f deficiencies linkedwith legal and institutional weaknesses, and noncompliance with existing
procedures. The CPAR recommended reforms inthe legal regulatory framework, increased
accountability and transparency, anddevelopment o fprocurement expertise. Progress was made in
implementing the action planto address these issues under the Public Expenditure Adjustment Credit
(PEAC I).   The dialogue is being pursuedinthe context o fthe preparation ofthe PRAC 11with a view to
further preparingthe groundfor the PRSC (planned for FY05). The implementationarrangements for
the project has built on the efforts o fthe Government to enhancethe responsibilities o fthe regional and
localprocurement committees. Reinforcement measuresfor procurement functions withinMOE are
described inthe Procurement ImplementationArrangements (Annex 6).
4.4 Financialmanagementissues:
   The financial management capacities o f the MOEwere appraised inApril-May 2001 andpresented
bythe FinancialManagement Specialist inJanuary 2002 (including the assessmento fthe CECI financial
managementcapacity). A summary of the findings and recommendations i s available uponrequest (see
Annex 8). This assessmentpoints out several definite strengths and also notes a number o fweaknesses
such as (i)organizational issues; (ii) internal control; (iii)fragmented information system; and
                                       weak                      a



                                                    -21  -

(iv) an insufficientlevel ofresourceallocation. An actionplanwas prepared to addressthese issues and
mitigate the eventual risks (see endAnnex 6b). The proposed arrangements for financial management o f
the project, built on these recommendations, include the recruitment o f 8 accountants and 4 controllers,
the preparation o f a fairly disaggregated financial and administrative procedure manual (already begun
bya consulting firmfinancedunderthe PPF), andthe provisiono ftraining to core staff. The French
Cooperation will support IDA inthis areaby recruiting a qualifiedFrenchexpert to be postedat the
DAFfor two years, at least. S/he wouldassistthe DAFinprogressivelyimprovingfiduciary
management and overall budget execution.


5. Environmental:                           Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
   InviewofthefactthattheproposedprojectconstitutesthefirstphaseofNiger's 10-yeareducation
investment program, the following steps were taken: Preparation o f (i)  anEnvironmental Analysis (EA)
and Environmental MitigationPlan(EMP) to assess and mitigate the potential environmental and social
impacts of the first phase; (ii)an Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) to enable
the communities and others to assess the potential environmental and social impacts o f school
construction at sites yet to be determined duringthe first phase and subsequent phases o f the education
investment program; and(iii)    a Resettlement Policy Framework (RPF) which outlines the principles o f
compensation for loss o f landaccess to land, incomes, income opportunities, and livelihoods due to the
construction o f schools. The RPF has beenprepared to ensure that voluntary landdonations planned
under the proposed project are indeed voluntary andthat a grievance mechanism is available, ifneeded.
The documents referredto above have been disclosed inNiger (3/3 1/03) as well as at the Bank's Infoshop
(4/03/03).
5.2 What are the main features o f the EMPandare they adequate?
   The EMPoutlines the potential impacts o fconstruction activities and proposes mitigationmeasures,
monitoringindicators, institutional responsibilities for monitoringthe implementation o fmitigation
measures, related cost estimates, and time horizons for these activities. Mitigationmeasuresinclude, for
example, providing the public with informationconcerningthe future sites o f schools, ensuring that
affectedpersons are compensated appropriately, the plantingo fhedges andtrees around schools;
effective management o f the constructionsites; a hygiene education program for schools; and support to
Niger's BEEEI(Bureau d'Environnment et des Etudes Environnementaled'hpacts) to strengthen its
monitoringcapacity. The provisions made inthe EMPare adequate.
5.3 For Category A and Bprojects, timeline and status o f EA:
                    Date o f receipt o f final draft: March 27,2003

5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts andproposedenvironment management plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultationthat were usedandwhich groups were consulted?
   Stakeholders consulted inthe course o fpreparation of the EA, ESMF andRPFincluded
representatives o fthe technical services o fbasic education, institutions working inthe education sector,
municipalities, environment, organizations responsible for classroom construction, members o fparents
associations, teachers, customary chiefs, youth organizations, andwomen's organizations. Consultations
took the form o fmeetings with members o fhouseholds, focus groups, site visits to locations inNiamey,
Zinder and Doutchi, andreview and analysis o f documents. The results o fthese consultations are
reflected inthe EA.



                                                      - 22 -

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o fthe project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives andresults o fthe EMP?
    The EMP proposes clear monitoringindicators for impacts o f constructionactivities; it proposes the
involvement o f localNGOs inthis regardas well as close cooperation among various institutions such as
the technical services o f the Ministries o fInfrastructure, Health andEnvironment. The indicators reflect
the objectives o fthe EMP.


6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
    A beneficiaryassessmentwas recently conducted intwo ruralcommunities onpoverty issues. It
pointed to two main challenges for sustainingthe demand for schoolingfrom poorpopulations       --
loweringthe direct and indirect costs o f schooling and improvinglearning outcomes. The program
addressesthese by eliminating all school fees andcost-sharing inrural areas, providingbooks at no
charge, piloting interventions to lower householdopportunity costs particularly for girls, and tailored
communication campaigns.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participatinginthe project?
    The preparationo fthe Ten-Year programwas carried out with extensive consultation, involving
parents, local leaders, teacher'sunions, the private sector, andNGOs. Parents, local leaders, and NGOs
will participate inthe implementationo fthe school constructionprogramandthe recruitment o f
contractual teachers. The delivery o fliteracy programs will be contracted out to qualifiedNGOs.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOsor other civil society
organizations?
    NGOswill beresponsible for the literacy component as well as for the rural schoolmodel. The
tutoring program developed at the community level relies on largely on mother-of-students participation.
Parent Associations (APES)have participated activiely inthe program design since its inception and will
continue to be included indecisions about all aspects of school management. The COGESand CAPED
organizations are builtup entirely o f community members and school teachersrespectively.
6.4 What institutional arrangementshave beenprovidedto ensurethe project achieves its social
development outcomes?
    Regional Education Committees, established under Law 98-12, will ensurethat the project achieves
its social development outcomes (see Section 4, Project Description, para entitledProgram Coordination
(p. 1-15).
6.5 How will the project monitorperformance interms o f social development outcomes?
    School Management Committees (COGES)are an integral part o f the project design. Each school
will have a committee which will be responsible for managingschool funds, supervise building
arrangements,participateinteacher recruitment, and oversee school maintenance throughout the
program.




                                                     -23-

7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
   An environmentalanalysis which discussesthe impacts andproposes mitigationmeasureswas
prepared for the project; an environmental and social management framework which can be used inthis
project as well as infuture phases o f investmentsinthe education sector was prepared; anda resettlement
policy framework to deal with potential social issuesthat might result from construction was prepared.
These documents were all disclosed both in-country and at the Bank informationservice prior to
appraisal.

F. Sustainabilityand Risks
1. Sustainability:
   Results o f analytical work indicate that Programsustainability will depend primarilyon the evolution
o fteacher salaries andthe capacity o fthe Government with the support o fthe donor community to
adequately finance its implementation. Estimates show that Programsustainability would require stable
andreasonableeconomic growth(4% per year, corresponding to a slight increase o f0.8% o fthe GDPper
capita) and the share o f educationrecurrent spending intotal domestic public revenues remainingat a
reasonable level (at least 20%). Gains generatedbythe decision to recruit exclusively contractual staff
for teaching positions and by the execution o f other alternative measureswould make possible the
projected expansion o fbasic education towards the MDGwhile improving overall Program
sustainability. These efforts alone, however, would not suffice to meet the goal. Inthe context o f the
EFA-FTI, there is a broadconsensusthat a long-term commitment o fdonor community to providing
support throughout Programimplementation would be required.

   The operational feasibility, sustainability, and related absorptive capacity aspects were also examined.
Recognizingthe needto buildupcapacity, the Government has initially phasedout the expansion o fthe
systembymerely projecting the GER increase duringthe first four years, inline with observed recent
trends (gain o f about 3 pointsper year). Inthe proposal submittedto the EFA-FTI,the Government has
identified measures to address capacity issuesunder the retained accelerated expansion o fprimary
education. These include: (i)  accelerating the delegation o f program execution at the regional levels
along with adequate capacity buildingactivities (staffing and training); (ii)considering transitory
alternatives when private sector responsescouldbe limited inthe short-run (exampleo f school


                                                    - 24 -

constructions); and (iii)
                        progressively introducingresults and accountability as new maindrivingforces
o f system management. Programsustainability would also depend on the capacity o f the Government to
maintain a minimal consensus among beneficiairies and the cicil society on key points o f the program
agenda. On-going andthorough consultations regardingthe Program documents andthe proposed
implementation arrangements, includingan active communication plan, are means to addressthese
important needs.


2. Critical Risks(reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o fAnnex 1):
                    Risk                         Risk Rating    I            Risk Mitiaation Measure
 ?om Outputsto Objective
 iector budget/program i s under-fbnded                H         Coordination and consistency o f the education
                                                                 Programwith the PRSPand H P C initiatives
                                                                 have been ensured so far and shouldbe
                                                                 maintainedduringproject execution. Effects o f
                                                                 unfavorable economic conditions on
                                                                 Government's capacity to properly fundthe
                                                                 programwould be anticipated andproperly
                                                                 addressedinthe context o f the PRSPBRSC
                                                                 cycle.


 'eacher unions do not fully cooperate on              H         Extensive and constructive consultations were
 mplementation o f core reforms regarding                        heldwith teacher unions during program
 eacher recruitment andutilizationpolicy                         preparation, including their participation in
                                                                 relevant regional workshops and i-ntemational
                                                                 studytours. The planis to maintain these
                                                                 consultations duringthe implementation
                                                                 process. A study to identify the problems
                                                                 facing contractual staffintheir professional
                                                                 development and the measuresneededto
                                                                 resolve them, thereby leading to a sustainable
                                                                 policy framework over the longer term, will be
                                                                 carried out.
 'he PEACPRSC financing gets off                      M          The primarymeans to avoiding this risk was to
 rack, leading to the non-payment o f                            discuss it frankly duringproject preparation. It
 Eachercontracts                                                 should remain on the agenda for all future
                                                                 macro discussions throughout the project so
                                                                 that its importance does not get forgotten or its
                                                                 needovershadowed by future financial
                                                                 obligations.
 'romComponentsto Outputs
 Jew school map i s poorly implemented                M          The new school map rules are beingdeveloped
 ly the Government                                               and will be discussedwith all stakeholders so
                                                                 as to ensure greater transparency. Annual
                                                                 review meetings, to which major stakeholders
                                                                 are invited, will be usedto manage this risk.
 'he reform agenda is not effectively                 M          Government's understandingandcommitment
 aniedbyMOE                                                      to the fact that core reform implementation is


                                                    -25-

                                                                 essential to buildup the program sustainability
                                                                 are fairly highlytoday. Sustained policy
                                                                 dialogue with the Government will help
                                                                 overcome this risk duringproject execution.
 \JGOsand non-public providers o f                  N            Buildingonresults ofthe CECI-funded project,
 iteracy services participatepoorly inthe                        extensive consultations were conducted with
 iew delivery mechanism                                          the existing andpotential providers inthe new
                                                                 regions andmore IEC activities will be
                                                                 developed to promote the experience along
                                                                 with selective tailored training programs to
                                                                 improve the supply side.
 3overnment is reluctant to go towards              M            These topics constitute key points in
 esults-basedmanagementand                                       Government's agenda to improvingoverall
 lecentralization                                                public service delivery outcomes.
                                                                 Additionally, pressure from civil society for
                                                                 greater accountability inpublic sector
                                                                 management seems to grow.
 dOE capacity to implement andmonitor               M            A capacity assessmentstudywas carriedout..
 he programmay lagbehind expectations                            The main recommendations serve as a basis to
                                                                 design a full fledged capacity-building
                                                                 activities, whose implementation will be
                                                                 supportedunder the project, incollaboration
                                                                 with others donors. This will include support tc
                                                                 empowering local structures and communities.
                                                                 Inaddition, theAfrica Regionisunderthe
                                                                 process to put inplace a tailored program to
                                                                 help improve management capacity inthe
                                                                 countries whose proposals were recently
                                                                 retainedunder the EFA-FTI(Niger, Guinea,
                                                                 Mauritania, Burkina Faso, notably).

                                                                 Overall project implementationplantakes this
                                                                 issue into account by (i) out the
                                                                                           phasing
                                                                 execution o f core activities such the purchase
                                                                 and distribution o f textbooks; and (ii)
                                                                 scheduling an early organization o fthe MTR
                                                                 (in2005) alongwith the establishment o fan
                                                                 adequate contingency plan.
 herall Risk Rating                                 M
 isk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris
           -                                  M (Modest Risk), N(Negligib1eor Low Risk)


3. PossibleControversialAspects:
N.A.




                                                  -26-

G. Main FinancingConditions
1. EffectivenessConditions
The Government would have:
   nominated technical service heads at both the central and regional levels;
   adopted the Project Implementation Manual;
   opened a Project Account anddeposited the initial counterpart funds;
   established a computerized accounting and financial management systemfor the project, satisfactory
   to the association;
   recruitedindependent auditors referred to inthe DFA (Article IV, Sec. 6.01);
   appointedadditional staffat central and regional levels to fillfiduciary management and civil
   engineering positions, under terms andconditions satisfactory to IDA;
   submittedto the Association a budgeted activity program and aprocurementplan, inform and in
   substance satisfactory to the Association, for the first year o fthe project;
   enter into a service contract with CECI, an InternationalNGO, inform and substance acceptableto
   the Association.

2. Other [classify accordingto covenant types used inthe Legal Agreements.]
BoardConditions:

The Borrower will submit to IDA the signed Operational Note to the Letter o f Sector Policy (met on May
27,2003).




                                                  -27-

H. Readiness for Implementation
11.a)  The engineeringdesign documents for the first year's activities are complete andready for the
       start o fproject implementation.
  1. b) Not applicable.

  2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start o f

33.  project implementation.
     The Project Implementation Planhas been appraised andfoundto be realistic and o f satisfactory
- quality.
L 4. The following items are lacking and are discussedunder loanconditions (Section G):


1.Compliance with Bank Policies
  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
  2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
     with all other applicable




                                     .'Alexandre V. Abrantes
Team Leader                            Sector ManagerlDirector




                                                -28-

                                      Annex 1: Project DesignSummary
                                    NIGER: BASIC EDUCATIONPROJECT
                                                                 Data CollectionStrategy
                                                                                                                   OllS
                                 Sector Indicators:             Sector1countryreports:      from Goal to Bank Mission)
 Through improvededucation,      Increaseof literacy rate       Zensus report
 the population o fNiger will
 contribute to and benefit from Increaseofprimary               School Statistics
 an improved economic            completionrate
 growth.

 Through this project a mix o f
 adjustment and investment
 operations (including in
 education, health, and rural
 development) will ensure to
 support for reforms andto
 buildadministrative and
 service delivery capacity as
 required by the CAS.



 ProjectDevelopment              OutcomeI Impact                Projectreports:           1(fromObjectiveto Goal)
 0bjective:                      Indicators:
 Increasedenrollment in, and     Percentage o f age group       School statistics          Sector budget-program
 completion of, primary          completing primary education   [MEB/DEP)                  prepared and effectively
 education inrural areas and     increasedfrom 25.6% in2002                                implemented
 particularly by girls.          to 44% by 2007.
                                                                School statistics          Teacher unions positively
1                                Primary school gross                                      cooperate on implementation
                                 enrollment rate inrural areas  (MEB/DEP)                  o f core reforms related to
                                 increasedfrom 38% in2002 to                               teacher recruitment and
                                 59% in2007.                                               utilization policy, e.g.
                                                                                           recruitment o f contractual
                                 Girl's share inprimary         School statistics          teachers, workload adjustment
                                 enrollment increased from      [MEB/DEP)                  teacher redeployment and
                                 39.8% in2002 to 43% in
                                 2007.

                                 Percentage o f grade 4 studentsSchool statistics
                                 achieving satisfactory scores  fMEB/DEP)
                                 for French increased from
                                 42% in2000 to 50% in2007.      School statistics

                                 Percentage o f grade 4         @4EB/DEP)

                                 achieving satisfactory scores
                                 for Math increased from 55%
                                 in2000 to 60% in2007.

 Improvedmanagement              Percentage o fMOE's            4nnual budget and PER
 [policies] at the ministerial,  recurrent budget(excluding     reports
 regional, and school            permanent staff salary)        wEB/DAF/DEP)



                                                            -29-

nanagement levels.          managedat decentralized
                            levels increasedfrom 66% in
                            2002 to 90% in2007.

                             Satisfaction o f 50% o f         Beneficiaryassessments,
                            surveyed beneficiaries infirst    basedon focus groups
                            year o fproject; 65% inthird      randomly selected from the
                            year o fproject; 85% by EOP       population.

                            Primary pupiliteacher ratio not Progress status report (
                            below actual level o f 39.7       MEB/DAP)
                            (year 2002).




Iutputfrom each              Output Indicators:               Projectreports:              (fromOutputsto Objective)
:omponent:
Lccessto basic education for 350 cement classrooms and
ormal school students and    650 "upgraded thatch
vomenlyouth increased        classrooms" built intargeted
                             areas;

                             250 alternative rural schools    Quarterly implementation     New school map is effectively
                             establishedby2007.               reports                      implementedby Government

                             106,000 adults, o fwhich 65%
                             women, enrolled in literacy      National Literacy Fund's     NGO and non-public providers
                             courses by 2007.                 activity report and extemal  o f literacy services, expected
                                                              consultant reports           to managethese programs,
                             80% o fabove total to pass                                    participate actively inthe pilot
                             literacy test at end o f course.                              experience.




rhe quality of delivery of   Number o fdays o f in-service    AnnualPersonnel management
:ducationservicesis          training received by each        report (MEN/DAP/DEPD)
mproved                      teacher per year increased
                             from 3 in2002 to 11by 2007.
                                                              Fieldevaluation report
                             Effectively working CAPEDs
                             (Cellule d 'Animation
                             Pedugogique) increase from
                             188 in2002 to 787 in2007.
                                                              Report prepared by DEPD and
                             "Flexible curriculum'' for       field evaluation report
                             community-schools
                             implemented by 2004i05

                             Textbooksistudent ratio :        Consultant report
                             inprimary school increased
                             From lbook for 3 students in
                             2002 to 1/1 inmajor subjects



                                                           -30-

                           in2007.

                           New textbook editing policy     hacking Govt.budget report
                           implementedand evaluated        md independant evaluation
                           (CPl and CP2 textbooks) by      eport (MEB/DAF/DE)
                           EOP.


1. Resource administration Number of contractual           'ersonnel management report  jovernment adopted and
Ifschoolsisimproved        teachers increased from 7774                                 mplementedthe reforms
                           in2002 to 23,000 in2007.

                           Percentageo fthe education      h u a l budget and PER
                           sector budget allocated to      eports (MEB/DAF/DEP)
                           primary education maintained
                            at no less than 49% (2001
                           level) from 2003-2007.




1. Ministry o f education
blanningand management     MOE's new organigramme is       ndependent evaluation report jovernment is committed to a
unctionsare improved       3pproved, positions are filled,                              nore performance-based
                           roles andjob desriptions are                                 nanagementand to the
                           defined bynegotiations or                                    impowerment o f local entities
                           :ffectiveness.                                               .ndcommunities.

                           Rolling Medium Term             hnual budget and PER
                           Expenditure Framework           eports (MEB/DAF/DEP).
                           implementedas o f 2005.

                           Expenditurereview conducted     hnualreports (MEB/DAF/       doE's capacityto implement
                           3i-annually                     IEP)                         he program is successfully
                                                                                        mproved.
                           Schools statistics analyzed and innualreports (MEB/ DEP
                           Jublishedannually               DAF)

                           3MIS progressively              innual reports
                           leveloped.

                           3AF capable of carryingout      'rogress status report
                           mdmanaging all procurement
                           md financial activities by
                           !005.

.ndthe empowermentof       hmber of functioning school     'ield visit report           ;overnment is committed to
:ommunities                nanagement committees           'MEB/DAF/DEPD)               he empowerment o f local
                           ncreased from 240 in2002 to                                  ntities and communities.
                           1000in2007.

                           (umber o f functioning school
                           :ommitteesreceivingand



                                                       -31-

                             managing transferred funds
                             increasedfrom 240 in2002to
                             2000 in2007.

                             All keytechnical leaders
                             including school management
                             committee teams provided
                             with training incore fields
                             (including financial and
                            procurement management) by
                            EOP   I




'roject ComponentsI          Inputs: (budgetfor each          'roject reports:    from Componentsto
jub-components:             component)                                            )utputs)
To Improve Access to Primary $12.3 million
md Lower Secondary
!ducation

To Increase the Quality and $11.9million
3fficiency o fPrimary and
,ower Secondary Education

To StrengthenManagement     $5.8 million




                                                        - 32 -

                                 Annex 2: DetailedProject Description
                                  NIGER: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT

By Component:

ProjectComponent1 US$12.30 million
                        -
The First Component To ImproveAccess to PrimaryEducationwill havethree subcomponenets
                           --
    Three subcomponents would support access to primaryeducation by financing programs to increase
supply anddemand. Onthe supply side, they would support the primaryschool construction program
targetingrural areas; implement double-shift (to phaseout by2007) andmultigradeteaching to increase
the number o f spaces inexisting facilities; consolidate and expand the contractual teacher program to
staff the schools; develop public-private partnerships inprovidinglower secondary schooling inurban
areas; and expand the functional literacy program. The program would include the recruitment bythe
community o f about 2,800 contractual teachers per year who would then be paidby the Government,
supportedthrough budgetsupport mechanisms(PEAUPRSC). The sub-component for the expansion
o fthe teacher programwould also include monitoring and evaluationactivities o fthe new policy, which
is critical for ensuring sector-financing sustainability. Onthe demand side, the project would support
programs to increase girls schoolingby loweringthe direct costs for households (free textbooks and other
inputs, particularly inrural areas), by supportingE Ccampaigns to buildcommunity awareness,andby
supporting implementation o flocal action plans to improve girls enrollment and retention. The three
following subcomponents would be financedby the IDA Grant.

Subcomponent 1: Supportto primary school constructionand renovationprogramin rural areas.
This subcomponent ofthe program aims at providingaccess to primaryeducationfor about 290,000
children inrural areas. IDA will contribute to this through the construction and equipment o f 1,000 out
o f a projected 8,500 new classrooms required over the four-year periodinrural areas. The PDDEhas set
the norms interms o f a standard design for a 2 or 3-classroom block including office, storage and latrine
and standard technical specifications. Inthe context o f EFA-FTI,however, inview of the existing
limitingfactors (inbothprivate andpublic sector) to ensurethe effective execution o fthe construction
program, the Government has decided to implement, inparallel, an alternative buildingplanby which
existing community mud-thatchclassrooms (called "Paillottes") will be improvedupon. A classroom
builtwith a metallic frame andcementedfloor would cost about $1,000. Withthis planinplace, IDA
would support about 350 new traditional classrooms (cement) and 650 improvedthatch classrooms.
These classrooms would complement community-schools inremote areas where the project would also
provide support to pilotinga Rural School Model (see sub-component 5 below).

     To do this, management capacity o f school construction services inthe regions would have to be
builtup. Newclassroom sites would be identifiedand selectedbasedonneedanddemand inaccordance
with the annual school construction program coordinated and monitoredby the DEP through a bottom-up
process, whereby the regional entities (regional directorates andinspectorates) are given first
decision-making responsibility.

     School constructionactivities would be executed at the regional level. Inother words, the DREB/A
would be responsible for developing an annual regional school construction program and for ensuring
that it i s fully executed and subsequently monitored, inliaison with other pertinent technical departments
inthe area. Localcontractors/artisans wouldbe selectedandhired, according to acceptable procurement
processes(see Annex 6). IDAwould support the recruitment o f one qualified contractual staffat the


                                                    - 33 -

level o f each DREB/A (a total o f 8, ofwhich one would cover Niamey as well as the region o fNiamey).
She would handle the technical oversight, while the beneficiary community would be responsible for the
daily follow-up o fcivil works.

Subcomponent2: ImproveGirl's Education. Currently planneddemand-side measuresto improve
girls education include loweringschool costs for poor households (costs o ftextbooks and school supplies
inruralareasinparticular) andthe improvement ofpre-service andin-service teacher training as regards
teacher gender sensitivity. The project wouldprovide fundingto continue activities which were
successful under the previous IDA-fundedproject, focusing onareas where there i s more resistance to
female schooling and very low gross enrollment rates. These activities include such things as (i)   the
organization o f information campaigns to increase awareness inthe population o fthe benefits o f girls
education; (ii) solicitation o f the involvement o f local leaders and NGOs; and (iii) provision o f
                                                                                      the
awards to promisingstudents at the regional level. Inaddition, the project would assist, implementand
evaluate 10 local action plans incollaborationwith a CIDA-financed project, so as to assess their
cost-effectiveness andpotential for scaling-up. Developing and implementingtutoring programs for
poorly performingstudents inselected schools intargeted areaswould help improve retentionrates (see
subcomponent 4 o f Component 2, below). Furthermore, maps detailing both supply and demand-side
factors, would be prepared usingthe 2000-2001 census figures along with a social assessment o f girls
education, which i s expected to be fundedunder the Partnership for Sustainable Strategies on Girls
Education.

    Implementationo f these activities would be coordinatedby the Direction de lapromotion de la
scolarisation (Girls education unit)but would take place primarily at the regional level. Support would
be provided to DPS to strengthen its capacity to effectively fulfill its oversight role o fprogramexecution
and evaluation. Such support would be inthe form o f training (IEC, M&E, financial management) and
the development of a database.

Subcomponent3: Adult LiteracyProgram. A pilot adult literacy project is currently operating in
three regions since 2001 and hasprovided training to (10,000) beneficiariesper year. It i s financed by
CIDA and executed bythe Centre canadien d'etude et de cooperation internationaleKECI (a Canadian
NGO). IDAwouldprovide support to extendthis programto four other regions (Tahoua, Difa, Dosso and
Maradi). The overall program, developed and delivered byNGOs and other qualified providers, would
benefitsome 20,000 additional youth andwomenper year. Usingthe new "faire-faire" approachproven
successful inneighboring countries, the programwould endeavor to create local capacity by providing
cost-effective quality literacy services. To successfully to this, the Government, CIDA, andWorld Bank
decided to integrate the two programs working on nonformal education(i.e.serving a total o fabout
106,000 beneficiaries in7 geographic regions, o f which 65% would be women), which would be
managedby the same agency with a commonmanual o fprocedures andmonitoringand evaluation tools.
Inadditionhelpingwithprogramexecution, the sub-component wouldassisttheGovernment in
designingand establishing a NationalLiteracy Fund, which should be operational by 2006 and ready to
take over the execution o f a full fledge national literacy program.

    The application ofthis new strategy for delivering quality literacy services would implythat the role
o fthe relevant technicalunits o fthe Ministryo f Educationbe progressively shifted from their current
direct involvement inthe provision o f literacy services towards a role o f supervision, monitoring, and
evaluation. Thejoint CIDA-IDA-financedprogramwould assist the Government to restructure the
current Directionde L'Alphabetisation, along with its local units, to effectively carry out their new
mandates. Projectsupportwould includethe provisiono ftraining, equipment, andthe development of
tools (M&E system, databaseon literacy activities and indicators).



                                                      - 34 -

   A service contract would be signed between the Governmentand CECIbefore project effectiveness
alongwith the adoption o fthe updated manual o fprocedures.

ProjectComponent2 US$11.90million
                      -
The secondcomponent To Improvethe QualityandEfficiency ofPrimaryandLower secondary
                         -
Educationwill havefive subcomponents

    The quality o f education would be reinforced and improvedthrough five subcomponents: (a)
improved pre-service and in-service teacher trainingprograms; (b) the institutionalization o f an
evaluation system leading to necessarysolutions; (c) improved availability o fpedagogical materials in
the schools; (d) the development o f an experimentalalternative teaching program inrural areas; (e) the
development o f an experimental tutoring programfor weak students, particularly girls, inrural areas.
Fundswill also beused incollaboration with the HIVIAIDSproject for programs addressing student
health, includingpreventivemeasuresagainst HIV/AIDS. Withthe exception of the provisionof
pedagogicalmaterialswhichwouldbe supportedbythe IDA Credit, the other sub-components
would befinancedby the IDA Grant.

    Inadditionto thesesubcomponentsbackedbythe Project, acurriculum reform, supportedbyCanada
and France, would be undertaken along with the piloting o f school-based quality initiatives in
500-targeted schools. IDA would add its support to this programby financing the monitoringactivities,
which would allow its eventual evaluation andpotential expansion.

    Details concerning the implementation measures for each main subcomponent would be containedin
the technical implementationhandbooks of each sub-component. The subcomponents are summarized
below:

Subcomponent1: ImprovePre-serviceandIn-serviceTeacher TraininginPrimaryEducation.
This subcomponent aims at improvingboththe initial andcontinuous education o fthe primary school
teachers.

    Initial training: Approximately 3,000 newprimary education teachers, 20 education inspectors, and
40 education adviserswould be trained each year. All newteacherswould be contractuals recruitedfrom
the teacher-training schools. To meet the needfor new teachers, the regulations o fthe ENIswere
amendedin2002, givingthem more autonomy and flexibility intraining teachers for the education
market. The duration o fthe training was reducedto one year, and the training curriculummodified
accordingly, thereby ensuring 30 weeks o f initial training, o fwhich 1/3 is hands-on training inthe
classroom (guided observation and responsibilities) and 2/3 theoretical and vocational training, centered
onjob skills. IDAwould providesupport to enhancethe implementationo fthese reforms.

   Furthermore, IDA and other donors will finance the renovation o f teacher-training facilities with
improved learning conditions. The four existing Teacher Training Centers (EM) can currently produce
2,500 teachers annually. The European Union and France are planning to provide assistance inthe
restorationo ffour o fthese teacher-training centers, and IDA will finance the reopening o fthe Tillabkry
Teacher training center with 23 classrooms, resulting ina gross increasedproductivitypotential o fmore
than 3,100 teachersper annum as o f2004, respondingto teacher needs inboth the public and private
sectors.




                                                   - 35 -

      Supervisory staff would also needto be trained inthe new system insufficient numbers to increase
 the proportion o f supervisors to teachers from 11'300 to 1/515, and the proportion o f educationadvisors to
 teachers from 1/280 to 1/140. With support from the FrenchCooperation, the training curriculum for the
 Teacher Training College (ENS) would be adjusted to fit the requirements o f the new primary education
 and non-formal education curriculum and to the specificities oftraining o fthe ENIteachers. French
 technical assistance would also ensure on-site teaching support to the ENS personnel. The Canadian
 co-operation has already started a collaborativeprogramaiming at developing the institutional and
 evaluation research capacities o f the ENS, which would be reinforcedthrough the Project.

     In-service training The teachers' in-service training reformaims at increasingthe annual teacher
 training rate from 8% in2001 to 60% in2005 and to 100% in2007 and at ensuring each teacher with at
 least: (i)11days o fformal in-service training per year, including7 days o f CAPED training and4 days
 o f seminar training; and (ii)
                              7 days o f training per year by the school director. It i s also anticipated that
the teachers would receive at least one inspectionvisit by an inspector every other year.

     The evaluation o fpast in-service training programs resultedinthe adoption o f a new approach since
 2001, which is now to be generalized. This structured approach takes place at four levels: (a) at the
 school level, the director would accord eachteacher at least one monthlytrainingvisit and would
 organize at least two monthly meetings with the teaching staff overall; (b) at the CAPED level, where 6
 schools with an average o f 36 teachers gather under the responsibility o f an experienced teacher
 (CAPAD organizer), the teachers would meet at least 7 times annually to cover a work training program
designed onthe basis o f three sources: (i)   national topics defined by the Direction de I'Enseignement du
 Cycle de BaseI; (ii)  priority sub-regional topics identifiedby the Inspector on the basis o f a
 school-results analysis andclass visits; (iii) specific CAPED topics identifiedby the teachers
themselves. (c) at the sectorial teaching level (each inspectorate dividedinto teaching sectors ("secteur
pedagogique") under the responsibility o f an Education adviser for the training o f 144teachers and 4
CAPED), where the advisor would carry out 28 annual CAPED visits andwill pay class visits to at least
halfthe teachers. (d) at the inspectorate level, besides his/her administrative duties andprofessional
examinations, the inspector: (i)would organize two annual meetings with the persons incharge o f the
sectors to plan and the evaluate activities; (ii)would supervise the sectors at least twice a year; and (iii)
would ensure the annual assessmento f at least 30 teachers and 30 directors.

     Withinthe framework o fthe in-service training, each CAPED wouldbe considered as a resource
center and receive reference materials and an annual grant o fapproximately 1,000,000 FCFA to cover
the costs o fthe various activities o ftheir respective programs. At the midtermreview, a mechanism for
theprogressive transfer o fthese grants to the nationalbudget would be discussed. The project would
also provide support to developing monitoring and evaluationtoolsfor the analysis o fthe results o f
these programs.

     Since the Direction de I'Enseignement du Cycle de Base Iis incharge o fthe orientation and
coordinationo fENItrainingactivities, it would work inclose cooperationwith: (i) Primary   the
EducationPre- and In-service Training Unit,and (ii)     the ENS Director, responsible for the
implementationo fthe initial training o f the supervisory staff.

Subcomponent 2: Improve Availability of Pedagogical Inputsin primary and lower secondary
education. This component (approximately $6.5 million) will be covered by the Credit funds o f the
Development Financing Agreement. The sub-component's main objective i s to assist the Government to
improve the availability o ftextbooks and other core school materials inthe classrooms to improve the



                                                     - 36 -

quality o fbasic education. Drawing lessonsfrom past experiences, new operational options would be
considered to improve efficiency intextbook management and distribution. Mainactivities to be
executedwould include; (i)    the re-impression and distribution o f about 2,470,000 mathematic workbooks
for grades 1et 2,2,650,000 textbooksand 85,000 teacher guides inthe core subjects inprimary schools;
(ii) purchaseofabout10,000 readingbookstoexperimentandevaluateclassroomreadingnooksin
    the
40 primary schools; the provision o f FCFA 50,000 to eachprimary schoolto purchase reference books;
(iv) the purchase anddistribution o fabout 690,OO grammar books for grades3,4,5 and 6; (v) the
establishment o f a computerized system to track textbook distribution and stocks inthe schools. While
IDAwould finance most o fthe textbook needsinprimaryeducation from 2004-2007, the Government
would purchase anddistribute under the national budget history, geography, and civic studies books for
the primary grades as well as about 300,000 textbooks incore subjects for lower secondary education.
Thispurchase bythe Government wouldbe madethrough a partialre-allocation ofthe budget from the
primary educationtextbook budget line to the secondary educationtextbook budget line.

    The distribution o ftextbooks to schools would be done through private-sector firms as much as
possible with a greater involvement o f the beneficiary communities. Financial inputswould be provided
to improve the capacity o f school management committees (COGES) inorganizing the free loanscheme
at each school level. Eight ministerial staff would be trained intextbook distribution, management, and
evaluationby the end o fthe project.
Subcomponent 3: Innovative Targeted LearningProgram: Alternative Rural Schools -pilot.

     The sub-component will support the Government's piloting o f a rural school model adaptedto the
needs o f isolated rural communities that cannot be effectively served bythe larger multi-teacher schools
ina context where childrenmustwalk to school. The development ofthe rural school modelfollows
Niger's recent move to a formal policy o f"one village, one school". Inits initial phase, this has ledto
construction o f schools invillages with more than 700 inhabitants, insouthemNiger, 500 inhabitants in
central area and300 inhabitants inthe north.Assumingthat all childrenwill enroll, the standard
3-classroom school is cost-effective only incommunities with more than 800 inhabitants (with
student-teacher ratio o f40). Since 100%enrollment is likely only inthe long-term, most villages inrural
Nigerdo not have enough children o f school age to support the 3-rOOm school. Therefore, with the
increased emphasis onrural education, it i s strategic to move quickly to develop pedagogical models that
are compatible with the demographics o fthe rural context.

    Developing a rural school model will necessitatepedagogicalinnovation includingsix-level
multigrade teaching inone classroom, low-cost pedagogical materials, rural-oriented teacher training
strategies, and significant in-service training support. This initiative will also include innovation inthe
following areas: (i) flexible adaptation o f school schedule and calendar, (ii)  promoting the community
participation in school management, and (iii)   simplified, progressive approachesto infrastructure
improvements. By the end o fthe pilot phase250 teachers will be operational inone-room school
teaching techniques and will be available as resource people for scale-up inthe next phase. The vision for
this initiativeis to make available to Nigeriencommunities atrainedteacher who, with aminimumof
pedagogical materials, i s capable o f serving ina community school inthe most remote areas where
working conditions are primitive. Technical support will be providedfor training o f trainers,
development o f a pedagogical model for the Niger context, and monitoring and evaluationo fthe pilot
activities, focusing on lessons learned for eventual scaling up duringa second program phase.

    A central-level steering committee will have overall responsibility for subcomponent implementation.
Fieldimplementationwill be the responsibility of inspectors and pedagogicalcounselors. Duringthe
preparation phaseo fthe project, with the help of external technical assistance, the steering committee



                                                    - 37 -

will trainthe field teams inthe rural schoolphilosophy and techniques, includingin-classroom training
duringthe 2003 -2004 school year. Duringthe implementationphase(2004-2007), an international
NGOworking inthe education sector inNiger will be askedto provide assistanceinmonitoringresults
and assisting field implementers indeveloping solutions for problemsthat arise inthe implementation
phase. Following successful training o fthe first wave o fteachers, field implementation will begin in
thirteen o fthe country's 47 inspectorates ina total of 100 schools inthe first year. Itwill expand inan
additional 150 schools inthe following years. Expansioni s contingent on achieving the subcomponent's
core objective o f developing competency inrural-oriented (small school) six-level multigrade teaching
strategies. This will be measuredby (i) monitoringreports, (ii) andcommunity satisfaction, and
                                                                 teacher
(iii)ruralteacher'sabilitytodemonstrateeffectivelytootherteachers(ie.inatrainingcontext)the
     a
techniques and superior merits o fthe pedagogical practices o f a one-room rural school when compared
with the frontalteaching techniques that are currently found throughout the system.

Subcomponent 4: Innovative Targeted LearningProgram: Tutoring Programs for
Under-performing Students inTargeted Areas (pilot)          --This initiativeaims  at correcting the
academic deficit affecting a great number o fchildren, girls inparticular. Specifically, this tutoring
programwould contribute to improving(i)     the internal efficiency o f the educational systemby reducing
repetition rates and improvingthe academic achievement o f children initially having difficulties in
school; and (ii) between boys and girls interms o f access and retention in school. The pilot
                  equity
programwould cover about 540 schools (those with poorest girls retentionrate) inthree targeted regions:
Bouza and Illkla inthe region o fTahoua, GuidanRoumji and Madarounfa inthe regiono f Maradi, and
Mirriah and Gourk inthe region o fZinder which are among the regions with the lowest primary school
GERs for girls. By2007, upto 43,000 students will be touched o fwhich 70%be girls. This sampling
will help make comparisons and draw useful lessons. Twice a week, pupilswith good academic
performance would work with weak pupilsduringtwo-hour sessions, doinghomework or other remedial
work under the supervision o f a teacher ifneedbe. Support would be provided from communities,
particularly from mothers. Thus, the top pupils ina class, assistedbyteachers, would assist the pupilsat
riskoffailure. The tutoringprogramwould focus on the basics ofMathematicsandReading. To
motivate pupils,an award system would be developed bythe parent-teacher association for the pupil
groups makingthe most progress by the end o f each school year. The awards programwould be financed
byincome generating activities (IGA) initiatedwith small grants from the project. The tutoring program
would include a monitoring and evaluation instrument which would enable the MOEto assess its
progress every quarter, draw lessons andbringinenhancementsas needed. Monitoring and evaluation o f
the activity will be conducted under the leadership o f the head o fthe evaluation department. A special
instrument has been designed for that purpose.

    To further reduce wastage, the tutoring program will offer a four to six-week intensive summer
course inone chosen subject to students beingheldback due to slight weaknesses inonly one subject. At
the end ofthe four to six week course, the pupilswould take a test which would determine their
eligibility for promotionto a higher grade. This wouldrequire official notificationo fthe local school
administration by the Ministryo f Educationas it is o fa nature to change the pupilflows and promotions.

    Mothers' Associations (AME) would be formed to support and help manage the tutoringprograms.
InvolvedAME members would receive some training inhowto play their role inthe management o f the
program, including the management o f income-generating activities. These AMEs would also monitor
student participationand parental satisfactionthrough regular house visits.




                                                   - 38 -

Subcomponent5: Institutionalizethe evaluationoflearningoutcomes. Learning-evaluationwork
has been conducted over the past several years at different levels with the technical support o fvarious
external institutions (MLA, SEDEP and COFEMEN). The Government's strategy i s to consolidate the
capacity created within the country and to progressively develop a more sustainable monitoringand
evaluation systemo f learning outcomes, to be integrated into institutions andstructures (both at the
center and inthe regions).

     The MEB would carry out teaching evaluations basedon examination results each year inorder to
identifythe areas where additional attention for quality improvement i s needed. A strategy would also
be developed where individual schools are studied inorder determine the achievements and strong points
o fvarious types o f schools. An evaluation system(like the one developed by CONFEMENandthe ENS
through the updating o f existing standardized tests inFrench, Mathematics, and Science) would be
developed, using standardized tests o f Languages, Reading, and Mathematics administeredat the CP,
CE2, andCM2 (second, fourth and sixthgrades), thereby gathering a representative sample o f the
characteristics o fNiger school. The results o fthese evaluations would be usedto: (i) changes in
                                                                                        make
teaching methods over time; (ii)  identify curricula problems; (iii) the types o f schools which
                                                                     identify
would needparticular assistance; (iv) monitorthe impact o f student achievement due to the reform(for
example, increasingthe number o f class hours, introducing sub-cycles with automatic promotion,
developingthe programfor school quality initiatives); (v) help teachersuse control grids to betterfollow
and support the learningprocess o f each pupil; (vi) train teachers inlearning evaluation onthe basis o f
the curriculum; and(vii) support multi-level teaching. The results and any remediationproposals would
be disseminatedthrough workshops andthe media for the benefit o fteachers, students, students' parents,
trainers, and education managers.

     The project would support: (i)  the set-up o fthe system; (ii) development, use, and dissemination
                                                                    the
o f the results; (iii)
                    the provisiono f services by specialists; and (iv) stafftraining.

     The new structure incharge o fthe Examinationsandevaluation would be responsible for the
implementation o fthis sub-component. It would be reinforcedby resource persons developed at the
ENS and by a twinningarrangement with a specialized international institution.

ProjectComponent3 US$5.80 million
                      -
The thirdcomponent To StrengthenManagementCapacity ofMOE and Empower Local
                        --
EntitiesandCommunities-There will be four subcomponents.

     A CIDA-financed study, requestedby the Government and done in2001-2002 provides a good
assessment o fmajor institutional issuesfacing the Ministryo f Education and outlines action plans to
improve the situation inthe short, medium, andlongterm. This component aims to assist the
Government to further develop andimplement these actionplans, with a specific view to modernizing the
sector, developing a participatory approach, and buildingcapacity within the MOEinpreparationfor the
shift to budgetary support at the endofthe project. Inthis respect, and incollaborationwiththe
assistanceplans o fother donors, it would support cross-cutting aspects, focusing on critical managerial
functions and practices, andprovide resources to carry out studies necessaryto prepare the secondblock
o fthe Ten-year program(secondary and tertiary education and VET). Supportto the entire component
would beprovidedunderthe IDA Grant.




                                                    - 39 -

Subcomponent 1: Improvementsto MOE: StrengtheningOrganizationandHRCapacity

         The study recommends the re-organization o fthe ministryfor a better distribution o f tasks among
the various existing structures. The project provide resourcesto complete core activities, such as: (i)    the
clarificationo f roles within the ministry(development o f a new organigramme) andbetweenthe center
and deconcentrated structures; (ii)  the final assessment o f skills gaps for key functions particularly at the
deconcentrated levels where responsibilitieswill be increased, and the proposed redeployment planto fill
the gaps, along with accompanying measures. Technical assistancewould be provided andworkshops
organized to buildandvalidate consensus among all stakeholders.

    Inregardsto humanresources, the capacityassessmentwork doneduringprojectpreparation
provided a preliminaryevaluation o ftraining needs. The project would first finance the training needs
for staffinvolvedinthe core management systems andthen assist infinancing specific in-service training
accordingto need. For example, 75% o fthe administrativepersonnel are retired teachers who need some
formal training inadministrative tasks to do them correctly, thereby liberating professional staff to carry
out their mandates o f oversight. Financing would also be provided for the improvement o f leadership
skills o fmaintechnical directors. Finally, the project would finance (i) development of career plans
                                                                            the
for eachjob type inthe ministry, (ii)  the design o f a training planpermittingstaffto qualify or re-qualify
for certainpositions, (iii)development o f a computerizedpersonnel information system.

Subcomponent2: Improveand/or DevelopCoreManagementSystems.

    To improve MOE's capacity to effectively transform resources into outputs andlearning outcomes, a
numberofactions will beundertaken. Management systemswouldbe developed and/or improved, the
leadership at key levels would be strengthened, andmanagementand accountability practices would be
improved. The project would cover programming, budgeting, financial, human, and material
management, and monitoring andevaluation. This would entail provisiono ftechnical assistance,
tailored training, workshops, andthe provisiono fpriority equipment. Usingthe Ten-year program
framework, programming andbudgetingprocesseswould be re-assessed and improved with a
result-based focus. The fiduciary management system ledby the DAF would be improvedand
modernized, puttingmore responsibility (thereby requiring some capacity buildinginthe areas o f
financial andprocurement management) at regional levels. For this, DREB would be equipped with
contractual qualified staff (financial management and civil work specialists), management tools, and
equipment to gradually take over their new responsibilities inpreparationfor decentralization. The
human resourcesmanagement system ledby the DAAP would needto be consolidatedandimprovedso
as to better feed the system performance analyses. HumanResourcesManagement Director/DAAP ' s
capacity would be improvedby developing andmaintaining a computerized databaseon contractual
teachersto be linkedwith the decentralized structures (DRE, Inspectorates). The existing personnel
databasewould be upgraded and made more interactive. An Education Management InformationSystem
(EMIS) would be progressively developed (based on existing databases) andusedindecision-making for
policy options. The subcomponent would also support the School Map in specific GIS applications,
which monitor education system coverage inisolatedm a l areas and identifythe optimum school-size
mix for communities.Expenditure tracking studies would be carriedout inclose liaisonwith the PEAC II
implementation.

    With regardto fiduciary management, the project would provide assistanceto recruit qualified
contractual staff at the center and deconcentrated levels (14 for financial management (7 managers and 7
accountants) and 4 for procurement), to develop and disseminate tools along with staff training as
necessary.



                                                    -40-

     The project willprovide support to the MOE indevelopingtheir HIV/AIDSactionplan, anaction
planwhich will include activities at all levels o f the education sector from the ministerial staff to teachers
to the parents and students inthe schools themselves. These activities will be financed bythe newly
approved M.A.P. Project.

Subcomponent3: Strengthenthe Capacityof SchoolManagementCommittees(COGES).

     The COGESare expected to play a keyrole inthe execution o fmany activities under the program
(school construction andmaintenance, textbook management, school health and HN/AIDS). To offer
the maximumo f support to this initiative, a central COGESPromotion Unitwill be established, linkedto
the regions through focal points. The central unitwould ensure a central strategy for the COGES,taking
responsibility for any necessary legal measures. It would coordinate the public relations side o f the
intiative, includingliaisonactivities with the MEBA. Finally, it would coordinate the transfer
mechanisms, acting as the liaisonwith the central budgeting units. Buildingon the experience initiated
under the Public ExpendituresAdjustment Credit (PEAC), the project would finance measuresand
actions to enhance the capacity o f COGES (the development, dissemination, anduse o fmanagement
tools; andthe provisiono ftraining and technical support to monitor and evaluate the results). These
activities would be outsourced to NGOs and other development associations active inthe field. The
objective would be to have, at least 4000 functional COGES by 2007. The experience o f direct transfer
o f fundingto the COGESwould be gradually expanded inaccordance with past experience and the
results o f a preliminary evaluation. 50% o fthe functional COGESshould be receiving direct transfers by
project end.

Subcomponent 4: ProvideSupportto the Preparationofthe SecondBlockofthe Ten-year
ProgramandOther core Studies.

     The project would make resources available to support the execution o f core studies to helpprepare
the secondBlock o fthe program as well as the consultationprocess. These studies would include (i)        the
preparation o f a sustainable framework for expanding access to secondary andtertiary education; (ii)     the
secondary teacher training feasibility study; (iii) the feasibility study for pilotingpublic-private
partnership to provide lower secondary education inurban areas; (iv) a detailedfeasibility study o f a new
strategy for Lower Secondary Education. A study to identify the problems facing contractual staff in
their professional development andthe measuresneededto resolve them, thereby leadingto a sustainable
policy framework over the longer term, will be carried out.




                                                     -41 -

                                         Annex 3: EstimatedProjectCosts
                                     NIGER: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT



 Improving access to primary education                                                        200.00                 15.60               215.60
 Improving quality and efficiency o fprimary and lower                                          31.30                12.80                 44.10
 secondary education
 Strenghtening management andbuildingcapacity                                                   20.40                 7.40                 27.80
 Total BaselineCost                                                                     1     251.70                35.80                287.50
  PhysicalContingencies                                                                          7.00                 2.00                   9.00
  PriceContingencies                                                                             3.00                 1.oo                   4.00
                                       Total ProiectCosts1                                    261.70                38.80                300.50
I                                Total Financing Required                               I     261.70        I       38.80           I    300%




 Goods                                                                                             5.60                 22.40                   28.00
 Works                                                                                           81.30                    6.40                  87.70
 Services                                                                                          2.00                   8.00                  10.00
 Training                                                                                          8.00                   2.00                  10.00
 Grants                                                                                            8.00                   0.00                    8.00
 Recurrent/Operating Costs                                                                      156.80                                        156.80
                                                      Total Project Costs1                      261.70                   38.80                300.50
                                              Total Financina Reauired                          261.70                   38.80                300.s0

   I
    Identifiabletaxes and dutiesarc 0 (USSm)andthe total project cost, net o f taxes, is 300.5 (US$m). Thcrefore, the project cost sharingratio is 13.95%
   oftotal project cost net oftaxes.




                                                                - 42 -

                          Annex 4: Cost EffectivenessAnalysis Summary
                               NIGER: BASIC EDUCATIONPROJECT

Macroeconomic Context

    Niger, one o fthe world's poorest countries, has made considerable progress towards macroeconomic
stability and growth since the return o f democratic governance inlate 1999. Yet the reformagenda
remains vast andpoverty widespread. Niger's prospects are cloudedby a lack o f natural resources and a
highlydegradednaturalenvironment, explosive populationgrowth, extremely low humanand
institutional capacity, very limited international competitiveness, its location ina potentially volatile
sub-regional context, uncertaindonor commitment, and years o fpoor governance. These factors
contribute to the extreme vulnerability ofpoor Nigeriens, particularly women and children.

    With improvedmacroeconomic performance over the past few years, Niger hasbenefitedfrom
increased flows o f donor support, as well as interimdebt reliefsince the Enhanced HIPC Decision Point
o f December 2000. Inaddition, Nigerwill benefit significantly from grants under IDA 13 arrangement.
Nonetheless, resource flows are limited by continued donor concerns about stability and absorptive
capacity, as well as by HIPC-relatedconstraints onNiger's ability to borrow.

    The macroeconomic framework presented inthe PRSP indicates the average economic growth rate o f
4 percent inreal terms over the period2002-2005 which is only slightlyhigherthan the post-devaluation
average o f 3.5 percent in 1995-2001. Assumingthat the populationgrowth rate remains constant at 3.3
percent, this would translate into real growthinannual per capita income below one percent and a
reduction o fonly 2 percentagepoints inthe poverty headcount rate duringthis period. It is expected that
the current crisis inCGted'Ivoire will have a negative impact onthe Nigerieneconomy in2002 and
2003. The Bankis working with the authorities and the IMFon assessingthe extent o f this potential
impact, which couldresult from reduceddemand for Nigerienexports, lower remittances, as well as
reduced transfers underthe WAEMU common external tariff arrangements. For subsequent years, and
barring the occurrence o f other external shocks such as severe drought, further consolidation o fpolitical
and financial stability shouldleadto an increase ininvestment o fboth private and public origin, financed
byhigher domestic andforeign savings, and contributing to the attainment o fgrowthtargets over the
period.

Background sector work

    A good amount o finvestigativework hasbeen carried out to understandthe current statusofthe
education sector inorder to determine where efficiency andperformance couldbe improvedthrough
policy changes. Ways to sharply increase access to primary education through a concertedeffort bythe
Government andthe international community were explored. The principleresources for the preparation
of the Ten-year Year Programcouldbe summarized as follows:

    (i)CountryStatusReport(CSR): carriedoutin1999-2000,itprovidedacomprehensivediagnosis
of Niger's education sector and identifiedweaknesses and inefficiencies which limited its performance.
The report outlined some feasible policy options and made recommendations regarding some core issues.
The report itselfwas basedon a number o f technical analyses, includinga detailed analysis o f school
supply and demandinthree localities, the analysis o fresource allocations among schools and their
respective results, and a series o f sector public expenditure reviews. This work was complemented in
2001 by an analysis o fthe data collected under the 2000 MICS (Multiple Indicator Cluster Survey),
which provided solid and useful indications on schooling disparities (gender andregion) as well as



                                                     -43-

inequitable distribution o fpublic resources among various populationgroups. The findings o fthe CSR
served as the basis for the formulation o f several policies o f the Ten-Year Program.

    (ii)Publicexpenditurereviews: conductedin1998,1999,and2000,theseprovidedafairlygood
baseknowledge and dynamics o f the structural distribution o f the sector expenditures and financing, as
well as the disconnect between some stated sectoral objectives andthe budget allocations. An
evaluationo f the ways the budgetwas executed revealed weaknesses between spending andresults.

   (iii)   Simulation model: developed along with the CSRpreparationincollaboration with a technical
team inNiger. The model was used to simulate policy measureoptions with respect to their implications
on key structural features o f the system as well as on the sector financing. The model was also used to
estimate the total cost o f the program while testing its financial feasibility within the overall
macroeconomic framework.

  (iv)   Institutional assessment: An in-depthinstitutional assessment o f the MOErevealedweaknesses
and essential management disfunction that contributedto limitingefficiency and effectiveness inservice
delivery. This work ledto the preparationo f actionplans with the objectives to address the main
organizationaland management issuesbut also to take into account program implementation needs.

Summaryofbenefitsandcosts:

   The economic analysis would include the cost-savings analysis o f core reforms introduced under the
PDDE andsupported by the IDA-project, the fiscal implicationo fthe program andits financial
"inability,     and a cost-efficiency analysis (usingEFA projections).

    Duringthe past three years, the Government hasdeveloped abasic education sector programwith the
technical support o fmain donors (PDDE). The programaims at increasingaccess to and completion o f a
reasonably good quality primaryeducation, while increasingefficiency o f existing resource utilization
and improvingthe overall service delivery. The Government took the initiative to align the program's
objectives with those o f the EFA-FTIafter Niger was selectedtojoin this initiative inNovember 2002.
Taking into consideration the yet limited existing technical, institutional, and absorptive capacity, it was
agreedto retainmore realistic performance indicators for the first phase o fthe program. Table 1presents
the trend o f core indicators as they hadevolved under the different documents (PRSP/PDDE and
EFA-FTT),while Table 2 presents the mainpolicy goals set for the first phase (2003-2007) andagainst
which achievements would bejudged. Essentially, the government programprojects an increase inthe
gross enrollment rate from 41.7% in2001/2002 to 61% in2006/2007, while the completion rate would
increase from 26% to 44% over that period. Quality enhancementswould be the result o f adequate
provision o fcore textbooks, the reformo f teacher pre-service training, andthe restructuring o f in-service
training and reform o f the curriculum.




                                                    -44-

                       Table 1 Main objectives under PRSP and the EFNFTI

                                                                  2006    2007




PRSP                       43%      46%     49%        52%        56%      59%     74%   84%
EFA-FTI                    49%      56%      62%       69%        75%      81%     100%  100%

Gross enrollment rate

PRSP                       40%      42%     45%        48%        51%      54%     74%  84%
EFA-FTI                    41.7%    49%     55%        62%        68%      75%     100% 105%
                                                                                        I
Primary education
                                   1;;
completion rate

PRSP                       24%                                    37%     41%
EFA-FTI                    25.6%                                  53%      60%

            Table 2 Policy Goals retained for the first phase of the Program 2002-2007
                   -

 Primary           !002 (Base      2003          2004          2005       2006      2007
 Education         ine)
 Primary            25.6%          30%           34%           37%        41%       44%
 Completion rate

 Gross enrollment   41.&%          46%           50%           54%         57%      61%
 inprimary

 Percentageof       39.8%          40.5%         41            42%        43%       44%
 Girls intotal
 enrollment

 Repetitionrate in 10%             10%           9%            9%          8%        8%
 Primary

 Student-teacher    39.7%          39.7%         39.8          39.8       39.8%     39.8%
 ratio

 Percent of         14%            15%           17%           19%        21%       22%
 Multigrade classes

 Percent of        44%             53%           59%           65%        70%       i
                                                                                    74%
 contractual
 teachers in
 primaryas a
 percent of all
 teachers.



                                              -45-

a- Cost-saving analysis
   To achieve the PDDE objectives, a certain number o fpolicy measuresthat contribute to lowering the
unitcost while improvingprogram sustainabilityinthe longrunwould needto beimplemented. The
analysis presented below focuses on three measures     --  expanding the contractual teacher program,
increasingmulti-grade teaching inrural and remote areas, and implementing double shift teaching in
urbanareas as a transitory measure. The latter is expectedto be eliminatedbythe end o fthe first phase
o fthe progam. Table 3 shows the total savings generated bythe implementationo f these measures
duringthe project executionperiod(2003-2007). Itis estimatedthat about FCFA 84.988 billionwill be
savedmerely by the introduction o fthese measures (as compared to the non-reform situation), and FCFA
73.162 billion inthe accumulated effect o f the ongoing measures. Without these savings the projected
expansion o fprimary education inNiger would be impossible.

Assumptions behindthese estimates are:
Measure 1: Implementingdoubleshvt teachingin urban areas. The Programcalls for the temporary
use o f double-shift teaching inthe first three grades o fcertain urban schools. The proportionof double
shiftclassesis expectedto decline progressivelyfrom5% in2002 to 1.8 % in2007, or anaverage, by
740 classesper year. Assumingthat all new teacherswould be civil servants (non-reform option), paidat
an estimated annual salary o f FCFA 840,000 and taking into account the fact that teachers teachingin
double-shift classes would earn FCFA 20,000 more duringthe school year (nine months), the annual
savings per teacher would amount to FCFA 660,000. A secondsource o f savings i s through classroom
instruction, estimated at a unitcost o f FCFA 5.5 million. Thus, total annual savings would vary from
FCFA 4.8 billion to FCFA 181million. These savings change slightlyunderthe assumption that all the
new teachers would be contractuals.

Measure2: Scalingup thecontractualteacherprogram. The recruitment o f low-cost contractual
teachersunder a close partnership with the community will not only generate significant savings, but
should improve teacher presence and productivity. An estimated annual salary o fFCFA 420,000 would
be paidto eachnew contractual teacher, compared to the FCFA 840,000 for the permanent civil servant.
The total annual savings would increase from FCFA 1.1 billion in2003 to 5.9 billionin2007.

Measure3: Scalingup multigradeteachingin rural and remote areas. The policy i s to increase the
ratio o f multigrade classes from 13.4% in2002 to 23% in2007, corresponding to an increase inthe
number o fmulti-grade classes from 3,010 to 7,229. The assumption is that most classes will cover two
grades. The total annual savings (for both teacher salary and classroom construction) would range from
FCFA 7.8 billion to FCFA 19with a slight difference under the cumulative policy scenario.




                                                    - 4 6 -

Table 3: Estimates of Cost-saving generated by core measures


Number of classrooms        17,498    20,064      22,594      25,323     28,263     31,430
Number of Teachers          18,441    21,067     23,644       26,411     29,379     32,561
 ofwhich newrecruits                   2,626      2,577       2,767      2,968       3,181
Total PermanentTeachers     10,667    10,439      10,211       9,982     9,754       9,526
Total contractualteachers   7,774     10,629      13,434      16,429     19,625     23,035




1.Double Shift
Numberof Classroomswith DS               784           803         901        755        560
Cost Saving(CFAF million)
  Salary                                 482           540         453        336        186
  Construction                         4,414           804
Total Double Shift                     4,896          1,344        453        336        186
 .New     Teacher Recruitment

New recruitment                        2,626      2,577       2,767      2,968       3,181
Cost Saving( CFAF million)
 Salary                                1,103      2,185        3,347     4,594       5,930
Total New Recruitment                  1,103      2,185        3347       4,594      5,930


3. Multigrade
Number of Classroomswith
Multigrades                            3,010      3,841       4,811       5,935      7,229
Cost Saving( CFAF million)
  Salary                               2,528      3,226       4,04 1      4,986      6,072
  Construction                        16,553      4,572        5,337      6,182      7,114
Total Multigrade                      19,081      7,799        9379      11,168     13,186




                                          -47-

 1.Double Shift
Double shift classes                                784              803           901            755           560
Cost Saving (CFAF million)
    Salary                                         144            162            136            101            56
    Construction                                 4,414            804
Total Double Shift                               4,559            966            136            101            56

2. New Teacher
Recruitment
New recruitment                                  2,626          2,517          2,767          2,968         3,181
Cost Saving( CFAF million)
  Salary                                         1,103          2,185          3,347          4,594         5,930
Total New Recruitment                            1,103          2,185          3947           4,594         5,930


3. Multigrade
Number ofmultigrade classes                      3,010          3,84 1         4,811          5,935         7,229
Cost Saving( CFAF million)
    Salary                                       1,264          1,613          2,021          2,493         3,036
   Construction                                 16,553          4,572          5,337          6,182         7,114
Total Multigrade                                17,817          6,186          7,358          8,675        10,150




b- Fiscalimpactandfinancial sustainability

     The model was usedto simulate various policy options as well as expansion scenarios alongwith their
financial implications. Table 4 belowpresents the structural framework o fthe program as well as its
broad financial cost, as this was retainedunder the EFA-FTI.

     Onthe public resourceside, and inline with the projections o fthe country's macro-economic
framework, the economy i s assumedto grow at the rate o f4 percent per annum on average duringthe
next decade (though the results o fthe modeldo not prove to be very sensitive to the particular figure
used for the rate o f growth o fthe economy). The share o f Government revenues inGDP i s assumedto
grow gradually from the current figure o f 9.6 percent in2002 to 13 percent in2012 (and 14%by2015).
Inline withthe EFA-FTIstrategic framework, the shareofeducation inGovernment revenues is
purposely assumedto decline from the current figure o f28 percent to 22 percent in2012 (and 20% by
2015). This decline is meant to ensure a fairly equitable support o fthe international community to the
EFA-FTI,but shouldindeedgo alongwith a broadmaintenance o fthe current domestic financial effort
so as to generate additional resourcesto respond to the requiredexpansion o f the rest o f the system.
Fromthe public resources for the sector, 50 percent will be allocatedto primary education. As a
consequenceo f these measureson the resource side, it i s estimated that domestic public financing for
primaryeducation would increase inreal terms from FCFA 20.2 billionin2002 to FCFA 30.6 in2012
and 33.5 in2015..

     Onthe spendingside, separateestimates are made for recurrent and capital expenditures. For
recurrent expenditures, the structure o f the model starts from estimates o f the school age population and
o f the targeted evolution o f the gross enrollment ratio (corresponding to the objectives o fthe programin



                                                     -48-

terms o f access, retention andrepetition rates). Fromthese i s derived the number o f students enrolled in
primary schooling and the number o f students inpublic primary schools. (The proportion o f students in
private schools i s expected to gradually decline from 3.8% to 2% by 2015, becauseprivate education i s
primarilyanurbanphenomenonand the expansion efforts focus primarily onrural settings). The pupil/
teacher ratio is expected to remain around its actual level o f40 throughout program execution. While
total enrollment was 732,400 in2002, it i s estimated that the systemwould accommodate 2,600,000
students in2012 and about 3,000,000 in2015 (about 4 times more). Non-salary expenditures as a percent
of salary cost would progressively increase over time andreach 50% in2015, thereby contributing to the
increased availability o f school inputs andimproved learning conditions.

     Inregards to capital expenditures, themodel providedestimatesonly for the cost o fthe classroomsto
be builtto accommodate increasing enrollment. Estimates o f annual needs, as well as the financial
requirements, are based on anestimated unit cost o f FCFA 5.5 million per classroom, a reasonable
average considering constructionmethods retainedby the Government and the equipment. The annual
financing requirements would range from FCFA 19.8 billionto 49 billiontowards the attainment o f the
MDG.These shouldbecomplemented bythe cost o fother investment expenditures such as capacity
buildingactivities and innovationsor unforeseen developments as they arise at least duringthe first
phase o fthe program implementation.

MainAssumptions:

    The number o fteachersneeded is derived from the numbero f students inpublic education and a
pupil-teacher ratio o f about 40 (its current level), while efforts would be pursuedto improve the
distributional pattem among localities. The impliedresult would be about 63,000 teachers neededby
2012, as compared to the 18.441 in2002, necessitating, therefore, a significant recruitment effort for both
attrition and expansion results.

    The decision taken bythe Government to move away from the recruitment o fcivil servant teachers is
one o f the most essential ones, fundamental to the long-term financing sustainability o f the Program. All
new teacherswould be contractual teachers paidhalf o fthe salary o fthe civil servant teachers. Through
gradual attritiono f civil service teachers andthe continued recruitment o f contractual teachers, the share
of civil servants inthe teaching force will decline from 58 percent at present to about 13 percent inthe
year 2012. The resultingdecreaseinaverage remuneration will be 6 times the per capita GDP in2002
and 4.3 times the per capita GDP in2012.

Efficiencyandfinancial sustainability

    As a result o fimplementationo fall policy measuresplannedunderthe program, the unit sotscostas a
percent o fthe GDP would decline from 21.3% in2002 to 16.6 %by 2012. The fiscal impact o f the
program is important since it i s estimated that the annual financial needwould evelove from FCFA 44.7
billion in2003 to 109 billion in2012 and FCA 130 billionn2015. The domestic resources would
reaminremainmodest and would not suffice to cover the projected system expansonexpansion (even
taking into account the HPICresources) since the annual financing gap would range from FCFA 22
billion to 94 billion. The growing financing gap (including recurrent costs) reflects inthis regardthe
special situation o fNiger, which makes it difficult to foresee a sustainable financing o fthe sector
expansion, inthe absence o f a strong international community.




                                                      -49-

TABLE 4




           -50-

 GAP :Expenditures Resources
                      -    ~~    ~




                                                 2568 4320  12319 31 996  44804
 Capital (class construction)                   19802 20049 25669 44000   49500
Total                                           22370 24369 37988 75996   94304




Cost-effectiveness indicators:
N.A.




                                      - 51 -

                               Annex 5: FinancialSummary
                          NIGER: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT
                                     Years Ending


                        IYear1  I Year2    I   Year3  IYear4   1 Year5  IYear6  IYear 7
Total FinancingRequired
Project Costs
  InvestmentCosts           32.0      33.0       35.0     37.2       2.8     0.0    0.0
 RecurrentCosts             37.0      40.0       41.0    42.0                0.0    0.0
Total ProjectCosts          69.0      73.O       76.0     79.2       2.8     0.0    0.0
Total Financing             69.0      73.0       76.0     79.2       2.8     0.0    0.0
Financing
  IBRDllDA                   6.6       8.7         6.1     5.8       2.8    0.0     0.0
  Government                44.8      47.3       49.8     51.7       0.0    0.0     0.0
      Central                0.0       0.0         0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0
      Provincial             0.0       0.0         0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0
  Co-financiers             17.6      17.0       20.1     21.7       0.0    0.0     0.0
User Feesleeneficiaries      0.0       0.0         0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0
Other                        0.0       0.0         0.0     0.0       0.0    0.0     0.0
Total ProjectFinancing      69.0      73.0       76.0     79.2       2.8    0.0     0.0
Main assumptions:




                                          - 52 -

                             Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                             NIGER: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT

Procurement

   General

   1. A Country Procurement AssessmentReview (CPAR) for Niger was carriedout in 1998,which
   found that ingeneral national procedures for the procurement o f works, goods and services are
   acceptable to IDA subject to a few amendments. So far the findings o f the CPAR remainvalid. A
   new procurement code has recently been adopted with the assistanceofthe Bank (IDFGrant) and
   will be implementedin2003. No special exceptions, permits, or licenses needto be specified inthe
   Credit documents for International Competitive Bidding(ICB), since Niger's procurement practices
   allow IDA procedures to take precedenceover any contrary provisions inlocal regulations. National
   Competitive Bidding(NCB), advertised locally, would be carried out in accordance withNiger's
   procurement laws and regulations acceptable to IDA, provided that they assure economy, efficiency,
   transparency, andbroad consistency with key objectives of the Bank Guidelines.

   Guidelines

   2. All civil works andgoods financedbyIDA shall be procuredinaccordance with Bank's
   Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revisedinJanuary and
   August 1996, September 1997 andJanuary 1999)(The Guidelines). The Bank Standard Bidding
   Documents (SBD) and Standard Evaluation Report will be usedfor ICB. National Competitive
   Bidding(NCB) wouldbe carriedout usingthe Bank's SBD with appropriate modifications in
   relation to provisions relating to "advertising and notification", "currencies o fbidandpayment",
   "settlement o f disputes", and deletion o fthe domestic preference provision, etc.

   3. Consultant services contracts financedby IDA credit will be procuredinaccordance with Bank's
   Guidelinesfor the Selection and Employment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers (January
   1997 revised inSeptember 1997,January 1999 and May 2002). The Bank's Standard Request for
   Proposals andmodel form for the evaluationo f consultant's proposals will be used for appointment
   o f Consultants. Simplifiedcontracts will be used for short-term assignments - simple missiono f
   standardnature (i.e., those not exceeding six months) carried out by individual consultants or firms.

   4. Smallworks, goods and services for community sub-projects shall be governed inaccordance
   with paragraph3.15 o fthe Guidelines (Community ParticipationinProcurement) and with the
   Bank's Guidelinesfor Simplified Procurement and Disbursementfor Community-Based Investments
   (February 1998). These procedures would be described inthe project implementation manual (PIM).
   A version acceptable to IDA will be a condition of effectiveness for the credit.

   5. The Government and IDA have agreed on standard biddingdocuments to be usedunderNCB
  procedures for goods and works. The Government has given assurancethat it will: (i)      use the Project
  ImplementationManual; (ii)     use the Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments for ICB, the Standard
  Request for Proposals for the selection o f consultants, and the Standard BidEvaluation Reports; (iii)
   apply the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined below; (iv) update the procurement
  planona regular basis duringannual reviewswith IDA and other donors, to compare target times
  and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with all procurement-related
  documents; and(v) carry out, duringannual reviews, an assessment o f the effectiveness o fbidding


                                                   - 53 -

procedures andperformance, as they relate to the project's procurement experience, andpropose for
IDA and other donors' consideration anymodificationto the current procedures to the extent that it
would accelerate procurement, while still maintaining compliance with the Bank's Procurement
Guidelines and adequate control over contract awards andpayments.

Advertising

6. A General Procurement Notice (GPN) hasbeenprepared andwill be published inthe United
Nations Development Business to advertise for InternationalCompetitive Bidding(ICB) andmajor
consulting assignments. The GPN would beupdated on a yearly basis andwould show all
outstanding ICB for goods contracts and all International Consulting Services. Specific Procurement
Notices for goods to be procuredunder ICB andExpressions o f Interest for consultant services
estimated to cost the equivalent o f US$200,000and above would also bepublishedinthe
Development Business as well as inthe national press. The program elements by disbursement
category, their estimated costs, and procurement methods are summarized inTable A below.
Consultant selection methods andthresholds for procurement methods and prior review are
summarized in TablesA1 and B below.

ProcurementCapacityAssessment

7. A procurement capacity assessment was carriedout as part o fthe institutional analysis prior to
the appraisal mission inaccordancewith the Revised Instruction for Carrying out Assessment o f
Agency's Capacity Assessment to implement Procurement from Procurement Policy and Services
Group (OPCPR) dated July 15,2002. The assessment, available inthe project files, outlines the main
issues andrecommendations. Basedon these recommendations, an action planhas beenprepared and
agreedupon with the Borrower and focus on: (a) for the Financial Affairs Directorate (DAF): (i)
establishing procurement capacity through the recruitment o f a procurement specialist, adequate
training and guidance from IDA and external technical audits specific to procurement; (ii)  logistics
support for proper filing o fprocurement documentation; (b) for Regional Directions of Education
(RDE): recruitment o f at least two CivilWork technicians to follow upthe works implementation (c)
training o fkey staffcurrently responsible for procurementunder national budget on shopping and
filingprocedures accordingto the Bank's guidelines andgoodfilingpractices; (ii)      provisiono fkey
support materials (i.e., computer, filing supplies) where needed and ifthere i s no other source o f
funding (Le., IDA ongoing operations); (iii) extemal technical audits specific to procurement
                                             annual
and o fpedagogical nature.

            REQUIRED                   SCHEDULE                        RESPONSIBLEAGENCY
            ACTION
    Manual o fprocedures               Before effectiveness            Educationministry
    Recruitment o f a procurement      Before effectiveness            Educationministry
    analyst
    Firstyear draft procurement        Duringappraisal                 Educationministry
    plans
    Training o f the current           Ongoing                         CESAG
    procurement head
    Procurement performance            At midtime                      WB
    assessment
    Supervision missions               Every six months                WB and Ministryand other
                                                                       donors


                                                - 54 -

 8. An action plan will also be developed and agreedupon for decentralized structures responsible
for activities undertaken at the regional level. A detailed chapter onprocurement inthe Manual o f
Procedures will bepreparedand finalized before effectiveness.

9. Procurement would be managed by the DAFand the RDEand will include procurement
specialists who could be supported by consultants as necessaryto cany out specific tasks. The
recruitment o f all additional staff for procurement should be acceptable to IDA.

 10. For community sub-projects, the communities, through their representative committees and
recruitedintermediaries (NGOs/Associations), would be responsible for the procurement process
usingsimplifiedprocurement procedures as indicated inScedule 3 ofthe Development Financing
Agreement and described indetails inthe Project ImplementationManual. The agreement o fthe
manual satisfactory to IDA will be a condition o f effectiveness.

ProcurementPlanning

 11. A draft global procurement planfor procurement to be carried out at the national levelhasbeen
reviewed and comments provided byIDA. A detailedprocurement plan for the first year o fthe
project has been submittedto IDA for review andapproval. The detailed procurement plans for
subsequent years will be developed and submittedto IDA for review and approval. The plans will
include relevant information on works, goods and consulting services under the project as well as the
timingofeachmilestone inthe procurement process. Theseplans will be reviewed byIDA
supervision missions andbythe external technical audits. The PIM should solicit, among other
things, the participationofall stakeholders, set out the procurement plans, assessthe local
counterpart fund requirements, specify responsibilities for commitment and implementations, and
identifythe risks that needto be controlled.

ProcurementImplementationArrangements

12. The programwill involve several institutions at the national andregional levels--including
NGOs, the private sector, andother donors The overall coordination o fthe program implementation
would be carried out by the DAF, DREB/A, and community responsible for implementation o f their
relevant work programs or sub-components. Procurement would be done at three levels: national
(DAF),regional(DREB/A), andcommunity. Theprocurement implementationarrangements are as
described below.

13. The DAFwould be responsible for overall procurement activities under ICB andNCB procedure
relatedto all regions common goods and all consulting services under QCBS. Procurement by the
DREB/Awouldbe limitedto expenditures insupport oftheir respective approvedwork program.
The DAFwill be reinforcedinlight ofproject's requirements, particularly instaffing andmateriel
resources. The DAFwill be responsible for procurement at central level particularly for goods and
services: (i)designated to central level and or to the entire country-economy of scale; and (ii)
                                                                                              for
which the values call for intemational bidding. For example, purchasingof textbooks, or lots o f
goods assignedto decentralized units. The DAFwill be responsible for the preparation ofbidding
documents, bidevaluation and award, contract monitoringand management at central level.

14. At the regional level, procurement o f school constructions (classrooms and relatedschool
furniture) will be carried out by the Regional Procurement Committees (RPCs) through qualified
local enterprises selected according to NCB documents. A pre-qualification selection will be carried


                                                - 55 -

out ineach o f the 8 regions usingstandarddocument satisfactory to IDA. Usinga register o f
qualified contractor updated annually, a biddingwill be launchedeach year for the execution o fthe
works. Bids will be awarded basedon price. The RPCs will use the standardspre-qualification,
biddingdocuments and sample evaluation report includedinthe Project ImplementationManual
( P W

15. At the community level, procurement will be carried out by associations such as the
Parent-Teacher Association (PTA) for classrooms rehabilitation, which does not necessitateheavy
technology nor important financial resourcesfrom localcontractors. NGOs and technical regional
staff. The DREB/A will assist the community. A subproject grant agreement will be signed between
the DREB/A andthe community detailedfinancing terms andprocedures to be followed. The
procurement and disbursement will be carried out accordingto simplified procedures which will be
detailed inthe Project Implementation Manual (PIM) includingstandard formats, model ofcontracts
and selection procedures, inaddition to procedures to be followed at the central (DAF)and regional
(RPCs) levels.

16. An annual technical audit will be carriedout at the central and decentralized levels. Itwill focus
on the procedures used, the level o fprice, the quality o fmaterials and works, and the contractual
arrangements andwill advise onways and meansto correct any deficiencies inthat regard. In
addition, the technical audit will assess DAFcapacity to carry out fiduciary responsibilitiesat
mid-term. The technical audit does not exclude post-reviews and the review duringIDA'Ssupervision
missions.

17. Management delegation : NIGETIP:Somepart o fthe civil works relating to classroom
constructionand rehabilitation would be delegated to NIGETIPthrougha conventional arrangement.

ProcurementMethods(Table A)

18. The programelements by disbursement category, their estimatedcosts, and procurement
methods are summarized inTable A below. Thresholds for procurement methods and prior review
are summarized inTable B.

Civil Works

19. Civil Works include the constructionand rehabilitation o fclassrooms managed bythe Regional
Procurement Committees (RPC). Works estimated at less thanUS$300,000, and presented
subsequently inannual procurement plans approved by the Bank, will be carried out under National
Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA. Small works estimated to cost less than
US$lO,OOO per contract may be procuredunder lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis
o f quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors invitedinwritingto bid. The
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the
requiredcompletion date, a basic form o f agreement acceptable to IDA, andrelevant drawings where
applicable. The awards will be made to the contractors who offer the lowest price quotation for the
requiredwork, provided they demonstrate they have the experience andresources to complete the
contract successfully.




                                                - 56 -

Goods

20. Goods include textbooks, reference books and other instructional and other materials,
micro-nutriments, vehicles, furniture, and office equipment. The total cost o f goods is estimated at
US$4.39 millionequivalent for the project. Procurement o f goods managedby the DAFwill be
bulkedwhere feasible into packagesvalued at US$200,000 equivalent or more per package andwill
be procuredthrough International Competitive Bidding(ICB). Preference for domestically
manufacturedgoods will apply inaccordancewith the World Bank Guidelines. Contracts for office
furniture andequipment, vehicles and materials locally available, adaptation and distribution o f
textbooks which cost lessthan US$200,000 equivalent per contract, and presented subsequently in
annual procurement plans approvedbythe Bank, would be procuredthroughNational Competitive
Bidding(NCB) procedures acceptable to IDA.

21. Other Procedures Procurement o f small office equipment, furniture, printedmaterials, and other
instructional materials costing less than US$20,000 andpresented subsequently inannual
procurement plans approvedby the Bank, will be procuredthrough National Shopping inaccordance
with provisions o fparagraph3.5 ofthe Guidelines and the Bank's guidance procurement note on
handling procurement under shopping method (June 8,2000). Solicitations will be issued inwriting
to at least three reputable suppliers (preferably more) inorder to receive at least three competitive
quotations. Solicitations will give specifications, and ifnot immediately available, the delivery time.
Written quotations will be opened at the same time for evaluation and records o f award decisions
will be kept for Bank supervision missions andaudits. Specific shopping procedures to be followed
will be reflectedinthe procurement section o fthe PIM.

22. Direct contracting maybe exceptionallyusedwith the prior no-objection o fthe Bank for the
procurement o f spareparts, operating expenditures, minor off-the-shelf items, and other specialized
equipment andproprietary itemscosting less than US$10,000 equivalent per contract.

23. The procedures followed for all shopping methods under the project will be reviewedafter six
months o fproject operations. Standard request forms and guidelines for conduct o f the shopping
method (as per the June 8,2000 Memorandum "Guidance on Shopping") will be included inthe PIM.


Community-basedProcurement

24. The Africa Guidelines for SimplifiedProcurement and Disbursement for Community-based
Investments (February 1998) will be used inthe design and procurement underthis aspect o fthe
project but cognizance o f localpractices andthe capacity o f communities to manage the process will
be an important consideration. The basic education ministry will be responsible for ensuring
compliance with these guidelines, andex-post reviews o frandom sub-projects will be conducted
periodically by the Bank and independent consultants. Per Schedule 3 o f the Development Financing
Agreement, simplifiedprocedures will be included inthe PIM, which i s subject to approval by IDA
byeffectiveness. These procedures will include the positive list o fitems qualifyingunder this
component.




                                                - 57 -

 Consultants' servicesand training

 25. The consulting services requiredwill be mostly inthe areas o f education, applied research,
 training, community development, financial management, monitoringand evaluation, information
 dissemination, auditing, procurement, and accounting.

 (a) Oualitv-and Cost-Based Selection (OCBS). Consultants will be hiredthrough competitionbased
 on QCBS for contracts estimated to cost more than US$200,000 among qualified short-listed firms,
byevaluatingthe quality ofthe proposals before combiningquality andcost evaluation, byweighting
 and adding the quality andcost scores. To ensurethat priority i s given to the identification o f suitable
 and qualified national consultants, short-lists for contracts estimatedunder US$200,000 or equivalent
per contract may be comprised entirely o fnational consultants (inaccordance with the provisions o f
paragraph 2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines), provided that a sufficient number o f qualifiedfirms (at
least three) are available at competitive costs. However, ifforeign firms have expressed interest, they
will not be excluded from consideration.

(b) Selection BasedonConsultants' Oualification Selection (CO) maybe usedfor consulting
 services for researchandtargeted interventions for which organizations with specialized expertise,
 strong capacities to work with communities andproven track records for contracts under
US$lOO,OOO. This methodmay also be usedfor the selection o ftraining institutions.

(c) Least Cost Selection (LCS). For financial audits, the Least-Cost Selection(LCS) methodwill be
the most appropriate methodfor contracts estimated underUS$50,000.

(d) Single Source Selection (SSS) maybe usedexceptionally for training, for specific task ina case
where only one findindividual has specific qualifiedexperience, and for consulting assignments
costing less than $50,000 per contract, with IDA'Sprior non-objection, and inaccordance with
paragraphs 3.8 3.11 o fthe Consultant Guidelines. With the prior non-objection o f the Bank Single
                 -
 Source contracting may also be used for the contract relatedto the adult literacy program for an
estimated amount o f $4,200,000.

(e) The selection o f IndividualConsultants Services for small studies and other assignments may be
usedon the basis o f comparison o f curriculum vitae inaccordance with Section V o f the Consultant
Guidelines. Consultants hired under the project cannot be civil servants.

26. Training. workshops. and study tours. Training, workshops, conference attendance and study
tours will be carried out on the basis o f approved annual work programs that will identify the general
framework o ftraining or similar activities for the year, includingthe nature o ftraining, study tours,
andworkshops, the numbero fparticipants, andcost estimates.The training institutions for all
workshops and training with costs exceeding US$lO,OOO shouldbe identifiedinthe annual program.
Any and all "out o fcountry" trainingis subject to prior review byIDA.Post-reviews will be
conducted from time to time to review the selection o f institutions/course contentshainees and
justifications thereof, andcosts incurred.

IDA Prior Reviews (Table B)

27. All ICB managedbythe DAF, the first three NCB contracts for goods, and direct contracting for
works and goods, where applicable, would be subject to IDAprior review as per paragraph 2,
Appendix Io fthe Guidelines. All other contracts would be subject to post-review inaccordance with



                                                 - 5%-

paragraph4, Appendix Iof the Guidelines.

28. All consulting contracts costing US$ 100,000 equivalent or more for firms would be subject to
IDAprior review. Withrespect to eachcontract for employment of individualconsultants estimated
to cost the equivalent o fUS$50,000 or more, the qualification, experience, terms o f reference and
terms o f employment o fthe consultants shall be furnishedto IDA for its prior review. The exception
to prior review will not apply to single-source hiring, to assignments o f a critical nature as
determined by IDA, or to amendments of contracts risingthe contract value above the prior review
threshold. Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained
byDAF,RPCs, andPTAs for ex-post review by auditors, IDA supervisionmissions.

29. The Borrower and IDA shall review all thresholds stated inthis section on an annual basis.
Modifications may be agreedupon, basedon performances and actual values o fprocurement
implemented. Amendments to the Credit Agreement may be prepared as necessary.

30. Monitoringandevaluation o fprocurement performance at all levels (national andregional)
would be carried out for procurement under the prior review thresholds duringIDA supervision
missions and through annual ex-post procurement audits. At a minimum, 1out o f 10 contracts.
Annual independent technical audits (ex-post procurement audits) would: (a) verify that the
procurement andcontracting procedures andprocessesfollowed for the projects were inaccordance
withthe IDA Grant Agreement; (b)verify technical compliance, physical completionandprice
competitiveness o f each contract inthe selectedrepresentative sample; (c) review andcomment on
contract administration andmanagement issues as dealt with by participating agencies; (d) review
capacity o fparticipating agencies inhandlingprocurement efficiently; and (e) identify improvements
inthe procurement process inthe lightofany identified deficiencies. The Borrower andIDAwill
reviewall thresholds stated inthis section on an annual basis. Amendments maybe agreedupon
basedon performance and actual values ofprocurement implemented. Amendments to the IDA
Grant Agreement may be proposedaccordingly.




                                              - 59 -

Procurementmethods(TableA)

                            Table A ProjectCosts by ProcurementArrangements
                                              (US$ million equivalent)




                                        (0.00)             (0.00)               (3.27)           (0.00)         (3.27)
6. Grants: Literacy                      0.00               0.00                4.17              0.00           4.17
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)               (4.17)           (0.00)         (4.17)
7. Grants: Other                         0.00               0.00                0.84              0.00           0.84
                                         0.00              (0.00)             (0.84)             (0.00)          (0.84)

8. Refinancingof PPF                     0.00               0.00                0.50              0.00           0.50
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)              (0.50)            (0.00)         (0.50)
9. Operating costs                       0.00               0.00                2.75              0.00           2.75
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.50)             (0.00)         (2.50)
10. Unallocated                          0.00               0.00               2.09               0.00           2.09
                                        (0.00)             (0.00)             (2.09)             (0.00)         (2.09)

Total                                    7.81               7.10                17.11            (0.00)          32.02
                                        (7.81)             (5.91)              (16.28)                          (30.00)


     Figures inparenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Financing Agreement. All costs include
     contingencies.
!'   Includes civil works and goods to be procuredthrough national shopping, consulting services, services o f
     contracted staff o f the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
     operating costs related to (i)managing the project, and (ii)  re-lending project funds to local government
     units.
3'   "Operating Costs" include incremental operating costs for office supplies, administrative support,
     communication and utility services, travel and other supervision expenditures, bank charges related to
     special accounts, salaries o f incremental contractual staff, but excludes all salary expenses o fcivil servants
     o f the Borrower.




                                                      -60-

Prior reviewthresholds (Table B)

                  Table B: Thresholdsfor ProcurementMethodsand Prior Review'




 1.Works                              =or >300,000                      ICB                      PriorReview
                                        <300,000                        NCB                      Post Review
                                        <10.000                 3 Ouotationsat least             PostReview
2. Goods                              =or >200,000                      ICB                      PriorReview
                                        <200,000                        NCB                      PostReview
                                                                                           (except first 3 contracts)
                                        <20,000                  NationalShopping                PostReview
                                        <10,000                  Directcontracting               PriorReview

3. Services
a. Firms                              =or >100,000                    QCBS                       PriorReview
                                        <100,000                    QCBWQC                       PostReview
                                        <50,000                         LCS                      PostReview
                                        <50,000                    Single Source                 PriorReview

b. Individuals                        =or >50,000                   Individual                   PriorReview
                                        <50,000                     Individual                   PostReview
                                        <50,000                    Single Source                 PriorReview
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous

                Total value of contracts subjectto prior review: $12 million
                            Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:          High
     Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every 6 months
                                                                          (includes specialprocurement supervision
                                                                          for post-review/audits)


11Thresholds generally differ by countryandproject. Consult "Assessment ofAgency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" andcontact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                    -61 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Managementand DisbursementArrangements
                               NIGER: BASIC EDUCATIONPROJECT

Financial ManaPement
1. Summary ofthe FinancialManagement Assessment
1.1 The design o fthe financial management systemdraws heavily onbasic principles o f soundfinancial
management. Particular attentionwas given to adopting elements o fbest practice from the basic financial
management systemo fthe other IDA-fundedprojects inNiger. Furthermore, the Bankstaffundertook an
assessment o f MoE's financial management capacity and capacity-building needs identifiedwith the
view to better equippedthe key structures (DAF and DREB/A) to effectively play their fiduciary
responsibilitieswhile preparing the ground for budget support.

1.2 The adoption o f the administration, financial and accounting manual satisfactory to IDA is a
condition of effectiveness. The manual o fprocedures covers all components o fthe proposed project.
Financial management consultants have beenrecruited to assist the borrower inelaboratingthe manual o f
procedures and indesigningthe financial management system. The proposedinstitutional arrangements
being set up to effect fundflows between levels, has built-inmechanisms to ensure accountability and
produce financial management reports on a timely basis.

1.3 Roles and Responsibilities. At the central level the DAFwould have overall responsibility for
financial management. The DAFoversight role would include the management o f the special accounts,
preparation o f consolidated financial statements, submission o freplenishment applications to the bank, in
liaison with the Secretary General o f the MoE, which would have overall responsibility for technical
coordination o fthe program implementation.

1.4 The DAFcapacity would be enhanced bythe recruitment of two additional staff, Le., aprocurement
specialist and a central accounting specialist. At the regional level, a qualifiedaccounting staffwill be
recruitedto assist the DREBproperly handle the financial management while executing the regional
activity program. Also, the functionality o f the intemal control system would be improved with the view
to progressively increase the overall spending quality inthe ministry. A central controller ("controleur
degestionprincipal") would be appointedby andreporting to the Secretary General o fMOE. She
would be responsible the headifintemal control procedures inliaisonwith a group o f 3 regional
controllers. They would be responsible for carrying out post review o f expenditures as well as physical
controls. The controller teamwould also provide advice to managers and community duringtheir field
visits. They would prepare a quarterly report, addresseddirectly to the Secretary General o fthe MOE.
Recruitmentof additional staff would be completedprior to credit effectiveness.

1.5 Flow offunds. Based on annual programs o f activity, funds will be transferreddirectly from the
two Special Accounts and the Project account to the 8 DREBIA accounts on the basis o f 90-day
advances. However, a financial management report (FMR) would be preparedquarterly and serve as a
tool to monitoring the implementationo fthe annual programo f activity at the regional level.

1.6 Small grants will be providedto selected school management committees and/or Mother-of-Student
Associations (AMEs) against their proposals for work programs promotinggirl's education andretention
(a maximum o f $370 per schooVyear). Similarly, small grants will be providedto the CAPEDs (Cellule
dynimation Pedagogique)to support the implementation o ftheir annual in-service training programs (a
maximum o f $1,540 per CUED). School construction o f the improved thatch classrooms, which will be
executed and pre-financedby communities under work-program agreementswith the DREBIA,would be
financed inaccordancewith the agreements.


                                                     - 62 -

2. Audit Arrangements
2.1  The DAFmaintains, to the satisfaction o fIDA, andthe Government, the accounts and records to be
used exclusively for this operation. The accounts would be maintained inaccordancewith sound and
internationally accepted principles and Government o fNiger financial reportingrequirements. The
financial andaccounting staffwill produce the quarterly financial statements to be auditedby an
independent auditing firm.

2.2 Annual financial audits, to be carried out incompliance with internationally accepted audit
standards, would cover Bank requirements for audit the project account and review o f internal control
system, when implemented, as well as review o f SOEs. Audit reports o fthe project financial statements
would include, inaddition to the auditors' short form report and opinion, separateaudit opinions on the
Special Accounts and SOE, as well as the accounts managedbythe DEB. Fundsreceivedby CECI
underits service contract will also be audited.

3. DisbursementArrangements

 Allocationof creditlgrantproceeds (TableC)

  ExpenditureCategory            Credit amount            Grant amount          FinancingPercentages
                               (in US$ million)          (inUS$ million)
1. Civil Works                                                 4.46                  100%foreign
                                                                                 expenditures and 80%
                                                                                   local expenditures
2. Goods andVehicles                                           4.39                 100% o f foreign
                                                                                 expenditures and 80%
                                                                                   local expenditures
3. Textbooks                          5.62                                          100% o f foreign
                                                                                 expenditures and 80%
                                                                                   local expenditures
4. Consultants' Services                                       2.19                  85% o f foreign
andAudits                                                                        expenditures and 80%
                                                                                   local exoenditures
5. Training                                                     3.29                     100%
6a. Grants: Literacy                                           4.57                 100% o f amounts
                                                                                       disbursed
6b. Grants: Other (ME,                                          1.03                100%o famounts
CAPED)                                                                                 disbursed
7. OperatingCosts    11                                        2.54                       90%
8. Refinancing o f PPF                                         0.5 1
Unallocated                                                    2.40
TOTAL                                 5.62                     24.38
  Total Credit+Grant                              30.00




                                                  - 63 -

4. The project i s expectedto be completed over four school years with a completion date of
June 30,2007, and a closing date of December 31,2007.

CounterpartFunds

5. Total counterparts funds are estimated at 260 millions FCFA excludingtaxes and duties. As a
condition of credit effectiveness, the Government will open a Project Account and deposit an
initial amount o f FCFA 30 millions, which corresponds to expected expenditures for the first six
months ofproject implementation. Government counterpart funds required for subsequent months
to cover the share of costs not financed by IDA will be deposited inthe Project Account managed by
DAFon a semi-annual basis.

 Use of statementsof expenditures(SOEs):
6. Disbursements for all expenditures will be made against full documentation except for items o f
expenditures for: (a) contracts for works inan amount equivalent or inferior to US$300,000; (b) goods in
an amount inferior to US$200,000; (c) consulting firms inan amount inferior to US$lOO,OOO equivalent,
(d)contracts for individualconsultants inanamount inferiorto US$50,000 equivalent, and (e) training
and operating costs, which would be claimed on the basis o f Statement o f Expenditures (SOEs). All
supporting documentation for SOEs will be retainedat a suitable location at the central (DAF), regional
(DREB),andcommunity levels, readilyaccessible for review byperiodic IDA supervisionmissions and
external auditors.

Special account:
7. To facilitate project implementation, the DAFwill open two Special Accounts (SA) inFCFA ina
commercial bank on terms andconditions, acceptable to IDA. The SpecialAccounts will cover IDA'S
share o fabout four months o feligible expenditures relative to work program agreements, goods and
consultants' services, training and operating costs. Special Account A will be opened for the credit with
an authorizedallocation o f FCFA 400 million, while Special Account B will be opened for the grant in
an amount o f FCFA 1billion. Uponcredit effectiveness, IDA will deposit the respective amounts o f
FCFA 200 million into Special Account A andFCFA 500 million into Special Account B, representing
(50%) of the authorized allocations.

8. The remainingbalance will be made available when the aggregate amount o f withdrawals from the
credit account plus the total amount o f all outstanding special commitments entered into bythe
Association shall be equal or exceed the equivalent o f SDR 2 million for Special Account A andSDR 8
millionfor Special Account B. Replenishment applications will be submittedmonthly. Further deposits
byIDAintothe SpecialAccounts will bemade against withdrawal applications supported byappropriate
documents.

9. 90-day advanceswill be authorized for the 8 regional directorates (DREBAs).




                                                    - 64 -

ActionPlanfor majorrequiredprocedures(( OP/BP 10.02            ))


10. To ensure that the above-mentioned financial management systemrequirements will be met indue
time to declare project effectiveness, the following actionplan, with tasks to be performedas well as
target completion dates, has been agreedupon. The deadline for the system set-up i s July 15,2003.

No            Actions to beundertaken                 EndDate                Respons. Agency
1           Official nomination o f accountant for
            PPFmanagement                              Sept 15,  2002          GON/ MEBA
2           Development o f an administrative,
            financial andaccounting procedural
           manual by hiredconsultant:
            -    draft submitted for comments to      April 15, 2003         Consultant
            IDA
            -    final draft with IDA comments
            -incorporated  and                        July 5,2003            GON/ MEBAet IDA
                 purchase o f accountingsoftware                             FM
           Recruitment o f Regional Project           July 5, 2003
            Managers and Regional Accountants                                GON/ MEBA
3           Recruitment o f external auditor (signec
            contract)                                 July 15,2003             GON/ MEBA
4           Final installation o f computerized
            administrative, financial and
            accountingsystem (software
           programming, test on PPF accounts;
            special accounts, and 90-day accounts,
           training o fall personnel on PIM and
            software and continuation o ftestingup
           to first-semester production i s reached
           )andopeningoftheproject account            July 5,2003              GON/ MEBA
I          and initial deposit o f counterpart funds

              pproval and certification o fthe
           financial management systembythe
           Finanacial Management Specialist o f
            heWorldBank.                              July 30,2003             IDA/ FM




                                                   - 65 -

                               Annex 7: Project ProcessingSchedule
                               NIGER: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT



/Timetaken to preparethe project (months)     I        11                   I       19            I
 First Bank mission(identification)                    01/22/2002                   04/26/2002
Appraisal missiondeparture                             04/07/2003                   04/07/2003
 Negotiations                                          05/05/2003                   0511912003
/Planned Date of Effectiveness                I        10/30/2003           I       1Of3012003    I

Prepared by:
RachidiRadji, AFTH2


Preparationassistance:
A ProjectPreparation Facility for US$500,000 was approvedinAugust 2003 for Government to start
some o f the urgent activities.

Bank staff who worked on the projecl ncluded:
         Name                                         Speciality
MakhaNdao                              LeadEducation Specialist
Willem Zijp                            Africa Quality Enhancement Specialist
Renee Desclaux                         Finance Officer
Hans W. Wabnitz                        Senior Counsel
'SakhevarDiop                          Senior Education SpecialistfTextbooks
Aminata Maiga                          Education Specialist1Girls' Education
Mamadou Yaro                           Financial Management Specialist
Douglas Lehman                         Consultant, Rural Schools Specialist
Celestin Bad0                          Operations Officer1Capacity Building
Asha Ayoung                            Senior Procurement Specialist
Djibrilla Karamoko                     Senior Health Specialist
Henri Aka                              Procurement Specialist
Yao Wottor                             Procurement Analyst
Myrina McCullough                      Operations Analyst
Daniele Jaekel                         Operations Analyst
Kamla Pariadhaven                      Program Assistant (HQ)
Karima Laouali Ladjo                   Team Assistant, Niger
Souleymane Zerbo                       Consultant, Architect
Amadou Wade Diagne                     Consultant, Non-foxmal Education Specialist




                                               - 66 -

                            Annex 8: Documentsin the Project File*
                            NIGER: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT


A. Project ImplementationPlan
Draft

B. Bank Staff Assessments


   0    Quality EnhancementReview, Niger Basic Education Project; June 2002

   0    Assessmentof Agency's Capacity to implement Procurement
   0    Rapport de mission d'kvaluation de la capacitk en Gestion Financikre du Ministerede
        1'Education de Base et de 1'Alphabttisation- MEBA: (Direction Administrative et Financiere -
        DAF-,DirectionsRtgionales de 1'Education de Base et de 1'AphabCtisation- DREBA-,
        Inspections, CAPED, DPSIFF et Directiondes Affaires Administratives et du Personnel-DAAP)
        et du Centre Canadien d'Etude et de CooptrationIntemationale (CECI): du 7 au 11et du21 au
        24janvier 2003 et du 8 au 23 ani12003

C. Other


    Programme Decennal de Developpement de 1'Education (PDDE) Cadre budgetaire a moyen terme
    (2002-2005)  -Mars                                              -
                        2002

    Audit Organisationnel 1'EducationNationale duNiger Par Universalia (Novembre 2001)
                                                         -

    Projet de Programme Decennal de Developpement de 1'EducationauNiger (PDDE 2002-2012)
        Composante Education de base   -Document    1:Diagnostic, orientations, objectifs et strattgies.

    Projet de Programme Decennal de Developpement de 1'Educationau Niger (PDDE 2002-20 12)
        Composante Education de base   - Document  2: Plans d'actions

    Projet de Programme Decennal de Developpement de 1'EducationauNiger (PDDE mars, 2003)
        Composante QualitC

    Projet de Programme Decennal de Developpement de 1'Educationau Niger (PDDE, mars 2003)
        Composante Acces

    Environmental Assessment, Consultant Cheik Tidiane
    Environmental Management Plan, Consultant Cheik Tidiane
    Resettlement Framework, Consultant Cheik Tidiane
*Includingelectronicfiles




                                                 - 67 -

                                           Annex 9: Statement of Loansand Credits
                                               NIGER: BASIC EDUCATIONPROJECT
                                                             21-May-2003
                                                                                                                       Differenceand
                                                                                                                                  betweenexpected
                                                                                                                                    actual
                                                                    OriginalAmount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
ProjectID   PI Purpose                                         IBRD         IDA                        Cancel.  Undisb.       Orig   F mRev'd
PO71612    2003 MULTISECTORALSTIIHIVIAIDS PROGRAM                  0.00       0.00                        0.00     24.81        0.00      0.00
PO65991    2003 CommunityAction Program                            0.00       0.00                        0.00     34.86        0.00      0.00
PO72996    2002 Niger:Private IrrigationPromotion                  0.00      38.72                        0.02     41.39      10.39       0.00
PO61558    2001 WATER SECTOR PROJECT                               0.00     48.00                         0.00     46.87        9.29      0.00
PO58730    2000 Agro-pastoral Export PromotionProject              0.00      10.35                        0.00      6.45        1.25      0.00
PO51272     1999 PRIVATIZ./REG.REFORM                              0.00      16.60                        0.00     10.20        9.65      4.96
PO35608    1998 NETRANSP. INFRA. REHAB                             0.00     28.00                         0.00      1.32        1.49      0.00
PO01994    1997 HEALTHII                                           0.00     40.00                         0.00      3.65        6.29      5.09

                                                       Total:     0.00      183.67                        0.02    169.57      38.37       10.05




                                                                 NIGER
                                                        STATEMENT OFIFC's
                                                     HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                             J u ~30 - 2002
                                                           InMillions US Dollars

                                                                                Committed                               Disbursed
                                                                            IFC                                     IFC
     FY Approval               Company                               Loan     Equity      Quasi     Partic    Loan     Equity       Quasi      Partic


                                        Total Portfolio:              0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00       0.00       0.00      0.00



                                                                          ApprovalsPendingCommitment
    FY Approval               Company                                   Loan       Equity         Quasi     Partic


                              TotalPendingCommitment:                    0.00         0.00        0.00        0.00




                                                                  - 68 -

                                              Annex 10: Country at a Glance
                                       NIGER: BASIC EDUCATIONPROJECT
                                                                sub-
POVERTYand SOCIAL                                             Saharan   Low-
                                                        Niger  Africa income      1Developmentdiamond'
2001
Population,mid-year (millions)                           11.2     674   2,511
GNI percapita (Atlas method, US$)                         180     470    430     !               Lifeexpectancy
                                                                                                       T
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                           2.0     317   1,069
Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                            3.4     2.5     1.9
Laborforce (%)                                            3.3     2.6     2.3      GNI                                    Gross
                                                                                   per                                   primary
Most recent estimate(latest year available, 1995-01)                               capita                               nrollment
Poverty(% ofpopulationbelownationalpovedyline)                                    I
Urbanpopulation (% of totalpopulation)                     21      32      31
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                              46      47      59
Infant mortality (per 7,000livebirths)                    114      91      76
Child malnutrition (% ofchildrenunder 5)                   40                    '        Access to improvedwater source
Access toan improvedwater source (% ofpopulation)          59      55      76
Illiteracy(% ofpopulationage 75+)                          84      37      37
Grossprimaryenrollment (% ofschool-agepopulation)          31      78      96       -
    Male                                                   38      85    103                Niger        Low-incomegroup

    Female                                                 24      72      88

KEY ECONOMICRATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                 1981   1991    2000    2001       Economicratios"
GDP (US$billions)                                  2.2    2.7     1.8     1.9
Grossdomestic investmenUGDP                       20.3    7.8    10.6    12.6
Exports of goodsand serviceslGDP                  24.2   11.9    15.5    14.4                        Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                         8.2    3.8     2.9     2.8                          -
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                 3.1     2.9     3.6
Currentaccountbalance/GDP                                -4.6    -7.4    -7.5
InterestpaymentslGDP                               3.1    0.8     0.5     1.4
Total debtlGDP                                   47.1    54.4   89.8
Total debt service/exports                       31.6    31.5     9.4
Presentvalue of debtlGDP                                        57.1
Presentvalue of debuexports                                     345.1
                                                                                                   Indebtedness
                                      1981-91 1991-01   2000    2001  2001-05
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                      0.0       3.0   -1.4     7.6     4.2
GDP percapita                            -3.1     -0.4   -4.6     4.1     1.o         -Niger             Low-incomegroup
EXDO~~Sof aoods and services             -4.6      7.1
STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                      45.7    33.2   38.8     38.7      5O  T    ,..
Industry                                         19.2    15.0    17.7    17.6
   Manufacturing                                   3.9    5.3     6.8     6.8       0
Services                                         35.2    51.9   43.5     43.7
Privateconsumption                               80.8    83.1   84.4     84.4    1-50!
Generalgovemmentconsumption                      10.9    13.1   12.7     12.8
Importsof goods and services                     36.2    15.9   23.2     24.2                  -GDI           - O - G D P


                                              1981-91 1991-01   2ooo    2o01
(average annualgrowth)                                                             Growth of exports and imports("A)

Agriculture                                       2.4     3.2               ..
                                                                            .     3 o T
Industry                                          -1.7    2.6                     15
  Manufacturing                                   -1.8    3.3
Services                                          -2.6    2.5                      0


Privateconsumption                                -0.8    3.8                   -15

Generalgovernmentconsumption                      6.2    -0.8               ..  -30
Grossdomesticinvestment                          -3.4    6.0                                -Exports        -0-Imports
Importsof goods and services                     -5.7    -1.2




                                                             - 69 -

                                                                                                                      Niger
 PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE                                                                                                 I
                                         1981   1991   2000   2001
 Domesticprices                                                          Inflation(%)

 (% change)                                                              20-
 Consumerprices                                  -1.9    2.9   4.0
 ImplicitGDP deflator                     10.6  14.6     4.5   4.0
 Government finance
                                                                                                                             I
 (% of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
 Currentrevenue                                  7.8     8.6   9.2      -201
 Currentbudgetbalance                            -1.5   -2.6   -1.8
 Overallsurplus/deficit                          -6.5   -7.6   -7.4              --'--GDP          deflator *CPI


 TRADE
                                         1981   1991   2000   2001                                               ,
 (US$ millions)                                                          Exportand importlevels(US$mill.)
 Totalexports (fob)                              270    283    283                                                           I
   Uranium                                       199      90    85   IP-
   Livestockproducts                              40      49    49
   Manufactures
 Total imports(cif)                              356    324    347
   Food                                           31      20    26
   Fueland energy                                 19      38    37
   Capitalgoods                                  102      67    84
 Exportprice index (1995=100)                            105   107             95        96    97      90    99

 Importprice index (1995=100)                            139   137   I                      .Exports         mlmports
 Terms of trade (1995=100)                                75    78

 BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                         1981   1991   2000   2001     '
 (US$millions)                                                           Currentaccount balanceto GDP (x)
 Exportsof goods andservices              524    327    313    312
 Importsof goods and services             786   436     448    473
 Resourcebalance                         -261   -109   -135   -161
 Net income                                         1    -17   -15
 Netcurrenttransfers                       109   -20      17    30
 Current accountbalance                         -128   -135   -146
 Financingitems (net)                            128    164    154
 Changes in net reserves                           0     -29    -8   1-15 -
 Memo:
 Reserves includinggold (US$millions)             -5      78    94
 Conversionrate (DEC-locallUS$')         271.7 282.I   712.0  733.0

 EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                         1981   1991   2000   2001
 (US$ millions)                                                          Composition of 2000 debt (US$ mill.)
 Total debt outstandinganddisbursed      1,022 1,494   1,638
   IBRD                                      0     0       0
   IDA                                     79   479     723         I                          G: 83

 Total debt service                       173   107      28
   IBRD                                     0      0       0
   IDA                                       1     5      14                 E 447                                B 723
 Compositionof net resourceflows
   Officialgrants
   Official creditors                     135     23     54
   Privatecreditors                       188    -55      -2
   Foreigndirect investment                 -6    15     15
   Portfolioequity                          0      0      0                                 243        c.74
 World Bank program
   Commitments                              0     19     45    130      A IBRD
                                                                          -              D -Othermultilateral F- Private
                                                                                                               E Bilateral
                                                                                                                -
   Disbursements                           13     17     68             B IDA
                                                                          -
   Principalrepayments                      0      2      8             C-IMF                                  G Short-term
                                                                                                                -
   Netflows                                12     16     60
   Interestpayments                         1      4      6
   Net transfers                           12     12     54

lreveiopment tconomiffi                                                                                              Y//zJ/UZ




                                                     -70-

                                         Additional Annex 11
                                      InstitutionalAssessment
                               NIGER: BASIC EDUCATIONPROJECT

   The following report summarizes the key points o f the "Audit organizationnel du MEN au Niger" o f
August 31,2001, preparedbythe Canadian consultingfirm, Universalia.

    Table 1 (page 21) summarizes the report for the Ministry according to five basic capacity areas:
organizational setting, leadership and management, human resources, material resources, and work
practices.

I.OBJECTIVEOFTHESTUDY

1. An organizational audit o f the Ministryo fEducationto assess the adequacy o fits structure and o f its
resources to determine if the ministry i s sufficiently operational and effective to lead the IO-year Plan.
The assessment will provide information leading to recommendations regarding capacity strengthening
measuresneededto address deficiencies notedinthe audit.

2.     In its final form, the audit will include an action plan with prioritized actions, roles and
responsibilities, and a calendar o f implementation activities.

11. METHODOLOGY

3.   Data collection was carried out through: a) review o f key documents; b) individual and group
interviews with different actors; c) two surveys o f non-teaching staff (207 questionnaires over 250 sent
were analyzed) and teaching staff (1406 questionnaires over 2500 sent were analyzed); and d) three
observatory field visits inthe regions o f Maradi, Zinder and TillabCri.

111. MENPERFORMANCE

4.  Ministerial performance was evaluated in four areas: efficacy, efficiency, relevance, and financial
sustainability, defined as follows: a) efficacy: the Ministry's capacity to achieved its mission [stated in a
letter from the Prime Minister to the Minister o f Education in February 2000, p. 32 o f the report]; b)
efficiency: competencies and skills o f the Ministry to utilize its resources optimally to achieve its
mission; c) relevance: teachers, professionals, students, parents, civil society agree that the Ministry
addresses their needs; d) financial sustainability: the Ministry's capacity to mobilize and manage
necessaryresourcesto achieve its mission andobjectives.

5.   Efficacy: The majority ofthe objectives described inNiger's nationalplanhave not beenachieved.
These objectives were: (a) an increase in gross schooling rate at pre-school and primary level; (b) an
increase ingross enrollment rate in 1st grade o f primary education; and (c) an increase innet enrollment
and schooling rates (cf. "Education for All: Retrospective to Year 2000"). The inability to meet these
goals can be explained in part by the difficult socio-political events during Niger's recent past, the
economic crisis, and the inexistence o f a national policy on education, but the slow increase in gross
enrollment and in schooling rates, and the inability to decreasing illiteracy, over the last 10 years would
appear to reflect the inefficacy of the Government in relation to its mission. The report presents
comparison tables on indicators for the period 1990191and 1998/99 by gender.




                                                   -71  -

6. The "Education For All" Report made two important points. First, the HIPC Initiative may have
inadvertently led to automatic student promotion for students lacking the necessary knowledge for the
next level, in order to meet the performance objectives set in the context o f the HIPC initiative.
Secondly, the education system to date appearsto be more interested inquantity than quality.

7. Efficiency: Public expenditures managed by the Ministry o f Education in 1994 represented 3.4% o f
GDP, which is, according to the report, the average for countries in the region and for that period.
Despite this, performance indicators are below the regional average. It can be concluded, therefore, that
the resources used didnot result inpositive results or contribute to mprovingthe indicators.

8. The report indicates that these poor results may be attributedto poor management andpoor utilization
o f the Ministry's resources (15-20% o f the budget represents expenditures in the sector).           Some
interviewees felt that too great a share o f the budget i s allocated to salaries as compared to pedagogical
materials and school infrastructure. In 1996,86.6% o f the budget was allocatedto salaries as compared to
7.4% to materials.

9. The 10-year program document acknowledges a lack of efficiency inresource utilization compared to
other similar countries. For Base Cycle I,the average unit cost per student i s twice that o f other
francophone countries in the sub-region, which have better outcomes in terms o f schooling rate.
Furthermore, materiel resources are managed inefficiently, inparticular for class construction where 30%
o f the unit cost per student is attributedto the cost o f classroom. For Base Cycle 11, the average unit cost
per student is 70% o f that for francophone countries inthe sub-region, despite the fact that the schooling
rate i s lower than inthose countries. Salaries and administrative costs represent 90.7% o f the budget for
that level.

10. Ingeneral, steep infrastructure costs, poor maintenance, poor management o f human resources [the
report does not elaborate on this, except for a section on the ratio teacher-student, which appears to be
better than the average inthe sub-region with 42, although with great disparities and inequities across the
country ranging from 20 to 801, and inefficient teacher deployment are among the factors accounting for
the highunit cost per student. 47% o f the teachers interviewed indicate that the studentlteacher ratio i s
acceptable, while 40% believe that this ratio i s high(22%) and too high(18%).

11. Relevance: Although a good number o f interviewees acknowledgedthat the Ministrywas doing a
decent job managing, under very challenging circumstances, over 4,000 schools, 17,000 teachers and
670,000 students (primary and secondary levels), many groups expressed dissatisfaction with the
Ministryinseveral areas. Headmastersandteachers are irritated bythe invisibility o fits civil servants
(inspectors) at the school level and their lack o f support and understanding o f the true circumstances o f
their working conditions. The teachers union (National Teacher Union, SNEN) does not agree with the
ministry's strategies for the sector, and particularly regrets the minimal amount o f input allowed the
teachers in the development o f the education reform. A number o f union interviewees criticized the
"education volunteers" (volontaires de 1'Cducation,VE) system, citing the lack o f adequate training and
support and no possibility o f being regularized "titularisb". Other criticisms from the union are: i)lack
o f communication, internal and external, within the Ministry; ii)the significant role o f politics in
affecting andnominating employees, with no objective criteria set to that effect; iii)the non-distribution
o f important documents to teachers by the Ministry on sectoral issues, such as the Law 98; iv) the
non-distribution o f important documents regardingreforms o f the sector, such as the 10-year plan; v) the
non-sollicitation o f teacher-input incumculum development. The media expressedthe dissatisfactiono f
union members with accruals in salary payment and o f the general population toward the education



                                                    - 72 -

system and potential outcomes, namely the concern that despite higher education jobs may not be
available as i s currently evidenced bythe highrate o funemployment among young graduates.

12. Other ministries were asked about the MOE. The General Secretary noted that independent project
units established by various donors was leading to duplication o f equipment costs and administrative
tasks. The Finance Ministry evaluated the MOE as slightly above average in managing its budget,
although the General Director o f Budget criticized the Ministry for assigning the same benefits to
teachers with administrative tasks (human resources, finances and materials) as those in the classrooms.
It emphasized the importance o f reducing the unit cost per student, already higher than most countries in
the region, particlarly in view o f the country's very limited results. Finally, it was noted that a proper
training plan for the ministry's employees was needed as well as a greater strategic planning capacity.

13. Despite these criticisms, the report found that in general the ministry's civil servants expressed
confidence that the ministry has the capacity to pilot the 10-year plan.           64% o f the interviewees
maintained that the ministry has sufficient human and material resources to implement the plan. N o
mention was made in the report o f students or parents view points on the Ministry's responsiveness to
their respective needs.

14. Financial Sustainability: Niger's capacity to allocate its financial resources for an education o f
quality appears to be extremely limited. The low level o f efficiency on the part o f the ministry to manage
its financial resources i s compounded by acute economic and financial crisis inthe country. The ministry
depends heavily on external aid. The additional external aid needed to manage the IO-year plan would
require substantially higher resources, perhaps 4 times more per year than the annual average during the
90s. Little assistance i s expected from private initiatives to schooling (only 2.5% o f the national
enrollment) because the population i s too poor to pay, and the Government ceased the subsidization o f
the private sector 2 years ago. The report did not give the reasons for this cessation. It i s to be noted,
however, that there i s a Directorate for private education within the Ministryo f Education.

[N,V, VIandVIInotincludedforpurposeofthis exercise]

VIII. HUMANRESOURCES OF THEMINISTRY

15. Teachers: despite poor working conditions, teachers appear motivated to their task. Teachers are
appreciated by students and parents, but not considered a partner by administrators (not consulted on
issues o f pedagogical nature and on examinations).        Education volunteers (VE): originally hired
temporarily to cover the lack o f qualified teachers, many respondees perceive the contractual volunteers
to be too untrained, too amateur, andtoo young to teach. They are also considered risky for girls as well
as incompetent, providing an education o f poor quality. Originally the VE program was a two-year
stop-gap program until teaching schools could supply a sufficient number o f qualified teachers.
However, many are now thinking that the program will be retained to fulfill the ambitious objectives set
by the 10-year plan and HIPC initiative. The Minister is infavor o f keeping the VE program, which is
locatedat the General Secretariat level. Good initial training for teachers is the key factor o f success.

16. According to the report, trainers at the teaching schools also need more training. Other critical
factors include the accrual in salary payments to teachers, career development and opportunities blocked
since 1987 (according to the Teacher's Union), work overload, lack o f pedagogical materials, lack o f
transparencies inrecruitment, assignments, andpromotionpolicies.




                                                   - 73 -

IX. 10-YEARPLAN

17. The plan i s ambitious and will require a level o f organization and implementation never before
experienced within the Ministry. The planproposes to:

a) increase the schooling rate for primary education from 34% in 1999-2000 to 70% in2010-2011;

b) develop girls education, with 48% global enrollment inBasic EducationIin2010-2011;

c) reduce disparities betweenrural and urbanareas and bringthe schooling rate for primary education in
rural areas from 28% to 60%;

d) increase the participation rate o fthe privateandnonpublic sectorsfrom 4% to 6%;

e) increase substantially the level o f interventions and financial assistance from different sources toward
the education sector andtraining;

f ) develop an active and diversified partnership.

18. The 10-year Plan focuses on: a) the decentralization o f powers and decision making; b) the
delegation o f responsibilities from the central to the regional levels;          c) the participation and
responsibilization o f all stakeholders to the management o f education through financial contributions
(donors, local government) and through sensitization campaigns (women's associations, NGOs, civil
society), making the beneficiaries (families, communities, teachers) an integral part o f the program; d)
improvedcommunication and collaboration between directorates.

19. Inaddition, the Plan identifies key principles on which the program will be based: a) synergy and
complementarities in the implementation of actions supported by donors; b) systematic integration o f
gender in all actions; c) integration of environmental issues; d) transparency in the management o f the
program and implementation o f an IEC strategy; e) sustainability o f actions through the population. The
report highlightsthe important challenges faced by the Ministry to achieve these objectives in light o f its
current capacity. It will require rapidand substantive organizational and cultural changes.

20. The report enumerates the entities responsible for the management o f the program at the national,
regional and sub-regional levels.      They are represented by an Interministerial Technical Steering
Committee, Regional Steering Committee, and a Sub-regional Council for Education. A Logistics Unit (
Cellule logistique de pilotage) will be added. There are 40 people at the central and 40 at the regional
levels, and 20 people at the sub-regional level to get the program going. The report suggests that the
steering function be left to a small ministerial group, while the monitoring structure include a wider
contingency with contributions from other governmental entities and o f civil society.

21. The report recommends a shorter period for the 1st phase (startup) o f the program during which
implementationwould be begunwith a series o f actions managed by a light, competent, andautonomous
managerial unit. The shorter the period, the quicker the staff would implement actions, in order to
conclude them and get credit for them before moving on (due to elections, etc.).




                                                    - 74 -

X. RECOMMENDATIONS

22. New Ministerial structure Underthe 10-yearPlan, the operational structure and organigramme o f
the Ministry will be reviewed with the aim o f moving toward modern approaches o f education
management through autonomy in decision-making (functions assigned to the education ministry rather
than to other ministries; fusion with the Higher Education Ministry), a decrease in the General
Secretary's control by reducing the number o f administrative units under its direct authority, the
development o f a new structure which focuses on its pedagogical mission, the deconcentration and
decentralization needed to bring decisions closer to the clients (communities) regarding, for example,
recruitment and management o f human resources, the delegation and responsibilisation o f human
resources, the development o f partnerships with various stakeholders and actors (in particular with
teachers, parents and local collectivities), monitoring and dissemination o f information to beneficiaries,
establishment o f 2 or 3 general directorates in the Ministry, while other directorates and coordinating
units focus on supporting the ministry's education mission. A new organigramme will clearly show the
distinctions between general directorates for the sector and administrative directorates. In addition, for
decentralization to be successful, activities will be implemented according to a calendar that is aligned
with customized short-term training for professional staff and other key actors responsible for achieving
the 10-year Plan objectives.

23. The Ministrywould maintain its current 4 levels o f management while reallocating some functions
among them:

0   Level 1: the Minister i s the top manager o f the Ministry. Responsible for policy orientation o f the
    Ministryandreportingto Government andother ministries;

0   Level 2: General Secretary i s the top manager for the administrative duties o f the Ministry,
    responsible for liaising with policy makers and implementating structures o f Niger's policy on
    education; coordinating role, planning, supervising, harmonizing, steering and controlling education
    policy and directorates and units responsible to implement it; responsible for strategy to improve the
    education policy and its mechanisms for implementation, including the structures; coordinate the
    regions (becoming one o f the mainmandate o f the General Secretary); legal affairs. The Office o fthe
    General Secretary includes a Coordinating Unit for the Regions: ensure coordination o f regional
    directorates for education, all questions o f pedagogical nature will be handled directly with the
    relevant general directorates and all questions o f administrative nature are dealt with the relevant
    directorates through this Unit, ifneeded; plays a facilitatingrole for the regional directorate; propose
    and establish, if need be, mechanisms to improve the functioning o f the central administration, the
    regional directorates and other entities.

0   Level 3: General Directorates. The directorates and coordinating units o f the Ministry would be
    revised according to their respective mandates with a view to increasing the autonomy,
    responsibility, and accountability o f each. Three general directorates would focus on specific stages
    o f education under the authority o f the General Secretary: a) General Directorate o f Formal
    Education (children); b) General Directorate o f non formal education (children and adults); c)
    General Directorate o f technical and Professional Training. These Directorates would focus on
    pedagogy and educational issues. They would manage all infrastructure, personnel, and materials
    issues, based on need assessments. Their mandate would include issues conceming curricula (study
    programs, evaluation, examinations, content o f pedagogical materials textbooks) and the content o f
    in-service training for teachers andadult training.




                                                   - 75 -

a. General Directorate of Formal Education: This Directorate would consolidate the three current
   directorates (Basic Ed. Iand 11, and Arabic Education) into one directorate covering pre-school, Basic
   Ed. Iand 11, andmiddlelevel education. Itwould also managethe orientation and examinations duties of
   the DEXCO (Directorate for Orientation, Competition, and Examinations) and the activities o f the
   Directorate for National Languages Promotion. The Section "Competition" o f DEXCO would move to
   the new Human Resources Directorate.           The Directorate o f Formal Education would include the
   following units: organizational teaching; study programs o f general training; pedagogical evaluation
   (including examinations organization and administration), content o f in-service training for teachers;
   supplemental activities (students with difficulties, physical education, cultural animation, school and
   professional information, advisory and counseling services); with technical support fiom the central
   ministry, students orientation of last year o f college promoted to first year o f lycCe is managed by the
   regional directorate; girls schoolingpromotion; promotionandcoordination o fprivate schools.
b. General Directorate of Non-formal Education (children and adults): literacy, schooling for young
   drop-outs, Koranic schools. This Directorate would encompass the current Literacy and Adult Training
   Directorate, Koranic schools coordinating unit from the current Arabic education Directorate, the
   non-formal education unit, the adult training and literacy (training o f trainers) unit; the training
   evaluationunti, andthe promotion o f girls education and training unit.
c. GeneralDirectorate of Technical Education and Professional Training: Unitswill include: education
   organization and training; training programs; training o f trainers; apprenticeship evaluation, notably
   practical apprenticeships; linkage between school andjob market; promotiono f girls training.

            Administrative Directorates: under the authority o f the General Secretary.

a. Study and Planning Directorate, the report recommends that infrastructures planning, education
   projects bureau (donors) and coordination with donors be attributed to the Coordinating Unit o f the
   Education Reform and Program (see below) : responsible for strategic planning, writing o f annual
   strategic plan for the Ministry; elaborate, in collaboration with regional directorate, school map and
   enrollment projections; establish operational plans, directives, procedures and administrative guides to
   collect data and monitor application o f norms and standards; produce general statistics on the education
   system and produce annual statistical report; develop, update and publish indicators to follow education
   system and progress, including objectives, resources, and results; carry out analysis, studies and
  projections for personnel, budget, infrastructure, pedagogical materials and equipment; collect, analyze
   and publish data on transition between schooling and job market; conceive, realize, establish, improve
   and maintain information technology system for the ministry and all its entities; develop data bank
   architecture and information system that define the operations o f various entities o f the ministry
   (directorates, regional directorate, units, other entities); ensure management o f data bank for the ministry
   and facilitate its access and exploitation; sustain implementation, develop and use developmental and
  maintenance framework o f computerized information system and supply o f data; provide assistance to
  unitsofthe ministryfor the procurement o fcomputers and softwares.
b. Human Resources Directorate: in charge o f all matters pertaining to personnel.                 Elaborate a
  management framework for personnel, division o f labor (line o f decision-making and responsibility)
  between the central and regional directorates, provide professional, technical and support services for
  recruitment, development and administration o f human resources; keep personnel files o f all employees;
  develop a vision for the management o f human resources, which includes modern approaches and
  promote it; develop, organize, and administer a in-service training program o f civil servants, other than
  teachers; put in place strategies aimed at advising, supporting, and assisting managers (problem-solving
  techniques); identify risks and challenges facing the ministry and its development and work toward
  developing solutions; liaise, on behalf of the ministry, with the Ministry o f Work and Administrative
  Modernization; represent the ministry when dealing with unions, communities, etc. on questions



                                                        - 76 -

   pertaining to staffing.
c. Financial Resources Directorate: coordinate, inthe context o f budget cycle, the planning, preparation
   o f public expenditures reviews inlight with orientations, objectives andpriorities o f the ministry; ensure
   budget execution in collaboration with administrative units o f the ministry; supervise and realize tasks
   pertaining to financial management and accounting, including management o f resources, account
   receivable and special funds; develop policies on budgetary decentralization and put in place control
   mechanisms o f financial operations (including regional directorates); ensure adequate application o frules
   and directives for the management o f resources, monitoring and control o f budgetary commitments and
   expenditures; provide advisory support to managers (central, regional and local), produce documentation
   and necessary tools for budget control and monitoring, production o f budgetary analysis and reporting
  required by the ministry; represent the ministry in its relation with other ministries involved in financial
   management; produce annual report, includingfinancial statements.
d. Material ResourcesDirectorate: develop and supervise operational plans relatedto the management o f
  the infrastructures; keep an inventory (quantitative and qualitative) o f infrastructures and sites, furniture
   and equipment; plan, organize and control, inclose collaboration withthe regional directorates, activities
  pertaining to new and existing constructions; establish norms and procedures (contractual procedures) to
  be followed for procurement and construction; coordinate activities related to procurement o f supplies
   and textbooks; coordinate activities related to transportation       and management of car park for the
   ministry;coordinate all activities pertainingto school lunches andboarding schools; develop action plan
   for repairs, maintenance and rehabilitation o f infrastructures and school sites, equipment, and furniture;
   develop a policy and action plan in the areas o f health, hygiene and security with regard to
   infrastructures; represent the ministryfor all ministerial and inter-ministerial work groups and meetings.

0  Level4: Services and Offices (inthe Directorates andCoordinating Units) [these are not specified]:

   OTHERUNITS

  24. Coordinating Unit for Education Reform and Programs. This will be the steering unit for
  education reform, and it will coordinate the efforts o f all the other ministerial units involved in the
   10-year plan implementation. It will be located next to the Office o f the General Secretary to reflect its
  function o f support to the Secretary with the moral authority to liaise directly with h i d e r . The
  Coordinating Unit will ensure the monitoring o f the reform's implementation; establish permanent
  contacts with national and international partnersinthe sector; coordinate the preparation, negotiation and
  implementation o f the education programs, which benefits from external financing;                    develop
  programming tools and support administrative units of the ministry; maintain information on projects in
  the ministry; evaluate education projects; develop and implement communication programs for major
  projects and activities o f the ministry and the implementation o f the 10-year Plan; maintain
  documentation; propose ministry orientations, objectives and priorities pertaining to communication
  (internal and external); respond to requests on general information and documentary research and lease
  audio-visual equipment for the ministry's personnel and others, if needed; manage the archives o f the
  ministry;handle awarenesscampaigns to informthepublic.

  25. National Institute of Documentation, Research and Pedagogical Animation (INDRAP). The
   10-year Plan will expand the role o f INDRAP, giving it the mandate to manage research-action in the
  sector. INDRAP should not manage the development o f study programs, but might edit their contents. It
  will prepare workbooks related to the production o f textbooks; act as representative o f the ministry
  vis-a-vis editors from the private sector; evaluate pedagogical materials and make recommendations to
  the Minister for their textbooks approval; organize and manage with the general directorates o f the
  ministryand teachers schools, the in-service training for teachers.



                                                      - 77 -

DECENTRALIZEDUNITS

26. Regional Directorate for Education. This directorate will promote partnership and collaboration
inthe field with all parties involved inthe sector (regional administrative, economic, social, and cultural
institutions) in andy project implementation aimed at education and training.            It will have the
representative role o f coordinating regional representation at the national level and for all questions
pertaining to pedagogical orientation in the region, adoption o f necessary tools to address problems,
framework, steering, construction and financing. It will have a planning role,            supervising the
development o f plans and school and training maps, the development o f regional studies and statistics,
and other measures that aim at improving education policy at the regional and national levels. It will
have a regulatory role, on behalf o f the Government, to ensure application o f study programs, personnel
management, transparency in budget execution. It will establish control mechanisms for fulfilling its
mandate, including adequate disciplinary measuresincase o f deviation from regulations.

27. Inspectors and Pedagogical Advisors. Inspectors will be responsible for the formative evaluation
o f teachers, including heads o f schools.    They will evaluate, control and monitor study programs
established by the ministry and evaluate quality o f teaching. Pedagogical Advisors. They will be
responsible for motivating and training teachers  -- botheducation volunteers and community teachers     --
in the region or districts.     They will participate, in collaboration with heads of schools, in the
pedagogical monitoring and organization o f the schools, and they will manage motivational activities.
Inspectors and Pedagogical Advisors. They will all make recommendations to the regional directors
and school management committees on pedagogical actions in the areas o f human resources (recruitment,
deployment, promotion, sanction, short- and long-term training), o f study programs adaptation,
pedagogical materials (textbooks, teachers guides, computers, etc.), security n o m and infrastructure
maintenance, public services, hygiene, organization, accounting that have an impact on pedagogical
activities.

28. Heads of Schools: Administrative functions: manage the school in collaboration with the school
administrative council [the report also mention a school management committee]; financial management,
ifapplicable; school lunches andboarding rooms inrural areas; ensure animation and liaisonbetween
schools and the Council; Pedagogical functions: Point o f entry to the school, orientation andmonitoring
o f students, teachers andother staff; pedagogical management o f student enrollment and o f the teaching
team (absenteism, timeliness, sanctions, rewards, examinations, education quality, etc.). Although the
inspectors and pedagogical advisers can make recommendations on sanctions imposed on teachers, the
head o f schools has the authority to sanction and report it accordingly; manage the pedagogical
functionality o f the school (materials, repairs and maintenance o f infrastructures, student security, and
equipment); coordinate and supervise school projects. Public relations functions: establish relations
with surroundings (school, district, small enterprises, associations, etc.); suggest awareness projects
focusing onparents andbenefit o f schools; cooperate closely with the school management committee and
liaise with the regional directors.

29. Higher Education Ministry: Inthe medium-term, the Ministryo f Education would merge with the
Higher Education Ministry to ensure harmonization and improve continuity in the education sector and
utilizationo f resources.

30. Critical conditions for the establishment of the new structure: The Ministrymust make a clear
distinction between pedagogical directorates and administrative directorates. Decentralization must take
place through the regional directorates o f education and power and responsibilities must be delegated
accordingly by the ministry. The law on the orientation o f the education system, inparticular its rules,



                                                  - 78 -

must specify the delegation of authorities and responsibilities to the regional directorates, including
committees and directions (decentralized level). Teaching staff must be under the direct authority o f
head o f schools, who supervise, evaluate, in collaboration with pedagogical advisors, note, reward and
sanction (expect inthe case o f firing, when heado f schools rather recommend) and report to the regional
directorate. The regional directorate must be in charge o f recruitment, affectation, deployment and
regularization o f teaching staff.

31. 10-Year Plan Implementation:Steering and Monitoring mechanisms must be in place during the
implementation period. The fundamental management mechanism is through the integration o f the
ministry. The Plan must be conducted by the ministry with the support o f its staff and administrative
units and not managed by an external entity-otherwise there i s a risk that the ministry's autonomy and
accountability for plan implementation be greatly minimized. For this, the plan should be entirely
transparent and include the participation o f everyone interested in its success. The steering mechanism
musthave excellent implementationcapacity, the authority and autonomy to take large-scale actions, and
the necessarytools to accomplish its task.

    To that end, the Report recommends two mechanisms      -steering  andmonitoring  -- asfollows:

   e    Steering Mechanism: The Ministryo f National Education would be responsible for leading the
        program, in collaboration with its administrative units, for developing an action plan, and for
        implementing that plan. The Prime Minister's letter o f February 2000 to the Minister o f
        Education outlines the objectives and the way to reach them, "these are the broad lines o f the
        mission assigned to you by the Government. You are now responsible for defining the
        operationalization o f this policy and to report back to the nation. To that end, you have the
        liberty to take any initiatives or actions that you judge necessary for the pursuit o f these
        objectives." A Coordinating Unit within the Ministry for the Reform o f the Education Programs
        i s one o f the actions recommended.
   e    Monitoring Mechanism: The report recommends that the ministry put inplace a relatively small
        National Monitoring Committee (presided over by the Minister and composed o f elected
        officials, representatives o f other involved ministries, governmental and non governmental
        organizations), responsible for ensuring the communication flow to all interested parties on the
        plan's progress andallow for regular feedback from these groups accordingly. Monitoring at the
        regional level will be pivotal. The regional mechanism can be adapted according to the region's
        particularities. Recruitment policies will also be transparent with clear rules on procedures and
        criteria for selection o f administrative and pedagogical professionals, same for teachers to
        minimize favoritism andmaximize the hiringo f the best candidates.

32.   Administrative staff (no ex-teachers):           To progressively stop assigning ex-teachers to
administrative positions in the ministry, training will be provided to current staff in these positions,
bringingthem inline with their mandates. Training should start with the revisiono fthejob descriptions
and assigned tasks (skills needs analysis), and then proceedwith a training needs analysis, to be followed
bythe implementationo fcriticaltraining programs.




                                                   - 79 -

Ministry of NationalEducation


  Areas of             Statements madebythe Report                        CapacityBuildingMeasures
  Capacity
kganizational Setting  Based on the organizational audit, the division [To assess capacity within
                       o f labor among the various directorates (7        directorates, includingstaffing
                       "pedagogical" Directorates and4                    profilesandjob functions. The report
                       administrative directorates, see figure 1          makes several recommendations for
                       below), is inefficient and or unclear. There are strengthening the capacity o f the
                       no decrees or bylaws that define the respective Ministry(central andregional) to
                       mandates o f directorates in accordancewith        manage the implementation o f the
                       the Law o f 98. Overlaps and gaps in               10-year Plan. Consolidation o f
                       responsibility between directorates are            directorates and integration o f
                       prominent. 10-Year plan is ambitious andwill functions are proposed (see above).
                       not succeedifcurrent organizationalset-up o f Creation o f steering and monitoring
                       the Ministryremains. Ingeneral there i s i)too entities for the plan's implementation
                       muchresponsibility attributed to the General       also proposed. The report did,
                       Secretary over the central directors; andii)too however, start by indicatingthe
                       muchresponsibility attributed to the central       ministry'spast resistanceto changes.
                       level over the regional directorates. At           Ifadopted, thebigchallenge willbetc
                       regional level, inspectors rather than teachers operationalize the new structure]
                       make decision on students' promotionand
                       repetition; all clearance comes from the
                       central level.
.eadership and         There i s a national vision for the education      General Secretary responsibility to be
danagement             sector, but ironically it is stated ina letter fromreviewed with a view to delegate key
                       the Prime Minister (Feb. 2000) to the Minister functions to directorates and regional
                       o f Education, rather than the other way           level.
                       around. Generally stakeholders confirmthat




IumanResources




                                               - 80 -

                     little confidence inthe Ministry's capacity to   edeployed accordingto the
                    handle certainkey functions (strategic            dinistry's new structure]
                    planning, budgetary functions), andmany o f
                     themaremanagedelsewhere (Finance
                     Ministryconsiders this ministryas
                     incompetent). Favoritism is prominent
                    regardingrecruitment, promotion, and
                     deployment. Teachers: great concerns re the
                     EducationVolunteers approach (supported by
                     the Minister), as it impacts on the system's
                    reputation for quality ineducation and
                    parents' confidence inthe system. B o details
                     on staffing indace and rewective functions.1
 aterial Resources   Shortage o fmaterial resources (at all levels).  :Material resources need analysis
~
                    Normsand standardsundefined. Unclear who iecessary inaccordance with new
                    handlesmaintenance andasset management.           ~ision.1
                     Teaching staff interviewedreportedthat
                     schools are not functional, very little resources
                     for proper teaching.
 ork Practices       The report does not detail the status o funits in[Willneedto be defined accordingto
                     each directorate interms o fpersonnel and        Lhe structure that the Ministrywill
                     functions. It is, however, clearly mentioned     adopt.]
                     that there are capacity gaps and overlaps
~                    between directorates. Despite the law o f 1998,
                     which renewed the mission o f the ministryand
                     o f its various directorates, no decreesnor
                     bylaws defining their respective mandatesare
                     available. Processfor issuingdocuments/
                     papenvork i s cumbersome and slow. [Detailec
                     capacity analysis on directorates andtheir
                     respective unitswould needto be carried out,
                     includingregional level1




                                              -81  -

                     Additional Annex 12 Letter of Development Policy
                             NIGER: BASIC EDUCATION PROJECT

REPUBLICOFNIGER
Brotherhood-Work-Progress
CABINETOFTHE PRIMEMINISTER
From: The Prime Minister
To:      The President o fthe World Bank

No. 0295/CAB/PM                                                    Niamey, May 27,2003
-Implementation
Ref:                  of the EducationPolicy Letter

Mr.President,

As you know, mycountry, Niger, has drawn upalong-termdevelopment planfor its educationalsystem:
the Ten-Year Educational DevelopmentProgram(Programme dkcennal de dkeloppement de 1'kducation
,PDDE).

The objective o fthe PDDE i s to increase the gross primary enrollment rate from 41.7 percent in2002, to
85 percent by 2012 and to 100 percent by 2015, with a particular focus on girls andrural areas. The
program i s based on a participatory, systems approach.

The relevance and coherence o fthe interventions and reformmeasuresproposed under the PDDE have
madeNiger eligible for the Education for All (EFA) Fast Track Initiative.

The initial PDDE, which spans a ten-year period, has beenharmonizedwith the Fast Track Initiative,
which operates on a 15-year time horizon. This harmonizedprogram incorporates the initial PDDE as
well as the Fast Track, from the standpoint o f strategies, interventionsandmeans.

The present document completes andrenders operational the EducationPolicy Letter that was approved
bythe Government and conveyed to the Bank inSeptember 2001. Itmainly concerns the first phaseo f
the PDDE, covering the periodfrom 2004 to 2007.

It shouldbe pointedout once again that Niger's educational systemis characterizedby:

1. low levels o faccess and coverage, and by disparities, particularly between urban and rural areas and
betweenboys and girls;
2. ill-adapted instructional content, low relevance and a poor internal efficiency rate;
3. highcosts and inequitable intemaldistributiono fresources;
4. weak managerial capacity andpoorly performingoutreachlorganization mechanisms.

Inorder toaddresstheseproblems, theGovernmenthasoptedforthefollowingstrategies:

- Strengthening and development o f the institutionalcapacities o fthe Ministryo fBasic Education and
Literacy (Ministdre de 1'kducationde base 1et de I'alphabktisation, MEBIA);

--
- Development o f an active and diversified partnership onbehalfo f the system;
  Promotiono f school enrollment, especially inrural areas andparticularly for girls;
  Promotiono fnon-formal education, particularlyfor young people and women;

-  Reformand tailoring o f educational offerings to demand, inorder to reduce disparities between
regions, between urbanandrural areas and betweenboys and girls;
- Improvemento feducational quality through curriculum revision;
-  Enhancement and expansion o fvocational and technical training.

The overall objective o f the Program's first phasei s to lay the groundwork for accelerating the expansion
o fbasic education, while at the same time ensuringits quality and financial viability. The first phase also
aims to establish the framework for a partnership involvinggrassroots communities, NGOs, andtechnical
and financial partners (TFPs) and, by strengthening the institutional capacities o f the MEB/A,to create
conditions conducive to a gradual transition to the program approach.

The specific objectives o f the first phase o fthe PDDE are the following:

i)Accelerateschoolenrollment,particularlythatofgirlsandespeciallyinruralareas;
ii)Continueandstrengthentheprocessofdecentralizingandregionalizingthemanagementofbasic
education and its budgetary support;
iii)ImprovepersonnelmanagementwithintheMEB/A(includingteachingpersonnelinthecivilservice,
contractual teaching personnel, and administrative and managerial staff);
iv) Develop a smoothly-functioning framework for coordinated interventioninthe sector by layingthe
groundwork for integrated implementation (e.g., an expenditure programandbudgetary support);
v) Establishan operational mechanism for information dissemination andevaluation o fPDDEactivities.

The Government ofNiger is convincedthat implementation o f the Programwill require political and
institutional reforms.

As a first sign o fits commitment to the requiredreforms, the Government pledges to devote (i) least 4
                                                                                                   at
percent o f GDP eachyear to education ingeneral; ii)40 percent o f the resources freed upby debt relief
underthe HIPC Initiativeto the promotiono fEducationfor All (EFA); and iii)at least 50 percent ofthe
education budget to primary education.

O fthe package o freforms, some have already begun, while others will commence under this first phase
o f the Program.

             Reform measures alreadv initiated bv the Government

1) Reform ofthe status o fteacher training schools, grantingthemmanagerial autonomy and the mandate
to gear their output to the demands o f the educational market. The duration o f training i s also reduced
from two years to one.
2) Primary school teachers are henceforthto be recruitedon a contractual basis, and their management
decentralized, with increased involvement o f grassroots communities. After a certain number o fyears in
the civil service, these teachersmay be recruited to occupy managerial posts, inongoingpro rata
replacement o fretiringmanagerial staff.
3) Partial administrative management o fpupils' grade repetition, with the objective o flimitingthe
per-class repetition rate (for the first five levels--C Ithrough CM1) to 15 percent on average.
4) Adoption of the new institutional mechanismon the basis o f an institutional evaluation study aimed at
establishing and enhancing the assumption o fresponsibility by the regionalized structures o f the Ministry
o f Basic Education(MEB/A).
5) Onan experimental basis, assignment of responsibility for school management to grassroots
communities bymeans o fbudget transfers to their representatives, i.e., the School Management
Committees (Comitks degestion d'ktablissements scolaires, COGES).


                                                      - a3 -

              Reformmeasuresto beimplementedduringthe first phase of the Program

Regardingaccess to basic education
1. Strategic management o fthe school distribution map, taking into account the demand for education
and assigning priority to rural areas.
2. Control o f school constructioncosts andthe introduction o f alternatives such as the use o f improved
local materials for classroom construction, inorder to take into account the actual capacity o fthe
constructiodpublicworks sector to meet the intense demand generated by accelerated school
enrollments, as well as the capacity o fbeneficiaries, particularly inrural areas, to ensure maintenance.
This option offers the additional advantageof adhering to classroomconstruction standards, while at the
same time significantly reducingcosts.
3. Improvement o f the representation o f women within the contingent o frural teachers inorder to
stimulate girls' access to, and continuation in, education. Among other measures, preferential treatment
will be givento females seeking access to normal schools, andtheir proportion increased from 42 percent
in2002 to 50 percent by2006, inorder to achieve this.
4. Reductiono fthe costs o f schoolingborne byparents andparticularly bythe poor, byprovidingpupils
with adequatequantities oftextbooks and school supplies (the goal beingone textbook per pupilper
basic subject by the year 2006).
5. Improvement o f school accessibility for ruralpopulations through the institutiono fmulti-grade
classrooms, or even one-room schools and alternative rural classes inareas o fvery low population
density. It is anticipatedthat 15 percent o fclassrooms will be multi-grade.
6. Promotion o f girls' schooling andwomen's literacy through: i)the enhancement o f outreach activities,
with the helpo f all opinion leaders; ii)reductiono fbothdirect andopportunity costs associatedwith the
schooling o fgirls; iii)an increased supply o f good quality literacy services for young people and women,
usinga strategy o fdelegation involvingNGOsand other competent institutions.

Regardingthe quality of instructionand training
1. Curricula will bereformedusingthe `proficiency development' approach, inorder to focus
instructional activities on an integrated, meaningful set o f skills required for problem-solving inschool as
well as indaily life. This will result ina better fit between instructional content and local specificities.
2. Consolidation o fthe overhaul o f initial teacher training (Le., revision o f teacher training programs,
training o ftrainers, training programs strongly emphasizing hands-on practicums, etc.)
3. Overhaul o f in-service training withinthe pedagogical outreach units (cellules d'animation
pidugogique, CAPED), inorder to develop team spirit and self-directed organization, thereby remedying
the scarcity o fpedagogical outreach personnel.
4. Reorganizationo fbasic education (level 1) into sub-cycles: CI/CP; CEl/CE2 and CMl/CM2, the twin
goals beingto improve pupilinstructionand reduce the rate o f grade repetition by: i)tailoring instruction
to differences betweenstudents; ii)diversifying the schemasfor the grouping o f students; iii)eliminating
the compartmentalizationo f grade levels; and iv) having pupils' instructional paths and learning
activities managedbyteachers working inteams.
5. Actual provisiono f 960 instructionalhours at the primary level. Among other measures, new
arrangements are envisaged, as of the start o f the 2004/2005 academic year, to better organize the
beginningo fthe school year and to reorganize the schedule o f examinations.
6. Institutiono fthe systematic evaluation o f the results o f school instruction, by means o f a permanent
mechanism for monitoringeducational quality. Thus, a Directorate for Evaluationwill be created at the
central level, with the primary function o fcentralizing, analyzing and disseminatingthe results o f
evaluations. At the regional level, quality monitoringunits will be established and will have as their
mainrole the preparationand oversight o f field-level surveys, and the disseminationofthe results o f
regional-level evaluations. This will provide MEB/A with a database (derived from the evaluation tools


                                                     - 84 -

and leamingindicators) and a foundation uponwhich to base appropriate policies conceming the training
o ftrainers and curriculum development.
7. Improvementof the actual availability o fbooks at the classroom levelthrough the provisiono fone
textbook for every student inthe basic subjects (reading, mathematics andscience), under a distribution
scheme handledbythe private sector, with assistancefrom the COGES for the reception and
management o fthe textbooks.
8.       Formulation, by the endo f 2005, o f a school book policy predicated uponbothpublic andprivate
sector involvement intextbook design and development, and relying exclusively onthe private sector for
the publication o ftextbooks, thereby ensuring the Government's publishingrights.

Management and governance of the system
1. Decentralization o f systemmanagementinorder to assign greater responsibility to: i)the Regional
Directorates for Basic Education 1and Literacy (Directions rdgionales de 1'dducation de base 1et de
I'alphabktisation,DREB/A) for the management o fhuman andbudgetary resources (interms o fthe share
o f the budget managed at the regional level); ii)the integratedinspectorates for the management of
department-level operations; and iii)the COGES for the management o f schools (e.g., acquisition and
management o f school supplies, reception andmanagement o ftextbooks, preventive maintenance o f
infrastructuresand school equipment, monitoring/oversight o f teachers, signing o f service contracts,
payment of salaries o f contractually-hiredteachers, etc.).

2. The creation and retentiono fteaching slots at the school level, with teachersbeing attachedto a
school by a contract signed with the COGES.

3. Strengthening o f fiduciary management andmonitoringo factual expenditures at boththe central and
regional levels, under the leadership o f the Directorate for Financial and Material Resources (Direction
des ressoursesfinancidres et matdrielles, DRF/M) and insynergy with the relevant authorities o fthe
MinistryofFinance.

4. Operational application o fthe new institutional mechanismthrough: i)the development o f
specifications for keyposts and o fprocedures and means o fverificatiodevaluation o fthe execution o f
programmedactivities; ii)a concomitant enhancement o fhuman resources andthe development o f
management tools.

5. Establishment, for purposes o f implementingthe PDDE, o fan effective partnership making the
COGES the focal point o f the executionof all school-level activities, andensuring a continuous flow o f
information betweenthe administration and the school's partners (Le., parents o fpupils, unions, NGOs,
private sector, etc.); andactive involvement o fthose partners inthe monitoringand evaluation o f
Programexecution.

Inorder to gaugethe impact ofeducational policy interventions andmeasures,andto obtainthe
information needed to monitor results and make appropriate decisions, a functional system o f
quantitative and qualitative data will be introduced, for purposes of guidingthe choice o f strategies.

The monitoring systemwill establish formal frameworks for periodic consultations among the various
actors involvedinimplementing and financing the PDDE.

Thus, the monitoringo fProgramexecution will relyuponthree entities:

i)aPDDEMonitoringUnitattachedtotheGeneralSecretariatoftheMEB/A,responsiblefor
monitoringProgramexecutionandthe attainment o f its main objectives, using indicators selected and


                                                    - a5 -

developed bythe Directorate for Studies and Programming(Direction des ttudes et de laprogrammation

9DEW;

ii)aTechnicalCoordinationCommittee(Comitttechniquedecoordination,CTC)thatmaybeexpanded
to include the PTF, and whose primary responsibility will be periodic verification o f adherence to
jointly-defined procedures and o f actual execution o fprogrammedactivities;

iii)ASteeringCommittee(ConseilNationaldeI'Education)responsibleforprovidingguidanceandfor
overseeing the coherence o f all Programactivities and for proposingregulation and remediation
measures, as required.

The monitoringand evaluation o f the PDDE will be foundedon a set o f indicators drawn up on the basis
o f consultation and dialogue with partners. For the first phase o fthe PDDE, the indicators will be the
following:

Performance indicatorslinked to access to basic education
The grossprimary enrollment rate will rise from41.7 percent in2002 to 61 percent by 2007, andthat o f
rural areas will rise from 38 percent to 59 percent;
The proportion of girls among schoolenrollees will go from 39.8 percent in2002 to 43 percent by2007;
The gross primary access rate (for the C Icycle) will go from 49.8 percent in2002 to 69 percent in2007.

Performance indicatorslinked to the quality of basic education
The rate o fprimary cycle completionwill go from 25.6 percent in2002 to 44 percent by2007;
The passingrate o fthose attending literacy courses will reach 80 percent by 2007;
The effective numbero finstructionalhours for primary school pupilsis 960 hours;
The rate o f grade repetition will begin to decline, from 10percent in2002 to 7 percent by 2007;
The ratio o fone textbook per student perbasic subject will be achieved by2006.

Performance indicatorslinked to management and governance of the system
By2004, the following shall have occurred: actual installationofthe central andregionalized
directorates and o fthe decentralized implementing agencies o f the PDDE, ando f their personnel, job or
mandate descriptions and division o f labor;
The Directorate for Financial and Material Resources (DRF/M)shall be able to carry out andmonitor all
public procurement activities and financial operations by 2005;
By2007, the MEB/Ashall have a consolidated medium-termbudget andexpenditureprogramthat
incorporates external financing;
Four thousand (4,000) Academic Establishment Management Committees (Comitts degestion
d'itablissements scolaires, COGES) will be up and runningwithin primary schools by 2007, and 2,000
o fthemwill receive transfers o f funds;
At the endo feachyear, the MEB/Awill holda review meetingwith its partnersto conduct ajoint
evaluation o fthe Program's relevance, results, efficacy and impact, andto discuss and approve the
programfor the following year.

Yours respectfully,

Hama Amadou
PrimeMinister
Heado f Government




                                                     - 86 -

