E826
November 2003
Annex 12: Environmental Assessment Report
Paragraph 10 of OP4.36 stipulates the requirements of a sound forest management
strategy necessary for any independent scheme but also that serve as benchmarks for
community management schemes. The following paragraphs analyze the principal
requisites of sound forest management, using OP4.36 as a guide, showing how the
proposed project would
a) compliance with relevant laws;
Any forest management initiative supported (directly or indirectly) under the project will
be required to demonstrate the proponent community has complied with pertinent
national legislation. Project resources would be withheld from subprojects out of
compliance with law except where it can be demonstrated that compliance is pending and
that the necessary steps leading to compliance have been taken. Under Mexican law,
harvesting of timber or other forest products and other management practices require
prior submission of Forest Management Plans (FMPs) prepared by qualified
professionals. The forest owner must file an "Notice of Forest Use" (Aviso de
Aprovechamiento), a Forest Management Plan (FMP), for review by a local office of the
Federal Environmental Secretariat (SEMARNAT) to receive a license for the proposed
activity. Many forest owners, particularly impoverished indigenous communities and
ejidos find the preparation of FMPs expensive and complicated and may skirt such
measures or to forego FMPs altogether. SEMARNAT, and its enforcement arm
PROFEPA, do not have the manpower to review each plan in situ, nor to follow up on
compliance with license restrictions. These conditions discourage forest management
planning, encourage illegality, and are ineffective as a deterrent to unsustainable
practices. FMP's can be financed under programs supported by CONAFOR, particularly
PRODEFOR. The Legal Agreement will provide for supplemental financing by
PROCYMAF II for preparation of FMPs and related documents if PRODEFOR financing
is not available in a timely fashion.
b) recognition of and respect for any legally documented or customary land tenure
and use rights as well as the rights of indigenous peoples and workers:
Indigenous communities and ejidos are guaranteed land rights under Mexican
law. In some cases, there are competing land claims by neighboring communities or
ejidos. Until such conflicts can be resolved, the PROCYMAF II project will normally
refrain from providing support for forest management or exploitation inside the disputed
areas. However, PROCYMAF promotores would be trained to recognize cases of land
conflict and may take some measures to help reduce tensions and to refer communities
embroiled in conflict to appropriate sources of assistance for conflict management.
Most of the labor utilized for forestry activities in ejidos and indigenous communities is
supplied by community members. There is little risk of labor exploitation. Some
community labor is unpaid labor donated by community members as part of their tequio,
or community service obligation. In other cases, members are paid for their work at rates


﻿set by communal decision. Water-bottling plant workers in Oaxaca, for example, are
paid at about 150% of the minimum wage. In some cases, such as collection of non-
timber forest products, individual families may utilize child labor for some lighter tasks;
while beneficial to family income, such labor may deprive some children of adequate
schooling. Some communities also use non-community members as workers, mainly
unskilled workers paid at a daily rate or per production. It appears from inquiries that
such workers are paid at local market rates, normally slightly higher than legally required
minimum wages. Such workers do not normally receive the benefits of formal-sector
workers as required under national labor legislation. Nor do they have the benefit of
accident prevention, on-site first-aide services and other benefits that formal-sector
workers may have.
It would be virtually impossible to raise labor standards in poor indigenous communities
and ejidos to the full standards of the Mexican formal-sector labor force in the context of
the proposed project. However, in order to upgrade these standards in communities
benefiting from investments or technical assistance for utilization of forest resources, the
PROCYMAF project team would undertake two measures:
(i)   require each community receiving benefits that indirectly or directly involve
extraction of forest resources to sign a Letter of Commitment in which the
community pledges to pay wages in a timely fashion, in cash, equivalent to
regionally prevailing wages for comparable tasks; take measures to avoid
child labor in detriment of health or school attendance; and to provide
appropriate personal protection gear to workers, etc.
(ii)  provide technical assistance to communities requiring improvements in labor
practices. This could include development of schemes that allow children to
help their parents in their work but not expose them to risky activities or keep
them out of school. This would involve adding relevant experts to the
PROCYMAF roster.
c) measures to maintain or enhance sound and effective community relations;
A substantial portion of the project's resources are devoted to strengthening
community governance and building capacity for communal decision making. (See
Section SUPPLY). The PROCYMAF II project, like its predecessor, is designed around
community participation. No subproject or other activities are undertaken without an
official action by the community or ejidos assembly.
d) conservation of biological diversity and ecological functions;
Among the technical inputs available to communities under PROCYMAF I and II
are the creation of community protected areas which for cultural or environmental are
maintained within the community or ejido lands without direct use or, if appropriate,
specific low intensity uses. Many communities have sought to protect sensitive areas
within their lands, particularly those where there are watersheds, rare or endangered
species present or special cultural concerns. The project would provide support for


﻿general land-use zoning; identification, demarcation and management of protected areas.
The related Indigenous and Community Biodiversity Project (COINBIO) provides
similar support that would be coordinated with PROCYMAF. Under both PROCYMAF
I and COINBIO, support has been provided to help communities manage specific species
that are useful or considered at risk. In addition, the COINBIO National Coordinator
intends to seek a form of official recognition of protected areas within indigenous lands
and ejidos. This could potentially make communities and ejidos eligible for benefits
under schemes to compensate landowners for environmental services.
e) measures to maintain or enhance environmentally sound multiple benefits
accruing from the forest;
One of the main goals of the PROCYMAF program is diversification of the use of
forest resources by indigenous communities and ejidos as means of increasing income, as
a way of reducing the pressure on any single resource, and finally as a means of
increasing the value of the standing forest. Among the specific activities aimed at
diversification, the PROCYMAF I project has supported such activities as mushroom
production, pine-resin production, bottled water production, ecotourism, and studies
aimed at the management and conservation of other forest resources including plants and
animals. The proposed project would continue such activities and seek additional
diversified opportunities for sustainable use of forest resources. In addition,
PROCYMAF II would support studies and pilot projects for payment for environmental
services under which communities could seek compensation for such services such as
pure water, biodiversity protection, or carbon sequestration.
f) prevention or minimization of the adverse environmental impacts from forest use;
The project would not support any activity leading to the conversion of forested areas to
other uses; in addition by supporting activities that add value to the standing forest and
diversifying the use of forest resources, the project would contribute to the sustainable
management of forest properties and to reduced attractiveness of alternate land uses.
g) effective forest management planning;
The entry point for forest communities in PROCYMAF is the conduct of Participatory
Rural Appraisal (PRA) which normally leads to land-use zoning exercises. In nearly
every community served by PROCYMAF I, land is set aside for conservation or light
management particularly around stream heads, along water courses, in areas of high
biodiversity or in areas with high cultural significance to the community. Other areas are
designated for resource extraction at levels of intensity designed to maintain ecosystem
integrity and a steady source of income. Once a community decides to manage its forest
resources with PROCYMAF assistance, it would receive the necessary technical
assistance from the project itself, or other CONAFOR programs to develop a
comprehensive management plan consistent with best practice under Mexican law. The
project would also offer assistance to communities and ejidos seeking to achieve FSC
certification for their forests.


﻿h) active monitoring and assessment of relevant forest management areas; and
The project would sponsor a comprehensive social and environmental baseline study,
with two additional studies at two-year intervals to measure changes over time and to
review the impacts of the project. These would include such variables as changes in
forest cover, measures of forest health, areas under effective land-use zoning or
management plans, possibly the abundance of designated indicator species, etc.
i) the maintenance of critical forest areas and other critical natural habitats affected
by the operation.
The project would apply screening procedures to avoid any interference with critical
natural habitats. Project support for protected areas such as UMAS has been described
above.
Under Mexican law, harvesting of timber or other forest products and other management
practices require prior submission of Forest Management Plans (FMPs) prepared by
qualified professionals. The forest owner must file an "Notice of Forest Use" (aviso de
aprovechamiento), a kind of Forest Management Plan (FMP), for review by a local office
of the Federal Environmental Secretariat (SEMARNAT) to receive a license for the
proposed activity.. Many forest owners, particularly impoverished indigenous
communities and ejidos find the preparation of FMPs expensive and complicated and
may skirt such measures or to forego FMPs altogether. SEMARNAT, and its
enforcement arm PROFEPA, do not have the manpower to review each plan in situ, and
to follow up on compliance with license restrictions. These conditions discourage forest
management planning, encourage illegality, and are ineffective as a deterrent to
unsustainable practices.


﻿Annex 14: Concordance between SEMARNAT Regulations and World Bank
Safeguard Policies
OP 4.01 (Environmental Assessment)
EA - If projects have  An EA is required for the use  An EA study has been
potential (adverse)  of tropical forests > 20 ha,  carried out (see Annex
environmental risks  forest species with difficult  12). The project also
and impacts in its  regeneration pattern and if  would carry out EA
area of influence and  use takes place in protected  during the project
EA is required.    natural habitats. It must  implementation so that it
contain a description on the  does not end with the
natural habitat and      EA for appraisal.
conservation status for the  Among the indicators
proposed area. Further, for  that will be considered
each application, an inventory are: (i) the increments in
of flora and fauna and the  areas brought under
intended use, as well as  formal management
alternatives to the proposed  plans, (ii) the change in
utilization, is required. Areas  prevalence of good
< 20 ha require a simplified  management practices,
forest management plan.  and (iii) increments in
Subsistence use of non-  non-timber forest
endangered species is    product (NTFP)
excluded. Species that are  production.
listed as endangered can only
be utilized if an UMA
(Environmental Management
Unit) is established.
Ref. ': 1 (Art. 15, 28 - 33, 77); 7
(39, 44, 83 - 93); 10 (Art 22); 12.


﻿Consultation -     The formulation of forest  Local, regional, and
Project-affected   management plans requires  national government
groups and local   the participation of local  representatives from the
NGOs need to be    groups, local government and CONAFOR and other
consulted about the  non-government         relevant agencies, non-
project's          representatives. The same  profit organizations,
environmental      requirements are valid for  private entities, donors
aspects and their  management plans for    involved in the project
views taken into   protected areas.         area, and beneficiary
account.           Ref.': 1 (Art 18,157- 159); 7 (Art.  organizations were
15-16).                  consulted throughout
project preparation in
Durango, Jalisco and
Quintana Roo. During
implementation, the
individual EA and
management plans are
informed by a wide
consultation process
with stakeholders in
each respective locale.
Disclosure - Relevant Once a solicitation for use  Consultations with
information is     authorization or an EA has  potential beneficiaries
presented in a timely  been submitted for approval it were held from February
manner prior to    must be disclosed       to April, 2003. Final
consultation and in a  (electronically and in official  reports including
form and language  news papers). An applicant  screening procedures,
accessible to the  may request non-disclosure  mitigation measures,
groups being      (egi to protect intellectual  and monitoring
consulted.         property tights).        mechanisms will be
Ref. ': 1 (Art 34 - 35, 159); 7 (Art.  presented, and
15-16).                  summaries of these
reports will be disclosed
on the CONAFOR
website prior to
appraisal and at least 30
days before Board
Presentation.


﻿OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats)
Avoid significant  If management and use in  The EA commissioned
damage (conversion  critical natural habitats will  for the project delineate
or degradation) to  take place, SEMARNAT will  Critical Natural Habitats.
Critical Natural   establish special        In general, the study
Habitats.          management requirements  follows the identification
and relevant mitigation  of critical habitats by the
measures. Species that are  National Biodiversity
listed as endangered can only Commission (CONABIO)
be utilized if an UMA is
established (see above).
Ref. ': 1 (Art. 15, 46, 53, 64); 6
(Art. 81-86); 7 (Art. 60, 64); 9 (Art.
117); 12.
If significant     Every project that receives  The project would only
conversion or      authorization by SEMARNAT  support activities that
degradation of a   contains mitigation measures  are in compliance with
(non-critical) natural  that have to followed,  the national legislation
habitat is needed to  Authorization is conditional on and will support the
achieve a project's  adhering to the imposed  establishment of
key objectives, the  measures. Specific attention  required mitigation
project must include  to mitigation measures must  measures.
mitigation measures". be given to areas with steep
slopes, easily erodable soils,
riverine areas, harvesting
methods, and the
establishment of forest roads.
Ref. ': 1 (Art. 15, 64); 7 (Art. 60,
64); 15.


﻿OP 4.36 (Forests)
Commercial         Extractive measures require  The project will not
harvesting operations permission from SEMARNAT, support commercial
are only financed  which establishes the amount harvesting operations in
when the areas     and time this activity can take  Critical Natural Habitats.
affected by the    place. SEMARNAT can      Other operations might
harvesting are not  impose limitations on use at  be financed if in
critical forests or  any time. The commercial  accordance with the
critical natural   use of NTFPs requires    national and WB
habitats.          permission from SEMARNAT. regulations. While it
Ref. ': 1 (Art. 87); 4 (Art. 5); 6 (Art Would not support road
86); 7 (Art. 83 -93); 9 (Art. 48 -  construction or actual
50, 73- 84, 97 - 100).   harvesting operations, it
could support value-
added activities for
timber, NTFPs and ES.
To be eligible for  Mexican legislation does not  It was agreed that
financing, industrial-  require certification, however, subprojects for timber
scale commercial  the forestry law recognizes  harvesting in humid
harvesting operations the importance of certification tropical forest would not
must be certified  and specifies that it will  be supported under
underansindependent support certification efforts  PROCYMAF   until the
forest certification  through the National Forest  corresponding manual
system or where a  Fund.                    (see comments below)
pre-assessment     Ref.  At 1)              had been issued, except
under such an            (     )for forests/communities
independent forest                         that have already
certification system                        achieved internationally
determines that the                         recognized certification
operation does not                          standards.
yet meet the
requirements, adhere
to a time-bound
phased action plan.


﻿A forest certification  Each harvesting/utilization  In addition to the
system' must require: activity requires a detailed  compliance with national
a) compliance with  management plan, done by a  standards and laws,
relevant laws; b)  registered professional, and  PROCYMAF 11 would
recognition of and  authorized by SEMARNAT.  support production and
respect for any legally Special management  dissemination of Field
documented or     requirements and possible  Guides for each major
customary land    mitigation measures can be  habitat type to be
tenure and use rights imposed.             encountered in the
as well as the rights  Management plans must  various target areas.
of indigenous peoples include: description of  One Field Guide would
and workers; c)   objectives, ownership prove,  be produced for each
measures to maintain exent and             State, containing
or enhance sound         omposito       information on forest
and effective      (inventmdta)feao       management practices,
community relations;  contingency plans, extraction  endangered species,
d) conservation of                         cultural aspects, etc.,
biological diversity                       and, additionally, a
and ecological     PROFEPA, as well as the  Manual of Best
functions e)      Secretaria de Agricultura y  Management practices
measures to maintain Recursos Hidraulicos and the would be produced by
or enhance        Secretaria de Desarrolo  main ecosystems for
environmentally   Social are the entities  specific subjects like
sound multiple    responsible for the control  construction and
benefits accruing  and execution of the relevant maintenance of forest
from the forest; f)  regulations.          roads, sustainable
prevention or      Ref. 7 (Art. 83 - 93); 9 (58 - 72). timber extraction, ground
minimization of the                        protection, and
adverse                                    conservation of
environmental                              biodiversity.
impacts from forest
use; g) effective
forest management
planning; h) active
monitoring and
assessment of
relevant forest
management areas;
and i) the
maintenance of
critical forest areas
and other critical
natural habitats
affected by the
operation.


﻿Community-scale    Mexican legislation does not  PROCYMAF 11 will only
forest management  distinguish between     support community
schemes are not    industrial-scale and    managed schemes.
required to seek  community management
formal certification but schemes, except that it
they are expected to  provides different treatment
be based on the   for management units 5 20
principles of      ha.
sustainable        Ref. ':10 (Art 22).
management sought
by such schemes as
outlined above.


﻿LIST OF REFERENCES
1. Ley General del Equilibrio Ecol6gico y Protecci6n al Ambiente
2. Reformas a la Ley General de Equilibrio Ecol6gico y la Protecci6n al
Ambiente.
3. DECRETO por el que se adiciona una fracci6n XXXVI al articulo 3o., la
fracci6n XX al articulo 15 y se reforma el articulo 39 de la Ley General del
Equilibrio Ecol6gico y la Protecci6n al Ambiente.
4. DECRETO por el que se reforma la Ley General del Equilibrio Ecol6gico y
la Protecci6n al Ambiente
5. Reglamentos de la Ley General de Equilibrio Ecol6gico y Protecci6n al
ambiente
6. Reglamento de Areas Naturales Protegidas
7. Ley General de Vida Silvestre
8. DECRETO por el que se reforman diversas disposiciones de la Ley
General de Vida Silvestre
9. Ley General de Desarrollo Forestal Sustentable
10. Reglamento de la Ley Forestal
11. Reglamento Interior de la Secretarfa de Medio Ambiente y Recursos
Naturales
12. Biodiversidad (Flora y Fauna), Especies en Riesgo de Extinci6n, y
Aprovechamiento Forestal
13. Impacto Ambiental y Ordenamiento Ecol6gico
14. Recursos Naturales (RECNAT)
Especificaciones para mitigar los afectos adversos ocasionados en los suelos y
cuerpos de agua por el aprovechamiento forestal.
i All Laws, Regulations and Decrees in the list of references were consulted, only the
most important articles are refered to in the table.
Acceptable mitigation for significant conversion of (non-critical) natural habitats
normally requires establishment and/or strengthening of a compensatory protected area,
as part of the same project. The compensatory protected area(s) should be ecologically
similar to, and no smaller than, the natural habitat area converted or degraded under the
project.
' According to OP 4.36 a forest certification system must be independent, cost-effective,
and based on objective and measurable performance standards that are defined at the
national level and are compatible with internationally accepted principles and criteria of
sustainable forest management. The system must require independent, third-party
assessment of forest management performance. In addition, the system's standards must
be developed with the meaningful participation of local people and communities;
indigenous peoples; non-governmental organizations representing consumer, producer,
and conservation interests; and other members of civil society, including the private
sector. The decision-making procedures of the certification system must be fair,
transparent, independent, and designed to avoid conflicts of interest.


