Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Report No: AC361
Section I - Basic Information
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 10/23/2003
A. Basic Project Data (fromn PDS)
I.A. 1. Project Statistics
Country: MEXICO                                   Project ID: P035751
Project: Community Forestry H (PROCYMAF II)       Task Team Leader: Daniel R. Gross
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 23, 2003   IBRD Amount ($m): 21.30
Bank Approval: November 18, 2003                  IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: LCSEO                              Sector: Forestry (100%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Theme: Other environment and natural resources
Status: Lending                                   management (P); Other rural development (P);
Indigenous peoples (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives (From PDS):
The objective of the project is to assist indigenous communities and ejidos to manage their forest resources
better, diversify their production and improve their well-being. Indigenous lands are recognized in Mexican
law as belonging to indigenous commnmities and are legally titled to these communities. There are an
estimated 12 million indigenous people of many different ethnicities, based on the criterion of speaking an
indigenous language in Mexico in nearly every State. In indigenous communities, individual family farming
plots are allocated by customary law as well as communally held land. An ejido is a land-reform unit
which also includes communally held land as well as individual plots allocated by community decision.
The proposed project would be focused on in selected Mexican States to increase their income, strengthen
community / ejido ties, to better manage their forest resources. The project would achieve this primarily by
making private-sector technical assistance available to indigenous communities and ejidos that own
economically valuable forest lands to help them manage their forest resources in an ecologically and
financially sustainable. Recognizing the importance of indigenous communities and ejidos, beginning in
1997, the Governnent of Mexico began a process of strengthening the capacity of indigenous communities
and ejidos to manage their own resources, to diversify production and to add value to local products,
enabling them to compete successfully on local and international markets.
The proposed project would follow the successful implementation of the Mexico Community Forestry
Project (PROCYMAF - Loan 4137-MX), which pursued similar goals in the States of Oaxaca, Guerrero
and Michoacain. The proposed project would continue activities in these three states and extend project
benefits to three additional States: Durango, Jalisco and Quintana Roo. These States were selected because
they include substantial amounts of forest resources owned by indigenous communities and ejidos.
The project's specific objectives are (a) to assist communities and ejidos in the target states in managing
and conserving their forest resources in an integrated and sustainable fashion; (b) to provide communities
with access to the information they require to make sound management and marketing decisions, (c) to
define mechanisms of payment to compensate forest owners for the enviromnental services the forests
provide; (d) to help make available effective and efficient technical support to communities and ejidos.
I.A.3. Project Description (From PDS):
Components:
a. Social Capital Strengthening



2
ISDS
b. Forest Resource Management Technical Strengthening
c. Investment Subprojects
d. Institutional Strengthening
e. Project Management
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or
critical natural habitats, or any other cultLrally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project would be implemented in forested regions of the States of Durango, Guerrero Jalisco, Michoacan,
Oaxaca and Quintana Roo in indigenous lands and ejido lands where there are commercially valuable forests.
There are some conservation units in the general vicinity of the proposed project sites; these are being mapped
to avoid any potential conflict. A consultant is currently reviewing possible impacts on critical natural
habitats and protected areas. No interventions in areas of cultural sensitivity such as archaeological sites are
anticipated. Culturally sensitive sites within ejidos or indigenous communities will not be adversely impacted
because communities themselves would make all decisions.
B. Check Environmental Classification: B (Partial Assessment)
Comments: Although this project triggers multiple safeguard policies, it has a low potential for environmental
damage or social problems because it is primarily aimed at encouraging sound forest management practices
and empowering indigenous and rural communities It also helps reduce illegal logging which tends to be
damaging and unsustainable.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered (from PDS)
(click on IV for a detailed desciption or click on the policy number for a brief description)
Policy          -                       Triggered
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)        0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                   0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                               0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                0 Yes 0 No
Involuiitary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                      0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                           0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*     0 Yes 0 No
Section I - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary ofKey Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.
II.D. la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The potential safeguard issues inherent in this project are those pertaining to Environmental Assessment
(OP4.01), Natural Habitats (OP4.04), Forests (OP4.36) and Indigenous Peoples (0D4.20). Because the
project would act at the level of the individual community or ejido, the potential for large scale, significant



3
ISDS
or irreversible impacts is small, because these are territorial units of limited size (typically between 5,000 -
20,000 Ha) and project interventions would affect only a small portion of such units at one time. No
road-building or other major infrastructure is contemplated. The project would not fmnance specific forest
management plans, but it would finance land-use planning and other studies to help rationalize forestry
activities. Such planning often includes creating set-asides for wildlife, watershed protection and other
purposes as well as identifying land suitable for forest management.
All project-supported activities will take place in a community context and any decisions about resource use
must be taken by the community assembly. Thus, the project falls under the category of community
forestry. Communities would follow all national laws and guidelines with regard to forestry operations
including obtaining all necessary pennits. The project would not directly finance forestry operations such
as felling, transport, processing, etc. The project would support (and make some investments) in
non-timber forest products, based on studies on the ecology and reproduction of plant and animal materials
that might be exploited so as to harmonize market demands with habitat protection and conservation of rare
and/or endangered species. The project team includes conservation biologists who will screen projects that
present potential adverse impacts. The project would not make investments inside of any conservation
units or buffer zones.
II.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
None anticipated.
II.D. Ic Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
No adverse long-term impacts are anticipated.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed t-eatment of altematives (if required)
Not required.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borTower to address safeguard issues
The Social Analysis and Environiental Analysis currently underway will propose specific measures to be
taken to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies, drawing on the experience of PROCYMAAF
I. Specific guidelines will be adopted to guide project teams, consultants and communities themselves with
regard to the specific risks and opportunities presented by each forest type in the proposed project areas.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on safeguard
policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
OP 4.36 promotes the active involvement of people living in and near forest areas in all aspects of the
management, conservation and sustainable development of their natural forests. The social study will
identify the key stakeholders who will be invited to discussions with the project team, to include their point
of view in the strategy for the new project. There is a good experience from the current PROCYMAF
project, that has stimulated the active participation of the key stakeholders in participating communities and
ejidos. Under PROCYMAF I, Regional Natural Resource Committees were formed of key stakeholders
(primarily commuunity / ejido leaders and comuneros) in eight different regions of the State of Oaxaca.
These committees serve as fora for the identification of needs and for the discussion of the project, its
procedures and policies. They are constituted by and for the actual and potential beneficiaries of the
project. Participation at the community / ejido level takes different forms as well as government agencies
and NGOs. In Type I and II communities, the project would help develop coherent community / ejido



4
ISDS
organizations, inter-community associations and community enterprises. PROCYMAF staff help
organize and attend commtmity / ejido meetings commumity-to-community workshops and other events to
assist in this processs. The goal is to ensure that communities will adopt and adhere to democratic
procedures, centered mainly around the asamblea, or community assembly, which brings together the adult
men of the community / ejido to discuss issues and vote on community actions. In Type III and IV
communities (see Box 2), an asamblea is generally already in place, although the PROCYMAF staff are
ready to assist in organizing meetings building community enterprises and assisting in the general process
of decision making. In all communities, PROCYMAF requires that all project activities carried out in
communities must be approved by a formal vote in the asamblea. Through the asamblea, a formal request
is sent to PROCYMAF requesting specific services and, once the request has been granted, the asamblea
must formnally notify the PCU of this action.
The proposed project is aligned with many other Bank-financed projects implemented in recent years
characterized as "Community Driven Development" or CDD. Under this paradigm, communities organize
themselves to identify their needs and receive assistance in the fonn of a matching grant to allow them to
acquire or build some needed facility or improvement. The benefits of such programs are that the
community itself decides what its needs are, the community manages the resource and decides how they
will be used. Such projects are typically carried out with great transparency and a high degree of
participation and communities also benefit by strengthening their intemal organization and capacity for
joint action and problem solving. Unlike many other CDD projects, PROCYMAF does not have an open
"menu" of choices regarding the kind of investments that can be made since the project only supports
actions relating to forest resources. However, PROCYMAF does share other characteristics and benefits
with typical CDD projects.
E. Safeguards Classification (select in SAP). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or
on basis of cumulative impacts fiom multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is
triggered the provisions of that policy apply.
[  SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irTeversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
management of one or more safeguard areas
[X] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
S3. - No safeguard issues
] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or similar
projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
issues.



5
ISDS
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/A nalysis/Management Plan:        - E.pected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 3/3/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             3/28/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              3/28/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summnary of the EA to the Executive  Not Applicable Not Applicable
Directors (For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                         Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:              Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                 3/3/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             3/28/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              3/28/2003     Not Available
Pest Managemnent Plan:                                      Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan:                                 Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank                                Not Applicable Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Signed and submitted by       Name                                        Date
Task Team Leader:             Daniel R. Gross                             03/05/2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:  Daniel R. Gross/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:  Ricardo Hernandez/Person/World Bank
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:  Tania Carrasco/Person/World Bank
Approved bv:                  Name                                        Datc
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Juan D. Quintero                         03/06/2003
Sector Manager/Director       John Redwood                                03/07/2003



