Updated Project Information Document (PID)
Report No: AB415
Project Name              MEXICO - Community Forestry II (PROCYMAF II)
Region                    Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                    Forestry (100%)
Theme                     Other environment and natural resources management (P); Other rural
development (P); Indigenous peoples (P)
Project                   P035751
Borrower(s)               SEC.HACIENDA Y CREDITO PUBLICO
Implementing Agency(ies)  COMISION NACIONAL FORESTAL (CONAFOR)
Address: Carretera a Nogales esq. Periferico Poniente S/N, Col. San Juan de
Ocotan, C.P. 45010, Zapopan, Jalisco, M6xico.
Contact Person: Dr. Gerardo Segura, Coordinador General, PROCYMAF. Av.
Progreso No. 5, Colonia del Carmen Coyoacan, C.P. 04100, Mexico D.F.,
Mexico.
Tel: (5255) 5484-3571  Fax: (5255) 5484-3569   Email:
gsegura@conafor.gob.mx
Environment Category      B (Partial Assessment)
Date PID Prepared         October 23, 2003
Auth Appr/Negs Date       September 23, 2003
Bank Approval Date        November 18, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Of the 55.2 million ha of forested land in Mexico, some 70 percent is owned by indigenous
communities and ejidos (World Bank 1995). Mexico is unique in that most of its commercially
valued forests are owned communally. Many of the forest communities are very poor and have
not had the tools to make good use of the resources on their lands. Policy makers have concluded
that the only way to achieve the conservation and sustainable management of Mexico's forest
resources and other environmental goods dependent -on them (e.g. biodiversity, soil and water
resources, sequestered carbon, scenic beauty), is by building the capacity of these communities to
manage their own resources. The alternative, namely to seek to impose such changes through a
system of command and control, is not politically feasible nor would it be likely to be a successful
strategy.
Mexico Community Forestry (PROCYMAF I) was the first project on a large scale to tackle the
problem of empowering poor communities to manage their own resources. By most measures,
PROCYMAF I was successful. It demonstrated that poor communities can generate significant
income through the systematic management of natural resources. Departing from a more
traditional production-oriented approach to forestry, PROCYMAF I focused mainly on the
forest-owning communities and ejidos, seeking to strengthen the capacity of these communities to
take sound management decisions in a communal context while raising the living standards of the
villagers through improved forest management.
Until the year 2000, a single agency, SEMARNAT, was responsible both for regulation and
promotion of the forestry sector.  In April 2001, the GOM  created the National Forestry



2
PID
Commission, CONAFOR, with the purpose of developing, assisting and encouraging productive
activities, conservation and restoration of/frests as well as to participate in the formulation of
plans and programs and to apply the policy of sustainable forestry development. ' CONAFOR is
a decentralized institution with branch offices in every state. CONAFOR has developed a plan
with a 25-year horizon for the development of forest resources and has launched a number of
programs aimed at implementing this plan. CONAFOR's mandate follows Mexico's Strategic
Forestry Plan and includes detailed guidelines for sustainable management of forests, water, and
soil. In December 2002, a new Forestry law strengthening CONAFOR's role and raising the
profile of payment for environmental services.  Through PROCYMAF I and other programs
such as PRODEFOR and PRODEPLAN, CONAFOR offers important support in environmental
and forestry related themes. Its annual budget approved for 2002 was 1,500 million pesos
(approximately US$150 million).
Although the PROCYMAF I project made significant progress in the areas where it operates,
helping to raise the area of forest under specific management plans from 500,000 ha in 1995 to
900,000 ha in 2002, nevertheless, the rate and extent of deforestation and forest degradation in
Mexico in general and, particularly in areas yet untouched by the PROCYMAF I project, is still as
high as 680,000 ha/year. In addition, the efficiency of timber and other forest-based industries is
low, particularly with respect to the forests under communal and ejido management. The
importance of multiple-use forests is increasingly recognized as a response to the general
economic deterioration in rural Mexico. It is widely agreed that diversification of income sources
for the rural population is highly desirable and that forest based products can play a role in
achieving this. In addition, attention has been paid to the growing scarcity of fresh-water
supplies, conservation of protected areas, conservation of biodiversity and of the opportunities in
ecotourism, all services provided by forests. The GOM has officially recognized that forests play
important roles in the stabilization of ecosystems, and constitute an important support for
preserving biological diversity. Forests also contribute to air and water quality, help conserve soils
and even have an effect on temperature regulation. Policy has shifted in favor of focusing on the
community, not the forest. Although it supports forest production, PROCYMAF I is a highly
people-centered project that aims primarily at improving the lot of the poor.
Although indigenous communities and ejidos have long traditions of communal resource
management and have democratic decision-making procedures, many are beset by poverty, out
migration, factional conflicts fanned by party politics and religious schisms, and other problems
that are corrosive to traditional social structure. There is also a legacy of previous government
policies that leaves many communities profoundly distrustful of new programs and policies.
These difficulties also lower the capacity of communities to take sound decisions regarding
management of there communally owned their natural resources. The linkage between communal
ownership, weakened organization and poorly articulated markets made it mandatory to
strengthen the social organization of indigenous communities and ejidos as a precondition for
better resource management and the acquisition of technical knowledge required for competing in
the marketplace.



3
PID
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to assist indigenous communities and ejidos in selected Mexican
States  strengthen community / ejido ties, better manage their forest resources, to diversify
forest-based production, create and strengthen community enterprises and increase their income.
The project would achieve this primarily by making private-sector technical assistance available to
communities that own economically valuable forest lands to help them manage their forest
resources in an ecologically and financially sustainable fashion.
The proposed project would follow the successful implementation of the Mexico Community
Forestry Project (PROCYMAF - Loan 4137-MX), which pursued similar goals in the States of
Oaxaca, Guerrero and Michoacan. The proposed project would continue activities in these three
states and extend project benefits to three additional States Durango, Jalisco and Quintana Roo.
These States were selected because they include substantial amounts of forest resources owned by
indigenous communities and ejidos.
The project's specific objectives are (a) to assist communities and ejidos in the target states in
managing and conserving their forest resources in an integrated and sustainable fashion; (b) to
provide communities with access to the information they require to make sound management and
marketing decisions, (c) to define mechanisms of payment or the environmental services the
forests provide; (d) to help make available effective and efficient technical support to communities
and ejidos.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has supported a wide range of forestry projects worldwide and particularly in
Latin America. Most of these projects have been based on similar principles as PROCYMAF,
including (1) community control over forest resources, (2) adding value locally to forest products,
(3) diversification of forest production, and (4) experimenting with the definition and development
of environmental services schemes from forests. These experiences have led to the accumulation
of considerable knowledge and capacity in the design and implementation of these projects which
can be applied to the current project design. The GOM and CONAFOR have recognized this
value added in their request for financing since Bank financing in Mexico does not provide
additional to the budget of beneficiary agencies.
4. Description
Principal Project Components:
a. Social Capital Strengthening
b. Forest Resource Management Technical Strengthening Projects
c. Diversification and investment including payment for environmental services.
d. Institutional strengthening
e. Project Management
5. Financing
Source (Total ( US$m))
BORROWER ($7.60)
IBRD ($21.30)



4
PID
Total Project Cost: $28.90
6. Implementation
The project would be implemented by CONAFOR. There will be a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) located in Mexico City and subunits in each of the target states. CONAFOR is a relatively
new agency in Mexico. It is organized as a commission under the Environmental Agency,
SEMARNAT. Although it has a short track record, it has a strong central staff and has already
launched a number of initiatives including a Forestry Fund whose aim is to promote markets for
environmental services. In a highly restrictive fiscal environment, CONAFOR succeeded in
maintaining a stable budget allocation for 2003 (while many other agencies suffered cuts of up to
30%). CONAFOR's strategy focuses on three primary issues: (a) conserving Mexico's forest
ecosystems, (b) modernizing and expanding forest industries, and (c) ensuring that forests play a
role in improving the living standards of indigenous communities and ejidos.
7. Sustainability
The project has been designed and implemented with the participation of forest communities and
ejidos. The project empowers local communities and ejidos to take decisions in respect to the
nature, extent and timing of the assistance on sustainable forestry management practices. The
project objectives further supports GOM policies and are the product of an extensive consultation
process. The project builds upon a successfully implemented PROCYMAF I project and the
preparation team included the staff from PROCYMAF and CONAFOR, who will continue to be
involved in the implementation of the project. Project actions complement measures developed
and/or being implemented by the GOM, as well as Federal efforts under other programs such as
shown in BOX 1. The broad participation by the proposed beneficiaries and the demonstrated
success of the project measures augur well for the future of the project. Many communities that
benefit from technical assistance and organizational strengthening will certainly be able to
continue on the path to autonomy and improved income with or without continuous assistance
from PROCYMAF.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The main lesson of PROCYMAF I was to demonstrate that communities can manage their own
forest resources. They can develop organizational capacity and acquire the skills needed through
the provision of suitable technical services and assistance in the formation of community
enterprises. The approach to communities recognizes four different types, and encourages
communities and ejidos to acquire the capacity as they move through various stages of
development.  The requirement of full community / ejido participation in the design and
implementation of program interventions has been one of the key contributors to program
success. Each intervention is based on a formal solicitation made by the community / ejido and
voted upon by the community / ejido assembly. Communities appoint a team to interface with the
private-sector service providers and provide continuous input to the implementation of the
Program. The new project would maintain and strengthen this feature.
PROCYMAF also helped broaden the view of what constitutes marketable forest products.
While previously, only timber was valued, communities have leamed, through PROCYMAF, that
the forest can also yield other valuable benefits such as jobs, NTFPs, recreation, ecotourism



5
PID
opportunities, and a diversified livelihood for the community.
Private service providers have not usually been prepared to work with indigenous communities
and ejidos. The PROCYMAF experience has validated the need for specialized and ongoing
training for service providers so that they will meet the communities needs in a culturally sensitive
fashion. PROCYMAF also instilled the idea that provision of technical services is an investment
that can yield dividends.
9. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues : No significant adverse environmental impacts are expected from the
implementation of this project. This conclusion is based partly on experience with PROCYMA-F
I. The relatively small scale of the project interventions and the built-in participatory
mechanisms requiring assembly approval of all activities are strong guarantees against any adverse
environmental impacts. In order to achieve sustainable benefits, the project would (i) continue
and improve the provision of technical assistance and professional services for forest management,
as initiated under PROCYMAF I, (ii) put in place sustainable forest management practices that
take into consideration the conservation of water quality, biodiversity, and development of
non-timber forest resources, (iii) encourage product diversification and markets for
environmental services, and (iv) strengthen local and regional institutions, as provided under the
new forestry law (see section B.2). The project would support certification of production forests
by independent third-party agencies. By promoting sustainable natural forest management, the
project is expected to add value to standing forest rather than convert forests to agriculture or
pasture. The key stakeholders were identified as being: (i) indigenous communities, (ii) ejido
members, (iii) consumers of wood products, (iv) consumers of other environmental services (e.g.
water), (v) commercial timber dealers and processors and (vi) the agencies of the State.
10. List of factual technical documents:
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Daniel R. Gross
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-0055
Fax: 202-522-3132
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:   (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily included



6
PID
in the final project.



