Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7207-ME 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Second Community Forestry Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
and 
 
COMISIÓN NACIONAL FORESTAL 
 
Dated March 10, 2004  
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7207-ME 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated March 10, 2004, between INTERNATIONAL BANK 
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and COMISIÓN 
NACIONAL FORESTAL (CONAFOR). 
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement to be entered into between United 
Mexican States (the Borrower) and the Bank on March 28, 2004, the Bank has agreed to 
make a loan to the Borrower in the  amount of twenty one million three hundred thousand 
Dollars ($21,300,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but 
only on condition that CONAFOR agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank 
as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS  CONAFOR, in consideration of the Bank’s entering into the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so 
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) CONAFOR declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, economic, forestry, environmental and social practices, and the 
Implementation Letter and the Approved POAs and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
CONAFOR shall maintain, during the implementation of the Project:   
(i) 
a Project implementation unit (PIU); and  
(ii) 
subunits in each of the Participating States,  
all with functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, at all times headed by a 
Project coordinator and subunit managers, and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all 
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank;  
(c) 
CONAFOR shall enter into an agreement with each Community 
and 
Ejido 
carrying out: 
(i) 
a Social Capital Strengthening Activity, and/or a Forest 
Resource Management Technical Strengthening Activity 
(the 
Co
nvenio de Concertación
), under terms and 
conditions substantially similar to those of the model form 
contained in the Operational Manual (the Capacity 
Building Implementation Agreement), such agreement to 
provide for: 
(A) 
the Community’s and 
Ejido’s
 responsibility to 
contract the services required for the Activity in 
accordance with the requirements of the Project 
Agreement and the Operational Manual; 
(B) 
CONAFOR’s obligation to pay for the services 
contracted by the Communities and 
Ejidos
 on their 
behalf; and 
(C) the 
Community’s 
and 
Ejido’s
 obligation to carry out 
the Activity as provided in the Project Agreement 
and the Operational Manual; and 
(ii) 
an Investment Subproject (
Convenio de Ejecución)
 under 
terms and conditions substantially similar to those of the 
model contained in the Operational Manual (the Investment 
Implementation Agreement), such agreements to provide 
for: 
Page  4
-
3
-
(A) 
the Community’s and 
Ejido’s
 responsibility to 
contract the goods, works and services required for 
the Investment Subproject in accordance with the 
requirements of the Project Agreement and the 
Operational Manual; 
(B) 
the transfer by CONAFOR to such Community or 
Ejido
,
as the case may be, on a grant basis, of the 
funds required by such Community or 
Ejido
 to carry 
out the respective Investment Subproject; and 
(C) 
the obligation of such Community or 
Ejido 
to carry 
out the Investment Subproject and to manage the 
funds transferred as provided in the Project 
Agreement and the Operational Manual; and 
(d) 
CONAFOR shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
each of the Implementation Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, CONAFOR shall not assign, amend, abrogate, suspend, 
waive, terminate or fail to enforce any of the Implementation Agreements or any 
provision thereof. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. CONAFOR shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement. 
Section 2.04. CONAFOR shall duly perform all its obligations under the 
MANDATO
 Contract. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CONAFOR shall not 
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the 
MANDATO
 Contract or any provision thereof. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.05.  CONAFOR shall carry out the Project in accordance with an 
operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, said manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and evaluation of the 
Project (including the procurement, financial management and disbursement 
requirements thereof); 
(b) 
the criteria for the approval, implementation and monitoring of Activities 
and Investment Subprojects; 
(c) 
model agreements for implementation of Activities and Investment 
Subprojects; 
(d) 
the Environmental Management Plan, and the screening procedures for 
implementation of works in Investment Subprojects; and 
(e) 
the organization of the PIU and its state subunits. 
In case of any conflict between the terms of the Operational Manual and those of this  
Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
 
Section 2.06. CONAFOR shall during the execution of the Project: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor 
and evaluate on an ongoing basis, and in accordance with the indicators set forth 
in the Implementation Letter, the carrying out of the Project (including the 
Activities and Investment Subprojects), and the achievement of its objective; 
 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank, not later than March 15 of each year, 
commencing March 15, 2005, a progress report on the execution of the Project 
during the period immediately preceding the date of each such report, said report 
to be of such scope and detail as the Bank may reasonably request and to include 
the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section; and 
 
(c) 
carry out, jointly with the Bank, not later than April 30 of each 
year, commencing April 30, 2005, reviews of the progress of the Project and the 
attainment of Project objectives on the basis of the reports referred to in paragraph 
(b) of this Section and shall, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
Page  6
-
5
-
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of its objective, based on 
the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports, and the Bank's views on 
the matter. 
 
Section 2.07. CONAFOR shall: 
(a) 
by November 30 of each year during Project implementation, 
prepare and furnish to the Bank for comments the proposed preliminary operating 
plan and budget, satisfactory to the Bank, detailing the Project activities proposed 
to be carried out during the next year and the respective sources of funding 
therefor; and 
 
(b) 
not later than March 15 of each year furnish to the Bank the final 
operating plan for such year (Approved POA). 
Section 2.08.  CONAFOR shall carry out the Indigenous Peoples Action  
Plan in accordance with its terms. 
Section 2.09.  For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto,  CONAFOR shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Bank and CONAFOR, a plan for the future operation 
of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
CONAFOR on said plan. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of CONAFOR 
Section 3.01. CONAFOR shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, economic, forestry, environmental and 
social practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted 
by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.02. CONAFOR shall at all times operate and maintain its offices, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and environmental practices. 
Section 3.03. CONAFOR shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, 
or make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  CONAFOR shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank,  adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) CONAFOR 
shall: 
(i) 
have its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
(or other period agreed to by the Bank) audited, in accordance 
with consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the 
Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section, 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,  
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon CONAFOR’s reporting obligations set 
out in Sections 2.06 and 2.07 of this Agreement, CONAFOR shall prepare and furnish to 
the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar semester, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of 
the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar semester; 
thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent: (i) calendar quarter ending in September and December; and (i) calendar 
semester ending in June, and shall cover the period not covered by the previous FMR 
until the end of such calendar quarter or semester. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective. 
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CONAFOR 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify CONAFOR thereof. 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 For 
the 
Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, NW 
 
Washington, DC 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
For CONAFOR: 
 
Carretera a Nogales esq. Periférico Pte. s/n - 5º Piso 
 
Col. San Juan de Ocotán 
45019 CP 
 
Zapopán, Jalisco 
 
Mexico 
 
Facsimile:  52-33-3110-0820 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
With copy to: 
 
Avda. Progreso No. 5 
 
Colonia del Carmen Coyoacán 
 
CP 04100 
 
Mexico DF 
 
Mexico 
 
Facsimile:  52-55- 54843569 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of CONAFOR may 
be taken or executed by its Director General or such other person or persons as its 
Director General shall designate in writing, and CONAFOR shall furnish to the Bank 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Técpan de Galeana, Guerrero, México, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ John Kellenberg 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
COMISIÓN NACIONAL FORESTAL 
 
By /s/ Manuel Reed Segovia   
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
 
SCHEDULE 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods for Part D.1 of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines, using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2. Commercial 
Practices
Goods and works for Investment Subprojects estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent, may be procured in accordance with commercial practices of the Community 
and 
Ejido
,
acceptable to the Bank, and described in the Operational Manual. 
Part C
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: 
(a) 
each contract procured pursuant to the provisions of Part B.1 of Section I 
of this Schedule; and  
(b) 
the first contract for goods and works procured in each of the States of 
Durango, Jalisco and Quintana Roo, pursuant to the provisions of Part B.2 of Section I of 
this Schedule,  
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of this Section. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per 
Page  14
-
13 - 
 
contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Commercial 
Practices
Services for Activities and Investment Subprojects estimated to cost less than 
$20,000 equivalent and not exceeding in the aggregate $11,700,000 equivalent, may be 
procured in accordance with commercial practices of the Community or 
Ejido
,
acceptable 
to the Bank, and described in the Operational Manual. 
3. 
Single Source Selection
Services for training under Part B.2 of the Project to be carried out in remote 
areas and not exceeding $20,000 equivalent per contract
 
may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 
of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
(a) 
Services of individual consultants for tasks that meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines and not exceeding in the aggregate 
$5,500,000 equivalent shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and 
(b)  
services not exceeding in the aggregate $500,000 equivalent  may be 
selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 
5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
Page  15
-
14 - 
 
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of 
any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the 
execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
review and approval.  Selection of al
l
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan (as updated from time to time) as shall have been 
approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B.1 of Section II of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole-source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications and experience of 
candidates, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of 
the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.  The 
provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to 
such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
