Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7207-ME 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Second Community Forestry Project) 
 
between 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated March 28, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7207-ME 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 2004 between UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
(the Borrower) represented by its signatory on page 12 of this Agreement and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the 
Bank). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is a signatory of the Articles of Agreement of the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the international treaty by 
which the Bank was created), which Articles of Agreement contain, 
inter alia
,
general 
provisions relating to loans extended by the Bank; 
 
WHEREAS (B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank 
to assist in the financing of the Project; 
 
WHEREAS (C) the Project will be carried out by t
he
Borrower’s 
Comisión 
Nacional Forestal
 (CONAFOR) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make the proceeds of the Loan available to CONAFOR, as 
set forth in this Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the agreement dated March 10, 2004 between the Bank and 
CONAFOR (the Project Agreement); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 (a) 
“Activities” means collectively Social Capital Strengthening Activities 
and Forest Resource Management Technical Strengthening Activities; 
(b) 
“Approved POA” means each annual operating plan referred to in 
Section 2.07 (b) of the Project Agreement; 
(c) 
“Capacity Building Implementation Agreement” means any of the 
agreements referred to in Section 2.01 (c) (i) of the Project Agreement; 
(d) 
“Community” means any population and land tenancy unit (
comunidad)
,
with its own legal personality, governed by Title III, Chapter V of the Borrower’s 
Agrarian Law (
Ley Agraria
), published in the Official Gazette on February 26, 1992, or a 
legally established association of Communities, located in any Participating State and 
composed mostly of indigenous peoples represented by the Community’s duly elected 
officials of the Community, which meets the criteria and other requirements set forth in 
the Operational Manual; 
(e) “
Ejido
”
means any population and land tenancy unit, with its own legal 
personality, governed by Title III, Chapters I-IV of the Borrower’s Agrarian Law (
Ley 
Agraria
), published in the Official Gazette on February 26, 1992, or a legally established 
association of 
Ejidos
,
located in any Participating State, which meets the criteria and 
other requirements set forth in the Operational Manual to participate in the Project;  
(f) 
“Environmental Management Plan”  means CONAFOR’s environmental 
management plan for the Project set forth in the Implementation Letter; 
(g) 
“Field Guide” means a guide prepared by CONAFOR to introduce 
concepts and procedures for sustainable management of forests in the relevant 
ecosystems of the Participating States; 
(h) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of  
the Project Agreement; 
(i) 
“Forest Resource Management Technical Strengthening Activity” means 
a
technical assistance or training activity or activities to be carried out by a Community 
and/or 
Ejido
 for the improvement of the capacity of such Community or 
Ejido
 for forest 
Page  4
-
3
-
management, land-use planning and zoning, strengthening of Community/
Ejido
 
enterprises, building and strengthening intercommunity associations, attaining 
independent performance-based certification of forestry practices, and carrying out of 
feasibility studies for investments in timber or non-timber forest products, which activity 
or activities are eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with 
the criteria and other requirements set forth in the Operational Manual; 
(j) 
“Forest Management Program” means a plan prepared by a Community 
or 
Ejido
 as a requirement for the extraction of forest products; 
(k) 
“Forestry Law” means the Borrower’s General Law for Sustainable 
Forestry Development published in the Official Gazette on February 25, 2003, regulating 
the forestry sector and establishing CONAFOR; 
(l) 
“Implementation Agreements” means collectively Capacity Building 
Implementation Agreements and Investment Implementation Agreements; 
(m) 
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower and CONAFOR to the Bank dated March 10, 2004, containing: (i) the 
indicators to be used in monitoring the progress of the implementation of the Project and 
in evaluating its results; (ii) the Environmental Management Plan; and (iii) the 
Indigenous Peoples Action Plan; 
(n) 
“Indigenous Peoples Action Plan” means CONAFOR’s plan for 
benefiting indigenous peoples under the Project as set forth in the Implementation Letter; 
(o) 
“Investment Implementation Agreement” means any of the agreements 
referred to in Section 2.01 (c) (ii) of the Project Agreement; 
 
(p) 
“Investment Subproject” means a subproject to be carried out by a 
Community and/or 
Ejido 
and consisting of a set of activities for the development, 
management and commercialization of tradable or potentially tradable timber, non-timber 
and other forest products and/or services, which subproject is eligible for financing out of 
the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the criteria and other requirements set forth 
in the Operational Manual; 
(q) “
MANDATO
 Contract” means the contract to be entered into among the 
Borrower, NAFIN and CONAFOR pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time; and such term includes all schedules to the 
MANDATO
 Contract; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(r) 
“NAFIN” means 
Nacional Financiera
,
S.N.C.
 a Mexican development 
bank serving as the Borrower’s financial agent for purposes of the Loan; 
 
(s) 
“Official Gazette” means the Borrower’s 
Diario Oficial de la 
Federación
;
(t) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 2.05 of 
the Project Agreement; 
 
(u) 
“Participating State” means any of the following states of the Borrower: 
Durango, Guerrero, Jalisco, Michoacán, Oaxaca and Quintana Roo and any other state as 
CONAFOR shall propose and the Bank shall agree; 
 
(v) 
“PIU” means the unit referred to in Section 2.01 (b) of the Project 
Agreement; 
 
(w) 
“Priority Regions” means regions within the Participating States 
identified in the Operational Manual; 
 
(x) 
“Project Agreement” means the agreement between the Bank and 
CONAFOR dated March 10, 2004, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement; 
 
(y) 
“Regional Committees” means committees, or other forms of association 
of Communities and 
Ejidos
,
formed to carry out participatory regional planning of 
forestry activities, information dissemination, and coordination of activities among 
Communities and 
Ejidos
,
governmental and non-governmental agencies and the private 
sector; 
 (z) 
“SHCP” 
means 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
(the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit); 
(aa)  
“Social Capital Strengthening Activity” means a technical assistance or 
training activity or set of activities to be carried out by a Community and/or 
Ejido
 to, 
inter alia
,
conduct participatory rural appraisals of the Communities’ and 
Ejidos’
 
capacity and interests in development, assist in the development of Community and 
Ejido 
statutes and by-laws, and improve participation, governance and capacity for decision 
making, which activity or activities are eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Loan in accordance with the criteria and other requirements set forth in the Operational 
Manual; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(bb) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to CONAFOR. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty one 
million three hundred thousand Dollars
 
($21,300,000), as such amount may be converted 
from time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 2.09 of this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement, and in respect of any premiums in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General 
Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, cause NAFIN to open 
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account on the Borrower’s behalf either: (i) in 
the Borrower’s Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank; (ii) in 
NAFIN on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment; or (iii) in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2008 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to, but not including, the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on May15 and November 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be cons
idered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Page  8
-
7
-
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be 
paid out of the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium 
payable in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount 
allocated from time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.10.  The 
Director de Financiamientos Internacionales
 of NAFIN, and 
any person or persons whom he or she shall designate in writing are designated as 
representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or 
permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article 
V
of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project, Other Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project, and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other 
obligations under the Loan Agreement, shall cause CONAFOR to perform in accordance 
with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of CONAFOR therein set 
forth, shall take or cause to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable CONAFOR to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would 
prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b) 
The Borrower, through SHCP, shall enter into a contract (
MANDATO
 
Contract) with NAFIN and CONAFOR, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby: 
(i) 
NAFIN agrees to act as financial agent of the Borrower with 
regard to the Loan, meaning that, 
inter alia
,
NAFIN agrees to 
represent the Borrower 
vis-
à-vis
 the Bank for purposes of 
submitting Loan withdrawal applications to the Bank in form 
and substance sufficient to justify disbursement by the Bank to 
the Borrower of Loan proceeds; 
(ii) 
CONAFOR agrees to carry out the Project; and 
(iii) 
the Borrower agrees that, through SHCP and NAFIN as financial 
agent, the Borrower shall cooperate fully with CONAFOR to 
Page  9
-
8
-
ensure that CONAFOR is able to comply with all of 
CONAFOR’s obligations referred to in the Project Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under 
the 
MANDATO
 Contract in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan.  Except as the Bank may otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall not amend or fail to enforce any provision of the 
MANDATO
 
Contract.  In case of any conflict between the terms of: (i) the 
MANDATO
 Contract; and 
(ii) those of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, 
works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance 
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be carried out by 
CONAFOR pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall participate and cause NAFIN to participate in the 
reviews referred to in Section 2.06 (c) of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause NAFIN: (i) to maintain a financial 
management system, including records and accounts; and (ii) to prepare financial 
statements, all in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect its operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall cause NAFIN: 
(i) 
to have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank) audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
Page  10
-
9
-
(ii) 
to furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year (or such 
other period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
to furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and the audit of such financial statements, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause 
NAFIN to: 
(i) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made;  
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in any 
audit that the Bank may have requested pursuant to  paragraph 
(b) of this Section. 
ARTICLE V
 
Remedies of the Bank 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
CONAFOR shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement or the 
MANDATO
 Contract or NAFIN shall have failed to perform 
any of its obligations under the 
MANDATO
 Contract. 
Page  11
-
10
-
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that CONAFOR will be able to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(c) 
The Forestry Law shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion of the Bank, materially and adversely 
the ability of CONAFOR to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified namely that the event specified in paragraph (c) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
 (a) 
the 
MANDATO
 Contract has been executed on behalf of the Borrower, 
NAFIN and CONAFOR; and 
(b) 
the Operational Manual has been issued by CONAFOR. 
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Bank, by counsel to each of the parties to the respective 
agreements: 
 
(a) 
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by 
CONAFOR, and is legally binding upon CONAFOR in accordance with its terms; and 
 (b) 
that 
the 
MANDATO
 Contract has been duly authorized or ratified by the 
Borrower, NAFIN and CONAFOR and is legally binding upon the Borrower, NAFIN 
and CONAFOR in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date June 28, 2004 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  12
-
11
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the 
Titular 
de la Unidad de Crédito Público
 of
SHCP is designated as representative of the Borrower 
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretaría de Hacienda y Crédito Público 
 
Unidad de Crédito Público 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Patio Central 
 
3er piso, oficina 3010 
 
Colonia Centro 
 
06000
México, D.F. 
 
Facsímile: 011-52-555-228-1156 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
 
197688 
(TRT), 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
248423 (RCA), 
 
64145
(WUI) or 
 
82987
(FTCC) 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Lima, Perú, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
UNITED MEXICAN STATES 
 
By /s/ José Francisco Gil Díaz  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ David de Ferranti  
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the Loan 
 
 
Allocated (Expressed in 
% of Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars
)
to be Financed
(1)  Goods (other than 
180,000 
83% 
 
for Investment Subprojects) 
 
 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ Services (including 
6,300,000 
83% 
 
audits) (other than for Investment 
 Subprojects 
and 
Activities) 
 
(3)  Training, Workshops and 
1,667,000 
83% 
 Regional 
Committees 
 
(4)  Activities 
8,840,000 
83% of the cost of 
 
consultants’ services 
 
under the respective 
 
Activity 
 
(5)  Investment Subprojects 
2,000,000 
83% of the cost of 
 
goods, works and 
 
services under the 
 
respective Investment 
 
Subproject 
 
(6)  Front End Fee 
213,000 
Amount due under 
 
Section 2.04 of this 
 
Agreement 
 
(7)  Premia for Interest Rate 
0 
Amount due under 
 
Caps and Interest Rate Collars 
 
Section 2.09 (c) of 
 
this Agreement 
(8) Unallocated 
2,100,000
TOTAL 21,300,000
Page  15
-
14
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule the term “Training, Workshops and Regional 
Committees” means expenditures incurred in connection with the provision of training 
(including workshops), and in connection with meetings of the Regional Committees 
(including trainers’ fees, logistics, materials, and the reasonable travel cost of travel and 
per diem of participants). 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $2,100,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures within twelve months before that date, but 
in no case incurred before September 23, 2003; 
(b) 
payments covered by Categories (4) and (5) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule, unless the respective Implementation Agreement has been 
entered into with the respective Community or 
Ejido
;
and 
(c) 
payments covered by Category (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of 
this Schedule in respect of any Investment Subproject involving humid tropical forest 
timber extraction, unless: (i) the respective forest management practices of the 
Community or 
Ejido
 applicable to the Investment Subproject has received certification 
from an independent entity satisfactory to the Bank; or (ii) a Field Guide, satisfactory to 
the Bank, with recommendations and procedures for the sustainable extraction of timber 
in the ecosystem where the Investment Subproject is to be carried has been disseminated 
in the applicable region. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower for: 
 
(a) 
goods and services under contracts not subject to prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C of Section I and Part D of Section II of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement; and 
(b) 
training (other than for consultants’ contracts subject to prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C of Section I and Part D of Section II of the 
Schedule to the Project Agreement), workshops, Regional Committees, Activities and 
Investment Subprojects (other than works and goods subject to prior review in 
accordance with the provisions of Part C of Section I of the Schedule to the Project 
Agreement). 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist Communities and 
Ejidos
 who own forests 
in Priority Regions in the Participating States to improve the management and 
conservation of their forest resources and to generate alternative sources of income in a 
sustainable manner. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Social Capital Strengthening
1. 
Carrying out of Social Capital Strengthening Activities. 
2. 
Implementation, on a national or regional level, of workshops sponsored by the 
Communities and/or 
Ejidos
 to exchange information on forestry development and 
conservation activities. 
3. 
Formation and strengthening of Regional Committees. 
Part B
:
Forest Resource Management Technical Strengthening
1. 
Carrying out of Forest Resource Management Technical Strengthening Activities 
and preparation of Forest Management Programs, if required. 
2. 
Carrying out of a human capital development training program, including 
delivery of specialized courses on the identification and management of conflict within 
and/or between Communities and/or 
Ejidos
,
and also including the training of forest 
technicians in Communities and 
Ejidos
.
3. 
Preparation of Field Guides for each Participating State. 
4. 
Compilation and maintenance of a roster (
padrón
)
of
qualified professionals 
relevant to the implementation of the Project and training to build and maintain the skills 
of such professionals. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
Part C
:
Diversification and Investment
1. 
Carrying out of feasibility studies, market analyses and other specialized studies 
on forest products and services as required to identify potential productive investments 
(including Investment Subprojects) for Community and 
Ejidos
.
2. 
Carrying out of Investment Subprojects.  
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance and training for the identification and design of 
projects for which environmental services could be paid at the local or regional level.  
Part D
:
Institutional Strengthening 
1. 
Strengthening of CONAFOR’s capacity to operate in the Participating States 
through training in subjects relevant to the Project, and equipping of its offices. 
2. 
Carrying out of a baseline study and impact evaluations to measure the impact of 
the Project. 
3. 
Carrying out of strategic studies relevant to the objectives of the Project, 
proposed by CONAFOR and agreed to by the Bank. 
Part E
:
Project Management
1. 
Establishment and operation of the PIU, carrying out of the audits referred to in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement and the Project Agreement, and Project monitoring. 
2. 
Carrying out of a communication and outreach program to further the goals of 
the Project. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2007. 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %
)
On each May 15 and November 15 
 
Beginning May 15, 2009 through November 15, 2018      
5% 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  19
-
18
-
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such 
subparagraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  20
-
19
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Special Account 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of $2,100,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.   
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Page  21
-
20
-
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions, shall equal the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
Page  22
-
21
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
 
