RESTRICTED
Report No.   PA-96a
This report is for ofricial use only by the Bank Group antd specifically authorized orgnizations
or persons. It may not be publised, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
VENEZUELA
February 18, 1972
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1          -    Bolivar (B) 4.50k'
B 1            a    US$ 0.22
B 1,000        -    US$ 222.00
B 1,000,000    -    US$ 222,000.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 kilogram (kg)                a    2.20 pounds
1,000 kg - 1 metric ton        -    2,200 pounds
1 kilometer (km)               -    0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km2)       -    0.39 square mile
1 hectare (ha) - 10,000 m2          2.47 acres
1 liter (1)                    =    0.26 gallon
1,000 millimeters (am)         =    39.37 inches
0 degree centigrade (C°)       =    32  fahrenheit
ABBREVIATIONS
AI        =    Artificial Insemination
AU        =    Animal Unit
BDA       =    Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (Agricultural Development Bank)
BAP       =    Banco Agricola y Pecuario (Agriculture and Livestock Bank)
CORDIPLAN =    Oficina Central de Coordinacion y Planificacion (Central Coor-
dination Planning Office)
FMD       =    Foot-and-Mouth-Disease
GDP       =    Gross Domestic Product
GNP            Gross National Product
IAN            Instituto Agrario Nacional (Agrarian Reform Institute)
MAC       -    Ministerio de Agricultura y Cria (Ministry of Agriculture and
Livestock)
PFP       =    Plan de Fomento Pecuario (Livestock Development Plan)
PRIDA          Projecto Integral de Desarrollo Agropecuario (Integrated Agri-
cultural Development Program)
BDA Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
1/   December 23, 1971 Venezuela made a nominal appreciation of 2.28% in
its rate in terms of U.S. dollars. The Project is based on the
exchange rate of US$1 to B 4.50 prevailing before December 23, 1971.



VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ..................................                      -i
I.    INTRODUCTION ..............................................                        1
II.    BACKGROUND  ...............................................                        1
A.  General                   .........................
B.  Role of Ar1icullture in the General Economy ,.. .    2
C.  Government Policies ....................                                      3
D.    Animal Health ....................                    .............         5
E.    Agricultural Services  .............................. .                     6
F.    Agricultural Credit  ................................ .                     7
III.    PROJECT AREA  .............................................    10
A.    General Description  ..............           ..      .................    10
B.    Project Regions  .....................................    10
IV.    THE PROJECT  ..............................................    12
A.    General Description  ..............           ..      .................    12
B.    Detailed Features  ...............           ..      ..................    12
C.    Cost Estimates  ......................................    15
D.    Proposed Financing  ..............           ..      ..................    16
E.    Procurement  ....... .............               .....................    16
F.    Disbursement  ........................................                     17
C.    Organization and Management  ..........            ..      .............    18
H.    Lending Policies and Procedures  ........ ..                 ...........    19
I.    Accounts  and Audit  ..............          ..      ..................    20
V.    MARKET3,  P Cr-CS AND PRDDUCiR BENEFITS  ....................    20
n.    Markets  ...........              .........          .......         ...   20
B.  Prices  .......................                    ..,                       21
C.    Producer Benefizs ...................................   21
E: ICONOMIC BENENFITS AND JUSTIFICATIjN2
r-^                                            %WNOI   rEBlS.S   UTFCTO    ..................................    23
vliI.    AGREEYNTS REACHED AND RECOMMNDATION .                     ....................    23
''t  ?-X- is based on tL tinc.irings of a 1;ank appraisal mission  co Venezuela
,    c.0;ember-Decenber            cc,- c,.-.pose  cG- .iessrs. F. Knobel and S. Silbiger
.a:.i and C. Chisholr. (Livestock Consultant).



ANNEXES
1. Role of Agriculture in the Economy
2. Exports and Imports of Agricultural Products
3. Beef and Milk Marketing and Pricing Policies
Table 1        Production and Consumption of Beef
Table 2        Beef Cattle Imported for Breeding Purposes
Appendix 1     Beef Marketing Schemes
Appendix 2     An AppraisaLl of Probable Beef Supplies and
Demand in Venezuela
4. The Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA)
Table 1        Actual and Projected Balance Sheets,
December 31, 1970-74
Table 2        Actual and Projected Profit and Loss Accounts,
1970-74
5. Model 1. Beef/Breeding/Growing Ranch, 5,000 ha
Table 1        Investment Cost Projection
Table 2        Herd Projection
Table 3        Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
Table 4        Financial Projection
6. Model 2. Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch, 1,500 ha
Table 1        Investment Cost Projection
Table 2        Herd Projection
Table 3        Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
Table 4        Financial Projection
7. Model 3. Beef Breeding/Fattening/Dairy Ranch, 700 ha
Table 1        Investment Cost Projection
Table 2        Herd Projection
Table 3        Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
Table 4        Financial Projection
8. Model 4. Beef Breeding/Fattening/Dairy Ranch, 125 ha
Table 1        Investment Cost Projection
Table 2        Herd Projection
Table 3        Sales and Operating Expenses Projections                          a
Table 4        Financial Projection
9.  Model 5.  Purebred Breeding Center, 400 ha
Table 1        Investment Cost Projection
Table 2        Herd Projection
Table 3        Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
Table 4        Financial Projection



-3-
10. Project Cost
Table 1        Project Investment Items by Categories
Table 2        On-ranch Investments per Model and Total Cost
Table 3        Technical and Consultant Services
11. Annual Phasing of Investments and Loan Disbursements
Table 1        Phasing of Investments and Disbursements
Table 2        Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursement
12.  Organization Chart - BDA
13. Terms of References and Qualifications of Technical Director and Special
Consultant Services
14. Projection of Project Lending Program by BDA
15. Financial Rates of Return for Ranch Models
16. Rate of Return to the Economy
MAP
Project Regions
BDA Branch Banks and Agency Offices






VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK DEVELOrMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a livestock development project in the
beef cattle sub-sector in Venezuela. The Project would be implemented
through a recently established agricultural development bank - Banco de
Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA). The principal objectives of the Project
would be to:  assist in the long-term development of the beef industry with
emphasis on expansion of commercial breeding and fattening operations by
providing technically directed and supervised long-term development credit
facilities at conventional terms. This would be the Bank's first operation
in the agricultural sector in Venezuela.
ii.       The Project would finance the development of approximately 800
commercial-type beef cattle ranches, some mixed dairy-beef farms, and a few
cooperative group ranching schemes in the principal production regions of
Venezuela, namely: Llanos; Lake Maracaibo; Andean Foothills; Northern
Cordillera; and Eastern Sabana. The participating ranches would vary with
regional conditions in size and composition of herd and production practices.
Main investments for ranch development would be for pasture improvement,
ranch buildings, agricultural machinery and equipment, livestock and facilities
for stock handling.
iii.      Long-term loans of eight to .0 years, including grace periods of
three to five years, at 9% interest per annum, would be made by BDA to
participating ranchers. Short-term credit for working capital would also
be provided by BDA from its own funds at prevailing rates of 10-11%
interest.
iv.       Total Project cost would be about US$39 million.  Participation
In financing would be:  Bank, US$11 million (28% of Project cost and equiva-
lent to the estimated foreign exchange component); BDA, about US$6 million
(15% of Project Cost), Government, about US$15 million (39% of Project cost);
and ranchers US$7 million (18% of Project Cost).
v.        Until BDA was estab.lished by law ir. 1967 to provide a credit
service to the commercial agricultural sector, such services were mainly
oriented to support the Government's agrarian reform program. Credit from
Governmenc institutions and schemes, as well as from the private commercial
banks, haq not been adequate to meet the need for long-term credit needs of
commercial farmers on appropriate cerms. Because of rapid growth in non-
agricultural activities, a declining labor force in agriculture and migra-
tion of agrarian reform beneficiaries to urban opportunities, Government is
c-rrentiv giving high priority to the stimulation of agricultural production,
includiag that of commercial Producers. In its first two years of operations
(1970 and 1971), BDA strengthened its staff and capital resources and



- ii -
established sound credit policies. Ulnder the project BDA would establish a
suitably headed livestock development: unit (LDU). The head of LDU would be
supported by a Technical Director principally responsible for the technical
and financial aspects of the Project, including preparation of ranch develop-
ment plans and supervision of their implementation.
vi.       Procurement of goods would be similar to most livestock projects,
i.e., goods required for ranch development would be purchased by partici-
pating ranchers for their specific needs from local commercial sources
of which there are a sufficient number to ensure satisfactory competition.
vii.      Project benefits to the economy and to the producers would be
substantial. The rate of return to the economy is estimated at about 17%
and estimates of financial rates of return to producers on new investments
range from about 16% to 21%. At full development, production from Project
ranches would yield an annual increase of about 20,000 tons of carcass beef,
or about 12% of present domestic output. All Project products would be sold
within the country, thereby saving about US$12 million foreign exchange,
which would be the value of the production if imported.
viii.     The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$11 million for a
term of 15 years, including five and a half years' grace. The borrower
would be BDA and it would assume the foreign exchange risk.



VENEZUELA
APPRAISAL OF
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (Agricultural Development
Bank (BDA)) of Venezuela has applied to the Bank for a loan to help
finance a livestock development project. The Project was prepared with the
help of the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program, which sent two Missions to
Venezuela in July/August 1969 and in February/March 1970. The Project
would be a part of Venezuela National Plan for Agriculture, 1970-74, and
would be the Bank's first operation in the agricultural sector in Venezuela.
1.02      Bank attempts to assist Venezuela in developing agricultural
production date back to the 1959 General Survey Mission which made suggestions
for broadening the Government's agrarian reform program to reach a larger
number of farm families at lower unit costs and identified areas for
priority development. Subsequent interest for bank lending focussed
on drainage, flood control and land reclamation for settlement. At the
time, however, Venezuelan authorities were not very receptive to Bank
advice on priorities and on the marginal nature of some of the proposed
project features, and preferred to proceed on their own. To the extent
that some of these proposals required institutional channels for the
provision of agricultural credit, an active dialogue was maintained which
eventually led to the establishment of BDA.
1.03      With many of the social programs well under way and employment
opportunities in other sectors draining labor out of the agricultural sector,
Government is giving priority to the expansion of production, including that
in the sector of agriculture, especially beef ranching. Conditions in
Venezuela for commercial livestock production are favorable and the demand
continues to exceed domestic production.
1.04      This report is based on the FAO/CP preparation report and on
the findings of an appraisal mission led by F. Knobel and composed of
S. Silbiger (Bank) and C. Chisholm (Livestock Consultant) that visited
Venezuela in November/December 1970.
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Venezuela, with an area of 912,000 km2, is the sixth largest
Country in Latin America. It is in the northern tier of South American
countries, bordered by Colombia, Brazil, Guyana and the southern coastline
o. the Caribbean Sea. Its population, just over 10 million, is growing at
about 3.4% per year.  In the last 30 years (1940-1970), the movement of



agricultural population to urban areas and to non-agrarian sectors has been
dynamic. At the beginning of the period some 60% of the labor force were
engaged in agriculture while at present there are only about 24%. During
the next 10 to 15 years, the agricultural labor force may well decline to
about 12-15% of the total labor force. About 50% of the total population
now live in towns with more than 100,000 inhabitants of which Caracas
(2 million) and Maracaibo (1 million) alone account for 30%. From 1960 to
1969, the country's total labor force increased from about 2.3 million to
about 3 million while unemploymeLit decreased from about 13% to 7%, mainly as
a result of the expanding manufacturing and service industries.
2.02       Rapid economic expansion, based largely on the petroleum industry,
has brought the GNP to some US$11 billion, or to about US$870 1/ per capita
in 1970 with, however, wide variations in income distribution. The rela-
tionship of active population to total GNP by sector suggests that the
per capita GNP in the agricultural sector averages about US$325 compared
to about US$1,100 for the non-agricultural sector.
2.03       Land pressures common in some other Latin American countries are
not likely to arise in Venezuela for some time to come. Presently, less
than half of Venezuela's potential agricultural area is used. The land-man
ratio amounts to about 2.3 ha of agricultural land per capita of total
population and to about 9 ha per capita in the agricultural sector.
B. Role of Agriculture in the Economy
2.04       According to the contribution of agriculture, Venezuela cannot be
termed an agrarian nation. Over the past decade, agriculture's contribution
to the economy was only about 7% of total GNP, representing the lowest in
South America 2/ (Annex 1). Agricultural production has been increasing at
about 4.5% annually for the last 10 years, but this growth has not been
sufficient to meet the rising demand resulting from the high per capita
incomes of the non-agrarian population, combined with a high rate of popula-
tion growth and urbanization. Imports of agricultural products have averaged
about US$200 million annually (1965-69), or about 15% of total imports. Ex-
ports from the sector represented only about 19% of agricultural imports,
however, resulting in a negative agricultural trade balance of about US$160
million annually (Annex 2). Livestock production has also failed to match
the demand for animal products, even with its annual increase of about 6%.
Imports of animal products, principally dairy, have averaged about US$33
million annually. The official statistics suggest that beef imports have
been less than 25% of this total (Annex 2, note 1); there are, however,
large contraband imports from Colombiia (para 2.13) which account for about
20% of the total annual cattle slaughtering.
1/   This is significnatly below US$1,000 for 1969 used in the World Bank
Atlas, and is derived from the newly-reconstructed and improved national
accounts recently released by the Central Bank.
2/   Colombia and Brazil, about 30%; Peru, 20%; Argentina, 15%; and Chile, 11%.



C. Government Policies
Land Tenure and Agrarian Reform
2.05      Comprehensive data on land use are based on the out-of-date
Agriculture Census of 1961, which does not reflect the recent impact of
the land reform program. The Census shows that an estimated 26 million ha
(30% of the total land area) were held in farms with less than 7% in crops.
Livestock and agricultural farms, ranging from 500 to 5,000 ha, accounted
for about 35% of the total agricultural area and those over 5,000 ha
accounted for an additional 45%.
2.06      An Agrarian Reform Law was passed in 1960 and the Instituto
Agrario Nacional (IAN) began implementation in 1961. Under its provisions,
all public land is affected and is to be used first for new settlements in
a specified area. If necessary, privately owned land can be acquired in the
following order: (a) idle land; (b) inefficiently managed land; (c) land
where cropping is feasible but which is used for grazing; and (d) any private
land w'iere all other sources are exhausted. Farms between 150 to 5,000 ha,
depending mostly on soil capability, are exempted as are properly managed
commercial livestock farms larger than 5,000 ha.
2.07      During the past 10 years, Venezuela pursued implementation of the
agrarian reform vigorously with noticeable results. Between 1961 and the
end of 1970, about 4.0 million ha changed ownership under the agrarian
reform, (1.4 million ha private land and 2.6 million ha public property).
Some 160,000 families were settled and large number of small holdings,
especially in areas suitable for crop farming, have received additional
land. The average size holding assigned to land reform beneficiaries varies
between 3 and 5 ha in areas suitable for crop farming and is about 100 ha
in areas where only livestock production on pastures is feasible. The cost
of the program to-date amounts to about US$400 million. However, experience
so far has shown that the size of holdings assigned is in many cases too
small to provide year-round employment and increases of income sufficient
to retain people on the land. This has apparently contributed to the
continued migration of rural population to urban activities.  IAN estimates
that, as of the end of 1970, about 100,000 families have remained, while
another 60,000 land reform beneficiaries apparently left the land to pursue
urban opportunities. Priority has, therefore, been shifted to the consolidation
of farms already allotted. Under an IDB-assisted agrarian reform project,
(PRIDA-Integral Agricultural Development Program), about B115 million (US$25
million) would be used for the further development and consolidation of
about 110 existing Agrarian Reform Settlements.
2.08      The Livestock Subsector.  Government policy has favored crop
production to provide cheap food for a growing population of urban wage
earners. Substantial pu-lic outlavs have been made over the last 10 years
in large-scale irrigation and drainage projects, agrarian reform (para 2.06)
and land settlement programs, subsidized credit schemes to farmers, and
especially to land reform beneficiaries, and price support programs for



- 4 -
agricultural products. 1/ These transfers by Government to the agricultural
sector grew from about US$110 mi'lion in 1960 to about US$210 million in
1969. Investments in the livestock sub-sector were about 25% of this amount.
2.09       In the future, emphasis is Ito shift to increased milk and meat pro-
duction. Targets are to increase millc production from about 800,000 tons in
1970 to about 1.3 million tons in 1974 and the national cattle herd from an
estimated 8.5 million to about 9.4 mi:Llion. It is also planned to raise
the annual offtake from the national herd from about 0.9 million to 1.2
million animals. If these goals are achieved, per capita meat consumption
should increase to about 36 kg per annum by 1974 (31 kg in 1969), of which
two-thirds, or 24 kg, would be beef 2/. Per capita milk equivalent is
projected to increase about 30% over 11970 consumption.
2.10      Government plans to improve the incentives for livestock develop-
ment, by first introducing a system of quality grades for live animals
and beef to be reflected in producer and consumer prices; and second, making
working capital available to industriall slaughterhouses and meat processing
facilities and closing down or modernizing obsolete abattoirs.
2.11       Beef production accounts for about 25% of the annual national
livestock production value (US$305 million), followed by dairy production,
25%; poultry, 12%; pigs, 12%; sheep and goats a minimal value; and other
livestock products, 25%. The combined! output from the livestock sub-sector
contributes about 45% of agricultural GDP. Livestock production is mostly
concentrated in the Llanos plains, the! Andean Foothills, and lowlands
surrounding Lake Maracaibo with 75% of the national livestock population
located in these regions. Further extensive areas of tropical lowlands
and undulating forest lands, sparsely inhabited, but with substantial
potential, particuiLarly in the Eastern and Southern Llanos Regions have yet
to be developed.
2.12       The national cattle herd is estimated at 8.5 million head of which
about 80% are beef. Combined beef/dairy operations are common, mostly in
the Lake Maracaibo and Andean Foothill Regions. Here, as well as in most
parts of the Eastern Sabana Region, ranching is more developed than in other
parts of the country. Ranching in the tropical lowlands of the Llanos Region
is of a low level of technology and features extensive holdings of natural
unimproved pastures.
2.13      Total annual cattle slaughtering has increased from 0.9 million
head in 1964 to about 1.2 million in 1970, including unofficially imported
stock from Colombia amounting to about 250,000 head of steers annually
(Annex 3, para 7). The offtake of the national herd (net of Colombia
1/   Rice, maize, coffee, cocoa, beans, potatoes, cotton, sisal, and milk.
2/   Beef consumption per annum per capita/kg, 1968:  Argentina 86,
Paraguay 72; Uruguay 63; Bolivia 8; Peru 8; Chile 22.



- 5 -
stock) is about 10% per annum, indicating both the present low level of
productivity and the potential for a substantial increase. An annual offtake
of 18% to 20% would be a reasonable long-range target.
2.14      The principal breed is the native Criollo type.  In recent years
attempts have been made to improve the quality of the national herd through
cross-breeding, mainly with imported Brahman, Zebu, Holstein, and Brown
Swiss purebred bulls. There are now 234 registered private and six Govern-
ment stud breeding ranches, with a combined herd of about 35,000 registered
beef and dairy cattle. These ranches produce about 6,000 bulls and 5,000
heifers annually for sale to livestock producers. There is, however, need
for further introduction of new blood through additional importations by
stud breeders. More rapid upgrading of locally bred stock would enable
Venezuela to meet the demands for improved breeding stock as its livestock
development program accelerates.
2.15      Roughly 1.7 million cattle contribute to milk production under a
wide range of climatic and geographic conditions. Production methods and
output levels vary considerably. On the more temperate slopes of the Andes
dairying is quite intensive, with European breeds, such as Friesian and
Brown Swiss, predominating. In the tropical areas, and particularly around
Lake Maracaibo, Criollo/Zebu crossbreds, with varying degrees of European
blood, are used. A common practice is to milk once daily and allow the
calves to freely suckle their mothers. The more specialized dairy farms
are concentrated around urban centers and fresh milk processing plants.
Population increase and rising urban per capita income have led to a growing
consumer demand, and Government-supported prices have brought about an ex-
pansion of milk producing areas. Present Government policy is to achieve
an increase in milk consumption of lower income families, the principal
consumers of powdered milk. To this end, subsidies are given to powdered
milk processing plants (to assist in covering operating costs), enabling
them to pay prices equal to those paid the producer by liquid milk process-
ing plants. As the buying power of the lower income consumer improves, the
subsidy would be phased out.
D. Animal Health
2.16      Foot-and--:.nulh dwsease (FMD; is endemic in Venezuela, as in
almost all other South ae:ica.  i countries.  Most of the country is infected,
excri-t 'cr a quarantined area that takes in about two-thirds of the State
of Belivar.  Livest3ck produ.;ced outs-de of this area cannot enter it, but
animals produced in the area can be market 3d -freely th::-oughout the country.
Other significant diseases are b:suc.llosis, naral..;tic rab4!es, tuberculosis,
and those that are tick-borne.  External paras tes are prevalent, but
ranck;ers are beginr.nig to control them ry s-.>ravyn- or dipping.  While
nineral deficiencies continue to exisz in some areas, supplemental feeding
of minerals is becom.ing more widely accepted.



- 6 -
2.17      The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (MAC) conducts regular
FMD and tuberculosis vaccination programs, at no cost to ranchers. Govern-
ment plans to start in 1972 a four-year program to strengthen the control
and eradication of animal diseases. The main objectives of this national
program would be the control of FMD and eradication of brucellosis, based
on decentralized diagnostic services. Under this program, estimated to
cost about US$45 million, funds would be provided for construction of a
second FMD vaccine production laboratory (MAC has the only vaccine produc-
tion laboratory in Venezuela) as well as one central and 10 diagnostic
laboratories, and 25 cattle movement control posts. It is also planned to
reimburse ranchers for any brucellosis-infected animals which would be
destroyed under the program.
E. Agricultural Services
Research, Extension, Education
2.18      MAC conducts its research and extension work through nine regional
sub-organizations, staffed by about 900 professionals. Assistance to live-
stock development includes provision of: (a) animal health and veterinary
services (para 2.17); (b) credit (para 2.26) and technical services; (c) six
purebred cattle breeding centers, producing annual-ly about 280 bulls for
commercial breeders; (d) two artificial insemination centers servicing about
31,000 cows annually, mostly Brown Swiss, Holstein and Gyr dairy breeds;
(e) research in agronomy and livestock through two of its agencies at
Maracay -- the Agricultural Research Center and the Veterinary Research
Center -- and 14 field staz ,ns; and (f) extension services, supplied from
67 nationwide offices, with :aajor emphasis on crop production. MAC has
five experimental stations, two of which are in Zulia State, and one each in
the states of Lara, Apure, and Guarico. Only the stations in Apure and
Guarico have significant pasture research programs, while others concentrate
mainly on aspects of tropical dairy production.
2.19      Other research programs are undertaken by the Universities of
Maracay, Maracaibo, Jusepin, Barquisimeto, and Merida, as well as by such
organizations as Servicio Shell and N'endoza, Creole, and Ford Foundations.
Research programs, however, are generally not well coordinated and place
little emphasis on tropical pasture and legume establishment or on beef
cattle studies.  As a resuit, effective C'emonstratiors of new production
and management techniques are not available to ranchers generally.
2.20      MAC, assisted by FAO/UNDP, commenced a fi;ve-year project in
January, 1969, to increase beef and dairy product:.cn. Under this project,
budgeted initially with US$7.1 m:liion, a survey of the main national
livestock production areas is be-ng carried out and applied research pro-
grams and priorities are being identified. Livestock extension specialists
are also being trained, some of whom would be recruiced by EDA as part of
the Project staff (para 4.03).



2.21      Three other Governnment agencies are also concerned with agricul-
tural development, namely: (a) the Central Coordination Planning Office
(CORDIPLAN), whi.h is responsible for coordinating and preparing development
plans; (b) the Agrarian Reform Institute (IAN), which is responsible for
executing agrarian reform programs; and (c) the Ministry of Public Works,
which undertakes infrastructure works: ditches, roads, irrigation and
drainage.
2.22      Agronomy and veterinary science courses are given in several of
Venezuela's universities, but only the University of Oriente offers a degree
in animal husbandry and no courses are available in agricultural economics,
farm planning, or ranch management. From 1963 to 1968, about 340 students
were graduated in agronomy and about 120 in veterinary science, with an addi-
tional 920 receiving diplomas in a variety of agricultural courses. At
present, Government is the main employer of these trained people, but it has
difficulty in finding competent graduates to fill field posts. Many graduates
continue their studies in foreign universities.
F. Agricultural Credit
Commercial Banks
2.23      Venezuela has a country-wide distribution of about 35 national
commercial banks. Although concentrated in the Caracas metropolitan area,
there are close to 500 banking offices, including headquarters' banks, branch
and agency offices, serving the country. Most credit goes to commercial
trade, industry and services. Commercial lending to agriculture has been
short term since agricultural credit could not exceed two years under banking
legislation. Recent legislation, however, increased the term to five years
except for BDA which can make loans up to 20 years (para 2.27). Commercial
banks charge 10-12% interest per annum.
Agricultural and Livestock Bank (BAP)
2.24      The principal institutional source of agricultural credit, provid-
ing 65-70% of the total, is BAP which was founded in 1928 as an autonomous
Government agency under the supervision of MAC. BAP is concerned with a
wide range of activities. in addition to its credit operations, it provides
general banking services, accepts deposits, discounts drafts, bills or notes,
imports and merchandises agricultural inputs, and is responsible for carry-
ing -uc Government's minimw-i  price sip---t program for six crops 1/.  In
addition to credit, this program involves BAP in a country-wide system of
storage and processing fac `itfes anr; marKeti._ng  often with financial losses
resulting from its merchandise operation_.
2.25      Under its lending programs, BA? provides long--term credit (15
years) at subsidized interest razes of 2.9 to 6%.  Loan defaults are high;
detailed records including analyses of age of arrears are not available but
i/  Rice, maize, l-eans, po:atoes, cotton and sisal.



- 8 -
it is estimated that at least 30% of the loan portfolio is in serious
default. Although BAP can lend to comnercial farmers, its principal purpose
is to provide credit to small and medium-size farmers 1/, including the
land reform settlers of the National Agrarian Institute (IAN, para 2.06).
It continues to meet these credit needs from its own resources and national
budget funds, which during 1966-70 averaged US$33 million annually. Also
it has been the recipient of several loans from international and bilateral
institutions - US$5.5 million from IDB, US$10 million from USAID and US$12
million from EXIMBANK. These loans have been disbursed and were used
principally for the importation of cattle, a supervised credit scheme, and
the importation of machinery, respectively.  An IDB loan to BAP of US$75
million 2/ (approved in 1971) includes about US$13 million for credit to
small farmers, IAN land settlement schemes, and farmers' associations.
By the law establishing BDA, BAP was required to transfer to BDA its portfolio
of loans made at 4% or higher annual inaterest rates. This portfolio, ap-
proximating US$45 million, was transferred in 1971.
Livestock Development Plan (Plan de Fomnento Pecuario - PFP)
2.26      In 1958 MAC inaugurated a special livestock development program
administered in part by BAP. Plan de Fomento Pecuario (PFP) was an im-
portant source of credit for the livestock sub-sector. MAC prepared the
farm plans, approved the loans, and apipraised the creditworthiness of
applicants. About 100 technicians handled the field work out of 33 field
offices, each headed by a veterinarian. Disbursement of the loans, collec-
tions, and record-keeping was performed by BAP but the Government assumed
the risk. About 5,000 loans for about US$100 million (average loan size
US$20,000) were disbursed through 1969, principally to the beef cattle sub-
sector. Funds were used mainly for cattle purchase, though pasture improve-
ment and ranch infrastructure facilitiies were also eligible. Loans were
granted up to 16 years, including a four-year grace period at 4% interest.
Under the BDA Law, the PFP portfolio of nearly US$100 million was transferred
to BDA in 1970. Roll-over funds of this account may be used by BDA for
further agricultural lending (see also para 2.28).
Agricultural Development Bank (Banco die Desarrollo Agropecuario - BDA)
2.27      Recognizing that available credit from private commercial banks,
BAP and PFP, was insufficient and not always available at appropriate
terms for the development of the commercial sector of agriculture, Govern-
ment created BDA by law in 1967, but it did not start operating until late
1969. 50% of the stock is held by Government and 50% by the private sector.
It is empowered to conduct normal banking operations, but its primary
1/   Small farmers are defined as those having gross annual agricultural
incomes up to B 30,000 (US$6,600); medium farmers as those with incomes
from B 30,000 to B 70,000 (US$15,500); and commercial farmers with
incomes above B 70,000 (US$15,500).
2/   PRIDA Project - Integral Agricultural Development Program.



- 9 -
function is to provide short (up to two years), medium (up to seven years),
and long-term (up to 20 years) credit to commercial type agricultural enter-
prises. Under its regulations, commercial-type enterprises are defined as
those having acceptable financial viability and adequate capacity to repay
a loan on commercial terms. No minimum or maximum criteria as to size of
farms/ranches are applied, but the amount of credit cannot exceed B 500,000
(US$111,000) per single borrower, or 10% of BDA's paid-in capital and
reserves to a single company or association of borrowers.
2.28      BDA's sources of funds are from paid-in capital, annual Government
trust grants, interest-free sight deposits from Government entities, demand
and savings deposits from the private sector, rediscount with the Central
Bank, annual net earnings, and a 4% per annum trustee management fee on the
BAP and PFP transferred loan portfolios. Principal sources of current funds
are the management fee fT-om the trust portfolios, and annual Government
contribution. Management fees alone in 1970 and 1971 accounted for about
75% of BDA's income. BDA's authorized capital is B 100 million (US$22 mil-
lion) and paid-in capital approximated B 38 million (US$8.5 million) at the
end of 1971. Any losses on PFP loans are on account of Government. A
unique feature of BDA's capital structure is that each borrower must purchase
class B shares equivalent to 5% of his loan, which is then matched by
Government purchase of class A shares.
2.29      The administration of BDA is vested in a Board of Directors
composed of five members. Two, representing Government's class A shares,
are appointed by the President of Venezuela and the other three, represent-
ing the private sector, are elected by the holders of class B shares. The
President of the Board (currently one of the appointees of the President
of Venezuela) is also the chief executive officer. The Board meets weekly
and takes an active role in the development and operations of BDA. BDA is
capably staffed with experienced personnel in management and administrative
positions, and has a strong staff of about 60 livestock and agricultural
technicians.
2.30      BDA is establishing a country-wide banking service by placing
branch banks and technical services agency offices in strategic locations.
It now has five branch banks, three agency offices, and seven technical
services offices. It will continue to expand as rapidly as qualified
personnel can be employed and capital resources permit. Overall, its organi-
zation and operations are efficient and businesslike and its lending policies
are sound. Loans may be secured by (a) mortgages (real estate and chattel);
(b) agrarian or industrial pledge; (c) mortgage on long-term rights of
occupancy; (d) bonds or guarantees from third parties; and (e) agrarian debt
bonds in accordance with the norms set forth in the Agrarian Reform Law.
Loans secured by mortgages may not exceed two-thirds of the market value of
the security. All loans are based on an appraisal report made by a BDA
technician. After a loan is granted, several supervision inspections are
made. A detailed appraisal of BDA is given in Annex 4, including a projec-
tion of its financial operations during 1972 to 1974. Or. a conservative
basis, ic is expected that BDA's financial condition would be sound and
its operating results satisfactory.



- 10 -
III. PROJECT AREA
A. General Description
3.01      The Project would be nationwide with beneficiaries located in 19
of the 22 states of Venezuela, and further characterized by five distinct
geographical regions. A few minor areas where BDA does not have credit
servicing capability would be excluded, as well as that part of the State
of Bolivar affected by an FMD quarantine regulation prohibiting the movement
of nationally bred slaughter and breeding animals into the area. Within
that area, however, loans could be made to purebred cattle breeding centers
as breeding stock would be imported from foreign countries either free of
FMD or with FMD controls satisfactory to Venezuelan animal health author-
ities. The Project would be oriented to commercial type beef ranching. The
programs of BAP and PFP would continue to develop predominantly small sub-
sistence farmers and those settled under agrarian reform.
3.02      Venezuela has a wide range of climate and most arable land is
located in the tropical and sub-tropical zones. Through much of the country,
rainfall distribution is characterized by a rainy winter season, April to
November, and a dry summer season, December to March, although the dry
season is not very pronounced in the mountain and piedmont zones. Total
annual rainfall ranges from less than 700 mm annually in the Northern
coastal states to more than 3,000 mm in parts of the Southeast, but, in
general, is between 1,000 and 2,000 nm annually. Seasonal flooding is
common in the Llanos Region and Lake Maracaibo Basin. Average temperature
varies between 11 C and 29°C.
B. Project Regions
Llanos
3.03      The Llanos Region, a major part of the Project Area, extends from
the eastern slope of the Andean Foothills toward the east and south and
southeastern plains of the states of Apure and Barinas. Comprising about
8 million ha, or 50% of the national grazing land, the Llanos is character-
ized by extensive areas of low-quality grazing with intermittent tropical
and sub-tropical forest growth.  Substantial areas are subject to annual
seasonal flooding for up to six months. Extensive production methods are
applied, with most of the offtake of about 10% sold as slaughter steers at
3-4 years old. Ranching methods are still traditional and depend primarily
on the use of natural unimproved pasture. These factors combined with low
levels of management, limited ranch development, and poor communications,
contribute to a relatively low level of productivity. Average calving
percentages are low and range around 50% and mortalities are high, 8 to 10%.
Soils tend to be deficient in minerals and would require initial applications
of fertilizers to produce good quality pasture. Ranch sizes range between



- 11 -
2,000 and 50,000 ha, with low carrying capacities of 15-20 animals per 100
ha, and a high proportion of aged cows that never reach the market. Although
operating on a low carrying capacity per ha, many ranches are overstocked in
relation to infrastructure facilities, e.g., fencing and water.
Andean Highlands-Foothills
3.04      The Project area in the Andean Highlands-Foothills Region would
encompass the rolling foothills on both the western and eastern slopes of
the Andean chain of mountains. Roughly, elevations range from 500 m to
1,500 m; average annual rainfall is 1,000 mm which is more evenly distributed
than in other regions. Ranch sizes are much smaller than in the Llanos
Region, ranging from about 500 to 1,000 ha with a medium carrying capacity
of about 40 animals per 100 ha. The Region is one of the two major fattening
areas in Venezuela, the other being Lake Maracaibo Region (para 3.05).
Lake Maracaibo
3.05      The Lake Maracaibo Region, which surrounds Lake Maracaibo, is
mostly flat, less than 100 m, but rises as it merges into the Andean Foot-
hills and the Northern Cordillera range. It is hot and humid; average annual
rainfall ranges around 2,000 mm with no marked dry seasons; parts of the
area are subject to flooding but extensive new areas are being made available
for livestock production by Government which is constructing access roads and
flood control works. This Region, together with the Andean Highlands-Foot-
hills Region are the principal steer fattening areas and which also account
for about two-thirds of the national milk production. Ranch sizes range from
about 50 to 300 ha with a carrying capacity of about 80 animals per 100 ha,
double that of the Andean Highlands.
Northern Cordillera
3.06      The Northern Cordillera Region of north central Venezuela is
characterized by intermittent valleys and steeply sloping mountainsides.
Although grazing only about 10%l of the national herd, the region's beef/
dairy production is significant, being close to large urban markets of
Caracas and Valencia. Soil fertility is generally good but most pastures
are nitrogen-deficient with limited fertilization practiced. Nitrogen
fixation in pastures by tne introduction of tropical pasture legumes has
not been attempted. Management standards are fair'y good, although pastures
,.aaerally are inefficiently utilized because ranchers lack experience in
c_.;trolled grazing methods.  Carrying capacities are medium and range around
50 animals per 100 ha.
Eadtern Sabana
.07      About 9% (700,000) of the national herd is supported in the
eastern Sabana Region, with off-take sold for slaughter and some milk pro-
duction. Ranch size ranges from 500 ha to 2,000 ha with carrying capacities
of 40-50 animals per 100 ha. Some pasture improvement has been started,



- 1 2 -
particularly with pangola grass on open Sabana lands of reasonable fertility.
Areas adjoining to the south (Bolivar State) offer about 10% higher market
prices for meat and milk, mainly in thie fast growing Ciudad Guyana area where
several new industries have been established recently.
IV. THE PIROJECT
A. General Description
4.01       The Project is designed to Lncrease beef production in Venezuela
through better utilization of vast areas of pasture lands and to improve
the productivity of the national herd. The Project would provide long-term
credit to commercial livestock producers through BDA. This would be BDA's
first participation in long-term lending for livestock development under
the national five-year plan, 1970-74. The Project would provide funds
and technical services for about 800 ranchers to increase their production
through: application of better herd management practices- establishment of
improved pastures; up-grading of their breeding stock; improvement of stock
handling facilities; housing for labor; and necessary machinery and equip-
ment to carry out development programs and to operate the ranches.
4.02       The beef ranch units that would be developed would range from
small producers with existing herds of about 50 breeding cows to medium
size units ranging from 150 to 600 breeding cows. BDA would also use a
limited amount of Project funds for the development of group and/or
cooperative ranching schemes to gain experience in this type of lending.
All livestock producers would be assisted by livestock credit technicians
in systematic ranch development planning and supervision of long- and
short-term credits.
4.03       To assist in the long-range development strategy of the livestock
industry, the Project would also finance special consultant services to:
(a) improve livestock marketing and meat processing; (b) introduce best
known methods of establishing tropicaL pastures and legume and grass seed
multiplication; (c) improve animal nultrition; and (d) demonstrate low-cost
land clearing techniques. Finally, it would provide for broader development
of Venezuelan livestock production and credit expertise through overseas
training grants for about 10 Project technicians.
B. Detailed Features
Ranch Development
4.04       Reflecting the regional differences within the livestock in-
dustry, proposed ranch development involves four different types of pro-
duction units: (a) breeding/growing operations where production practices



- 13
and land areas are extensive; (b) breeding/fattening in more developed
areas; (c) mixed beef breeding/fattening/dairying in areas with more in-
tensive production systems, generally characterized by smallholdings; and
(d) country-wide purebred beef cattle breeding units. Each type reflects
specific development conditions and requirements of the regions including
ranch size, investment requirements, management skills and technical assist-
ance needs. Projections for the development of each type are based on
illustrative ranch models (Annexes 5-9).  On the more extensive types of
ranches, new on-ranch investment would represent the first phase of
introducing modern technology and management in beef production. Project
investments would emphasize pasture improvement and upgrading of breeding
stock. These investments together with better management of stock would
increase carrying capacity, permit fuller utilization of extensive grass-
land resources, and improve livestock quality and productivity.
Beef Breeding/Growing Ranch (Model 1)
4.05      This type of ranch (Annex 5), located principally in the ex-
tensive ranching areas of Llanos Region, would have a pre-development
herd of about 500 breeding cows, the general practice being to sell 3 to
4 year-old unfinished steers for slaughter. The competitive advantage
of this type of extensive rancn lies in the production of lean steers
(18-20 mo) for sale to the traditional fattening areas, especially the
Andean Foothills and Lake Maracaibo Regions (paras 3.04 and 3.05). New
investments would include the development of improved pastures sufficient
to sustain the young stock during the heavy seasonal rainfall period when
parts of the ranch are flooded and are usable only for part-time grazing by
mature stock.  New investments in fencing, watering and livestock handling
facilities would also improve the carrying capacity of the remaining un-
improved natural pastures. Total average carrying capacity would increase
from about 20 to 30 animals per 100 ha. Purchase of upgraded breeding stock
would account for about 50% of all new on-raach investments.
Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch (Model 2)
4.06      The beef breeding and steer fattening type of ranch (Annex 6)
wotuld be favorably located with respect to transport and markets.  Project
particar.ts would be principally in the Andean Foothills and Lake Maracaibo
Regions, with a few in the Northern Cordillera and Eastern Sabana Regions.
i. typical ranch would have a pre-develonment breedirg herd of about 200 cows,
increasing to about 275 cows at full development.  The principal annual out-
pu_ would be about 100 ranch-bred and 350 purchnsed steers fattened for
slauhtier.  In gerneral, purchased steers would come from the extensive
breeding/growing ranches (para 4.05).  New investments would be principally
for pasture improvement and upgraded oreeding stock which wou'ld average
about 30% of total on-ranch development costs.  Other investments would
n,clude machinery, stock handling facilities and ranch structures.  Short-
term credit would also be provided for purchase of feeder steers.



- 14 -
Beef Breeding/Fattening/Dairy Ranch (Model 3)
4.07      This type of ranch (Annex 7) would milk some cows (15-20%) but
would emphasize breeding and fattening of ranch-bred steers for slaughter.
Cattle of principally native Criollo type would be upgraded to increase
beef production. A basic herd of about 350 breeding cows would stabilize
at around 600 cows. This type of ranch occurs mostly in Lake Maracaibo-
Andean Foothills Regions with lesser numbers in Northern Cordillera and
Eastern Sabana Regions. Investment fEor breeding stock would account for
about 45% of total on-ranch development cost. Other principal investments
would be for pasture improvement (200 ha), machinery and ranch structures.
Beef Breeding/Fattening/Dairy Ranch (Model 4)
4.08      This type of ranch (Annex 8) would be representative of smaller
producers concentrated in the more developed Lake Maracaibo Region. An
initial herd of about 50 cows would increase to about 80 cows (about 50-75%
milked). Improvements would be aimed at increasing beef production by
encouraging steer retentions and purchase of small lots of steers for
fattening on improved pastures (100 ha would be developed). Other basic
on-ranch investments would include better livestock (about 35% of total
cost), ranch structures, fencing and machinery. Some increased milk pro-
duction can also be expected, due malnly to better management and pasture
quality.
Purebred Beef Breeding Center (Model 5)
4.09      Usually, this type of unit (Annex 9) would be a part of an on-
going commercial ranch, but one that specialized in the sale of purebred
breeding stock to commercial ranchers. Purebred stock ranches are widely
distributed, and 240 are now registered with the National Purebred Breeders'
Association (para 2.14).  Project funds would finance imports of top quality
bulls and females, which would up-grade the national purebred herd as well
as increase the supply of better quality animals for expected expansion
of the national livestock industry. Average investments for purebred stock
(imported and local) would approximate about 70% of total new investments.
Other prinicipal inputs would be for improvement of pastures, ranch struc-
tures, and fencing.
4.10      While it is not possible to predict with certainty the number of
participating ranches and their distribution by region and type, it is
expected that approximately 815 ranches would be serviced under this first
phase project. Participation by types is estimated to be roughly as follows:
Model 1 - 250 ranches; Model 2 - 250 ranches; Model 3 - 100 ranches;
Model 4 - 200 ranches; and Model 5 - 15 ranches. Livestock producers'
associations or cooperatives meeting the agreed criteria for lending under
the Project would be eligible. They are likely to be similar in concept to
Models 1, 2 and 3.



- 15 -
Technical Services
4.11      Execution of the Project would be carried out by a professional
technical services staff (para 4.23) who would assist participating ranchers
in the development of technically and financially viable ranch development
plans, and who would also supervise the implementation of such plans. To
facilitate field work finance would be provided for purchase of about 25
vehicles, two aircraft, and about eight radio-telephone communication units.
Consultant Services
4.12      Consultant services to be provided under the Project would include:
(a) specialists on beef marketing and processing to assist in a program of
improvement in the grading, pricing and marketing of cattle and beef
products; (b) tropical pasture and legume specialists to determine the most
suitable grass, forage and legume types and combinations for conditions in
the various regions of Venezuela, along with determining best techniques for
establishing improved pastures; (c) an animal nutrition specialist to im-
prove the feeding regime of animals; and (d) a land clearing specialist to
conduct trial work in establishing the most economical and technically
efficient land clearing methods under local conditions.
C. Cost Estimates
4.13      Total Project cost is estimated at US$39 million.  Estimates are
based on prevailing local prices and a contingency allowance of about 10%
for possible increases in prices and quantities. (The rate of inflation
is less than 2% per annum.) The estimated foreign exchange component is
US$11 million, or 28% of total Project cost. Details of investment costs
by major categories and estimated foreign exchange components are shown in
Annex 10 and summarized below:
Total   % Foreign
B(million)           US$(million)      Project Exchange
Category          Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Cost   Component
On-ranch
development
Pastures         29.9  12.6   42.5    6.6    2.8    9.4    24             30
Ranch
Structures      21.4   8.1   29.5    4.8    1.8    6.6    17            27
Mach.inery and
Equipment        5.5   8.6   14.1    1.2    1.9    3.1        8          61
Livestock        55.7  15.7   71.4   12.4    3.5   '5.9    41             22
Sub-total   112.5  45.0  157.5   25.0   10.0.0   35.0    90           29
Technical
Services          8.5   3.4   11.9    1.9    0.8    2.7        6          30
Consultant
Services           -    1.1    1.1      -      0.2    0.2      1         1nO
Sub-total      8.5   4.5   13.0    1.9    1.0    2.9        7         34
Incremental
Working Capital  5.0    -       5.0    1.1   _        1.1      3
Total        126.0  49.5  175.5   28.0   11.0   39.0   100            28



- 16, -
D. Proposed Financing
4.14
Bank         BDA       Government   Ranchers       Total
Category          Amount  %   Amount  %   Amount  Z   Amount  %   Amount  %
_________---------(US$ million)------------------------
On-ranch
Development      10.0  29      3.0   9    15.0  42      7.0  20    35.0 100
Technical and
Consultant
Services          1.0  34      1.9  66       -    -      -    -      2.9 100
Incremental
Working Capital   -    -       1.1 100       -    -       -    -     1.1 100
Total         11.0  28     6.0  15    15.0  39       7.0  18    39.0 100
Project financing would be from four sources:  (a) the proposed Bank loan
of US$11 million, which would finance the equivalent of the foreign ex-
change component; (b) BDA from its own capital resources would finance
about 10% of on-ranch develapment costs, all local costs for technical and
consultant services, and would provide the working capital; (c) Government
would provide BDA with the additional funds needed (about US$15 million) for
long-term loans; and (d) participating ranchers would contribute, on the
average, 20% of new on-ranch investments in cash and kind.
4.15      Given the heavy demand on BDA to provide credit in other sectors
of agriculture and its capacity to meet this demand, its contribution to
this Project is considered maximum. BDA would be the borrower and would bear
the foreign exchange risk. A loan term of 15 years, including a grace
period of five and a half years, is recommended. This reflects the approxi-
mate time period over which long-term loans would be made and recovered in-
cluding an allowance for slippage.
4.16      During negotiations, assurances were obtained with respect to the
above cost-sharing arrangements, including BDA's contribution (para 4.14 (b))
coupled with Government's contribution of at least US$15 million (para 4.14
(c)), and the assumption of the foreign exchange risk by BDA.
E. Procurement
4.17      Commodities required for on-ranch development, such as agricul-
tural machinery and equipment, fencing, seeds, ranch structures, and
cattle, would be obtained through existing commercial channels. Inter-
national competitive bidding would not be practicable: requirements would



- 17
vary considerably from ranch to ranch, individual items would be too small
to attract competitive bidd:ng, and bulking for purpose of procurement would
be impracticable. With numerous agricultural suppliers for all goods,
both imported and local, adequate competition is assured. Adequate facili-
ties exist for servicing agricultural machinery and equipment. Import permits
are required but no import duties are levied on agricultural inputs, in-
cluding livestock. Imports having a high foreign exchange component, such
as agricultural machinery, equipment and livestock, are imported from the
United States, United Kingdom, Western European countries, Japan and Colombia.
4.18      Vehicles for Project use (about 25) would be obtained through
normal commercial channels. Since purchases would be spread over at least
three years, bulk procurement would be impracticable. International com-
petitive bidding would be followed for possibly one or two aircraft. However,
this procedure would not be appropriate for the radio-telephone equipment
which should be similar to BDA's partially complete system. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations with respect to these procurement procedures.
F.  Disbursement
4.19      The Bank loan would be disbursed as follows:
(a) Cattle Ranch Development - 36% of long-term loan funds
disbursed by BDA to participating ranchers (equivalent
to 29% of on-ranch development cost); and
(b) Technical Services - 90% of the following expenditures:
salary, emolument, international travel, housing, and
other allowances of the Technical Director; 100% of consult-
ants' services, international travel for Project technicians;
c.i.f. costs of technical services and goods such as
aircraft, radio-telephone equipment, veterinary equipment,
pasture demonstration materials (seed and fertilizer);
and 60% of locally procured goods, e.g., vehicles and
office equipment.
4.20      Disbursements would be based upon appropriate documents, certi-
fied and submitted by BDA to the Bank. Documentation for ranch development
loans would include major categories of investments, country of origin
of goods, if known, and would be subject to the recommendation of the
Technical Director to the Chief, Livestock Development Unit (LDU). Docu-
mentation for technical services would include suppliers' invoices for
purchased goods. Disbursements for most ranch development plans would be
phased over three years. Full disbursements would be achieved in five
years. The annual phasing of investments and the forecast of quarterly
disbursements are shown in Annex 11, Tables 1 and 2.



- 18, -
G. Organization and Management
Administration
4.21      BDA, as borrower, would administer the Project.  While executives
of BDA would provide overall administrative direction, day-to-day operations
would be carried out by the Livestock Development Unit (LDU), responsible to
the Deputy Manager, BDA (Annex 12). The LDU would be headed by a Chief who
would have administrative capabilities as well as experience in commercial
ranch development; he would be assisted by a Technical Director in carrying
out his duties (para 4.22). At least 25 livestock production technicians
would be attached to the Unit. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that as a condition of effectiveness LDU would be established and the
Technical Director appointed subject to Bank approval.
Technical Services
4.22      The Technical Director, in collaboration with the Chief, LDU,
would be particularly concerned with technical and financial aspects of
ranch development plans. He would recommend to the Chief the livestock
technicians to be appointed by BDA for assignment to the Project. He would
assist in their training and supervision and would report to the Chief, LDU,
cases requiring remedial personnel action. Also, he would recommend to the
Chief short-term international travel grants for key Project personnel to
observe commercial ranch development practices in countries with ecological
and environmental conditions similar to Venezuela. Furthermore, he would
assist in the coordination of ancillary Project components, e.g., pasture
improvement trials on Project ranches and low-cost land-clearing techniques.
4.23      Since technically and financially sound ranch development would
be dependent on the introduction of improved development techniques and
management practices under tropical and subtropical conditions, it is
important that the Technical Director be fully qualified and experienced
to implement this aspect of the Project. BDA is of the opinion that it
is unlikely that such an expert would be found in Venezuela and, therefore,
would employ a Technical Director from outside the country with experience
in areas of other countries in beef production similar to those of
Venezuela. No difficulty is anticipated in obtaining an adequate number
of livestock technicians within Venezuela. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that any appointments during the disbursement period
to the position of Chief, LDU, would be made dtOly after consultation with
the Bank, and that selection of the Technical Director and special consultants
(para 4.12) would be subject to the approval of the Bank with respect to
their qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of em-
ployment. Terms of references and qualifications are given in Annex 13.



- 19 -
H. Lending Policies and Procedures
4.24      Applications and loans would be processed and serviced by LDU,
usually after BDA had screened the applicants with respect to creditworthiness.
BDA would bear the full credit risk. Generally, collateral requirements
would be satisfied with mortgages on free-hold land or registered long-term
leases. In appropriate instances, chattel mortgages on livestock and
machinery would be taken. The amount of a long-term loan would not exceed
two-thirds of the value of the real estate collateral, but increased real
estate value resulting from the proposed on-ranch investments would be
reflected in the valuation for collateral purposes.
4.25      BDA would make two types of loans to Project beneficiaries:
long-term to provide funds for ranch development, and short-term for
operating expenses as well as purchase of feeder steers for ranches
technically and economically suitable for fattening steers. Interest
would be 9% per annum on the outstanding balance for long-term loans and
about 10.5% on short-term loans. These interest rates would be in line
with BDA's lending policies and also would be competitive with private
commercial banks. The blended cost of capital for the Project would be
about 5%, on the basis of an IBRD loan at 7.25%, rediscounting facility
with Central Bank at 5.5Z, equity contributions from Government, and interest
cost of deposits. This would give BDA a spread of about 4% on long-term
loans, which would be adequate to meet the costs of technical services and
administration, and to accumulate reserves. Repayment terms for long-term
loans would be flexible and would reflect the forecast cash flow of the
ranch investment plan to be financed. Terms would range from eight to ten
years and would include grace periods of three to five years. The amounts
of loans would be predicated on the requirements shown in ranch investment
plans, prepared by BDA livestock technicians in conjunction with applicant-
borrowers. These would be recommended by the Technical Director to the
Chief, LDU, for submission to BDA's loan approval authorities. Technical
aspects of ranch development plans would not be altered by BDA's loan
approval authorities without consent of the Chief and the Technical Director,
LDU, though they may be rejected for lack of creditworthiness. The Chief
and Technical Director could delegate authority to qualified regional chief
livestock technicians for review and recommendation of ranch investment
plans for loan action. Individual long-term loans above B 500,000 (US$110,000
equivalent) would require prior approval by the Bank. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations with respect to the foregoing lending terms.
4.26      To achieve the balance of inputs (physical inputs and breeding
cattle) needed for the expected rate of herd build-up, the amount of
finances for purchase of breeding stock under any ranch investment plan
would not exceed 60% of the total loan. If, however, in the judgment of
the Technical Director a higher investment in breeding stock is warranted,
as an exception up to 75% of the loan may be considered for such purchases.
No such limitation would be applied for the development of a purebred
breeding center such as Model 5 (para 4.09). Appropriate assurances were



- 20 -
obtained during negotiations with respect to these lending criteria.
To protect animal health on Project ranches, assurances were obtained that
all cattle would be routinely vaccinated against FMD (para 2.17).
4.27      The lending program for the Project and its financial implication
to BDA are shown in Annex 14. A term of 15 years including five and a half
years of grace for the Bank loan would broaden BDA's lending program compared
with its present operations. Long-term loans of ten years made at the end
of Project year-3 would mature in year-14. A 15-year term should be ade-
quate to provide for any unforeseen slippage.
I. Accounts and Audit
4.28      BDA's business and financial operations are closely inspected
and audited by an internal controller's division and two external auditors
elected by the shareholders. It is also subject to audit by the Superin-
tendent of Banks and employs a Venezuelan auditing firm (T. Serrano
Keistin and Associates) to make semi-annual audits. BDA would maintain
separate accounts for Project activities, which would be audited annually
by an independent auditor acceptable! to the Bank. BDA's audited financial
statements including audited project accounts would be sent to the Bank not
later than three months after the close of its fiscal year, which coincides
with the calendar year. Assurances with respect to the maintenance and
audit of Project accounts, audit of BDA's financial accounts, and sub-
mission to the Bank were obtained during negotiations.
V. MARKETS, PRICES AND PRODUCER BENEFITS
A. Markets
5.01      Because of Venezuela's fast population growth and increasing
per capita beef consumption, the estimated deficit of beef supply would
be about 60,000 tons in the seventies and about three times as much by
about 1990 (Annex 3). No problems, therefore, are envisaged in selling
in Venezuela the products from the Project, making a significant impact
on foreign exchange savings for beef imports.  CORDIPLAN estimates that
the unofficial movement of about 250,000 head of cattle annually from
Colombia during the sixties represented a value of about US$25 to 30
million.
5.02      In general, there is free movement of cattle and beef products
to domestic markets. However, the efficiency of trade would be improved
through a systematic meat price grading system, especially beef, phasing
out of obsolescent municipal abattoirs, and provision of working capital
to enable slaughterhouses to pay cash for animals upon direct delivery
by the producer at plant site (para 2.10). The application of these



- 21 -
measures would lessen the dominant role of middlemen in the cattle trade
industry and would enable economic benefits to accrue to producers and
consumers. A countrywide network of 24 modern slaughterhouses, currently
operating at less than 50% capacity, would be adequate to handle increased
production resulting from the Project.
B. Prices
5.03      Ranch prices for fattened cattle have been favorable and
relatively stable. Present prices, as well as those expected in the
foreseeable future, would provide sufficient incentives to ranchers to
make new investments for ranch improvements and cattle. Prevailing live-
weight cattle prices range between B1.50 to 2.00 (US$0.33 to 0.44) per
kg, making them higher than prices in neighboring countries 1/. Prices
at all levels are uncontrolled except for retail prices of lower grade
beef sold in government-operated public markets. The latter regulate
retail prices of lower grade beef and certain cuts of beef at levels
within reach of the lower income consumers. Prices of breeding animals
are likely to increase in the future as the demand, especially for
quality heifers, is strong. Producer prices of cattle and milk are
expected to remain stable and there are not likely to be any significant
changes in operating costs except perhaps labor costs.
C. Producer Benefits
5.04      Income to producers and financial rates of returns have been
estimated on the basis of ranch budgets of illustrative models (Annexes 5,
6, 7, 8 and 9). Such estimates show that, as a result of investing under
the Project, participating ranchers are expected to achieve returns on
their investment and generate increments in net income sufficient to
encourage their participation. Estimated financial rates of return would
range between 16% and 23% (Annex 15). Incremental income to producers,
after nine years of development, would range between US$2,000 in Model 4
to about US$15,000 in Model 1. The following are summary budgets for
the breeding/fattening models:
1/   The prices are higher than in Colombia - 20% to 30%, Bolivia - 40%,
and Ecuador - 10% to 20%.



- 22 -
(in US$' 000)
Model 1         Model 2         Model 3          Model 4
At    With      At:   With      At    With       At    With
Present Devel- Present Devel- Present Devel- Present Devel-
opment          opment          opment           opment
Gross Value of
Production    25.9   64.3    28.0   87.6    31.5   69.6    6.5    17.5
Production
Cost - Total  17.2   27.7    23.4   65.0    18.1   28.4    4.6    10.7
Labor Cost   9.0   11.9       6.2    8.3       9.8   11.6    2.5       3.3
Maintenance
Expenditures 3.2    8.0       3.1    7.7       4.2    9.2    0.7       2.4
Operating
Expenses      3.4    5.3    12.0   43.1        2.5    5.0    1.0       4.0
Contin-
gencies       1.6    2.5      2.1    5.9       1.6    2.6    0.4       1.0
Operating Income 8.7   36.6        4.6   22.6    13.4   41.2    1.9         6.5
Taxes             0.2    1.3       0.9    2.0      0.4    1.5       -      0.2
Debt Service       -    11.4        -     8.4       -    13.1      -       2.8
Net Income        8.5   23.9       3.7   12.2    13.0   26.6    1.9        3.5
Incremental
Income           -    15.4       -      8.5       -    13.6      -       1.6
Herd Value      123.0  195.5    50.8   77.3    83.5  170.4   12.5    25.8
Incremental
Herd Value       -    72.5        -    26.5       -    86.9      -      13.3
5.05      Ranchers' incomes are composed of cattle sales, net of operating
expenses, plus cattle retained to build up the herd, the latter representing
the lower limit of personal savings generated by the Project.  Average
annual savings in the form of cattle retention estimated on ranch models
would range between 28% and 39% of ranchers' total incremental ranch
incomes. It is likely that participating ranchers would also continue to
save part of their incremental cash income. In addition, part of the
income generated by the Project would be collected by Government through
taxes (para 6.02).
5.06      Labor cost represents between 13% and 40% of estimated total
operating costs.  Available agricultural labor force in Venezuela is
already relatively small and is expected to decline further in the future
(para 2.01). However, unit labor cost is still low and while in recent
years such cost has not shown any significant increase, given possible
labor shortages in Venezuela, this situation could change. Nevertheless,
the 10% contingency allowance calculated in the financial projections
should be sufficient to compensate any such possible rise in labor cost on
estimated returns.



- 23 -
VI. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
6.01      The Project would have not only a favorable rate of return to
the economy, estimated at 17% (Annex 16), it also would have a significant
impact on future development of the country's livestock industry. Better
animal husbandry would be practised, as would improved pasture management
and technology, productivity would be increased, and better quality
foundation breeding stock would become available for subsequent phases of
development. At full development, about year 9, Project ranches would
produce approximately 900 purebred bulls, 500 purebred heifers, 38,000
commercial grade heifers, and 60,000 steers for fattening for a total
annual increase of about 100,000 animals. The annual incremental production
from the Project would represent about one-fourth of the projected increase
in domestic production during the next five years. Annual incremental
production after full development (about year-7) would be about 20,000 tons
of carcass beef or about 8% of total production that time.
6.02      About 2,000 new ranch jobs would be created in addition to the
incremental manpower requirements for development and ancillary services,
e.g., transport, processing and trade. Furthermore, about 800 ranches
would introduce modern technology which would have a positive educational
effect in establishing a countrywide efficient commercial cattle industry.
Additional tax revenue would be generated for Government in the form of
income taxes. At full development, Project beneficiaries would pay
annual incremental income taxes of about US$1 million or about three times
more than would be due without further development.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(1)  That Government would provide BDA at least US$15 million
for long-term loans for ranch development (para 4.14 and
4.16);
(2)  That BDA would:
(a)  provide from its own resourcos funds for on-ranch
development; finance local costs of technical and
consultant services; anL provide .ae working capital
(paras 4.14 and 4.!6);
(b)  apply international competitive bidding for aircraft
procurement (para 4.18);



- 24 -
(c) consult with the Bank before appointing the Chief,
LDU; obtain the approval of the Bank with respect
to the qualifications, experience, terms of references
and conditions for appointments of the Technical
Director and special consultants (para 4.23); and
(d) execute the lending program of the Project as follows:
(i) extend long-term loans from 8 to 10 years,
including grace periods of 3 to 5 years at 9%
interest based on ranch investment plans, to
ranchers for development of beef cattle ranches
and short-term credit for working capital on
commercial lending terms (para 4.25);
(ii)  submit long-term loans over B500,000 (US$110,000)
to the Bank for prior approval (para 4.25); and
(iii)  limit the amount of financing for purchases
of breeding stock to 60% of a long-term loan
(except purebred breeding centers or unless
otherwise recommended by the Technical Director
as an exception) (para 4.26).
7.03      As a condition of effectiveness BDA would establish the LDU and
appoint the Technical Director subject: to Bank approval (para 4.21).
7.04      The Project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$11 million for 15
years, including a grace period of five and a half years.
February 18, 1972



ANN;'X I
VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEV<IOPMENT PROJECT
Role of Agriculture in the Economy
(B million 1/)
Gross Domestic Products                     % Agriculture
Year               Agriculture          Livestock Subsector               Sector
Venezuela    Sector    Total      Beef       Milk     Other     of GDP
1960       34,600      2,400    1,000        boo       200       o00       7.0
1965      bL,800       3,000    1,300        500       300      500        6.7
1966       46,ooo      3,100    1,l4O        500       350      550        6.8
1967       48,L00      3,300    1,bo00       500       350      550        6.8
1968       51,000      3,00    1,500        550       00      550        6.7
1969       53,000      3,600    1,600        600       boo      600        6.7
1/ 1968 prices.
2/ GDP represents the value of all goods and services produced within Venezuela
in corresponding years.
Source: GORDIPLAN - Development ProJection 1970-7h.
March 3, 1971



LIVESTOCK DlVEMP-1,41JT PF?.0JECT
Exports and Imnorts of Agrriculturai ?roclcts, 19_ (-69
so                                        ?~~~~~~~~~~~~,gIIIon)
1965      1 9C6      1967       1968       1969       Average Annual
Total Gountry  Ports                                  _ 109  1 4      1-1                   11 452             11,060
Agrlcultural Exports as%                                      .        1%.6        1.5
of Total C6untTy                                  -
Total  rirricultucal Eixoo;'ts                      147        157        184        166        1i1              165
Coffee and Cocao                                  102        96         94         70         75                87
Rice, Sugar, Fruit and Vegetables                  20        466                   7           72
Fish Products                                      22          9        18          19         20               18
Livestock Products                                  1          2          5          5          3                3
'orest.ry Products                                  2          2          1          1          1                1
'_talCountryX ~~ $Tlp                            51590_541             5,632     6,538 _   _7tL8              6,104
Agr.icultural Imports as %
of Total Countrv                                 1         15         16         13         13                15
'Iotal Agricultural. Irnorts                        96r0       828        873        850        960              894
Plant Products                                    JR87      462        527         580        566              524
Animnal Producte                                  ?5&        147        141         75        155              15D1/
Fish Pr!'.-UctS                                    21         19         10          5          9               13
ForeesLi.,  ProductS -                            19.1       200        195        190        235              203
Trade Balance
Total Exoorts minus Total Imports              +5,329    +5,098    +5,525    +h,685    +4,1W4               +4,956
Total Agricultural 'E.xports minus
Total AMricultural Imnorts                  -  813    -  671    -  639    -  684    -  789                -  729
Percent A^ricu.Ltuil  r;-ortc of
A,rkulturln. Inr1orts                            1i,        19        21          19         18               18
1/  Of total animnal products imports, 5         1)- % ias been dairy products, about 15% pork products
anti balance other meats including beef
3ource : Centra i Bank and P)%r



ANNEX 3
Page 1
VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Beef and Milk Marketing and Pricing Policies
Introduction
1.        Venezuela possesses the physical resources and potential to increase
livestock production to satisfy the growing domestic demand. To do so,
however, present low levels of productivity (milk production about 850 liter
of milk per cow per year; about 10% off-take in the national cattle herd,)
must be raised  by better management and production practices.  There are
other deficiencies hampering development such as:
(a) lack of an adequate classification system for pricing, especially
beef;
(b) slaughtering of cattle in unsanitary and uneconomic small
scale municipal abattoirs, which hampers the operation of
modern industrial slaughter-houses;
(c) predominant role of middlemen in the marketing and pricing system
of cattle and beef; and
(d) a poor system for dissemination of market and price information.
2.        Most slaughter cattle are sold at a ranch-gate to various buyers
who, in association with wholesalers, exert control over the flow of cattle
to market. (See Appendix 1 attached). Prices paid to the producers are
determined by the buyer by sight (no weighing). Consequently, ranchers
may be getting less than a fair market value.
Slaughterhouses
3.        There are 24 well equipped industrial slaughterhouses and more
than 100 small, obsolete abattoirs owned by municipalities. The latter
are not equipped to process by-products. Total daily one-shift through-
put of the 24 industrial slaughterhouses is about 8,000 head of cattle
but present utilization is only about 25%, or 2,000 head.  Nine of these
plants were built in recent years by the Corporacion Venezuela de Fomento
(CVF) as a first step to compete with and phase out the municipal
abattoirs and to modify monopolistic effect of the middlemen marketing
system. The aggregate one-shift capacity of these nine slaughterhouses
is 4,400 cattle but, here too, only 34% of capacity is utilized. This,
of course, impairs their financial viability since a break-even point is
a through-put of around 50% of capacity.



ANNEX 3
Page  2
Retail Marketing
4.        There are numerous retail food shops, public markets and super-
markets that sell beef and milk. They are well equipped and satisfy the
requirements of high-, medium-, and lowr-income consumers.
Beef Prices
5.        Wholesale prices in general and prices of all agricultural
products remained relatively stable in the 1960's. Prices to producers
for slaughter cattle have been relatively high 1/ and would offer adequate
incentives for ranchers, both to participate in the Project, and to apply
better management practices. From 1965 to 1969 ranchgate prices for
fattened cattle averaged B 1.80/kg (US$0.40), wholesale carcass beef
averaged B 3.50/kg (US$0.80/kg); retail prices for first-grade beef
averaged B 6/kg (US$1.30/kg) and second-grade beef B 4.6/kg (US$1/kg). At
the time of appraisal, (November 1970) ranchgate liveweight cattle prices
ranged between B 1.50 to 2.00/kg (US$0.33 - 0.44/kg).
6.        Cattle and beef prices of all levels are free except the retail
price of beef sold in government-operated public markets is regulated for
socio-economic reasons. However, price ceiling is only for certain lower
quality cuts, which approximate one-halif of total carcass weight but
only about one-third of the value. Butchers and supermarkets are not
affected.
7.        Importation of breeding animals into Venezuela (bulls and heifers)
from all countries, is free and legal, without restriction except for the
usual customs surcharges such as consulaLr fees, warehousing, insurance,
health certificate and taxes. However, the importation of feeder steers
from all countries is prohibited, but flow of feeder cattle 2/ is advantageous
to Colombian breeders and Venezuelan fatteners. The price per head in
Colombia is about B 400 (US$90) for aninals weighing 425-450 kg. Handling
costs from Colombia to the nearby Venezuelan states (Zulia, Tachira, Merida,
Falcon) are about B 100-120 (US$22-27) per head making a ranch price in
Venezuela around B 500 (US$110), or about 30% cheaper than a similar animal
of Venezuelan origin. On the other hand, Colombia producers receive
approximately 30% more for Venezuelan bolivars in local currency, thus making
the transaction also attractive to them.
1/   Prices for slaughter cattle expressed inC UJS$ per kg:  Venezuela $0.40;
Bolivia $0.18; Equador $0.32; Chile $0.35.
2/   Estimated at 250,000 to 300,000 head annually from Columbia most of
which are fattened 3-6 mcnchs on Veinezuelan ranches and accounts for
about 25% of all cattle slaughtered (Table 1).



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Milk Prices
8.        Favorable producer prices during 1965-69 induced increases of
domestic milk production. Total production increased from about 625 to 770
million liters, or about 4% annually, which caused a decrease of imports of
milk and dairy products in the same period from 300 to 175 million liters
of milk equivalent, or 7% annually. Prices of milk and some dairy products
were:
1965    1966    1967    1968    1969
Fluid Milk (B/lit):
Farmgate Price                    0.74    0.64    0.65    0.62    0.63
Wholesale Price                   1.16    1.04    1.04    1.04    1.04
Retail Price, Pasteurized         1.25    1.17    1.17    1.17    1.18
Powdered Milk (B/kg):
Wholesale Price with
26% Fat Content                 4.70    6.00    6.00    6.00    5.60
Retail Price with
26% Fat Content                 5.50    6.60    6.60    6.60    6.00
Butter (B/kg):
W'holesale Price                  7.53    7.50    7.79    7.85    8.43
Retail Price                      8.74    9.10    9.00    9.07    9.66
Cheese (B/Kg):
Retail Price, White Cheese        5.95    5.52    6.04    6.38    6.68
I Some milk prices at the producer level and all at the consumer
level are fixed. According to MAC Decree 328, June 23, 1970, plants
producing powdered milk must pay at farmgate B 0.67 (US$0.15) per liter of
cooled milk at +10' C or B 0.65 (US$0.14) for uncooled milk. The same
decree also fixes maximum retail prices for domestic and imported powdered
milk.
10.       During the past 20 years, Gcovernment has subsidized milk produc-
tion.  The subsidy has especially stimulated the production of pasteurized
milk, an& to a greaz extent, has caused axpansioii in this industry.
Until 1969, the subsidy was given directly to the -roducers. Beginning in
1970, the Ministry of Development paid a "milk evnsumption subsidy" to



ANNEX 3
Page 4
milk plants that produce only powdered milk. 1/ Furthermore, the new
decree stipulates explicitly the future policy of milk production and
consumption development.
Milk Processing Plants
11.       There are seven well located milk processing plants with a total
of 29,000 kg of powdered milk capacity per hour 2/ and 19 pasteurizing
plants with 132,000 liters of fluid milk per hour capacity.  Based on an
operating year of 250 days about 50% of the capacity of powdered milk plants
and about 70% of pasteurizing plants was utilized. Any further development
of milk production would, therefore, not require additional processing
facilities, especially since Venezuela's transport system is among the best
in Latin America. Fluid milk is transported in refrigerated tankers to
metropolitan consuming centers.
Demand and Supply Projections for Meat:
12.       Based on a continued population increase of about 3% per annum,
CORDIPLAN has made the following demarnd and supply forecast study (November
1970):
Year Total Supply /3 Total Demand Estimated Deficit Demand per Capita
(tons)          (tons)            (tons)             (kg)
1970    170,000         215,000           45,000              20.6
1975    230,000         280,000           50,000              22.4
1990    450,000         630,000          180,000              31.0
The CORDIPLAN supply and demand forecast study considered the following
important elements:
(a) the rate of increase of population;
(b) the per capita increase of beef consumption;
(c) the technological improvement of cattle production in
Venezuela resulting in an increase of the present
about 10% off-take in the national cattle herd to about
16%, and an increase of yield of carcass beef per head
slaughtered from about 180 kg to 195 kg;
(d) a Government and BDA credit plan for livestock develop-
ment for the continued improvement of production; and
(e)  the National Plan for improveme;.- of _&  icultural lands,
which includes the reclamation and irra_-l or. 3f 151,000
ha in the southerni zone of Lake Maracaibo, desC_ined
basically for zahe production of improved pastures.
1/   The idea is to subsidize -e.e pocessing cost only cf powdered milk in
order to supply the market with relatively low c.st powdered milk that
consumers in lower income brackets couLd buy.
2/   An equivalent of about 210,000 liters of fluid milk per hour.
3/   From national herd.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Improving the Market System
13.       On August 21, 1970, an Agricultural Marketing Law was approved by
the Government that deals with all relevant components of agricultural
marketing and fixes, on a detailed basis, goals, measures, and financing.
An agricultural marketing corporation (Corporation), as an independent
organ of MAC, was also created to:
(a)  purchase and sell agricultural products domestically
or abroad, to guarantee normal market supplies and to
stabilize prices in the interests of both producers and
consumer;
(b) purchase crops from producers at the minimum prices
established by the National Executive;
(c) provide incentives for domestic production;
(d) foster the establishment of commodity exchanges to
facilitate contact between buyers and sellers;
(e) draw up programs for the construction of silos, cold
storage plants and other installations needed for the
treating, storage and marketing of agricultural products;
(f) encourage the setting up of marketing companies and
cooperatives to purchase and distribute agricultural
supplies, and set up and operate collective markets,
storage plants and contract markets in regions and
areas where it is necessary;
(g) receive agricultural products as security, deposit or
payment through its own channels or through companies
established for the purpose;
(h) accept extensions of credit and serve as credit inter-
mediary and withholding agent with relation to the crops
purchased;
(i) issue bonds and guarantees to producers, and to accept
properly stored crops as security; and
(j) advise the National Executive in all matters relating to
agricultural marketing, the fixing of prices and tariffs
to be charged for services provided and the whole question
of the marketing and price policy for agricultura. products.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
14.       Under the new marketing law it is proposed to also invite a
National Marketing Institute to cooperate with some existing institutiors,
including BAP, BDA and IAN. This Institute would:
(a) gradually reorganize the cattle and beef marketing system;
(b) introduce a classification system of live animals and a
quality pricing system both for cattle and beef; and
(c) strengthen the control of market.
Farmers would receive daily market and price information through the radio
and press. The livestock sold by farmers, mostly to industrial slaughter-
houses, would be paid for promptly by the slaughterhouses or by banking
facilities located at the slaughterhouses. In a later stage, some of the
meat would be packaged for retai]L sale to the consumers in metropolitan
high density areas (Caracas, Maracaibo).
SUMMARY
15.       Prices of breeding aninals and slaughter cattle are favorable
to the producer. Marketing channels, even though controlled by a group
of middlemen, permit free movement of cattle to market. Government's
future intentions with respect to bringing about changes in the system stems
from the principle that more competition is needed and that the introduction
of differential prices, both for liveweight and carcass weight, would
encourage the producers to increase quantity and to improve quality of
production. Furthermore, such action would promote domestic beef consumption,
particularly by lower income groups for the cheaper cuts of meat. No exports
are expected for beef and breeding animals produced by the Project. The
demand for both products is high in Venezuela and the domestic market outlook
is favorable.
June 2, 1971



VENEZUELA
CD
ON                                           LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Beef and Milk Marketing and Pricing Policies
J
Production and Consumption of Beef
Unit           1964         1968        1969         1970        197
1.  National Herd                     '000 hd         7,314        8,102       8,306        8,515        9,444
2. National Herd - increase
per annum                                         185          204         209          215          238
3. Animal Slaughtered from
- National HerdL/                    a              651          820         873          926       1,206
4.  Imports for Slaughter_.              "               245         250          250         250          195
5. Total Cattle Slaughtered (3 + 4)    "                896        1,070       1,123        1,176        1,401
6. Total Carcass Weight
of Cattle Slaughtered               " tons         158          184         195          214         270
7. Average Carcass Weight3/          kg/animal          176          180         180          182          193
8.  Beef Consumption Per Capita-4/      kg               18.7         19.0         19.5        20.6         22.5
1/ Rate of extraction for slaughter: 1964 - 8.9%; 1968 - 10.1%; 1969 - 10.5%; 1970 - 10.9%' 1974 - 12.8%.
2/ Largely unoffical cattle movement from Colombia.
2/ Average carcass weight per animal, 1969, in: Argentina 209 kg; Chile 234 kg; Uruguay 218 kg; Colombia 200 kg
(Source: Development of Livestock in Venezuela - XI FAO Regional Conference for Latin America,
October 1970)
4/ Beef consumption per annum per capita/kg, 1968: Argentina 86; Paraguay 72; Uruguay 63; Bolivia 8;
Peru 8; Chile 22.
Source:  Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
CORDIPLAN - Department of Agriculture Program



ANNE 3
Table 2
VENEZUELA
IVESTOCK DEVmLOPM  IROJE
Beef and Mil: Marketing and Pricing Pblicies
Beef Cattle Imported for Breeding Purposes,
By  ex 1959 - 1969
Year                Males             Females                 Total Head
------------------ -  _-_O_    f  Cattle
1959                12,859            23,589                  36,448
1960                 3,535             4,v660                  8,195
1961                   511               561                   1,072
1962                   643             1,006                   1,649
1963                 1,892             1,984                   3,876
1964                 2,035             2,986                   >,021
1965                1,203              4.,368                  5,571
1966                   703             4,582                   5,285
1967                   804             3,146                   3,950
1968                 1,493             4,037                   5,530
1969                 1,095             7,800                   8.8g5
Total           26,773            58,719                  85,492
Soiuce: Annual Agricultural Statistics, 1969 - MAC, page 442.
March 3, 1971



VENEZUELA LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CATTLE - BEEF MARKETING SCHEMES
SCHEME I
IA                         MIDDLEMEN                                               TRUCKER TRUCKER   (4)
FATTENER WITH                  SLAUGHTEI                                          (OWNER OF
OWN OR RENTED LAND               HOSES AREFRIGERATED TRUCKi
Zj7ANCHER
RANDCHER OF )               SLAU.AUS                                               REELE
(FEEDER  STEER   HOUSES         WHOLESALER                    RETAI~~~       ~         ~~~~LESLRCOSEE
CATTLE ON HOOCf                                                  CARCASSTEAT
SCHEME If
TIUCKER             I (OWNER F           , 
REFRIGERATE rUE
(EDRANCHER                  HOLkiESEAI
CATTLE ON  HOOF                                                  CARCASS MEAT
SCHEME liI
rSUHER HOUSE 
CATTLE ON EiOOF                                   CARCASS MEAT                                R                        x
IRSD 5526






ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 1
Explanation of Marketing Schemes - See Chart
There are two main cattle marketing schemes which have remained
fairly constant during the last decade. Characteristics of these schemes
and a proposed third scheme are:
Scheme I
I1.       Fattening of animals is performed by commercial fatteners (I-(1),
who own or rent land, and ranchers (1-(2)) who produce their own feeder
SLeers. Commercial fatteners usually buy lean cattle (a) from ranchers
who produce feeder animals, or (b) contraband cattle from Colombia. Commer-
cial fatteners buy a high percentage of the required feeder cattle, whereas
ranchers, depending on ranch and herd size, and availability of credit, buy
a greater or smaller number of required feeder steers. In certain cases
the commercial fattener who buys feeder steers grants advance payment to the
ranchers who produce them.
2.        Between the producer and consumer there are six various middlemen.
Middlemen of slaughterhouses (I-(3)) - These are agents who work
fully, partially, or without own capital. According to availability of own
capital, they buy and sell cattle on hoof - for own account to slaughter-
houses, or sell carcass meat to meat wholesalers and/or retailers, paying
a service fee to slaughterhouses for slaughtering.
Middlemen (I-(4)) - Essentially as described above. The
difference between the two types of middlemen is that these middlemen
may make an advance payment to fatteners, which usually guarantees them a
higher profit.
Slaughterhouses (I-(5)) - All three types of abattoirs: (a)
partially financed by CVF 1/ - (9); (b) privately owned; and (c) municipality
owned. All slaughter cattle for a service fee, which is predominantly the
case, or buy cattle for own account and sell carcass beef to wholesalers
or retailers. In certain cases, local butchers pooled in an association
rent the local slaughterhouse from the municipality for a fixed monthly
amount, e.g., in Barinas the butchers association pays B 25,000 (US$5,500)
per month, and organizes all the slaughtering of cattle for local consump-
tion. This makes an extra pro-it for them.
Trucker of refrigerated truck (I-(6)) - There are two types of
truckers. Either owner and driver of one truck, or member in a refrigerated
truck owners' pool. The cost of the carcass transport is reasonable as
competition between truckers is keen.
1/   Corporacion Venezuela de Fomento.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 1
Page 2
Meat Wholesaler (I-(7)) - These are usually large scale entre-
preneurs who in some way are involved in the total process of cattle flow
from the producer to the consumer. They are the most relevant intermedia-
ries in the cattle and meat business.
Retailers (I-(8)) - These are either small butchers with their
own shops or butchers located in public markets or supermarkets, e.g.,
"CADA" owned by Rockefeller. The retailer's share in the meat business
is relatively high due to the lack of an adequate meat-cut grading and
pricing system.
In summary, the "middlemen monopoly" of beef marketing is mostly
represented by the trucker (I-6)), wholesaler (I-(7)), and retailer (T-(8)).
Scheme II
The flow of the cattle in this scheme is simpler than in Scheme
I. The rancher sells fattened animals to a trucker, who buys them for
cash on delivery. In many instanices an advance payment has been made.
The trucker works for his own account, or as an agent of a slaughterhouse, or
meat wholesalers, or butchers' association or butcher. The trucker sells
or brings the cattle to the slaughterhouse wherefrom the flow is as in
Scheme I.
Scheme III
This would be the basic scheme for a restructuring of the meat
marketing system (See Appendix 1).
February 15, 1972



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 1
VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AN APPRAISAL OF PROBABLE BEEF SUPPLIES AND DEMAND IN VENEZUELA
An Analysis of the Adequacy of Regional Supplies of Beef
1.        Per capita beef and veal consumption in Colombia, Panama, and
Venezuela averaged nearly 20 kg during the 1960's, which is twice or three
times the current average consumption of these meats In neighboring Latin
American and Caribbean countries. Colombia and Panama both traditionally
export beef, and about 2 and 13% of their current respective outputs of beef
are sold to foreign buyers in the form of fresh, chilled, and frozen meat.
Colombia also is a major exporter of live cattle; exports each year are
equivalent to 11-17% of the total number of cattle slaughtered in that
country, and more than half these cattle are killed and eaten in Venezuela.
2.        Inter-country price differentials explain these movements of cattle
and beef. Higher beef prices in the Canal Zone and the United States draw
all surplus beef in Panama to these markets. Colombian exports of most
kinds of unprocessed beef are not eligible to enter the United States, so
uncooked meats are sent to Europe and several Caribbean Islands where prices
are higher than elsewhere in Latin America. Production costs in Colombia
are low enough to permit cattle born and raised there to be shipped to
neighboring countries for finishing and slaughter. Until recently, regis-
tered exports of live cattle from Colombia tended to vary inversely with
domestic prices for slaughter cattle there (Table 1). Internal prices for
slaughter cattle In Colombia follow a recognizable cycle over approximately
a seven-year period in response to year-to-year changes in the number of
cattle slaughtered in registered (controlled or taxed) facilities. Exports
of live cattle - both registered and contraband - probably vary with price
and exchange rate differentials, too. These seemed to favor exports during
the mid-1960's and early 1970's, but domestic demand during 1967-68 probably
was strong enough to curtail these shipments materially (Table 1). Meat
exports also seem to vary directly with the level of international beef
prices, too.
3.        Although subsequent growth of the Colombian livestock industry
may be more export-oriented, various estimates do not indicate cattle
numbers there will grow much faster than they did during the 1960's. An
annual growth rate of 3.6% per year from 1965-75 will be needed to satisfy
domestic requirements for beef in Colombia. 1/ Cattle numbers increased
1/   Demand Projections for Agricultural Products in Colombia, CEDE, Bogota,
1966.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 2
3.2% a year from 1962-65 through 1969-70, and grew about 4% a year during
1970 and 1971. In other words, Colombia will continue to supply live
cattle to neighboring countries, but the competition for Colombia cattle
among domestic and foreign buyers will tend to become more rather than less
intense during the 1970's.
Current Constraints on Venezuelan Beef Consumption
4.        Beef and veal production did not expand rapidly enough to increase
significantly the per capita consumption of these two meats in Venezuela
during the late 1960's. The current level of per capita consumption of
red meat in Venezuela is approximately equal to similar estimates for
Colombia and Panama, but the average Venezuela eats as little as half the
red meat consumed by Europeans living in countries with similar average
levels of per capita GDP (Table 2). Beef and veal traditionally have
constituted a high portion (81-88%) of all red meats eaten in Venezuela,
Colombia, and Panama, compared with only 32-46% of all such meats consumed
in Greece, Ireland, and Spain. P'er capita consumption in the three American
Republics stagnated during the late 1960's, partly because more live cattle
and meat was exported from Colombia and Panama. This lack of growth in
consumption was in marked contrast with the relatively rapid expansion in
beef and veal eating by the average consumer in these Western European
countries (Table 2). The average Venezuelan probably was eating about as
well as the average consumer in several European countries during 1964-66,
but the quality of his diet declined during the past five years (at least
relatively speaking), largely because red meat supplies were limited.
5.        Per capita consumption of beef in Venezuela undoubtedly was
limited by available supplies during the late 1960's. This shortage of beef
supplies was reflected to a certa:in extent in the domestic livestock and
meat prices in Venezuela during 1970. Although cattle prices there were
18% higher, and meat prices 24-60% higher, than comparable quotations in
Colombia, prices for cattle and b,eef were lower in Venezuela than in Panama
and in several European countries where consumers had similar average
purchasing powers (Table 2). In jEact, cattle prices in Venezuela during the
late 1960's were not high enough to generate meat supplies for which effec-
tive consumer demand existed or, for that matter, to attract sufficient
numbers of lower-priced feeder cattle from neighboring countries such as
Colombia.
Outlook for Beef Consumption and Prices in Venezuela
6.        The incremental production attributable to this project (20,000
tons, carcass weight equivalent, in 6-8 years) easily could be consumed in
Venezuela at prices at least equal to values prevailing during 1970-71.
This output would constitute less than 7% of total domestic demand in the
late 1970's, and these supplies would increase average per capita availability
by less than 0.15 kg per year.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 3
7.        The projected growth in per capita beef consumption (2% per year
to 1990) cited elsewhere in this report (Annex 3, paragraph 12) seems
compatible with contemporary and prospective developments in European
countries. 1/ However, the total demand projected depends importantly and
increasingly on supplies of beef from sc-;rces other than the national herd:
only 71% of total consumption in 1990 would be supplied by the national
herd, compared with 79% in 1970. In other words, if total effective demand
does increase as projected at an average yearly rate of 5.5% during the
next twenty years, supplies of beef from other sources will have to increase
more than 7.1% a year.  It is extremely unlikely that these additional
suipplies of cattle or meat would be forthcoming from neighboring countries,
even if relative prices in Venezuela increase significantly. Changes in
Colombian slaughtered cattle prices roughly paralleled movements of inter-
national beef prices (Table 1). The latter are expected to increase 2.8%
a year between 1965/66 and 1977/78, when prices are expressed in actual
or current terms. 2/ Therefore, the stipulation of stable domestic prices
in Venezuela stated elsewhere in this report (para 5.03) seems quite
conservative.
Likely Impact of the Project on International Trade in Beef and Veal
8.        No exports of meat attributable to the Project are expected
(Annex 3, para 15). The meat produced would substitute for contraband
cattle slaughtered in Venezuela, to the extent that such cattle are
available in sufficient numbers in the future for importation.
9.        Published statistics on international trade in live cattle and
calves are incomplete and unrepresentative, since movements of cattle
across borders between many countries usually are not recorded officially.
Trends in international trade in beef and veal meat among major producing
and consuming countries are summarized in Table 3. Exports of these two
meats from 46 selected countries doubled during the 1960's, although pat-
terns of growth were highly irregular from year to year. Most indicators
of international prices either rose steadily during the decade or varied
inversely with the volume of exports. Ar analysis of recent and prospective
developments in the volume and value of this trade was presented in Annex 12
1/   Total utilization of beef and vea: was projected several years ago to
increase an average of 4.4% a 'year between 196'-63 and 1975, and
2.9% a year between 1975 and 1985  in five Sou:hern European countries.
Agricultural Projections for 1975 and '985, OECD, Paris, 1968.
2/   Economics Department Projection, C er  197'.  Annex 12, Appraisal
Report for URUGUAY:  Fourth Livr-,-o6ik Development - Ject.



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
Page 4
of the Appraisal Report of the Fourth Livestock Development Project
(URUGUAY). Central American countries and islands in the Caribbean exported
about 290 million pounds of beef and veal during 1970, nearly 5% of all
exports of these meats from these selected countries. Nearly all this meat
was shipped to the United States. Small quantities of high quality beef
were imported by many of these same countries.
Trade Policies and Export Projects, Economics Department
January 19, 1972



ANNEX 3
Appendix 2
VENEZUEtA                                                      Table 1
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNT PROJFCT
TMNDS IN PRODUCTION, TRAD, CONSUMPTION, AND INDICATIVE PRICES, CATTLE AND BEEF,
VENEZUELA AND COIDI{iIA, 1961-65 AVERAGE AND ANNUAL, 1965-71
1961-65    1965     1966      1967     1968      1969     1970     1971      1971 1/
Average
(------------------------------1965-100-------------------------------) (000 head)
Cattle Numbers
Venezuela                                           94         100      103      106       110      113       117      120     8,850
Colombia                                            96         100      103       109      114      119       123      128    21,173
Other South America2                                95         100      1o6       107      106      109       112      11    113,102
Panama                                              89         100      104      107       115      119       123      126     1,225
(mMlon lbs.;
Beef and Veal Production-/                                                                                                         CWE
Venezuela                                           91         100      111      116       118      120       132      135       485
Colc,mb-.a                                          98         100       95        96      103      107       111      115        981
Registered Slaughter
Columbia                                            97         100       94        94       98      108       111      n.a.        -
 -------------------million lbs., carcass weight equivalent------------------_)
Colombia: Livestock ari Meat Exports
Beef and Veal",                                      2.0        10.0      6.4       6.1      1.6     13.6      17.3    n.a.        _
-----------------------------------thousand head---------------------------------
Live Cattle, Registered Exports                     11.9        56.5    45.9        7.9      9.7      31.7     91.8    n.a.
-----------------------------1965-loo----1 ------------------------)
Price and Exchan7e Rate RelationshiDs
Slaughter Cattle, Colombiat  Current Pesos          n.a.       100      128      139       137      143       14 5&    166&/     n.a.
Deflated Prices7/    n.a.       100       109      111      103        93       955/    103i'      n.a.
(US$ per
Indicators of International Prices for Beef                                                                                  metric ton)
Average Price, Argentine Frozen,
c.i.f. Federal Republic of Germany           n.a.      100        90       81        78       83      105       112       768_/
Australian Boneless Beef, c.i.f. U.S.A.    n.a.         100      118      120       123      153       164      169     1,346
(Ratio)
Exchange Rates:
Colombian Pesos per Venezuelan Bolivar       n.a.      100        89       89        93       98       10o5     106-6/    1.31
---------------pounds per year---------------------------)
Beef and Veal Consumption per Person
Venezuela                                           L0          146/     44        45       44       43        42      n.a.       -
Colombia                                            49          5419/    43        42      4Z         44       44      n.a.        -
I/  Figures given in this column are actual estimates for 1971, whenever these were available.  These entries are given in the
unit. indicated above each figure or group of figures.
2/ Excert for Argentina and LTruguay.
3/ Exc-';aes live cattle exported.
1/ Excludes fat, offals, and live animals.
'/ January-Octorer.
0/ February only.
7! Deflated by Index of all wholesale prices or inuex of prices for home and imported goods.
§/ Incomplete year. Converted from average value quoted for boneless beef.
9/ 1964 and preliminary.
Source: Original data adopted from various U.S. Department of Agriculture publicatior.s, unoublished data furnished by the USDA;
several publications of FAO, Rome, ana the .MF; meat trade sources.  All firures for ;7-. ;            -reliminary or estimates.
Indexes calculated from rour0ded data. .11 figures in this table were rounded to nearest whole number.
January 19, 1972



VENFZUELA                                                 Appndix 2
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                        Table 2
R£ZENT INDICATIONS OF RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF BEEF IN AVERAGE DIS,
TRENDS IN PER CAPITA BEEF CON?M'FYfICN, COMPARATIVFE CATTLE AND
BEFF PRICES, VENEZUE]EA A;1D OTHER SFLE5TED COUNTRIES
Venezuela    Colombia       Greece       Ireland       Spain         Panama
(1959-61
-----------------------1964-66 Average------------------- ) Average)
Per Capita Food Consumption per Day
Protein, Grams, Total                              61.1          50.1         97.7         91.5         77.2            55.2
(Of which Red Meats:)                             (13.3)        (11.3)       (13.2)       (23.9)       (10.5)          (10.1)
(Of which Beef and Veal:)                          (7.3)         (8.3)        (4.5)        (6.6)        (3-5)           (7-1)
Calories, Number, Total                         2,367         2,192        2,901        3,455        2,806           2,370
Kedt Consumtion perFson/                       (--------------kilograms per year, carcass weight basis-----------------
Redeaat Cosupt9npe  Prsn
23.5          22.7         36.7         57.2         45.3           25.8
Difference from 196L-66 Avg.         -0.7           -0.6         46.3         +2.9        +26.5           +1.3
Beef and Veal: 1970                                19.0          19.9         16.8         18.1         12.2            21.8
Difference from 19614-66 Avg.   .1.0            -0.7         +5.9         .2.0         +3.9            +0.9
Cattle Prices in 1970                              -----:-----------US $ per kilogram, live weight basis----------------
Farm or Country Market
Average for all Classes                          .361      308- 3503/  .613-.881/       .3195/         _            _
Steers, Bent Grade                                 -      .335-.373T/       -            .6h                     .374-.O8Y-
Unfinished Cattle                                  -      .200- .2507/      -              -        . .648-
(-----------------------US $ per kilogram-'-----------------------
Beef Prices in 1970
Wholesale                                           .80    .620-.6912/          .909                    .6459/    .738-.74.9Y!
Retail 10/                                         1.29         .81              -           -         1.27 Il/        1.34
1/  Carcass weight basis.
2/ Beef and veal, pork, mutton, lamb, goat and horse meat.
Higher figure was for early 1971.
4 inimum or average producer prices.  Higher figure was for 1971.  Both figures converted from CWE.
/ Best beef cows.
/ Minimum prices for live cattle or beef carcasses.
7/ Higher figure represents farm price of all cattle bought for export. Lower figure is comparable with prices
for stocker cattle sold clandestinely to Venezuelan ranchers (paragraph 7, Annex 3).
8/  Support price, heavier yearling calves, converted from CWE, 1969.
2/ Xirimum price, May 1969-February 1970, imported Argentine chilled hind quarters.
10/  Best grade of beef.
11/  Minimum prices, imported frozen beef.
Sources  Food Balance Sheets, 1564-66, FAO, 1971 and Food Balances for 24 Countries of the 'estern Hemisrhere,
1959-61, USDA, 196h; World Agricultural Production and Trade, USDA, various issues through December 1971;
unpublished reports, various American Embassies.  Prices were converted to US $ at the appropriate, official
prevailing exchange rate cited by the IMF.
January 19, 1972



VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EYPORTS AND IMPORTS OF BEEF AND VEAL, SELECrED CONrINENTS AND REGIONS, AND TOTAL FOR SELECTED
COUNTRIES, AMENAGE 1961-65 AND ANNUAL, 1963-1970, WITH COMPARISONS
4                                                                             (billion pounds, carcass weight equivalent basis)'
Average 1961-65          1963                1964                1965              1966                19B 1968                                1969V              l9lO.
Exports  Imports   Fxports  Imports   Exports  Imports  Exports  Imports  Exports Imports  Exports  Imports  Exports  Imports  Exports   Imports  Exports L.iorts
North America                     0.24      1.29      0.29      1.74      0.27      1.13      0.29     0.98      0.30    1.25      0.28      1.41      0.33      1.58     0.39        1.83     0.45      2.04
which:  United States            (o.o4)    (1.24)   (0.03)   (1.68)    (0.o6)   (1.08)   (0.05)   (0.94)   (0.08)  (1.20)   (0.04)   (1.33)   (0.04)   (1.52)   (0.04)    (1.61)   (o.o4)   (1.82)
South America                     1.57      0.03      1.93      0.02       1.75     0.04      1.53     0.03      1.59    0.0o4      1.76     0.05      1.80     0.06      2.26       0.04      2.10      0.05
Europe                            1.09      2.35      1.29      2.73       1.05     2.82      1.07     2.59      1.23    2.71      1.60      2.96      1.76     3.02      1.77       3.31      1.74      3.19
which:  European Community       (0.40)    (0.84)   (0.47)   (0.99)    (0.40)   (1.27)   (0.36)   (1.19)   (0.41)  (1.20)   (0.49)   (1.37)   (0.73)   (1.33)   (0.71)    (1.50)   (0.77)   (1.56)
Other Western Europe             (0.41)    (1.36)   (0.52)   (1.52)    (0.38)   (141)   (0.39)   (1.32)   (0.51)  (1.40)   (0.75)   (1.49)   (0.62)   (1.47)   (0.65)    (1.61)   (0.68)   (1.51)
Eastern Europe                   (0.27)    (0.15)   (0.30)   (0.23)    (0.27)   (0.14)   (0.31)   (0.07)   (0.32)  (0.u1)   (0.36)   (0.09)   (0.41)   (0.22)   (0.41)    (O.lo)   (0.29)   (0.11)
OceaniaY                          1.24        -       1.32       -         1.38      -        1.42               1-35      -        1-30      -        1.32       -       1.32        -        1.68       -
Total Selected Countriesg'        4.43      4.02      5.34      4.68      4.72      4.35      4.52     4.26      4.88    4.46      5.44      4.65      5.49     4.92      6.01       5.149     6.16      5.68
Total Except North America        4.18      2.73      5.08      2.93      4.44      3.21      4.22      3.28     4.58    3.21      5.17      3.24      5.16      3.33     5.62       3.36      5.71      3.64
1/ Excludes fat, offals, and live animals. All figures rounded to nearest ten million pounds.
2/ Preliminary.       a/  Year ending June 30 Of calendar year Blown.
:/ Includes countries in four continents listed in this table plus U.S.S.R., Ghana, Kenya, and Republic of South Africa, Israel, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, and Singapore.
§/  Calculated from unrounded data.                                                                                                                                                                               |
Source:  Adopted from World Agricultural Production and Trade, USDA, Washington, various issues through November 1971.






ANNEX 4
Page 1
VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMElT PROJECT
The Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (BDA)
Background
The Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario (Bank of Agricultural
Development - BDA) is a relatively new commercial bank in Venezuela. It
was created by Law of the Banco de Desarrollo Agropecuario, dated August 1,
1967, and began operations in August 1969. It is a commercial banking cor-
poration with 50% of the stock held by Government (Class A shares) and the
other 50% held by the private sector (Class B shares). This stock owner-
ship is to be maintained on a 50-50 basis. BDA is subject to the regulatory
powers of the Superintendent of Banks, including audit and compliance with
the accounting system for all Venezuelan banks.
Objectives
2.        BDA's objectives are to encourage increased productivity in
agricultural, livestock, forestry and fishery enterprises, to improve the
living standards of the workers in these enterprises and to promote and
strengthen rural cooperatives and farmers' association through the extension
of credits.
Functions
3.        BDA may engage in all usual commercial banking activities.  It
can grant all types of credit, short-, medium- and long-term to commercial-
type agricultural enterprises; it may receive sight, time and savings
deposits; issue mortgage certificates and savings bonds; carry out trustee
operations; discount and rediscount credit paper at the Central Bank;
invest in bonds and shares; and contract international loans.
Organization and Administration
4.        The organization of BDA flows from the topmost authority - General
Shareholders Assembly - to the Board of Directors to the President or Vice-
President, to the General Manager, to the Deputy General Manager, to assist-
ant managers of departments, and to heads of divisions. See Annex 12 for
structural organization. The General Assembly meets semi-annually, February
and August, and an extra-ordinary assembly may be called by two members of
the Board of Directors, or at the request of shareholders representing 25%
of the paid-in capital.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
5.        Administration of BDA is entrusted to the Board of Directors,
composed of five principal Directors, each having an alternate. Class A
shares hold two directorships and Class B shares three directorships. The
President of Venezuela appoints the Class A directors. Currently, one is
the President of BDA and the other is the Minister, MAC. Holders of Class
B shares elect their three directors. Terms of directorships are two-year
periods and are renewable. The Board of Directors elects the Vice-President
from its own members, and the Secretary of the Board is BDA's General Manager,
without voting right.
6.        The Board of Directors elects the General Manager and the top BDA
executives from candidates submitted by the President. It decides t-ie
opening and closing of bank branch offices; nominates local and international
correspondents; grants loans and technical assistance to enterprises,
cooperatives and associations in order to encourage the development of
Venezuelan agriculture, livestock, forestry and fishing industry; determines
the borrowing from international financial institutions; authorizes BDA's
executives to grant loans; recommends to the stockholders' assemblies the
distribution of annual profits, the increase of the reserve accounts and the
capital stock; submits the semi-annual balance sheets, profit and loss
statements, Board of Directors reports, the annual credit program and
operating budget to the stockholders' assemblies; and approves BDA's
administrative regulations. Members of the Board, 1969-71, have extensive
farming background, are prominent in the Venezuelan farming community and
active in associations representing farmers. They have no banking back-
ground but are conscientiously concerned with the sound development and
operations of BDA. The Board meets weekly.
7.        The President is full-time chief executive and legal representative
of BDA, with powers to act in any matter that is not expressly reserved
as a function of the Shareholders' Assembly or the Board of Directors. He
is directly involved in the day-to-day operations of BDA but, undoubtedly,
as the system gains more experience, responsibilities with commensurate
authority will be developed to lower levels.
8.        BDA is recruiting and employing a well balanced and qualified
staff of professional personnel. The general managers of headquarters and
branch banks have experience in banking and finance, and the technical staff
has a broad range of experience in agriculture and livestock production.
BDA salary levels and additional allowances enable it to be competitive
with both private and public institutions and no difficulty has been ex-
perienced in obtaining competent personnel. As of November 1970, the
roster numbered 163 of which 19 were classified as administrative, 37 as
technical and 107 as general serviLces. (As of December 31, 1971, it had
increased its technical staff to about 60 agricultural technicians.)



AN'NEX 4
Page 3
Financial Resources
9.        BDA's authorized capital is B 100 million (US$22 million),
consisting of one million B 100 par value shares. An unique feature
of BDA's capital structure is that each borrower must purchase 5% of
the amount of his loan in Class B shares and that each purchase of Class
B shares must be simultaneously matched by Government purchase of Class A
shares. No private stockholder can own more than 5,000 Class B shares
or B 500,000 (US$111,000) par value. Of the nearly 1,750 private shareholders
(december 31, 1971), subscriptions, on the whole, are fairly well distributed
it:. respect to the number of shares individually held, the greatest number
oa-ing 10 to 100 shares each.  As of December 31, 1971, after two years of
iull operations, paid-in capital approximated B 38 million (US$8.5 million).
A reasonable forecast of future annual increases is: B 25 million (US$5.5
million) 1972; B 21 million (US$4.7 million) 1973; and B 15 million (US$3.3
million) in 1974, when the authorized capital of B 100 million (US$22 mil-
lion) would be fully paid-in (Table 1). (One-half of the capital would come
froi Government and one-half from the private sector. Additionally, Govern-
ment has authorized B 119.7 million (US$26 million) as interest-free trust
funds to be used by BDA as its contribution to the Project.)
10.       The law establishing BDA (Articles 77-81) provides that all
agricultural loans granted at 4% or higher annual interest rate by MAC
(Plan de Fomento Pecuario - PFP), the Banco Agricola y Pecuario (BAP)
and Corporacion Venezolana de Fomento are to be transferred in trust to BDA
for collection and reinvestment. Loans made out of USAID and IDB funds
will not be transferred unless, by later understanding between the lending
institutions and the Government, a transfer agreement can be reached. Loans
granted by the Agrarian Reform Law and those of less than 4% interest are
not included in the transfer. In 1970, BAP transferred to BDA the PPP loans,
which, though made by MAC, were serviced by BAP. This portfolio of about
5,000 loans approximates B 435 million (US$97 million) BAP's other portfolio
covering loans made by it at 4% interest or higher, except those excluded
(above) was transferred to BDA in 1972. The amount was about B 200 million
(US$45 million) but the creditworthiness of the portfolio is now being evaluated
by BDA. The Corporation Venezolana de Fomento program was discontinued
in 1954; the few outstanding loans are serviced by BDA.
11.       Of significant importance to BDA's income is an annual trustee-
management fee of 4% on the outstanding trust portfolios (para 10). In
1970 and 1971 it accounted for nearly 75% of its gross income. This sub-
stantial source of income is enabling BDA to realize a profit and to build
its reserves. Furthermore, depending upon collectibility, it may have as
much as B 8 million (US$2 million) annually from re-,ayments on the trust
portfolio above its management fee. These collections "may be reinvested
by BDA for the benefit of farming and cattle development."



ANNEX 4
Page 4
12.       BDA has rediscount privileaes with The Central Bank.  The redis-
count rate is 5-1/2% for loans up te 360 days' maturity made at 10%, thus
giving BDA a spread of 4.5%. The full amount of the loan may be rediscounted
and may again be rediscounted, provided 20%' of it is amortized annually.
Lending Operations
13.       BDA is rapidly increasing its agricultural lending, rising from
approximately B 60 million (US$13 million) in 1970 to a forecast of B 233
million (US$52 million) in 1972. Loans are made for a variety of purposes
but the bulk of lending is for crop production (principally cotton, tobacco
and sesame) and livestock (principally feeder steers and dairy). Most of
the portfolio is short-term but as experience and personnel are gained and
capital resources are increased, lending will be expanded to medium- and
long-term. The Project will be a forerunner in long-term credit.
Credit Policies
14.       Though BDA applies normal security requirements, it emphasizes
that the amount of the loan shall reflect the purpose of the investment,
the applicant's repayment capacity and the productivity. Direct loans
shall not exceed B 500,000 (US$111,000) or B 1 million in the case of
guarantees or bonds. Furthermore, the total amount of direct loans, guaran-
tees or bonds granted to an association or society shall not exceed 10% of
the Bank's paid-in capital and reserve funds.
15.       Loans may be secured by (a) mortgages (real estate and chattel);
(b) agrarian or industrial pledge; (c) mortgage on long-term rights of
occupancy; (d) bonds or guarantees from third parties; and (e) agrarian debt
bonds in accordance with the norms set forth in the Agrarian Reform Law.
Loans secured by mortgages may not exceed two-thirds of the market value of
the security. All loans are based on an appraisal report made by a BDA
technician. After a loan is granted, several supervision-inspections are made.
16.       An interesting feature of BDA's credit policy is guaranteeing
via a Bond Agreement with machinery dealers the sale of farm machinery.
Three dealers now have such an agreement. The farmer-purchaser pays 20%
of the dealer's quoted price and the other 80% is paid over five years
at 7.5% interest per annum, discounted in advance. The dealer pays BDA a
commission of 10% at time of sale, which presumably is included in the
purchase price of the equipment. This fee covers BDA's risk and service
charge for inspections. However, collections are made by the machinery
dealer. There has been an active response to this credit program.
17.       It is the present practice of the Board of Directors to approve
each loan. However, the President: assured the appraisal mission that it
would be a policy of the bank to clecentralize and delegate loan approval
authorities to lower administrative levels as soon as confidence in their
capabilities and experience in BDA's operations was gained. A delegation



ANNEX 4
Page 5
of loan approval, say up to B 200,000 to branch bank managers and/or
branch bank loan committee, would be desirable under the Project. Time for
loan processing would be shortened although this may not be a serious problem
since BDA is installing a radio-telephone communication system with all offices.
Loan Terms
18.       Prevailing interest rates are 10%, discounted in advance for short-
term loans, and 9% for medium- and long-term to be paid on the outstanding
balance. An additional 2% is charged when loan payments are past due. Short-
term loans may be granted up to two years, medium-terms up to seven years
a;- long-terms up to 20 years.  Grace periods for amortization of principal
aid interest may be granted.
Financial Operations
19.       BDA's first two years of operations have given it a good financial
position. As of December 31, 1971, assets were about B 250 million (US$55
million); liabilities B 200 million (US$45 million); net worth (paid-in
capital and reserves) of B 50 million (US$10 million), giving a debt-to-
equity ratio of 4 to 1. About 25% of its liabilities are composed of nonin-
terest bearing Government deposits. BDA is promoting deposits by the private
sector, which at the end of 1971 amounted to about B 15 million (US$3.3
million), or nearly 10% of total liabilities.  Annual net earnings have been
B 6 to 8 million and are distributed to reserves and bank funds. Reserve
requirements are fixed by laws and are as follows:
(a) Reserve fund, 20% until 50% of capitalization is reached;
(b) Reserve fund, 10% until 50 to 75% of capitalization is
reached;
(c) Reserve for bad debts, 5% up to 40% of loans granted by
BDA from its own resources;
(d) Contingency reserves for bad debts, 5% up to 10% of loan
portfolio; and
(e) Special reserve fund for future payment of dividends, 5%
up to 20% of paid-in capital.
20.       Tables 1 and 2 set out the actual and projected balance sheet
and profit and loss account figures for 1970 through 1974. The projections
are based on a lending volume of about B 800 million during 1972 to 1974.
The increased lending operations would be funded from fresh capital contribu-
tions, both from the private sector and Government, and from borrowings from
the Central Bank and IBRD. With consistent annual growth in operations,
operating results would range from about B 8 million to B 20 million an-
nually. BDA is expected to be in sound financial condition.



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Branch Banks and Agencies
21.       BDA has five regional branch banks, namely:  Acarigua, Calabozo,
Maracaibo, Maturin and San Cristobal (see Map). BDA also has three agency
and seven technical services offices that accept loan applications and are
staffed with technicians for making the appraisals and providing loan
supervision. These are attached. to the nearest regional branch bank for
purposes of loan closing, disbursing and servicing. Additional branch
banks and agencies will be established as the bank's volume of business
justifies and funds become available for establishing an office. Functions
of some agency offices may be broadened to include full servicing of loans
but would not include other banking functions as acceptance of deposits.
The present and proposed expansion of branch banks and agencies would be
adequate to service the Project areas.
February 15, 1972



ANNEX 4
Table 1
VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BANCO DE DESARROLLO AGRROPECUARIO (BDA)
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED BALANCE SHEETS DECEMBER 31, 1970-1974
(B'OOo)
1970          1971          1972           1973           1974
ASSETS
Cash                                            2,356         3,235         6,500          4,550           3,400
Central Bank - Deposits                         1,635         3,775         7,000          4,900           3,675
- Legal Reserve 1/               6,300        11,500        14,400         13,000         15,625
Banks                                          15,042        20,496        33,000         23,300         17,500
Foreign Currency                                  625         1,839         1,500          1,500           1,200
Loans and Discounts - IBRD Project                -             -          14,500         57,300        130,000
- Other                  73,244       129,270        160,000        212,000        265,000
Investments and Securities                        230           595           -              -               -
Other Assets 2/                                12,849           233       103,000        103,000        123,600
TOTAL ASSETS                             112,281       252,943       329,90         419,550        560,000
LIABILITIES
Deposits by the Public - Sight                  8,729        12,726        16,726         20,071         25,000
- Savings              1,245         3,411         5,411          6,493           8,116
Government Deposits 3/                         13,479         8,121        10,121         12,145         15,200
Deposits by other Public Entities 3/           28,698        41,176        50,000         50,000         62,500
Creditor Banks                                    432         1,066         2,000          2,000           1,500
Obligations with Central Bank                  12,591        13,667        20,000         20,000          20,000
IBRD Loan                                         -             -           1,859         10,822         26,814
Government Funds for Project                      -             -          15,000         52,000         99,500
Other Demand Obligations                        2,845        26,073        32,591         12,591         13,850
Other Time Obligations                            750        31,276        16,000         13,000          11,000
Other Liabilities                              12,173        65,114        78,137         97,671        117,000
TOTAL LIABILITIES                         80,942       202,630       247,845        296,793        400.480
CAPITAL
Paid in Capital                                23,882        38,359 + 25   63,020         84,001          99,546
Legal Reserves                                  1,638         2,861 + 21    4,277          8,221          12,465
Other Capital Reserves                          5,819         9,093         14,758        30,535         47,509
Total Capital and Reserves                31,339        50,313                      122,757        159,520
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL            112,281       252,943        329,900       419,550        560,000
CONTRA ACCOUNTS
Debit Offset Accounts                          27,271       127,513        125,000       125,000        125,000
Trust Operations                              477,821       627,747        627,000       627,000        6272000
Source: BDA
1/ About 12.5% on average to cover sight deposits, Government and other public entities' deposits and outside
demand obligations.
2/ About 507, is composed of a balancing account (contra account) with the branch banks, and is off-set by an
equal amount in other liabilities
3/ Interest free.
February 17, 1972



ANNEX 4
Table 2
VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
BACCO DE DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO (BDA)
ACTUAL AND PROJECTED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNTS
(B'000)
1970             1971             1972             1973               1974
INCOME
Loan Operations:
IBRD and BDA                                          -                -                424             2,194             3,000
Other                                               2,631            7,630            14,735           19,156            19,200
Intermediary Services                                    31                85              108              100               100
Management Fee (Trust Portfolios)                    16.751           18,166            18,029           25,120            25,400
TOTAL INCOME                                    19,413           25,881           33,296           46 570             47 700
EXPENSES
Interest and Commissions:
IBRD                                                  -                -              3,600             3,000             1,812
Other                                                 787            4,377             4,245            4,670             5,137
Salaries                                              4,272            8,172            10,324           10,582            10,845
Other Administrative                                  3,657            6,809             6,221            6,377             6,536
Depreciation and Equipment                               178              409            1,737            1,780             1,800
Technical and Cornultant Services                       -                 -                 88              440               352
TOTAL EXPENSES                                   8,894           19,767             ,              26.841             26,482
NET PROFIT BEFORE TAXES                                  10,519            6,114            7,081           19,721             21,218
Taxes 1/                                              2,328               -                -                -                 -
NET PROFIT AFTER TAX                                     8191              6114             7               19,721             21,218
APPROPRIATION OF NET PROFIT
Legal Reserves                                        1,638            1,223             1,416            3,944             4,244
Statutory obligations                                   819               611              708            1,972             2,122
Other Capital Reserves                                1,638             1,223            1,416            3,944             4,244
Bank Funds                                            4,096            3,051             3,541            9.861            10,608
TOTAL RETAINED                                   8,191            6,114            7,081            19,721            21,218
TOTAL NET PROFIT                                 8,191            6,114            7,081            19,721            2121
Source BDA
1/ In accordance with Article 3 of the Venezuala income tax law, all the income received from capital allocated to agriculture
and livestock is exempt of taxes. BDA paid taxes in 1970 onily as its income from management fees for trust portfolios was
B 17 million which exceeded its expenses of about B 9 million.  Since management fee (actual and forecast) thereafter would
be less than its expenses, BDA would have no tax liability.
February 17, 1972.



I;odet i.  Beef BreeJi.ng/ /rcoioog R2u:-  ; .  5 .
Inve^tment COst Projection
Ranch Year-i                    Pa-ks feax-i                  San  Year-- Dea60/                           Total un$                    Frar-    E-tge C.2neU3
SLovestnent Category           Unit Cost         Units            Cost            Ulnits           Cost         10/to             cst           .-ltO            Zost           Equivlent                      US
TY7r7     ~      7              '343         T67C             7Ts)           7  7                               (UM*
A. P a-sal Ifn0u
Fencing                         1,80O0/km          1D             l8,COo            5              9,010           _               _             15 r            27,000           6,OO             20            1,200
Livestock Water
Lem                           2,500/unit           -              _                .5            1,25D           -               -            .5 unit           1,250             250            4o              100
Equipped Borehole            10,000/  '          .25             2,500            -               -              -               _            .25  "            2,500             560            50              250
Ranch Structures
Workers House                 7, 0o/               -              -                .5            3,500           -               -            .5   "            3,500             760            10              100
M.chinery Shed , etc.        19,000/  '          .3              5,700            -               -              -               -            .3                5,700           1,2i0           20               250
Ranch House Improvements      9, 000/  "           -              -                .2            1,800           -               -            .2   "            1,800             400           20               100
Stock kaudling Pacilities
Corral                       10,000/              -               -                .5            5,DDO           -               _            .5                5,900           1,110           10               100
Dip                           5,000/  "            -              -               -               -             .33            1,500          .3                1,500             33°           70               250
Scale                         5,00D/  "          .5              2,500            -               -              -               -            .5                2,500             554 70                         400
M.chinery
Tractor  (40 hp)             20,00D/             .33             6,ooo            _               _                              _            .3                6,oo0           1,33J           70               900
Plo                          3,50D/            .3               1,050            _               _              _               _            .3                1,050             '30           20                50
Harrov                        4,500/             .3              1,350            _               _              _               -            .3                1,350             300            30              100
Seodor/5crtiltzer             6,00D/  "          .3              1,800            -               -              -               -            .3               1,800             400            70              300
Trailer                       3,000,  "         .3                 900            -               _              _               _            .3   "              900            200            20                50
Rotary Cutter                 5,00O/             .5              P,500            -               -              -               -            .5   "            2,500             550            70              400
Vehicle                      18,000/            .3               5,400            -               _              _               _            .3    '           5,4)0           1,200            60              700
Pasture ImprovSnt
Send ClearinU                   25D/ha           30              7,500            -               -              _               _             30 ha            7,500           1,670            40              650
Pasture aid Leguoe Seed          75/ "          100              7,500           30              2,250           -               _            130 ',750                        2,170             70            1,500
Ferti2-er)/                      75/ "          100              7,500           30              2,250           -               -            130 "             9,75J          2,170             20              450
Labor, Fuel snd maintenance    12D/ "           100             12,000           30              3,600 o                         _            130              15,600           3,470            10              350
Radio-telephones                3,000/set          .3                900            -               _               _              -            .3 omit             900             P03            80               150
VeterInary_Equipmet             1,200/                       " _      _              .5              600                    _   _               .5       "          600             ,30            80               100
Subtotal                                                      83.100 I_                       29,25                          100 -                          113,850         25,300            34             8.450
B. LSs'ootc.i hrnisoro
BS si, r.giotered             2,700/hd             3             8,100            3              8,100           2             5,4,0            3              21,6W0           4,800
Rlla, p-jgrlded               1,500/               5             7,500            5              7,501            0           13,5310         1l               28,500           6,330            _               _
Cellars, 1-2 years              50D/             20             10,000           25             10,300         )2             11,000          6G               32,50-           7,220            15            1,080
HeIfers. 2-3 yeses, in-calf    600/               33            18,000            -               _             _                _             30              1q,00't          4,_530           15              600
Sostot a'                                      58             43,600           33             203100          3                             lz              1, 35,                             6             1,680
Union                         2,000/      "        4                              1              2,00                           ,                             12,D3o           2,150           100     2 ,65
Subtotal                                       62             51,600           34             30,1D0          32            3' Oo           128            112,600          25,000             17            4,330
Total (A e B)                                   _            134,700            _5935_                                      32.40            -             226,450          50.300             25           12,780
Contingen-ies (10%)                            _              13,450            _              5,900          _              3,200          _                22,550           5.000           -               1,2W
Grand Total Tvestnt                             -            148,150                          65,'5           -                                             264 _  ,        55,300             25            14,000
Percert Distribution                            _               60                              2,             -               14            -                1W)            100
I/  The n=tber of units represents on-arerage the quantity that wuld be required by participating ranchers.
2/  Dhuring tUe develepent period, fertiliner input is eonsider d     an invest t oost for pre,esdi,stiW iV-ro-d pasture and .e- pasture to be established, there.ft.r,it J. essidered   -n,   aper.m                  e"st.
Note,  Of total ranch invetsnaents about 50% vuld be for physical inputs and 50% for iivestook purchase.



VENEZUEIA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPM4ENT POJIECT
lbsdel 1. Beef Breeding/arovingfancb - 5,000 ha'-/
3erd Projection
Per Head Value    Before                                          End of iBnch Year
Category                                         Yeaot ;FVears-20  DeveL-g/    1                  2          3         4          5          6          7                    9_20
Herd Corprsition (Number)
Bulls                                            1,0)O      1, (X)        13         18         23        31         34         37         4C         40         40         40
Cows                                               600i       660        500       533        573        622        679        729        800        8O0        800        BOO
Calves, born                                        30         9+)      (240)      (275)     (320)      (390)      (423)      (462)      (496)      (544)      (544)      (544)
Heirerss, 9-24 months                              300        330        107       111        129        152       15         201        220        236        259        259
steers, 9-24 Month3,                               252        390        107       110        129        152        185        201        219        235        258        258
scOrers, 2_3 yearp        4        s       j       62    r      OC        52        123        132       145        147        178        110        110        110        110
Steers.  2-3 yearsb,                               450        5-)        102        103        -
Steers, 3-4 yesrsJ                                 650        720         97        -          -          _          .          _          .          _          _
t011 tows                                          520        550         24        24         51          6         60         66         71         78        7/          78
Total Head                                        - _               1,242      L27        1357       i1.4       r7Y       1          1t.        203       2    20      03
Total Animal Units(AU's)                          _         _         990      1.01 i+               1,130        >                  _ _ ;ThC
Deaths (Number)
B3uils                                              _          _           1          1          1          1         1          1          I          1          1          1
Cows                                                                      25         20        21         17         19         20         ;'2        214 .4                 .1
Calves                                              -          -          24         19        17         16         20         21         .3         235
Heifers 9-24 months                                 _          _           5          4          4         4          5          6          G          /7
Steers, 9-24 months                                 _          _           5          4          4         4          5          66
Heifer,-  2-3 years r                                          _           3          2          5          4         4          4          5
Steers, 2-3 years                                   _          _           5          4         4
Steers, 3-4 years                                   _          _           5          4         -         _          _          _          _          _          _          -
Cull cows                                           -          -           1          1          2         2          2          2                     2
Total                                _74                                          5       _58                      56         ho        65          ,s 09                13
purchases (Number)
Bulls, registered                                2,700      3,500          1          3          3         2         -          -          _          _          _          _
Bulls, upgraded                                  1,500      1,800          1          5          5         9          7          7          d                                5
Helfers, 1-2 years                                 500        600         -          20         25        20
lfeif-rs, 3 years in calf                          600        700         -- 0
fotal Purcssoes                      _                      -           2         58 37 3 3             31          7                _                                     5
Sales (Num5eCr)
Steers, 1-2 yearY                                  450        500         -         -         106        125        147        176        195         12,
Steers, 2-3 years                                  650        750         -         918        99         -
Steers, 3-4 years                                  750        850         92        93          -
Heifers, 2-3 years                                 700        800         50        -          -          -          -          18         25        1.3       1l          '4i
Cu3.1 cows                                         550        600         23        23         49         54         58         64         6          -6         74
Cull bulls                                         850        950         -           2         2          2          3          3          3          4          4          4
Coll heifers, 9-24  onths                          350        400         _           3          6         6          7          7          :          5          5
Total Sales                                       -         -    1      5        219        262 12       7   ;3                                               1.3 7
Technical Coefficlents               Units
Calving, bor.                                       -          -          48         55        60         68         68         68         6d         6d         68         68
Mortality
Adults                                                       -           5         4          4          3          3          3          3          3          3          3
Calves                              6             _          -          10         8          6          5          5          5          5          5          5          5
Culliag
Bulls                              6              .         _          .          15         10         10         10         1G         12C        10)        2          I",
Cows                                t             -          -           5         5         10         U)         10         10         10         1D         10 1C
He.iers, 9-24 months                              -          - _                   5          5          5          5          5          5          5          5          5
Carrylng Cap   ity                 Ha/AU            -          -           5 1     4.8:1      4,5:1        4:1      3.5:1      3.3:1      3.3:1      3.3:1      3.3:1      3.3:1
output Bate 51                        6                        -          13         17        19         12         13         14         1'J        20         21         23
Slaughter Cattle Dressed Weight                    (Kg/head)  (
Steers, 2-3 years                    Xg            210         _          ,         20.6       20.8       -          -
Steers, 3-4 years                                  230         -          21.2      21.4                                        -                -
Cull cows                                          180        190          4.1        4.1        8.8       9.7       10.4       12.2       13._       14.4       14.4       14.4
Cull bulls                            "            260        290         -           0.5        0.5       0.5         0.8        0.9       1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2
Cull heifers                          "            130        150         -           0.4        o.8       0.8        0.9        1.1        1.14       0.8        C.8        0.8
lbtal Dressed Weight             Xg'OOO           -         -          25.3       47.0       30.9       11.0       12.1       1.42       15.7      IT.4        36.4       16.4
This ranch before development produces mature steers (3-4 years) for sale as beef.  With a project it converts to a feeder ranch tsteers 18 months_-2 yers) with
sufficient Improved pasture (250 ha) to carrY steers fsr a growing period after weaning, assusing 100 ha exist before developrent.  This represents a first
phase develop.aent of the ranch.
r  Herd before development was primarily low quality beef productien with steer turn-off age of 3-4 yeers.  During and after development, sill convert to
breeding cows/feeder steer production.
Heifers joined to bulls as 2-3 year olds to clave do-n at about 31 years of age.
 ConversIon to feeder steer production phased over years-l and _2 of the Psroject ranch deveIspeent progran.
5/  Total herd less all of the calves and 50S of cull cuws.
Sales of steers to Model 2 type and other ranches in fattening areas.
Total sales of all cattle expressed as a percentage of total herd.
MareS 3, 1971



VENEZUELA
X                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIVE.STOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 1. Beef Breeding/Prowin  Ranch, 5,000 ha
Sales and Operating Expenses Prolections
H                                                                                                  (Bs)
Per Head Value               Before                                                       Ranch Year
Category                         Years 0-4        Years 5-20         DeveloPment      1            2           3           4           5           6           7           8         9-20
Cattle Sales
Steers, 1-2 years                  450               500                -           -          47,700      56,300      66,200      88,000      97,500   106,000    114,000    125,000
Steers, 2-3 years                  650               750                -         63,700       64,400        -           -           -           -          -            -           -
Steers, 3-4 years                  750               850              69,000      69,800         -                                   -           -          -            -           -
Surplns Heifers, 2-3 years         700               800              35,000        -            -           -           -         14,400      68,000    82,400       95,200    112,800
Cul   llws                         550               600              12,700      12,700       27,000      29,700      31,900      38,400      41,400    45,600       45,600      45,600
Culll nalls                        850               950                -          1,700        1,700       1,700       2,600       2,900       3,800       3,800       3,800       3,800
Cull N"ifers, 9-24 monEths         350               400                - _        1,100        2,100       2.100       2,500       2800        3,600      2,000        2,000       2,000
Total Sales               -                -              116,700    149,000       142,900      89,800    103,200    146,500    214,300   239,800    260,600    292
Operating Expeneea                Units          Unit Value
Salary
Owner/Manager                      1            8,400 pa             8,400       8,400        8,400       8,400       8,400       8,400       8,400      8,400       8,400       8,400
Labor
Forer--                            2            4,800 "              9,600       9,600        9,600       9,600       9,600       9,600      10,000    10,000       10,000       10,000
Cowboy (p -s,mient)              3-4            3,600 "             10,800      14,400       14,400      14,400      14,400      15,000      15,000    15,000       15,000      15,000
Cowboy (L~.p srary)              2-3            1,800/3  yr          3,600       5,400        5,400       5,400       5,400       5,400       6,000      6,000       6,000       6,000
FOnt labo  asad drivers          3-5            2,800 pa             8,400      11,200       14,000      14,000      14,000      14,000      14,000    14,000       14,000      14,000
Animal Healte
Dippinig                                        B's l/AU             1,000       1,000        1,000       1,100       1,300       1,400       1,500      1,500       1,500       1,500
MI nrals                                        B's 2/ "             2,000       2,000        2,000       2,200       2,600       2,800       3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000
Va: ines                                         B's 1/ "            1,000       1,000        1,000       1,100       1,300       1,400       1,500       1,500       1,500       1,500
ES,- T r eranr-
la,turu-                                        B's 30/ha            3,000       3,000        6,000       6,900       6,900       6,900       6,900      6,900       6,900       6,900
PertilireL                                      B's 40/ "            4,000        -            -           -          9,200       9,200      10,000    10,000       10,000      10,000
Ferces                                         5, of value           1,500       2,000        2,500       3,000       3,500       3,500       3,500      3,500        3,500       3,500
Wretre  Farilities                             5% '                   -           -           1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000       1,000
yvil Jit;                                     10% "    '             2,000       3,000        3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000       3,500      3,500        3,500       3,500
Corr:la                                       10%                    1,000       1,000        2,000       2,000       2,000       2,000       2,000      3,000        3,000       3,000
F.\hhlnely                                    10%   "                1,000       3,000        4,000       4,000       4,000       4,000       5,000       5,000       5,D00       5,000
VehIcles                                      10% "                  2,000       2,500        2,500       2,500       2,500       2,500        2,500      3,000       3,000       3,000F
Fuel srd Lubricants
Masfl' hine r y                         700 hr pa @ B's 5/hr         3,000       3,500        3,500       3,500       3,500       3,500        4,000      4,000       4,000       4,000
VeIIlels                             12,000 km @ B's .25/km          3,000       3,000        3,000       3,000       3,000       3,000        3,000      3,000       3,000       3,000
Insurance and Miscellaneous                                            1,000       1,500        2,000       2,000       2,000       2,000        2,000      2,000       2,000       2,000
Bull Replacements                                                      4.200        -            -           -         10.500      12,600       14 400       9,000      9          j000
Subtotal                                                   70,500      75              ,            100    108,100    111200    117 200   113 300    113  00    113 300
Conctngencies (10%)                                                    7_7100    __7,500             0    ___0        _1     0    _  , 00       1,70       11,300     _1 3130
Total Operating Expenses                                   77,600    _83 000        93,80      _            118,900    122          18,900    _            124,600      24 
Net Operating Income                                       39,100   66 ,000         49, 100   _        )   (15,700)    24 200        8         115.200    136,000       6   6
Annual Incremental Operating Income                          -         26,900        10,000    (45,100)   (54,800)   (14,900)    46,300    76,100           96,900    125,500    wl5



VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOP4ENT PROJECT
Model 1. Beef Breeding/Growing Ranch - 5,000 ha
Financial Projection
D                                                                                                      (B'OOO
Before                                    --anc---------Ranch Year -__--_-___
Development          1           2         3            4          5           6          7           8          9                       11
Source of Funds
Sales                                              116.7            149.0      142.9     89.8         103.2      146.5       214.3      239. 8      26C.6       '39.2       239.2       '3.2
Long-term loan                                       -             118.6        52.2     28.4           -          -           -
Rancher's contribution for ranch investment          -              29.6        13.1      7.1           -
Previous year ' s savings                                                                21.4          33.6                                           -                                -
Total         =ig7s                                            297.2       208.2    116           ITT        IV  5       11  23. 39                        28       9.2           29
Application of Funds
Ranch investmentY                                    -             148.2        65.3     35.5                       -                                 -                 -          -
Operating expenses                                  77.6            82.0        93.8     95.8         118.9      122.3       128.9      124.6       124.6       124.6       124.6      124.6
Debt service:
Long-term loan2/                                   -               _          10.7     15.4          17.9       17.9        51.2       51.2        51.2       51.0         51.2        -
Sub-total                                     77. 6  23   0.2   1                       7    1467    7 2 75                  1                             i77  1         -;.T
Cash savings/                                     39.1            67.0        3  4      - -                      6.3        34.2       64:o        84.8       1l3-4'      113.4     124.6
Total                                          112272                      207.2      146.7       &7         I 5         214.3      57-                    27:          i.2
i/ Includes 80% long-term loan and 20% rancher's contribution in cash and in kind.
/  Nine-year loan including four years of grace and 9% interest per annum.
Accusulated cash savings during long-tens debt service (10 years) would be about B521,000. However, after
recovery of rancher's contribution to new on-ranch investments of B50,000 and also his contribution to
operating expenses of about B55,000, the net accumulated savings would be about B416,000, or B41,600 averae-e
annually.  This would be only B2,500 (US$550) increase over before development situation.  However, in
addition, the rancher   would get ar, incremensal increase in value of livestock of about B325,000 (l7472,000).



r                                                                    Vr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CNOZOfELA
L1VE3TOCK DE7ELOPMENT PLLOJECT
Mo5de  2.   Beef Breeding/Fattening Ranch -  1,500 ha
Investment Cost Projection
Deveiop .eta Phsing 
Ranch Year-I          Ranch Year-2          Ranch  Year-3       Total           Total     US$ Equi-
Once tm.r0 Category                      8nit Cost          ~  Jnts   ;.E. 'nt            Cret.otlC6                        yGL L          _Ce        ral 1nt  Fri nBcaPu sorzpoenat
A. Phy ,al Inputs
Fencin                                1,c800/km         5         9,00Q        3         5,400       2          3,600    10 km          18,000     4,000        20           800
Livert-ck Water
Dare                                2,500/urit        -          -            .25       625        _                    .25 unit         625        140       LO            60
EKquipped Borehole                10,000/             .5        5,000        -         _           _           -        .5             5,000     1,110        50           560
R-nrh Structerec
Workers RouHse                      7 000/ "          -                       .5       3,500                                           3   5  3,500  780      10            80
Ma.hinery Shed                    19 000/ "            .2       3,800        -         -           -           -        .2    "        3 800       845        20           170
tI hLandling Facilities
I  ,al                            10,000/ r             _                     .3      3,000        _           -        .3             3,000       670        10            70
Dir, (Spray3)                       5,0 0/ r          _          _           _          _            3        1,500    .3    "         1,500       335        70           235
ScaLe                               5,000/ "           .5       2,500        -          .          -           _        5              2,500       555        70           390
a,Mn! i e,1
T;-:tor (40 hp)                    20,000/ 5           .25      5,Wc                    _          _                    .25   "        5,000     1,110        70           775
Pia                                 3,500/             .25       806                           _ _ _  _                 .25"             840        190       20.           40
4,500/            .25       1,125        _         -           -                    .25           1,125        250        30            75
ieo. 1  r' t.iiiser                6,ol/ "              25      1,500 5                 _          _           _        .25            1,500       335        70           235
T,, i'.                             3,000/ "           .25        750                         _                         .25              750        165       20            35
RcOts,c  C -                        5,000/ 1"          .5       2,50         -          -           -          -        .5             2,500        555       70           385
Vehy ' i,                          18,00C/ "                                  .25     6,500        _           _        .25   "        4,500     1,000        60           600
Las tu-a o-*-  nt~,-m
LAni,i I                              2. -i.         50        12,5CO        -          _          _           _        50 hA         12,500      2,780       40         1,110
f      SeeL Ivr                        100         7,500       30         2,250      20          1,500   150 "           11,250      2,500        70        1,750
V.      :5                           75/          200         15,003       30        2,250       20          1,500   250 "          18,750      4,160        20           835
' -l soo mainterornd          125/"        100         12,700       30        3,600       20          2,400   150            18,000      4,000        10           400
koadi. *C65(.nec                      3,000/set          .3          900       -          -           -          -        .3 anit          900        200        80          160
Veterina'  Equipment                  1,200/            -                       .3         360        -          -        .3  n            360         60        80            65
So' . . L                                                    79915        _        25,485       _          10,500         _           900    257760         -4         8.830
P. LiventcOk Purchases
Bre-ing Stosk
Bulls, registered                   2,700/head        2         5,600        2         5,a00       I          2,700       5           13,500     3,0o
BuLl., up0r-ded                     1,500/ n          2         3,000        2         3,00        2         3,000       S            9,000      2,W000
Heifers, 2 yearo                      500, "         50        25,0(0       _           -           -            _       5i           25,0C0O     5,560       20         1,110
Sukt tal                             _             5L        33,400        6         8,060       3          5,700      61           47,500    10.560        11         1,ll0
Mules                               2,0/A head        2         4,occ        1        2,0        _            -          3              0       __1.330     100         1,33C
Subtotal                                           56        37,400        5        10,400        3         5,700      64           53.500    11,890        21         2,440
Tetal (Aol )                         --                     117 315        -       35025         -         16 200       -           1'3iO 40   76c          30,       17270
Contingencies (10;)                  -              - 16207_ 3°
Grand Total Investments              _              _       129.015       _        39,4aB       _          17,800                  186,300    41,b,00       3Q        12,6o0
Percant Distribution                                             69        _            2t        -            10       -00                       120       -            -
1/ The cunber of usite  presente on-arerage the quantity that would bh required by participating ranchers.
2/  During development perind, Nertilirer input Is con-idered an irren3tmet cost for e-,sting                I-tpruved 9astare
and ner .nstore to be esiiblished; thereafter, it Ls cmn.lde,ed as an annual o             ..'oticg cost.
Note: Of total ranch investmenm cost, about 61% is for physical Inputs and 3)2  for iivestock purchase.



AlEx 6
VENEZUELA
-'ESTOC1  EV--COP7111T PlOJDT
dotel 2.  Be-  Breedi.goattr-ing Rnob - 1.500 haI/
Hird Pr-  :tio-
P., "e'dD ne V.I..                                                    End of kokh fear
Category                                        lears 0_4_____________-__________________2__3__4__5__h_7_____8__                                                              5_20___
Herd tCo litiun   (tRmbar)
Bulls                                                   1ODO        1100          5          B          11         12          13        1i          15         14         14         15
Cos                                                      60r3        660        27e        233         223        241        263        275         275        275        275        27S
Calves born                                                6          90       ,11.-      (124)       (151)      (152)      (174)       (1)        (9) (198)             (190)      (190)
Heifers, 9-24 months                                     300        330          22         50          S6         48         37          37         37         37         37         17
Steers, 9-24 .ontho                                      350         390         52         53           95        71          72         B2         50         94                    94
Heifors, 2-3 years                                       600         660         21         21          ;          S4         4?          36         36         31         36          :6
Steers, 2-3 yoaos                                        45C         500         49         50          51         S6          60         70         dO         li7 7       )
Steers, 3-4 yoars_3                                      600         720        117         -           -           -          -          -
Call Cas                                                  500        550          9         29          23         22          21         26
Total Bead                            _- S1 h2                                                                 3
Total ABieul Dnits (AU's)                                                  _ _!F11 1                                                     9l7
Parahased Steersl(-2 years)                           450          50B0                          -' 1 7  2                          rn         - 1+    *- rrr    -w ,-
Total Anioal Units                                     -           -                                          717           in    .2h7& -
ketaso (Auanar)
Balls                                                      -          _          -          -           -           1           1          1          1          I          1           !
ba                                                         -          -          10          e            7          7          7          9          5                                 58
Caloes                                                                            9 -  s     a           7          8           9 8                   9         1          1
Heirers,99-24 -onth                                        _                      1          1           2          2           1          1          1          1          1
Stro.r, 9-24 rooths                                        -          -           3          2           2           2          2          2          2          J
He,r-s, 2-3 yearo                                          -             -          1        1           1           1          2          1          1
Steers, 2-3 year                                           -                      2          2           2           2          2          2          2          2          3
Steers, 3-4 years                                          -          -           2          2           -           -          -          -          -
Cull Cans                                                  -          -           -          1           1           .          1          1          1          1          :
Thochaed Stooro                                            -          -           5          h           5          6          R                     11         1
Total D-etho                                           -          -          7T           TZ
Feroo4eeo (dauener)
lalls, Register&5/                                     2,700      3,500                      2           2          1           -          -          -
Balls, Upgraded._                                      1,50       1,8C00                     2           2          2          3           3          2          2          2
vle-,rs  2 yraro/l                                      5o         600           -         50
Total br.edlog Stook                                   -          -            -         54           C          3          3          3           2          2
Pr-rhaand Stoers (1-2 year )./                        450        500        17707                                         777= Z775C 250  37 35D   30
Total Storobasno                                       _          -         7777    -               2T7        253       73°        -3-         352        3f         352       __
lalot (Baser)
Basohbrod Strors (2 to 3 y-ars)                           700        90           -         47         45           40         54         57         6855
R-aohbred Steers (3 to 4 years)                           800         -          45         45            -          -          -          -
Sarpla,s Hifrs Y                                         6 0         600         31          -            -        20         31          h2         .8 6                  52          52
Cu 1 Covs                                                55c         600          9         28          22         21         22          25         26         26         26         2'.
Call Balls                                               900      1,000           -          1           1          1           1          1          1          1          1
Cull Hai-ers (9_24 enthe)                                350        390           -          3           3          4           4          L
P_hrohsed Steers (2-3 y-ro)                               700        800         95         96         170        195        242        291        339         339        a33        239
Total Sales                                            -    - 2                       r9 3 5 4      3°  -;5  z;   r                                         1            -
Teohnical GOeffoileits                          Units
Cals-g, bor%                                               -          -          6C         62          65         68          72         72         72         7<         72         72
Bortaltloos:
Ad t.                                       %3u                                     l    t     s -  -  5  4  3   3          3          3          3           3          3 J
alves                                      5          -          _            a          7           6          5          5          5           5          5          5          5
Gaullloog 
%          _          _           2          1           10         10         10         10         15         10         1C          1D
Covs aa                                                _          -            5         15-IC) 10                         10         10         10          IC         10         IC
Hfeirer  (9-24rontbs)                       B          -          -            -          5           5          5          5          5           5          5          *          S
Relation, Covs/Ballo                       Coas/bolla      -          -        40:1       30:1        20:1       20:1       20:1        20:1       2C:1       20:1       2015       20:i
Poroont, Cans/Total Herd                       5           -          -          39         41          36         37         36          38         36         36         36         36
Stooking Bate                                 h./AU        -          _         oil      2.5:1       2.3:1        2:1      1.8:1      1.7:1      1.7:1       '.7:1       .6:1      1.6:1
Carrying Capacity                             ha/AS        -                  2.':1      2.5:1       2.2:1        2:1      1.7:1      1.7:1       1.6,1      l.6:1      1.6:1      1.S:1
Outpat Rate 10/                                B           -          _          16         22          12         14          16         19         2r         21         22         2Z
Batrootlo    Ratc11/    _                                 -          -          10         22          12         11         12          13         13         14         15         16
Slaughter cattle D"aesd WighR  ill
Ranchbred Steers, 2.3 yev.s                   kg          2r0        220          -          9.1         9.6         9.8       O0.8       14.7       15.0       17.?       18.5        19.1
Ranahbrod Stearo, 3-4 years                              230         260         10.4       17.5         -           -          -          -          -
Call Case                                                lBo         200          1.6        5.0         4.0         3.4        4.0        5.0        5.0        -.2        5.2         5.2
CullBalls                                     "           250        280          -           .3          .3         .3          .3         .3         .3         .3         .3         .3
Call Heifars, 9-24 .oothe                     "           130        140          -            .4         .4         .5          .5         .6         .7          .7        .7          .7
P-rohIsed Steers, 2-3 year-                              210         230         20.0       20.2        35.7       40.?       50.S       66.59       73.0       73.3       79.0       78.0
Total Dressed Weight                    kgf-                               tr r         niSr        -DrO        5.7       -rn        b7.r          rr5r  -9.rr lD
Srsmestal Dressed WeigFt t:                                                    -        1r 13.                  22.        3h.4       5.         6r b.r
/ Before develapweot, this ranch hao 100 ha of ieprosed pasture eith a ca:rying sapooity Of 1 kWAT as ipaqroved pasture and 3.5 ha/AU 00 unisprov-d pasture, or 3 bh/AU
overall avsrago.After developesnt,eith ee sdditisnel 150 ha of tfprard pasture and an inareas  of  -arryirg  -apaoity as aepn-roed p-sture d,is to i-vest-eato  On f-cine
and eater faoilities,the overall oarryieg vop.oity could be 1.7 ha/AU.
2/
-  Cattle         ...oss eoald increase abro,t 10  during first h yeers  f the Proje-t das to hotter lce1 alght gains fr-s iM1roead pasture aod  -aagae t pr-oti-os.
_/ Steers before devolopeent sold at 3-4 years. Under the Projeot tarn-off age reduced to 2-3 years becases of improved paeturea.
totel herd I... aule    od o50  of eull oas.
Br oaaa purebred  leas r-gltered  itb  Brae  Breeders A.eiatioa.
_/ Purtbred Bresns of geod quality ehich do eat qeelify far registretie.
7 Purohasod as 2-year olds for bh.rding the folloving year as 3-year olda.
A esua,s that the inrcantel nueber of the required fder steers are prvdaed   tehin the Prjet areas.
9/ Sold as sner srplue feels. in order to teorae te due of' .              te sorw lerd eith Ieee fellasere.
0O/ Total  ..lee not im.lda g parahasad sters but ineldig asurpluas breediog stokt, epreseed as a perentage of tot-l reeshbred hard.
11/ Total sale.  of Slughter  took, not thaludirg fattened puereeae d stee, rat eleludir               eer aseek u r        ee  a  a peroentge a  raeara, n:era.
2Assa.s.   52% dre sIng pereatae of lie ight.
Moarch 3, 1971



VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMNT PROJECT
H                                                                              Model 2: Beef Breeding/Fattening Ra          0  ha
Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
(Bsj
Per Head Value             Before                                                   Rainch Year
Category                             Yeare 0-4        Years 5-20       Development   1            2           3          4           5           6          7          8          9-20
Cattle Sales
Ranch-bred Steers, 2-3 years         700               800              -        32,900       33,600      34,300     37,800      53,600     54,400    62,400       67,200      70,400
Ranch-bred Steers, 3-4 years         800               820            36,000     36,000         -           -          -           -           -         -           -           -
Surplus Heifers, 9-24 months         600               650            18,600       -            -         12,000     18,600      27,300      31,200    33,800      33,800     33,800
Cull Cows                            550               600             5,000     15,400       12,100     11,600      12,100      15,000      15,600    15,600      15,600      15,600
Cull Bulls                           900               990              -           900          900         900        900       1,000       1,000     1,000       1,000      1,000
Cull Heifers, 9-24 months            350               390              -         1100         1,100       1,400                  1,600        1,600    2,00        2,000      2,000
Subtotal Ranch-bred Sales    -                  -            59,600      86,300      47,700      60,200      70,800     98,500    103,800   114,800    119,600    122,800
Purchased Steers                     700               800          _6500        6_,2OO      119,000    135,800    169,400    232,800    271,200   271,200    271,200    2712
Total Sales                   -                 -           126,100    153,500      166,700    196,000    240200    331,300    375,000   386,000    390,800    394,000
opeaLiF Fxps                          Units         Unit Value
Sala,', - Owner/Manager                I            8,400 pa           8,400      8,400        8,400       8,400      8,400       8,400       8,400     8,400       8,400       8,400
LAbor
Foraean                              1            4,800 "            4,800      4,800        4,800      4,800       4,800       4,800      4,800      5,000       5,000      5,000
Co;boys (permanent)                2-3            3,600 "            7,200      7,200        7,200     10,800      10,800      11,000      11,000    11,000      11,000     11,000
o,,,,hnjs (f yearly)               1-2            1,S00/½ year       1,800      3,600        3,600      3,600       3,600       3,600      4,000      4,000       4,000      4,000
Il bc,r ani drivors                2-3            2,800 pa          5,600       5,600        8,400      8,400       8,400       9,000      9,000      9,000       9,000      9,000
Animal I,.,alth
Dippi  '                            -             B's 1/AU            -           600          700         750        800         900         900     1,000       1,000      1,000
Min.                                -             B's 2/"            1,000      1,200        1,400       1,500      1,600       1,800       1,800     2,000       2,000       2,000
Vaccines                            -             B's 3/"            1,500      1,800        2,100       2,250      2,400       2,700       2,700     3,000       3,000       3,000
Mai-.t  er.nce
Pa"  , res                          -             B's 30/ha          3,000      3,000        3,000       3,000     10,500      10,500      11,000    11,000      11,000      11,000
F., ilizer                          -             B's 40/ha          4,000       -            -           -        10,000      10,000      10,000    10,000      10,000      10,000
Fences                              -           5% of value          1,000      1,000        1,400       1,600      2,000       2,000       2,000     2,000       2,000      2,000
"eers                             -           5"                    -          -            -            500        500         500         500       500         500         500
lB, , Idtings                       -          107. "    "           2,000      3,000        3,000      4,000       4,000       4,000       4,000     4,000       4,000      4,000
Corrals                             _          10%  '   "            1,000      1,500        1,500       1,500      2,000       2,000       2,000     2,000       2,000       2,000
Agricultural Machinery              -          107, "                1,500      3,200        3,200       3,200      3,200       3,200       3,200     3,200       3,200       3,200
Vchlcles                            -          107, "    "           1,500      2,000        2,000       2,000      2,000       2,000       2,000     2,000       2,000       2,000
F1  land Lub_ricanzts
Agricultural Machinery              -    500 hr/yr @ B's 5/hr        2,000      4,000        4,000       4,000      4,000       4,000       4,000     4,000       4,000       4,000
Vehicle                               12,000 km/yr @ B's .25/km    2,000        3,000        3,000       3,000      3,000       3,000       3,000     3,000       3,000       3,000
Insuran,ce end miscellaneous          -                 -              1,000      1,500        2,000       2,000      2,000       2,000       2.000     2,000       2,000       2,000
Bull P-pl:  ests                      -             1,800/head         1,500       -            -           -         4,500       5,400       3,6;3,600             3,600       3,600
Subtotal                      -                 -50,800                  55,400       60,000     65,300      88,500      90 o~800   89 900   _90,700       90,700  ~90 700
Steer Purchases                       -           450-500/head        45,000      78,750      90 000    112,500    135000    175,000    175,000   175,00         175,000    175 000
Contingencies 10X                     -                 -                90       13400      1            ,7,7 0      22,40     0            26 6500    26,                 600 2660
Totsd P         peenses       -                 -            105,400    147550       16C        195,fO0     245,900    292 4_0      290,400   292,300    292,300    292 300
Net Operating Income          -                 -            20,700       5.          _1700          400     (5.700)    38.900       84,600    93,700      98.500    101 700
Annual Increnental Operating Income -                  -               _        (14,750)    (19,000)   (20,300)   (26,400)    18,200        63,900    73,000      77,800      81,000
elm;



VEMEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
H
Model 2 - Beef Breeding/Fattening RarBch - 1,500 ha
H                                                                                                   Financial ProJection
'000,
Before            ------------------------------------------------------Ranch Year ---_----_h__r----------- -- ----------------
Development           1           2          3            4           5           6                        8           9           _            11
Source of Funds
Sales                                                126.1            153.5       166.7      196.0        240.2       331.3       375.0       336.S       390.8        394.0        39)4.0    394.o
Lang-term loan                                         -              103.2         31.3      14.4                                  -            -           -           -                 -
Rancher's contribution for ranch investment            -               25.8         8.2        3.4          -           _           _            _           _           _            _          _
Wurking capital loan                                   -                 -          1.8       13.1         22.0
Previous year's savings                                -        -                   5.9         -         2
Total                                                                                    226.1_       2 _213.9    _226.9 3    __ 3___0                39__                     394-°__
Application of Funds
Ranch investments-/                                    -              129.0        39.5       17.8                                               -
Operating expenses                                   105.7            147.6       165.0      195.6        245.9       292.4       290.4       29e.3       292.3       292.3        292.3      292.3
Debt service:
Long-tern loen'/                                     -                -           9.3       12.1         13.4        13.4        37.6        37.         37.6         37.6         37.6
Interest on working capital loan (10.5%)             -                -           0.1        1.4          2.3         2.3                     -                       -             -
Repayment of working capital loan                    -                                                    -          22.0         -           -
Subtotal,                                        105         .7               7 213.9    2            261.6       330.1       328.0       329     9.9             329.9        329.9      292.3
Cash savings.3                                      20(.2             5.9         -                       0.6         1.2        47.0        56.1        60.9         64.1        64.1      101.7
Total                                            l2-              235         213.9      226          262.2       331.3       375.-0                   5          394.0 39          0     394.0
i/ Includes 80% long-term loan and 20% rancher's contribution in cash and in kind.
N nine-year loan including four years of grace at 9% interest per annum.
)/  Asusulated cash savings during long-tern debt service period (10 years) would be B300,000.  Yowever,
after recovering rancher's contribution to new on-ranch investments of B37,000 ar.d contriahation to w.ing
Capital of about B6,000, his net cash savings would be B257,000 or B25,700 (US$5,700) average per year arn .  pared
w'th 'bei o-e leve opinent of about B20,000 (US$4,400) per year.  Rancher's financial condition would also be inproved 
by an incremental increase of herd value of about BlO2,000 (JS$26,700).                                                                                                                               a



VEOOOELA
MDodel 3.  Bef Breedf  n  /Totts,6)nr/7i.vfRech    000 ha ./
~ Investment Cont Pro&ectior,
tans.. 5rnr-          DeUeLoTment PhasmrL            I.cr. tear-               TotalZ'        Total             US$          FO3e    Sxgh rie Cotuet
1U1t  -ott                                    <I.           its C D       Sa. 1-a. onits                           Cost 99uvaen
:nvest-ent ostegory                                                                                                             7zs7  7,17  Ft. 50  TT 75  .3S
A. Fi±OSteslInuSk
Fencing                               1,800/k5a          5                                                                               5 kl            3,300         2,000               20                 400
Livestock Wster
Dam                             2,500,/nit          _-                          .3            35,          _                        .3 Uzst           750           170               40                  70
Eqaippe3 Boreholes             10,000/snit          .3           3, 100_       -              -                                     .3             3,000            700              40                 26u
Ranch Buildings
Workers House                   7,000/unit          -              -           .5            ,5.           -            -          .5    '          3,5'°           780               10                  80
Machinery Shed                 1, 000/"             .3           5,700         -               -                                   .3               5,720         1,300               20                 260
Stool. Hendlic  Facitltee
C-1 rr 43                       0 0looo/           .-              -            3          3,000           _            -          .3               3,C.0           700               10                  Or
DIp                             5,00C/ "-                                      -               -          .2           1,000       .2               1,002           220                                  1.'
Scale                           50>3/ "             -              -           *5          2,50)           -            -          .5              _,500            560               70                400
Machinery
Tr:ctor  (40 HP)               20,00 / '            .3           (,000         -               -           -            -          .3               6,000         1,300               70                 900
Plow                            3,50''              .3           1,05C         _                                                   .3              1,050            230               23                 50
Hnrrow                         1+4, s.              .3           1,353         _                                                   .3               1,35J           300               30                  90
Ser3er /cr-tillccr              6,00C/              .3           1,800         _              _            _                       .3               1,800           400               70                280
Trailer                         3,C0C,,             .3             900         -               -           -            -          .3                 90J           20U               20                 40
Rotary Cutter                   X, / .,M      1                  3,00          _               _           _            _          1                5,00o         1,100               70                 770
Vehicle                         s,Yo2/c             -              -            .2         3,60.           -            -          .2              3, 6S            800               60                480
Pasturn _lmprosement
SI.d Ocneriag                   257/ha,             00)         12,500         -               -           --                      50 ha          12,500          2,800               40              1,120
DraiDnge (5-ntract)             35 /h,             250          12,500         --                                                 250 hr          12,500          2,800               30                 840
Pa-t00e and Legur.e Send        75/hu              100           7,50C       100           7,500           -            -         200-            15, O0          3,300               70              2,300
Fertiliser 3/                   75/"              iO0           7,530       100           7,50            _            _         200 ht           16,000         3,300               20                 660
.sbo,, F-el and K1inter-nce  120:"'                100          12,0C                      2,200           -            -         20 ha           24,0o0          5,300               10                530
Radio t.-)r0,trncn                    3,030/oct           .2             600         _              _           _             _          .2                600            130              80                 100
tipr.           mnt                   1, 200/intt        -3              350       _                _           _            _           3                 350             8C              80                  60
Sub-total                                           -           866753   _             _                               1,00                       18       2b .70                     38      _ Sh35
reret Physical Inputs of
Total Inrsn-t-m.                                   _               -          _                            _                       _9
B. Livestock Purchases
Bulls, registered               2,700/id             3           8,700         3           8,100           3           8,100        0             24,3'I          5,400
uulle, apgraded                 1,500/               1           1,500         7          17,500           9          13,300       17             25,000          5,700
Heif'os, 1-2 years.               500/       "       0          20,001        20          if,,0C           -            -          6C             30,, !:         6,700               65               4,360
He L..n, 2-3 years, in-nalf       603u/             40          2.0'C         20          12,             20          12,031C     830             0, 'I,         10,600               _-
S0b-trtal                        -              81           ,60          51          4,6).          32           33.600      1,6            127,0 6         28100                15             _1,360
M-les                           2, o0/               2           41)           -               -          -_            -           2               4,0oo           900              100                 9
Sal-total                                       86          57,600        '           L7,60'         3-           32,600      168            131.8G0         29,300               18              5,260
Total Investments (A     )                          _               5c                                        _       3460X                       25° 900                                              5,
lCrtir,gerciten  (1lC)                              -.$_                                                                          -75                   _=1-
Oro-d  otral Ivestets                    _ a                   15,001    ,                                 -          36,00') _0                 2861   0        63 .600              28              17,00
PernaoL D3istrlbhution                                              5 56       _               31          _              13       -                  lG100                           -
1/  This typn  nf rof nh r-presents a        dcre ndvanced stag. of de-elnpussxt than models I and 2.  IharOSer aes tnvsnflentn wucld forus. a,, i-nreased tei' per,cha.  ith w   eignifikant inoreasJ in
milk proedntion.  It is asseund that 200 ha of prs-elsveloped Ia Vm7d  p.actue 1d                                ha additi n.       l I ouid be dev-loped unde,r Sh  Psjeot>
2/  Tho nbe-r of sails r-pr-ese   ee-a--sran tha qen-iiy Shot -oud be haenua-d by P.rniCi2pot.g rsalcrp -n
3/  D-on- the d-vrl-c,neL ceeid, fernililer inp,ot i. c-nsider-d an i-seatment cent for pre--,s                           r-tg -mpred pontore and saw pcst-ra to be astebli.had, thereafter it is coneid-cod
asc. s nuaL op-raCisg cost.
Notet Of tctaL rmn-c lnoec- snt- , ab-at 52%  could on for physicol inputs asd 50t  for livestocX perchases.



T.bl. 2
VEI9000EIA
LIVESTOHCK DEVELOP?NE8T -PROJECT
pb,te1 3.  he.f qm.dingJ7ttas±na/Daiary  Ran    - 700 ha
Herd ProlJotion
Per Hend yalo-
CaCenR-,                                                     Yesr-  0.4    SY-r  5-20 Bef-r                                                         End of Hoob Cer
Be              S.       DreITP ..t         1-          2           3           4           5            6           7           8         9-20-
B, 1le                                                       1,000           1,100              10          12           19          28          29          30          30          30          30          30
Coon                                                            000            660             350         371         403         557          582         600         600         600         600         600
Cairn, bore                                                      80             90            (217)       (228)       (252)       (338)       (410)        (437)       (430)       (450)       (450)       (450)
H.if-, 9-24 enehe                                               300            330             100          96         [02          113          80          00          HO          OH          Ho          HO
S eor, 9-24  -teh.                                              350            390             100         101         107          120         161         199         208         214         210         214
Heif-r, 2-3 y--e                                                600            660              37         136         113           99          95          78          78          78          78          70l
S- ,2-3 ye-r                                               450             500              95         96           98         104         116         156         191         202          N0A        2011
Cell Coo                                                        500            530               17         40           29          42          54          57          Sd          58          591
Ilolal Heed                                               -              -926                      1.080       1 203       1.401       1,535       1.631       I_691       1 ¾2 LI        ld       I 110
lolo  An0i-1 Unite .                                                                     700         05§2        936       1.042       1.090.22    117         (~1_ L                    j)
Oollo                                  -               -                 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  1         LI            L                       
Con                                                                                             10          14           11          14          17          17          10          Id          16          10
d,_n                                                            -                               1           15           14          13          12          21           2          23          23          2
Holrs    -24  -oeh.                                                                         5           4           3           3            3           2                                   22
O6er,-24 _ootho                                                                                  5           4            3           3           4           5           6           0           0            0
lif, if-,2-3 y--s                                                                                 2          2           4            3           3           3           -1          2           2           2
St--r, 2-3 Y--o                                                                                   5          4            3           3           3           3           5           6           6           6
CoIl Co..,                                                      -                                       1           2                             222                                 2           2           0
Tot'.1 Or-eh                                             -               -54                          46          40          41          50           54          59          60          60          60
e::11o,  rogienerod                          ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~           ~       ~~2.700  3.500  -  3  3         3          -                 -           -           -            -
Zlt1¾  up-gr-dod                                             1,500           1.000               1           1           7            9           5           5           4                       4           4
8ifr,1-2 yer500                                                           600              -           40          20          -           -                       ----
11i/lr,2-   sr jondnbSs                                         600            70-                          40          20           2                                                     
loin1 P-rh--o                                             -              -                  1         04          50           32           5           5           C      ___4                         4
[00,2-3 yeor.                                             680             760              90          91          93          95         101         113         151         102          190        202
MepLo_ Hoiforn_, 9.24  -lohs                                    500            550              -           -           -           -            12         100         117         1 22        122         122
S_rpjlus Hif-r, 2-3 y ...                                       700            770              58          -           -           -            IS                      -           -           -
Col lo COon                                     3~~     ~      ~~~~             ~~~        ~~ ~        ~~ ~        ~~~60  630  16  38  20  41  52  55    56          56          96          56
(Coi   HCl.                                                    0  50           990                1          1            1           2           3           3           3           3           2 
Coil H,if-e, 9-24  -,ehe                                        350            420                           5           5            6          6           10          10          11                      L,,1
1.O.l Sl.1u                                               -              -             _165          135         122         144         251         289          3317        379         380         394
T-hoic-1 C-effti-ten                              Solts
Cobb6, boin                           C            -              -        ~       ~~~         ~~~         ~~~         ~~     ~ 62  65  68  70  75  is       7          75          15           75
Adoles                  5            -               -                ~      ~    ~~           ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~    ~      ~    ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~5  4  3  3  3  3  3  3  3  3
Calves                  7.           -               -                 0     ~    ~      ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 7  6  5  5  5  1  5  5  5
Bo1ls                                           %                                              4           7           8          10          10          10          10          10           10          10
Con                                            7.            -                                 5          12           8           9          10          10          10          10           10          10
H.lee   9-24 ...,h.                             %,           -                                -            5           5           5           5           3            5           5           5           5
Holallon cons/bolln                oown~~~~~~~- /hnl -1                             35:1        30:1        25:1        20:1        20:1         20:1        20:1        20:1        20:1        20:1
Peroone coon no dIal  herd            5     ~     ~       ~~~                                 ~~ ~ 3   5  34  40       40           40          37          35          35           35          35
Se_ckn   r_es                                   ha/AS V                                          1:1        .81: I      .7il         .7:1        .61~        .6:         .6:1        .6:1        .6:1        .6:1
Corroleg  -ap-ity                               heAU            --:1                                        .7:1         .7:1        . ,11      .5:1         .5:1        .5:1        .5:1        .5:1        .5:1
Hoepod eaiol/                                                  -               -L1                          13          11          10           16          16          20          22          23          23
EoCo-oelo  -mb  2/                                5            -               -12                          13          10           10          11          12          13          15          15          16
Peod-tion lIt.e                                             Dressed C"aleb  Ijetohet
Year  _-4        ear  3.20
SI-ghter Coetll  Decreed Weligh(lthed                                       (kg/head)
S...r.. ..3 yeee                              k40000          155            170                14.0        14.1        14.4         14.7        15.7        19.2        25.7        31.8        33.3        34.3
CelCoa                                                      175             195                 2.          67          4.9         7.2         9.1         10.7        10.9        10.9        10.9        10.9
CoI.  Bll1                                                   2950            275                   .3         .3            3          .5          .H          .9          .9          .0           .9          .9
Cell HalOem                                                  123             140                -.6                        .6          .6         1.0         1.4         1.4         1.5         1.5          1.5
Co-a1 Cold Seo....d Weight                              -               -                 17.1        21.7      2-.           23.2        26.6        132.       -38.9         45.1        46.6        47.6
I--r.nt.l Cold lir....ed W.Sght              '                                            -            4.6         3.1         6.1          9.5        15.1        21.8        28.0        29.5        30.5
1/  Cale-1lted  ts Cora  ottlo sales  -prosnd en a 1e--tege  of t.tal herd.
2/  Cal1o1eted an Corl nla-gh ea  -erlo naI.. enpre..nd anap-roetage  f0 Coe1 heed.
M.-eh 3, 1971



VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model 3.  Beef Breeding/Fattening/Dairy Ranch - 700 ha
Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
(Bs)
Per Head Value           Before                                                    End of Ranch Year
Category                             Years 0-4           Years 5-20  Development        1           2            3            4          5           6            7           8         9-20
Cattle Sales
Steers (2-3 years)                    680                 760         61,200        61,900      63,200      64,600       68,700    85,900       114,800      142,100   149,000    153,500
Surplus Heifers (9-24 months)          -                   -             -            -           -           -          39,600    59,400        64,400       67,100    67,100        67,100
Surplus Heifers (2-3 vears)           700                 780         40,600          -           -           -          10,500        -           -           -            -           -
Cull Cows                             560                 630          9,000        21,300      15,700      23,000       29,100      34,700      35,300      35,300       35,300      35,300
Coll Bulls                            850                 990             800          800         800       1,700         2,500      2,900       2,900       2.900        2,900       2,900
Cull Ileifers (9-24 months)           350                 420           -1,800                   1,80        2100          2,80       4,200       4,200       4,600        4,600       4,60
Sub-total                          -                   -         111,600       85,800      81,500      91,400       153,200   187,100    221,000    252,000    258,900    263,400
Milk Sales                          Bs .62/lt         Bs .62/lt       30,000        35,000      40,00       50,000       50,000    50,000        50,00       50 000      50,000       50,000
Total Sales                        -                   -          lBi,600     12          121,500      141,400      203,200   237100    271,600    302,000    308,900            313,400
Operating Expenses                     Units         Unit Value
Salary- Owner/Manager                 1            8,400 pa            8,400         8,400       9,000       9,000         9,600      9,600       9,600       9,600        9,600       9,600
Labor
Foreman                             1            4,800 pa            4,800        4,800        4,800       4,800        4,800       4,800       5,000       5,000        5,200       5,200
Cowboys                             3-5          3,600  "           10,800        14,400      18,000      18,000       18,000      18,000      18,000      18,000       18,000      18,000
Foot labor and milkers              7            7,800  "           19,600       19,600       19,600      19,600       19,600    19,600        19,600      19,600       19,600      19,600
Animal Health
Dipping                                          Bs 2/AU              -            1,600       2,000       2,100         2,100      2,400       2,500       2,500        2,500       2,500
Minerals                                         Bs 2/AU             1,400         1,600       2,000       2,100         2,100      2,400       2,500       2,500        2,500       2,500
Other                                            Bs 2/AU             1,400         1,600       2,000       2,100         2,100      2,400       2,500       2,500        2,500       2,500
Maintenance
Pastures cleaning                                Bs 30/ha            3,000         4,000       8,000      10,000       10,000      10,000      12,000      12,000       12,000      12,000
Fertilizer                                       Bc 40/ "            4,000         4,000       8,000       8,000       10,000    10,000        10,000      10,000       10,000      10,000
Fences                                         57 of value           2,300         2,300       2,300       2,700         2,700      2,700       2,700       2,700        2,700       2,700
Waters                                        T5%  ,                  2,000        2,000       3,000       3,000         3,000      3,000       3,000        3,000       3,000       3,000
Buildings                                      5%  "   "             4,000         4,000       5,000       5,000         5,000      5,000       5,000       5,000        5,000       5,000
Corrals                                       10                    1,800         2,000       2,500       2,500         2,500      2,500       2,500        2,500       2,500       2,500
Machinery (Agric,)                            10   "   "              2,000        6,000       6,000       6,000         6,000      6,000       6,000        6,000       6,000       6,000
Fuel and Lubricants
Vehicles                                12,000 Ion/year a IBs .25/km 3,000         3,000       3,000        3,000        3,000      3,000        3,000       3,000       3,000        3,000
Machinery                                  600 hr pa (5 Bs 5/hr       3,000        3,000       3,000       3,000         3,000      3,000        3,000       3,000       3,000        3,000
lnsura,sce, legal and acc-ontin//                                       1,000        1,500       2,000        2,000        2,000      2,000        2,000       2,000       2,000        2,000
Livestock Purchases
lulls                                             15-1,800/head       1,500         -           -           -            9,000      9,000       7,200        7,200       7,200        7,200
Contingencies (10)                                                      7,400       8_400       10_000       10,300      11,500    11,500         11,600      11,600       11.600     11_600
Total Operating Expen,ses                                         81-10400      922        110200    11       0      126,000   126,900    127,700    127,700    127,900    127,900
Net Operating Income                                              60,200      _8,600        1             ', -       ZZ77,200   110,200     143.900      174,300     181,000      185,500 
Annual Incremental Operating Income                                      -         (31,600)   (48,900)   (' ,()1'    (17,000)   50,000           83,700      114,100    120,800       125,300



VENEZUELA
LlVESTOCK DEVEtOIMENT PROJECT
Model 3.  Beef' Breeding/Fattening/Dairy Ranch - 700 ha
Pinanclal Proj ection
H                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(B'OQO)
H                                                       Before                                                                                    Year------------------------- --------------------Ranch Year-_______________
Hj                                                    Development            1           2        3             4           5           6           7           8            9           10           11
Source of' Funds
Sales                                            141.6             120.8       121.5    151.4          203.2      237.1       237,6        302.0       308.9       313.4        313.4       313.4
Long-term loans                                     -              127.2        71.2      30.4                             -           -           -                  -                 -
Bancher's contribution for rancL irnvestment        -               31.8        17.8       7.6                                         -                 -                        -           -
Total                                        141.6       2      79        010.5    T              203.2       237.1    237.6          302.0       308.9       313.          313.4       313, 4
Application of Funds
Ranch inves-mentse/                                 -              159.0        89.0      38.0                                   -           -                 -                  -           -
Operating expenses                                81.4              92.2       110.2    113.2          126.0      126.9        127.7       12'7.7      127.9       127.9        12,79       127.9
Debt service:
Long-term loan%                                  -                 -          11,      1l2 9         2o 6        20 6         58 8% 58                            5J8 8         88          -
Sub-total                                                     251,1  2 S1.2  210.5    169.1                      7        166.        16165 1866              166 .  1       86 7  .oo7  127.9
Cash savingsi/                                  60.2              28.6         -       20.3          56.6        89.6         85.1      115.5        122.2       126.7        126.7       185.5
Total                                        141.6            979-        210.5    139.           203.2       237.1       271.6       302.0        308.9       313.4        313.li      313Th
T/ Includes 80% long-teerm loans and 20% rancher's contribution in cash and in kind.                                                                                                                 X X
2/  Nine-year loan including four years of grace and 9% interest per annumn.                                                                                                                         4
3 Accsilated cash savings duiring long-term debt service period (10 years) would be B770,000. However,
after recovering rancher's contributionl to new on-ranch inveslmnents of B57,000 rancher's net cash savings
would be 1713,000 or about B71,000 (US$15,800) average per year compared with bef'ore development of'
about B60,000 (US$13,000).  Rancher's financial condition would be further improved by an incremental
increase in herd value of abouit B391,000 (US$87,000).



VENfEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMBeT PROJECT
Model 4. Beef Breedincg/Fattenina/Dairy Ranch - 1 29 ha4
Investnent Cost Projection
Unit                 Ranch Year-i                     Ranch Year-2                     Ranch Year-3               Total            Total           uS$           F i   E.hnt
investment Itens                               Coat             Units            Cost            Units            Cost           Units             Cost           lJnita-          Cost         Equivaleat         Pereert
(TO(B')                         (BTOS)             NOT             I ThSS           (No           (BEOO)    (BN0)                 (NISo) '000 )     us
A.  Physical Inputs
Fencing                                     1.8              -               3.6                              -                                -              2 k              3.6             BOO               20             160
Livestock Water
Done                                        2.5              -                -                -              0.2             _                -              .1               0.2              45               4o               20
Borehole snd p=np                          10.0              -               1.0               -              -                                -              .1               1.0             2P5               40               90
Ranch Structures
Labor housing                               7.0              -                -                _              _               _               1.4             .2               1.4             310               10               30
Machinery shed                             19.0              -               1.9               -              _       -                        -              .1               1.9             425               20               85
Corrals                                    10.0              -                -                _              1.0                                              I _  .1         1.0             225               10               25
Dip                                         5.0              -                -                -              0.5             -                -              .1               0.5             110               70               75
Scols                                       5.0              -                -                _              1.0             _                _              .2               1.0             225               70              160
Machinery
Tractor (40 HP)                            20.0              _               a.o                                                                              .1               2.0             445               70              310
Plow                                        3.5              -               0.4               -              _               _                _              .1               o.4              90               20               20
lOnrrcu                                     4.5              _               0.4               _              _               _                               .1               0.4               90              30               30
Beeder/lert.ilioer                          6.o              -               0.6               -              -               _                _              .1               o.6             135               70               95
Traiier                                     3°0              -               0.3                                                                              .1               0.3               70              20               15
Boltory luster                              1.0              _               1.5               -              -               -                -              .3               1.5              335              70              235
Vehicle                                    18.0              _                -                -              18               -               _              .1               1.8              400              60              240
Pns Lure msprovement
Pasture and legune seed                    75/ha             -                -                50             3.8            25                1.9           75 ha             5.7           1,265               70              885
Fertili-er                                 75/ho             25              1.9               50             3.8            25                1.9          100 ho             7.6           1,690               20              34o
abor, fuel, repsis                        120/ha             -                -                50             6.0            25                3.0           75 ho             9.0           2,000               10              200
Drainage (contr-ct)                        50/sr             -                -                 0             2.5            27                1.2           75 hr             3.7              625               30             2750
Shbtotel (A)                                                                                              20.                                                                             9,710                             3,265
B.  LicStooln Porscases
Balls, uP9ccedd                              1.5              1              1.5                2             3.0              1               1.5            4                6.o            1,335               -              -
Heif-rs, upgraded                           o.6              -                -                15             9.0            11                6.6           26               15.6            3,465               65           2,250
Shbtotol (OR                                               1              1.5               17     12 .0                  12                              T30              216                                              2,250
Tocta  A + B                                                             15.1                             32.6                             17.5                            65.2          14,510               38            5,515
Co_t-fge-ries (sbout 108)                                                    1.5                              3.3                              1.3                             6.6            1,450               38             510)
lrn--d Tstal Investments                                                    16.6                             35.9                             19.3                            7.8            17,960                            6,015
Pcrcent Distribution                                                         23                               50                               27                             100              100
Fractiol. -units ore used nince this reflects the overage i-oestneot for aol particiPating ranchers, i.e.,
none ranchers could teed a tostor at   tere-   others could no-  but yet eight seed another  piece of eqrioment.
j   Bosed on ?5 ha etisting before deoelopcent but which would be -rcovated in year-l and 75 ho of rew pasture
Would be es-tbliohed ito yles-2 and -3.                                                                                                                                                                                                              H



3~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~H0 0 0                              0,  Or   000       H  'Sr   HOrb0    P
-2 sI                      OKs           0 v              00  lb v< v v0  1Xps            w               v g
01                                                                                         0
o a t  '  P 9ev v  o000 
bOo~~~~~~~ObC                        0*                                                   H                         l0
0=t ~ ~~~~~~~ ,/~                    H                                                                             g$ 
H.~ ~  ~~~ O                                                                                               1 V21]> 
0~~~~~~000 000'                                                                      O22 OKKIJJO                  S
Yt~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ O g                         lI        H
o-, d   _t Hx s
S~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~H- 3f ' F                         CS P-ot                                       00
tO(O0HH EHHoZ8   s I   H                                              ' oilH   H                     Eao  KS,Or<sssuoOH   r
HP
oH    |001 ^
o E ;X O rJ O o AM o P°|E ' F~~~~~-                                             SloHst  nossHHHHUA  |  °Or<'  



VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOH413T PROJECT
*                                                                                                      Nodel 4. Beef Breeding/Fatten-ng/Deiry Ranch - 125 ha
Sales  nd Operating Rapenxe- Proje-tians
(B 'oo)
Per Head Vn-                                                        --e Before-Ranch______________________---------R-h Ye  -----------------------------------____________
Category                       Yer o-4            Years 5-20           Development          1           2          3           4          2           6          7          8           _           10          11-20
Cattle Soles
Surplos heiPers (2-3 ypm)                       700                 780                3.5                -          -           -          -           -         9.4       11.7        11.7        12.5        11.7           11.7
Cull heiPers (2-3 yr-)                          450                 520                4.5               4.5        4.5         4.5        4.5        5.2                     -                       -
Stereo (0-3 Yro)                                610                 (60                6./               6.7        6.7         6.7        7.3        9.9        i4.4       19.0        19.0       19.8         19.0           19.0
Cull coca                                       560                 630                1.1               1.1        2.2         3.9        3.9        4.4         4.4        4.4         4.4         4.4         4.4            4.4
Cull bi11s                                      350                 990                 -                o.8        0.8          -          -           -         1.0        2.0         1.0          -           -             1.0
Feeder steer                                    700                 Boo                  -                -                     9.8       34.3       42.4        23.2       15.2        15.2        15.0        15.2           15.2
Su.bot.                                                                             73W               13.        14.2 3, 1      9       50.0       739          TJ52.3                51.3       51.9         50.3           51.3
Milk Soles_                                                                             13.4              13.4       19.9        22.3       26 02       6.0  2      6.0       p6.0        26.o        26.0        26.0           26.0
Total Soles                                                                             29.2              267        32.1       l47-.2   _ 73          U09         78         703         77.3        7729         73            77.3
Op-ratiog rpenses                              UClts              lnit Cost
rlalor
Sa ar-  - oser/oaosger                        1                                      5.0               5.0        1.0        5.0         5.5        5.5         1.5        5.5         5.5        5.5          5.5            6.0
0os-oyo                                      2-3                                     6.o               6.o        6.C         6.o        9.0        9.0         9.0        9.0         9.0         9.0         9.0            9.0
Animal Eealth
Dipping, mineralo, vciesr    o edici.es      Bc/au                                   o.6               0.9        1.2         1.3        1.3        1.3         1.3        1.3         1.3         1.3         1.3            1.3
Pa-ture ole-niog                             B30/ho                                   -                 -          -          2.5        2.5        2.5         2.5        2.5         2.5         2.5         2.5            2.5
Fertili-er                                   B40/ha                                   -                 -          -          4.o        4.0        4.c         4.o        4.o         4.o         4.o         4.o            4.o
Rosch str--cures                            5% of vaue                               2.0               2.5        2.7         3.0        3.0         3.0        3.0        3.0         3.0         3.0          3.0           3.0
Machi-e-y                                  io% o f colo                              1.2               1.2        1.2         1.2        1.2         1.2        1.2        1.2         1.2         1.2          1.2           1.2
Fuel and Lrbri-cots
Vehicle-                                     Bs) P./Oen                              2.1               2.         2/3         3.0        3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0        3.0         3.0          3.0           3.0
Machi-ery                                   B0/hr                                    0./               1.0        1.2         1.2        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0         1.0          1.0           1.0
Li-tecock P-rchasos
Bulle                                         -                                       -                 -           -          -          -           -         1.8         3.6        1.8          -            -            1.8
Feeder 0tee0s                   -earr 0 - 3i 450   *earc I - 20 500                    -                -           -         6.7       22.5        27.5       15.0        10.0       10.0         10.0        10.0          10.0
Micell--eous                                                                            0 5              0.5         1.7        0.7         1.0        1.0        1.0         1.0        1.0          1.0          1.0          1.0
Contineenciec 3104)                                                                     1.0              1.8         2.0        2.7        g.54        6.o        4.8         45         4.3          4.1          4.1          4.4
Toed Iperasbog Copecoec                                          ~~~~       ~      ~~~~~      ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~20.5  200T0 83 37  33         3 977     79573      070%          9973         3%9
T.,.l Op-rting Ep.nes2-2°' 20.8 0                                                                                     21        -E-   7D5 -9                                                                   23-1               4b.2
Net Opectic- Iocooe                                                                       8.7              6.5        10.3       17.1       16.b        22.9       g5.3        28.7       29.7         32.3         30.7         29.1
7/  Baced os milking abot  60% of breeding 0000 peodooiog 3 litero/day for 240 dayo lactation or 720 litero pa/coo duraig years 3-3.
Ryf-eflcg icmproved phastures and hector hubu ndry practices, productio- could i-creese to 4 litero/co-  or 840 liter-  pa durino
peoro 4-11. PFamgate prico of ilk BO.62/iiter.



H                                                                                               VgNEZUELA
'0
F-4~                                                                                  LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mbdel 4. Beef Breeding/Fattening/Dalry Ranch - 125 na
Financial Proection
(B' 000)
Before        ----------------------------------- Ranch Year ------------------------------------------------
Source of Funds                             Development        1        2         3        4        5        6         7        8        9         10        11-20
Sales                                                      29.2          26.5      32.1     47.2     76.o      87.9    78.4      78.3     77.3      77.9      76.3         77.3
Long-termu loan                                             -            13.3      28.7     15.4       -         -        -        -        -         -         -            -
Rancher's contribution for ranch investment                 -             3.3       7.2      3.9                     -             -                  -         -
Total                                                   292           43.1     68.0      ;r                878 . 7_77.3                T         77.                    77.3
Application of Funds
Ranch investments!/                                         -            16.6      35.9     19.3            -             -        -         -        -         -            -
Operating expenses                                         20.5          20.0      21.8     30.1     59.6     65.o      53.1     49.6     47.6      45.6      45.6         46.o
Long-term loan payments.                                    -               -       1.2      3.8      5.2      12.6     12.6     12.6     12.6      12.6      12.6
Sul-total                                               20.5                                 36                       . 53.2  ; 77 . 67     62.2    6 0  5.2  4 5.2
Cash savingsi/                                              8.7           6.5       9.6     13.3     11.2      10.3     12.7     16.1     17.1      19.7      18.1         21.3
Total                                                   29.2 431                6.5      7        78.4      779        i      78.3     77.3      77.9       67.3
i/ Long-term loan (80%) plus rancher's contribution (20%).
|  Nine-year loan including three years of grace and 9% interest per annum.
Accumsulated cash savings years 1-10 equals B114,000 less recovery of rancher's contribution of about B14,000 gives net gain of
B100,000 or B10,000 per year average.  This would be a modest increase of about B1300 compared with before development annual
financial returns.  However, in additiai, the incremental increase of herd value would improve rancher's financial position by
about B60,000.                                                                                                                                                                         x



VINEZUELA
LIVFSTOCK " EVELOP3ENT PROJECT
Model . Purebred Breeding Center - 400 ha
Inivestment Cost Projection
Development Phasing
Ranch Yaar - 1            Ranch Yeer - 2             Ranch Year - 3                       Total          US$        Forein Exchang.eComponent
Investment Category                       Unit Cost      Units        Cost          Units        Cost        Units          Cost    Total Units~  Cost           Eouivalent         (7)           (US$)
(Bs)         (No.)        (Bs)         (No.)        (Bs)         (No.)         (Bs)         (1:0.)        (Bs)        (US$)
A. Physical Inputs
Fencing                              1,800/km          3           5,400         2           3,600          -            -         5 km            9,000        2,000           20            400
Livestock Water
Dam                                2,500/unit         -           -             .5         1,300          -            -         .5 unit         1,300          290           40            120
'quipped Boreholes                10,000/  -           .8        8,000                             -                   -         .8  "           8,000        1,780           50            890
Ranch Buildings
Workers house                      7,000/  "                -                    _   _ _                   .5          3,500     .5  "           3,500          780           10              80
Bull shade                        19,000/  "           .3        5,700         -            -            -             -         .3  "           5,700        1,270           20            250
Stock Handling Facilities
Corral                            10,000/  "           .3        3,000          .2         2,000         -             -         .5  "           5,000        1,110           10            110
Scale                              5,000/  "           .5        2,500         -            -             -            -         .5  "           2,500          560           70            390
Pasture Improvement
Drainage                             50/hr           50          2,500         -            -             -            -         50 hr           2,500          560           40            220
Planting material and
planting  (Pangola)               100/hr          100         10,000        70           7,000         30            3,000    200 ha          20,000        4,440           10            440
Fertilizer                           75/ha          100          7,500        70           5,250         30            2,250    200 ha          15,000        3,330           20            670
Labor, fuel and maintenance         120/ha          100         12,000        70           8,400         30            3,600    200 ha          24,000        5,330           10            530
Miscellaneous                          3,000             .5        1.500           .5         1.500         -            -          1 unit         3.000           670          30             200
Subtotal                                         -         58,100         _           29,050         -            12,350       -           99,500        22.120           18          4,300
B. Livestock Purchases
Bulls, imported                     36,000            2         72,000         -            -             -            -            2           72,000       16,000           95         15,200
Bulls, local                        10,000            -           -            3          30,000          3           30,000       6            60,000       13,330           -            -
Purebred Heifers (in-calf),
imported                           8,800           5         44,000          3          26,400         3            26,400      11           96,800        21,510           95         20,430
Purebred Heifers, 1-2 years,
local                              1,500           6           9.000         4         - 6.000         3            4_500       13            19.500        4.330           -            -
SubtotaL                          -             13        125,000         10          62,400         9            60,900      32          248,300        55L170           65         35.630
Total (A + B)          _                  -               183,100                     91450                       773250                  347 0          7                52         392930
Contingencies (10%)                   -               _         18,500         -           9.300          -            7.400       -            35.200        7.810            -          4,070
Grand Total Investments           -                                          201,600  100750         -            80,650       -          383.300        85.100           52         44,000
Percent Distribution              -              _          53             -           26            -              21         -            100           100              -           -
1/   The number of units represents on-average the quantity that would be required by participating ranchers.                                                                                             ,. |x
Note: Of total ranch investient, approximately 307, would be for physical inputs and 70" for purchase of breeding stock.



TabIe 2
VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPHEUT PROJECT
Model 5. purebred Breeding teeter - 400 h.-'
Herd Pro.eti.e
Category                                                   Years 0-4      Years 5-20 Before                                                  End of Ranch Year
Os             ds      Ltevfelapnest       1           2            3           4            5            6           7           H-20
Herd Comps sitioo  (N-beer)
Bulls                                                      8,00           9,OOD          6              8          10           12          13           1]          II           I            13
Stud Bre-ding Co-s                                         2,500          3,000        150           155          204         246          250          250         250          250          25
Calves, burn                                                 200            253      (120)          (1285        (140)        (104)       (221)        (225)       (225)       (122%)        (21)
Heifers, 9-24 months                                       1.006          1,105         58            59           62           b8          90          109         II(          II')         II l
Bulls, 9-24 earths                                         1,800          2.000        56             5C           60          60           h5         11 I          1)4         t 4          I'll4
steera, 9-24 m.oth.                                          500            550          2              3            $           3           S                                     6            *
Ilnlfeea, 2-3 yearn                                        1,500          1,700         16            63           61           27          26           24           4           74           7:,
Hullo, 2-3 yesra                                           2,500          3,000         55            55           55          59           65           84         I02          IOS           U)I
Steers, 2-3 years                                            700            800          2              2           3            3            I           S           5            6            5
Fatte-fog bull females                                       600            650       _11              11          12           16          20           20          20           20           26
Total Heed                                              -             -           474            540         610          684          776         843          859         861          04/
Total Anlatal UnIts                                                               348            406         464          492         545          608          624         626          629
Deaths (Number)
Bslts                                                       -              .            ..            -                                                                 
stud Breedig Co-6                                          -              -             2             2            2            2           2            3            3           3            3
CalVes                                                      -              -             4              2           3            3           4            4           5            5            S
H.lfers, 9-24  -onths                                       - .                          1              1           1            1            1           1            I           I            I
Bulls, 9-24 months                                          -              -             I              1           1            1           1            1           I                         I
Steers, 9-24 ma-ths
Heifrs, 2-3 years                                           -              -           -              -             I            I
Bl]t, _-3 years                                             -              -                    1             1     5            1           1                        I 1                       I
Steera, 2-3 years
Farreo,B_   hull h. ta-                                                                --
Total Deaths                                                                                       7           9            9            9 _0                    "I           11          it
Purchtses (Number)
sll, imported 3                                          36,000           -           -               2
B       lls,loeal                                        10,000           -             :            -             3           3            2            1           1            1            1
Stud Oreedlug Cons, local                                  2,500           -           -              -            -           -            -            -           -            -
Purebred Hetfers, 2-3 years,
bmported and in--alf                                      8,800           -           -               5            3           3
Purebred  elfers, 1-2 years, lo.s0                          ,500           -           -               6            4            3
'i           13           10           9            2         _             _                       -r
Solos (Camber)
surslus  Heifers, 2-3 years                                1,800          2,000        43             -            -            37          40           60          79           80           80
Surplus Bulls, 2-3 yescs                                   3,000          3,300        49             54           54          54           58          64           83          101         102
SCeers, 3-3  yesrs                                           850            930        -                2           2            3           3            3           5            5            6
Cell H-ed Bulls                                              900            990          1                          I            I           I            1           1            1 
Cull Cons                                                    700            770         it            11           12           16          20           20          20           20           20
CuLlI elferr, 2-3 years                                      700            770          3             1            3            3           4            4           5            5        _
Total Sales                                            -              -           107             68          72          114         126          152          193         212          214
Teehlical Coefficients                U-itr
Calviog                               7.                    -              -           80             85           90          90           90           90          90           90           90
Hastalltien
Adults                              7.                    -              -            I              1            1           1            1            1           1                        I
Calves                              7.                    -              -            3              2            2           2            2           2            2            2           2
Callire
Bulls, aged                         %                     _             _             5              5           5            5            5           5            5            5           1
CoVw s                                                    -              -            8              8            8           8                        8            0            8           8
Cull C,vea                          7.                    -             -             3              5           5            5            5           S            5            5           S
Heifers, 2-3 year- -'V                                    -              -            3              5           5            5            5           5            5            5           5
Celatlon Cous/bhll                  cows/bull               -              -           25:1           20:1         20:1        20:1         20:1         20:1        20:1         20:1        20:1
Percent Cows of Total Hoed            %                     -                           3 32          29           33          36           32          30           29           29          29
Stocking Racte                       ha/AU                  -              -             1:1            1:1        .9:1        .8:1         .7:1         .5:1        .5:1         .5:1         .5:1
Carryirg Capacity                    ha/AU                  -              -            .6:1          .6:1         .5:1         .5:1        .5:1         .5:1        .5:1         .5:1         .5:1
0utp.t bate                            7                    -              -           23             13           16          17           16          18           22           25          25
Produetion Dab                                             Drren.ed Cattle Weijh ts
Years 0-4    Year-  5-20
Slaughter Cattle Dressed Weiht                               (kg)          (kg)
Steers, 3-3; yeocn                  hg'000                 220            230            -               .4          .4           .7          .7           .7         1.2          1.2          1.4
Cull Herd Bulls, aged                                      250            280             .3          -              .3           .3          .3           .3           .3          .3           .3
CTll Coss                             "                    200            220            2.2           2.2          2.4         3.2          4.0         4.4            4          4.4         4.5
Cull Helfera                                               130            1I0             .4             .1          .4           .4     ,     5           .6           .0          .8           .8
Total Dre-sed Weight                                   -              -             2.9            2.7         3.5          4.6         5.5          6.0          6.7         6.7          7.0
IeCremettal D.essed Weight                             - _                           -            (0.2)        0.6          2.0         2.6          3.1          3.8         3.8          4.1
1/  ThOu type of ranch is expeoted (but not  ecesarily) to be pat of a    .perating ranch as denaoatruted in Model 2, i.e., a breedine/f.tteliog   oalnh of shout
'1,500 ha. The stud breediog portion uf the rench ts expacted to hayo a high standard of development, including pasture iaprusesent.
2/  Puresred cattle eaLoes are nopeoted to rise aOUvt lU .. tly due te selling price inresses  s a result of the Project.  Alo, tber- it on ouFeoted rio,
is vaLoes due to the impmtvessent of quality.
, ;  Would be high quality, mainly for increasing herd etandarda of the master Dreeders, rather than for  ae.ereoi.l herd buLl a..eI  of prog.ny.
Inferior female animals not sultable for  retention in the ranch stud herd due to quality, conformation etc., bat vouId be ..ld bS brerding ouintas.
March 3, 1971



VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
M                                                                           Model 5.  Purebred Breeding Center -  400 ha
Sales and Operating Expenses Projections
(Bs)
Per Head Value             Before                                                      Ranch Year
Category                            Years 0-4           Years 5-20    Development          1           2            3             4           5             6            7          8-20
Cattle Sales
Surplus Heifers (2-3 years)         1,800               2,000          77,400           -            -          66,600        72,000    120,000        158,000      160,000      160,000
Surplus Bulls (2-3 years)           3,000               3,300         147,000        162,000      162,000      162,000       174,000    211,200        273,900      333,300      336,600
Steers (3-3% years)                   850                 930            -             1,700        1,700        2,600         2,600       2.800         4,650        4,650        5,550
Cull Herd Bulls (aged)                900                 990             900           -             900          900           900       1,000         1,000        1,000        1,000
Cull Cows                             700                 770           7,700          7,700        8,400       11,200        14,000      15,400        15,400       15,400       15,400
Cull Heifers (2-3 years)              700                 770           2,100            700        2,10         2,10          2, 800      3,100         3,850        3            3,850
Total sales                       _                  _            235,100        172,100      175,100      245,400       266,300    353,500        456,800      518X200      522,400
Operating Expenses                    Units          Unit Value
Labor
Foreman                             1            5,000 pa             5.000          5,000        5,000        5,000         5,000       5,500         5.500        5,500        5.500
Couboys                           3-5            3,600 "             10,800         14,400       14,400       18,000        18,000      18,000        19,000       19,000       19,000
Foot labor                        3-5            2,800 "              8,400         11,200       11,200       14,000        14,000      14,000        14,500       14,500       14,500
Animal Health
Dipping                                          Bs 1/AU                300            400          500          600           600         600           600          600          600
Minerals                                         bs 5/AU              1,500          2,000        2,500        3,000         3,000       3,000         3,000        3,000        3,000
Veterinary                                       is 6!AU              1,800          2,400        3,000        3,600         3,600       3,600         3,600        3,600        3,600
Other                                            BS 1/AU                300            400          500          600           600         600           600          600          600
Maintenance
Pasture                                          Bs 30/ha             6,000          6,000        9,000        9.000        11,100      11,100        12,000       12,000       12,000
Fences                                           5°, of value         2,500          2,500        2,500        2,700         2,700       3,000         3,000        3,000        3,000
Waters                                           5°      "             -              -           1,000        1,000         1,000       1,000         1,000        1,000        1,000
Buildings                                       10    "              2,500          3,000        3,500        4,000         4,000       4,500         4,500        4,500        4,500
Corrals                                         10°/     '            2,500          3,000        3,000        3,000         3,000       3,000         3,000        3,000        3,000
Machinery (Agric.)                              10%  '                2,000          6,000        6,000        6,000         6,000       6,000         6,000        6,000        6,000
Vehicles                                        102,                  1,500          2,000        2,000        2,000         2,000       2,000         2,000        2,000        2,000
Fertilizer                                       Bs 40/ha             8,000          8,000       12,000       12,000        14,800      14,800        16,000       16,000       16,000
Fuel and Lubricants
Machinery (Agric.)                        800 nh pa @ Bs 51r-          2,500         4.000        4,000        4,000         4,000       4,000         4,000        4,000        4,000
Vehicles                               12,000 kh  @ Bs .25/km         2,000          3,000        3,000        3,000         3,000       3,000         3,000        3,000        3,000
Livestock Purchases
Bulls (local)                                Bs 10,000/head          20,000           -            -            -           20,000      10,000        10,000       10,000       10,000
Insurance and legal fees                           6-8,000 pa           6,000          7,000        8,000        8,000         8,000       8,000         8,000         8,000        8,000
Contingencies, 10%                                                       8,300          ,000        9,00        10,000       _,I400       11,800         11,900       11,900       11,900
Iotal      at ingg                                                ExPens es91,400  88,30          00      _900          136,800    127,500        131,200       131,200      131,20
Net Operating Income                                              143,700         83,800       /4,900      135,900       129,500    228,000        325,600      387,000      391,200
Annual Incremental Operating Income                                  -            (59,900)    (68,800)      (7,800)      (14,200)    82,300         181,900     243,300      247,500



VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOT PROJECT
Model 5. Purebred Breeding Center - 400 ha
Financial Pection
Before             ------------------Ranch Year--------------------------------------------
Development           1          2           3           4                      6          7           8           2           10          1a
Source of Funds
Sales                                           235.1           172.1      175.1       245.4      266.3       353.5       456.8      518.2       522.4       522.4        522.4      522.4
Long-term  loan                                   -             161.3       80.6        64.E                    -           -           -          -           -            - 
Rancher's contribution                            -              40.3       20.2        16.1         -                      -           -
Total                                       '35.1 37 75.9                          3     26.13            353.5      7           518.2       522.4       522.4        522
Application of Funids
Ranch investments_1/                              _             201.6      100.8        80.7         -          -           -           -          -           -            -           -
Operating expenses                               91.4            88.3      100.2       109.5       136.8      129.9       131.2      131.2       131.2       131.2        131.2       131.2
Debt service:
Long-term loan/                                 -               -         14.S        21.8       27.6        2'7.6       78.8       78.8        78.8        78.8         78.8         -
Sub-total                                    91.4           2d9.9      215.5       212.0      164         157.5       210.0      210.0       210.0       210.0                   131.2
Cash savings                                  143.7           83.8        60.4       114.1      101.9       196.0      246.8       308.2       312.4       312.4        312.4      391.2
Total                   235.1                               373.7            275.        26.13            353.5        5         51.2        522.4       522.4        5224       5
Incluides 80, lonv-terms lDan and 20% rancher's contributi on in cash and ii) 'hind.
j/  Nine-year loan including four years of ,race and interezt at 9% per annum.
_/3  Aceinulated cash savings during long-tenr  debt service period (10 years) would be 22,048,000.  liowever,
after recrierinF rancher's contributiorn to new on-ranch investment of B77,000 ranchers riet cash savirngs
would he Bl,971,000 or about 197,000 (US$43,800) per year compared with before development of about
3144,000 (US$32,000) per year. Rancher'c finarncial condition would be improved by an
incremental herd value increase of about d737,000 (US$164,ooo).



ANNEX 10
VENEZ'JfLA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Costs
Project Invetstene Ite-s by Categories
's efgories                              Mb4eaWsure,ment     Unit Cost         Total Units               T.tal  .JF                                ExchenEe TCo2  Ment
(Re)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'W
1.  n-Ranch Invest.ent
A.  Fhyni.cl Inputs
re-nf3e                                              len                1,800              7,075                 13,005           2,3               .0                   so
WatrIng FaCilit-es
Dso solit                                                              0.500 i40                                   603             134             40                     55
Equipoed boreholes                                   S                10,001                440                  2,495             5*.s                                 280
iso-S 2tlidsogs
corkers hccssss                                     Unit               7,00Cc               4I0                  2,432             540             10                    55
0:acc1 <crp sheds                                    "1 19,000                               170                 3,325             73                                   1V9
.tancm' totse seproceronts                           "                 9,000                 50                    450              f                                     Q 20
I1l shtdc                                           "                19,00G                                        8S                              3
F.s -Iisg Fscilities
.n. Init         l0,IOUO               250                 2,575             o72"             10
. S:  - iprays                                                   d000                                       rO             211              7                    150i
",000                330                 1,737             386             70                    270
' -ators                                Uni~~~~~Cot       90,000                180                 3,770              3m5             70                   5;
20       ~~,7 030                                         4
.) nss ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,500                                 1180      t      o      ,8      .       46 f3\
.. < tt ~~~~~~~~~~~~4,900    l c ' e                                                8          34       1     8'              305)
rlcLi.c. ' ... -t.rl.e                     "         .        .....               6 ,00..  1 80        1,175             I 1.
surle- ur.                                           "                 3,000                 180                   563             t2             .30                     .
t-y -,L5ers                                       " SOO                                  400                 2,050              456             70 Is0
18,0 O                170                 3 ,105            710               °o
Ohr                 ';0              3.°'.                   ,o2 a4tl                         40                   180
-.' .1 o nd  1 n1ting                      hIn                  O(6              3,000                   320                              10
'or): clencH,'                                       "                   250             27,530                  6,250           1, 33             1,5
I  of e sri: le.nioSe 3500                         "                     75            100,5 00                7,890           1.753             <7t'                i.."
ct-'''                                                                   75            128,00t                 10, 374          2,'04             <0                   460
:.15b,  305. nc5stroooce                             "10                                103,03D                12,963 g,:8O                        10                   2;91
'c0scm-'+e1ph7r.o- set                                                  3,000                0b0                   1] 3            113             i°                     uo
cotor Lo.ory Eqs Spriest                             .Set               1,200                25')                  27'               61             30 o
C'lsco11ccr.eou                                       -                 3,000                  15                    45              10             '0
.:isbtotA _ Phvsl^sl cI -.....Rrs...'...O..O. fnugs.                     -                -          ~          22t~~8046           1              34               .±aSz2
f..L s  - ?ed-lC  Ottk cod Mules
Ptils _ resis-ered                      hd                2,700              4,400                 01,00"'          . ,490
,uperod"                                                       1,500              3,080                13,125           2,917              -
:-if-ers-l1  t   years                                                   "00             37,000                 10, 4195         4'53              32                  i  4
* -irers _'Ic.- 'sl') P 'o 3 yearn            "                   mid             19,50t O                  300           *, 067            -
1sl-   i  lted                                       '               36,000                  30                 1,0ff0            040              r                    5-02
0003,>. -   1z-:vl                          "                10,000                  90                    50             780             _ -
lr-reDrd hefers-cslf) oiopot.ed                      "                 3,800                170                  1,432             313             9'                    340
P-ebed   --:e. -l        l-l1 to 2 yeers             "                 1,500                19t                    292              65             -
.'.ole-                                                                " 2,0009           1..600) a,00O 2,W8                     1         0        0                 1,100
~~oI s ci - Is'co.p-t-k P-rhchanen                                        _               734785                 62,749          13,944             22                 3.090
.Tt Ol        hAIvesser  'A  B)                                           _                   _                 145,209          310R24             28                  91?>
Ocollsoeocl"c- about 10% nod rsnosdlng                            -                                     14,291            3176              32                   81.5
To'.s   -  n-rsnch In.eoso,uet                                                                           157,500           -J,20              29                10,000
-'l' .cco    s Co,--olt-t Se-ices
CC l oito-ec                                                  _ _                                                 8,432           1,874             14          266
Fruipnent                                                                 -                   _                   1,027             228             66                    1'0
Travel Gr-rt-                                                              _                  _                     225              50            100                     50
Con-lstn     - 3ervices_                                                                                          1,026             228            100                    228
Sobtotal                                                                      -                  _                  10,710           2,380             29                    G94
-ontinger.iet - 10% - and rounding                                        _                                       2,340             522             33                    306
Totl rechn'-l Ser-ices                                                                                              13,0-50          2,9                34
[if.  .Iorking Csitel                                                                                                     5,000           1,100              -
Total Project Cost                                                           _                   _                 175,550           ?9,(00            28                 12.000
>/  Prop-sed eqsibalont for uboct 13,000 imported heifers.
Mey 18, 1971



it                                                                                    On-conch ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ir-eot-sts _pr Parcnh 1-iel sod Total Cost
Model 1-5,100  ha             ~~~~~~~Model 21-15D0  ha                   ldl 0-pr   ha                          Yo,del 4-125 ha                        Model- '400 ha                         Total Cost
Coat pe        oa    ot                Cost Per        Total Cost                  ott per      Total Cost                Coot per    Total CoSt                 Cost Per    Total Coot                     7  11
Irc-atmnet Item                           R-ah         of 25  MR-cOas              Parc         of 150 Mantles                hMt         fO 1000 BRoci:              bath      of 200 Mnlsar=ch                       of 15 B9-eate.ace
(M) " 000                        785"'           110)T5                           '      '000                         StB'7     (R1000)                    (Ma)BR'00
Ferrite                                 ~~~~~~      ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~27,00O  6,750  tS,ooo          4,500                    0,001             g00                   0,              7LQ                    3,000          135                          13,001 ;
W.t-riog FocI) Otet~
c-t                                                   I1,250             312                      025              is6                      "071             7;                                    40 t                  1,3Cc)           1                             60)3
Equipped  oeolo0(,5TO                                                    60                      .00]20                                   70                31                    ,i O                                    ,010          120D                         2,035
Parch Ruildiags
Wader, hoose                                           3,500             073                    l,D(O              875                   3,500              :SN                   1,4038                                 3,500           52                          1,432~
Maitr   heds                                    1,700           1,125,                    1,300              950                   5,7010 )                                1,9%o           350                      -              -                           33o
leach louse t,pr'eets                                  1,810             450-                                                  -                   -                                               -                       -             -                              451,
Pull sheds c                                                                  -               -                        -                -                                           -             -                     5,700            8s               ~5
010toc liardli,eg Farilitles
Correla                                                5,000           1,250                    3,030              750                   3,000),            300                  1,10,0          200                     5,00           75                           0,1 75
tips -  prs1,0370,00                                                                                              37                    1,70001           100                     500           100                       -            -                              350
trades                                  ~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~                                ~~~~2,500  625  2,500  6-25  2,5~00       250                   1,100           2010                   2,500)          37                           1,737
Tractors                                ~~~~~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~6,100  1,500  0,00            1,151                   6,00               05) 00                2,100     00   -o                               -                                   3,750
lion                                    ~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~                                  ~~~          ~        ~~1,050  263  340  2 10  1,051    10100oc                  20                      -                                            658
Harros,                                 ~~~~~~            ~~~~~~~~~~~~1,350  338  1,125       ~        ,11,350                                13oO,O                                 Bo                      --834
ede/stltrs-                                     030u            450                    1,500              375                   1,510                -                    610           120                      --1,125
Trailers                                                 900             225                      750              IoS                     900                                      3100h                                                                               563
Po  rpctler                                         ,50              625                    0,500              625                   5,0001"                                  1,510           310                                                                8 ,1050
Vehiles-                                                310            0,550                    4,500            1,1.25                 -5,60               3do                   1,520O          360--8,3
-  -                                  -                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                            ~~~~~~~~~~                             ~~~~~~~12,00'0  3,700  740  2,500  38  2,0:28
pla~to bg  .teterll ed pleanting--                                                                                                                             -               -                                        10,000         300                             300
L-ar  clearing                                         7,50            1,875                   12,500            3,121l                 12-,500          l,250                      ---                                                -                             6,250
P-at-r  end 100-  seed                                 9,70500         2,438                   2121              20                     15,000           1,500)                  5730          l,loO-                                                                7,390
f-rtilice                                              9,750           2,430                   18,750            4,6a5                  15,001           0,5000                   7,610        1,530                   IC.,30 Jo:e25                                10, 5"0
Labor, fthe  and neneat                                5,6oo           3,900                   01,002C           4 1, 07-               24,000o           .),4O0                 9,000         5,0                     01,07'           360                        412,0
Oedlo-telephones                           ~~~~            ~~~~~                              ~      ~~~          ~          ~~900  Z221  0  ,r   60'  64             -                                      --110
'Pet-rt-ry  troolp,ent                                    610             150                       360                                       t                                                                                                                          275
Mteorflesoerss               -                       -                 -                                                                -                                   3,550          h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-154
Coctl-Phpeical Ocpts                          113,350          28,43                   ll,0-~S~                               ~      3             2                       3,62          5.:-93,500                            B,19280 
P.  Llt,e.t-tk -  rssdltg Stock  end Moles
Balls, redhacered                   21,630          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5,4101050370                                      42,00o'        0:0'O--                                                                  -                                  11,205
Rlsopgreded                                      20,31            7,025                   0,0                ,47                    5,'                                      ,0           -,.Of(                    -201,495
HePr,Ito P yeats                               32,510)          5,125                   5302,53,     0                                              ,420                  os, C          3.lo                      -             -                             0,1
Oies(ia-calf) - 2  0 3ye.ar                      18,000           4,50                                         -4, o,                                                                                           -                                               9,300
Rolls, imported                                          -               --                                                                --                                                    -'03                                1,380                           1,080
Moi,local                                            -------60,000                                                                                                                                                                 900                             900
PobreRd  elPers (ic-calf) imported                      -               --                                                                -                                        --                                     c,        1,151                           1,452?
or-br-d octoers- lol----- -                                                                                                                                                         - -I                               10,'C0          29223
Posies                                  ~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~12,030  3.005                    1,0)4,30'~                                oi                      -                                                                                    00
Oot,i-Li-etock --orhaset                      11.2 Es          14,  C                  '30,,O             13,37"                 Y',  0'17                                               -,4' 5,32                             3.724                         6, 04i
T.t.1        (A; B)                                                                            4Z: 3                                  -0-                                      _                       .- 
I,'cgcls     0  m.d ro-dl,                    ,~,0L                                                                                              2z 0                                                         3t,23052                                     11.291
& '24  '96000  ''                          S                                                                                                         _______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L~L012L5



-I ot                                                2                                                      1                                                     Total                                E., caea
to        7' 0r.; --      mZ 00,                     7'        YiN,                        V     I                                       N.;~p~ at
.Technical Laerices
FPper.dit-re
Chlief, 0000                             68,Now pa1                         6.o1                       k.1                                                  -k;16.n54007
Teokoica,l Diresto-i
alryan   grtuity                 go,000o                 2         50.0             1           .01                                                                   I0;        91. 0                      4510.')          100.0             1")        10.0
Other allowa-ce                        6k, ONe                  -        6k.;             -         bj3'-                                                 68.0,             -           8.0)            -         340.0o            75. ~ ,I NC                   75.6
As-istant teokoi-al Di- et-              68,1000  "               1         k                1        nO.0                                        1         60.0              1           6o.;             0         3(000             66.7                 
qetlo- Livestock Neclh.ickso             50,000o  '                         5.9              5       250).0                     5'.  0            ;        -5. .                        250.0            25       1,250.0             2'7.7--
Livestock Teokhieiss.s                    3"''1, ,030  "05                                           495.0            17        5'1 0            19        56                17         561.,            16       2, 506.             0" 57.3              
Bookkeepers                              18,s,s  '                           C)                        y)               5         90.0            N                                       90. ~    ~ 0    25         450.0            10D. 0--
Seeretaria                               I1,000   '                                          08       00.0             0                         2¾.I,                                  110.0            so 4        484.o            107.6--
-,              3~~~~~~1-000/sia/pa                               33        133.;"                                     25        13                            150.0             -         ro6.0             ss                      
Mileage allcasao'e '3..   o,000/oeoisie/oa    ~~iF       l106              23        130.o            75                         25        15200.02-                                                696.0             154.7              20         30.5
Air travel                                1, 500/man/ca          I          15,             1          13.0           1)          1.)if)                     I,.                          15,0             -75.0)                      16.7              20          3.3
*    ko,ltso pa  5n C     -         b.c                        So 0             -                                      5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  0.0    40~0. N88.9                 20          17.6
Ta5.1 ,ir-t-r o-hsole          21,002 km pe225 i.                                                 5.0                          0                                                     5.0             -          25.0 C).6                          PG)          1.1
Alroraft-i                  ~~~~~~~~100/kr,d300 hrs/pa                             -           oo0  0                                    -'. o                                                   -         40o.2             88.9              10          35.6~
Oose qoiats  Popeest             B 4150/osot                         3                           .                    ____                                                                         -           61o.             4.o             4lo          1.6r
Sobtotal                                                                                -         .61 t   F-                                        57
vehille-  (1oriia.)              ~         ,ocos'                          321.                        9. .60                                                                                            -211        150.0)i) 130.                       60         60.1
Otaltoc aaoov, 1-whee                    23,0020/nit              1         25.       -                 -              -                                                                                   i           25.0l            5.1              6;          31
offi -e sooh-erti se0,f-itore                ----                                                                                  --                         -                                            -          A7.0             15.0              2?          3.0
T-obs,i-a  hqoip-nctt                    12,'0CC/set              1         12.1                                                                                                                           I                 12.01      2.7              So          2,2
Air..r.ft,5/ (lig'st Ital)              260,   /-Iot              i        20:.              -          .               -          -              -           -                -7-72PO0.0                                                                So
SiaT eo4s)             15,00                     I        142.              .          --                         -                                                                       1         11s5.No           32.2              ;o          25.e
tosirvorivativo esolovolt4/   ~70' X N01et-k           1         70).'-                      --                         --                         ---                                          1           70.0             15.6              70         2A
Soltotal                                               001               -         30.2            - ~~~~~~~~~~~  -310-                                                -.                       07                22.2                         1521.2
lsef7, -Tob-ic-l DI-eet-0a;
Teobviriat-                             22,5300!/gr-t                                       h        go.,             3         37.5             o         67. 5             -                            0         025.0             50.0)            it"50
sot-  '     - -                        150,oiMlooO ---                                                                            -               -.L--2-                                                            50.             104               13,
lan  cler-io                             32,0X /!                              ,-                       -0                                                                                                                             4 ---.«    2.1   1%           0.
Sub ot .0 -1                                                                                    10         -73                                                            --                                 Y =57T77                                         2
Total                                                                                   -        1Q.               -       ,601                      I     IS                        0               _        00                 380.3               2".        st
Tortioeoloa-  Itclcec,e    pootyr                                     35                           h                         6.                       ______                      ±7                           .5.                           
denc-t-ati-o.tola            --veoi-ay cspcrb
_ran   ThOr                                                         3 41              -                            -       ,0.7-                                                  1.)8-,              -      13, 115. 0        2,900.0)              3'      ".Q
Per-et fititio26                                                                                                             2 0    1         -          k-15                                         -         100              iSa- 
If re-rited  -toside of Ve-sosla, cot laldeslr,gratoty, irteeroaio-i trael' housing and soleratoaco
coesthtte b.iias  0  -vehil-a throoh ilA lan, and maes   al  r-t is payable ly BId Lop vfficicl travl.
3/ItCoe  ge,ol   eviellead apae parts on both alr-rftavrg)
l It llod    -h oo  goods, at  ,eobiol poklioatlo-s, soil teatiog kits and vet-risas   eqoip-ret.
WFor ao.peeiaioe a.tO tehniokol appraisals..
Iacodc    0     ,sIopl  side-band trnoso ,oe for earl P-j-st brach vftie and ve-t-a  h-akqor-t-rsx'r-a    sel s n                  -1           aOrcl- zad aasyeqtip-ettooto.
j   Okita to iate-oti-oa  P-ooto  overseas short--ore cralong.






ANNEX 11
Table 1
VENEZTUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELIPMENT PROJECT
Annual Phasing of Investments and Loan Disbursemen-ts
A. Project Investments
B. Disbursements by BDA and IBRD
(JS$ '000 )
------------------Project Year --------------------
1        2         3        4         5         Total
ProYject Investments
Cattle Ranch Development       4,090   12,100   11,960    5,400    i,450         35,000
Technical and Consultant
Services                        750      530       510      450       440       2,700
Total                      7,850   12,530   12,h70                1,890      37,700
B.  Disbursements -/
BDA
Cattle Ranzh Development
Loans                         2,100    6,220    5,150    2,74D        750      18,000
Technical and Vonsultant
Services                        540      370       360       320      310       1,900
Total                      25         ,590    5,5100    1,060                19,90
IBROD
Cattle Ranch Development
Loans                        1,170    3,4.50    3,420    1,540        L10      10,000
Technical and Consultant
Services                        260      22.       210       160      150 1OSO
Total             1,X30                        3,630    1,700       560      ll, oT5
Phasing of IBRD Loan  in
Percent                         13       34        33        15        5         100
1/  Disbursements are based on a proposed cost sharing that, on the average, total
investments for cattle ranch development would be financed as follows:UDA/Government 51%;
IBRD 291; and ranchers 20%.
Note:  In addition to the estimated capital requirements to be provided by BDA/Government
for cattle ranch development, technical and consultant services, it is esttnated
that additional annual funds for short-term credit (to be provided by BDA) -wzould
be approximately as follows:
Year                       1           2           3           4
BI000    .-                            T50       3,305
US$ equivalent ('000)       -          100         735       1,222
rIay 18, 1971



ANNEX 11
Table 2
VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK :DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year and                       Cumulative Disbursement
Quarter                               at end of Quarter
(US$0oo0)
1972/73
December 31, 1972                               350
March 31, 1973                                   850
June 30, 1973                                 1,350
1973/74
September 30, 1973                            1,850
December 31, 1973                             2,350
March 31, 197h                                3,250
June 30, 1974                                 4,150
1974/75
September 30, 1974                            5,050
December 31, 1974                             5,950
March 31, 1975                                6,750
June 31, 1975                                 7,550
1975/76
September 30, 1975                            8,350
December 31, 1975                             9,150
March 31, 1976                                9,500
June 30, 1976                                 9,850
1976/77
September 30, 1976                           10,200
December 31, 1976                            10,550
March 31, 1977                               10,775
June 30, 1977                                11,000
February 16, 1972



VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART - BANCO DE DESARROLLO AGROPECUARIO (BDA)
SHAREHOLDERS
ASSEMBLY
BOARD
OF DIRECTORS
|    PRESIDENT
I                            PLUSLIC RELATIJCNS 
| GENERAL MANAGER                                                        N
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT          A
CHIEA LFOESTORY                AN
I   TECHNICAL   t               t   P~~~~ERSONNEL                                                          LEA |          INSE
DIREC OR A  N                             ADMINISTRATION 
~ASSISTANT~
TECHNICAL.
DRCTOR 
_       ~~~~ASITNMAAE                                               ASSISTANT MANAGER|ASTNTMAGR
LIVETOCKOPCE:RICA                                                        TRUSOTA POTAFNOLI 1                                                    PRAIN
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AND                                                                                                                                                                        B
ANA LYS IS
|           FOETR      |ADFIHRIS|                                  ISONS         PRFOI  D       LOF SHTARESI                                     ||OEAIONS |      EVCS :                 AK
SOURCE: BDA AND IBRD MISSION
z
IEBRD - 5508(2R)   ,






ANNEX 13
Page   1
VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Terms of Reference and Qualifications for
Technical and Special Consultant Services
lec;iaical Director
;r        The Technical Director shall have, inter alia, the following
specific duties, responsibilities and powers, which he may delegate in part
to the technical staff of LDU:
(a) advising the Borrower on Project policy matters;
(b) managing the Project in accordance with the policies
and procedures of the Borrower;
(c) recommending to the Chief the technical staff to be
appointed for the Project;
(d) training and supervising the technical staff in the
technical and economic aspects of ranch development and
livestock production in connection with individual ranch
investment plans;
(e) recommending to the Chief ranch investment plans for loan
action by the Borrower;
(f) introducing to subborrowers such techniques as tropical
pasture and legume establishment, controlled grazing
management systems of tropical improved and natural
pastures, design and specifications of on-ranch grass and
legume seed multiplication plots, and efficient techniques
in low-cost land clearing; giving assistance in layouts
for ranch structures and stock handling facilities;
recommending to the Chief the selection and purchase of
breeding stock and providing guidance to subborrowers and
Project technicians on livestock and meat marketing;
(g) providing the supervision and technical assistance necessary
to ensure successful completion of each ranch investment plan
and loan;
(h) establishing and maintaining ranch records for sample ranches
as required for Project evaluation; and
(i) giving assistance and cooperation to special consultants
engaged under the Project.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
The Te&tn;al  iha--e the following minimum qualifications:
a univerzity degree in agriculture or allied science
suc!- as animal husbandry;
(b)  D, broad prof ssional experience in commercial beef
ranch and livestock development in regions ecologically
similar to the Project areas; and
(c) experience in the use of credit for ranch development,
witb- an ability to prepare and appraise technically sound
and financially viable investment plans.
Livestock Marketing and Meat Processing Consultant Services
2.        Such services would include, inter alia, the following:
(a) a review of on-going and completed studies associated
with the meat processing and marketing, closely coordi-
nated with the appropriate executing and financing
institutions;
(b) assistance on implementation of a livestock grading and
marketing program;
(c) design of a retail meat grading system and recommendations as
to cutting and packaging procedures and timing of sales;
(d) recommended facilities, either new or reinforced, for a
restructured industry, including national requirements in
purchasing, transport and storage facilities, and the
handling facilities and organizational framework needed
to implement a program;
(e)  price and sales strategy plans and meat product promotional
programs; and
(f)  an investigation of meat and animal hygiene aspects of the
industry and recommendations for any needed improvements.
Qualifications
A team or firm of consultants having broad and practical
experience in marketing from the iproducer to the processor, to the
consumer level. Also it would have experience not only in marketing
but also related to the operation of meat-plant works including processing
of by-products.



ANNEX 13
Page   3
Land Clearing Specialist
3.        Short-term services of a consultant would be divided between two
visits during the first two years of the Project. He would have the
following duties and responsibilities under his contract:
(a) advising BDA on major policy decisions in respect to land
clearing aspects of the Project;
(b) coordinating this Project activity with MAC and other
appropriate Government agencies;
(c) conducting trial work in establishing the most economic and
technically efficient land clearing methods for different
geographic and ecological conditions of the Project area,
entailing comparisons between:
(i) hand-felling, stump-grubbing, and levelling land in
suitable condition for planting, and weed and regrowth
control;
(ii) bulldozer clearing, windrowing, and seed bed preparation;
and
(iii)  chaining and cabling clearing techniques, followed by
burning, stacking, and seed bed preparation;
(d) inavolving in the trial work, as well as in the execution of
ranch plans, the technical staff of BDA, ranchers and heavy
equipment contractors who might apply recommended techniques
in connection with ranch development programs financed under
the Project; and
(e) on a return visit, evaluating progress and recommending remedies
for any problems that may have arisen.
Qualifications
The consultant would be experienced in the organization, operation,
and economics of large-scale land clearing equipment and techniques,
preferably in a tropical or subtropical area, where costs and techniques
have been efficiently developed.
Tropical Pasture and Legume Specialist
4.        This specialist would have the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) determining the most suitable grass, forage, and legume types for
Venezuelan conditions associated with:



ANNEX 13
Page   4
0i)  mvethods of establ±shment and cultivation techniques;
(±i) ecoinomic rates ofE seeding;
(1ii)  response to and need for fertilizers; and
(iv)  tropical pasture management, stocking rates, and the effect
of improved pasture on ranching economics;
(b) investigating the cheapest methods of renovating existing pastures
tad comparison of costs when performed manually and mechanically;
(c) providing guidance on the most economic methods of performing
and the timing of pasture maintenance, including weed and
regrowth control, refertilization, and reseeding;
(d)  making recommendations as to the best methods of fertilization,
comparing alternative costs of nitrogen introduction and
-ixation to pastures, the need for phosphatic and trace mineral-
reinforced fertilizers, and required amounts for initial and
maintenance applicationls;
(e)  formulating a plan for pasture and legume seed multiplication
wtrh Project beneficiaries, using local and imported foundation
se:d; and
(izj  c-trdinatiag and cooperating with the UNDP/Venezuela 17 Project
oil pilot investigations on the yield of tropical pastures and
th;i dav-lopeiut of rangeland pasture.
QualiLr tvZnd;
!5. S. degroe or equivalent in Agriculture with considerable
experiere IU: e:-.ension or applied research with tropical pastures, parti-
cularly  aiug at the ranch level.  Experience should include selection
of tropitch! legumes and grasses, the laying out of simple species selection
and ferrilizer trials, rhizobium requirements of tropical legumes; seed
produccicz;- and pasture management.
February 15, 1972



VENEZUELA
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECTION OF PR_JECT LENDING PROGRAM BY BDA
tUS1 '000)
1          2          3          4          5          6          7           8          9         10        1l1           12         13         14         15        Totls
Source of funds
ITRD Funds for:
Ranch D-eelcpment Loans                   1,170      3,460      3,420       1,54o        410        -          -          -          -          -          -           -           -          -         -         10,000
Technical and Consultant Ser-ice-           260        220        210         160        150        -          -          -           _         -          -           -           _          _         _           1,000
BDA and Gove-naeot Funds fan:
Ranch Dsvelopment Loas-                   2,100      6,220      6,150      2,780         750        -          -          -          _          -          -           _          -           _         _         18,000
Technical and Concultant Se-i-ces           540        370        360         320        310        -          -          -           -         _          _           _           -          -         -           1,900
Repayment by Ra-c-er:
Ranch D-ecljooeoLt Lcac:sV                  -          294       1,16       2,126      2,41       3,052      4,628      6,186      6,889      7,078      6,251      35804       1,385         293       -          45,466
Total                                 4,070 o7 s164    ll,305           6,826      4,037      3,052      4,628      6,186      6,889      7,078      6o251       3,80       1385          293       -          76.366
Application of FPnda
Loans to Ranchers fcr Ranch D-vnlopment        3,270      9,680      9,570       4,3 V      1,160                   -           -         -           -          -          -           -               -               28,000
IBRD Loan Psy-tntsL                              -          370        634         757        798      1,565      1,565      i,565       1,565     1,561      1,565       1,565       1,565      1,565      i,565       18,209
IBRD CQr,itmnnt Chsngs                           -           72         44          17          4        -          -                      -         -                       -                                -            137
Technical and Conunltant Servi-ca                770        520         510        460        440        -          -           -          -         -          -                                                        2,700
BDA Administcativ  Conta/                          7          33         69         95        1o8        153        138         123        107        92         77           61         46         31         15        1,155
Recovery of BDA and loucconesa Funds              23        (111)       478      1,177      1,515      1,334      2,925       4,498      5,217     2,834        -            -          -          -          -         19,900
Annual Cash Bs1-ocn                             -Z           -          -                                                                           2,567     4,609        2,178       (226)    (1,303)   (1.580)         -
Total                                 4,070     10,564     11,305       6,R, 4,035            3,052      4628       6,6         6,889     7,078      6,251        3,804      1,385        293        -         76,366
Net Cuulative Income to BDA-                                --                                                     -           -                  2,587      7,196        9,374      9,148      7,845      6,265        6,265
B/ Onsod on nin  y--rn' c-pyym.nt period  ith fouc yearn of grace, -%, inteccat payable s-ci-annually staggered according to tima of diabare,- enat.
2   Baced on repayment within 15 yearn including fioe years grace at san-ned 7.25% internat per -annm.
3   Estinaned at 1% of long-tnan  oar portfolio cutatandiag.
Fr-s its net income BDA could act saide r--eroe-  for Rbd debtc. Also this poj-:Li-o dAnn  not reflect coat of capital far BDA's non funds.  It is sanned that GoverDment's -antributio  (habut TS$15 millin)
couLd bn an interest flen grant to BDA.






a                                                                                                                               =VENEZELA
_                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LIVESTOCI; DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Finencial Rates  f Rt          fo  R h Model
<                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(B 'O00)
-.   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - P R 0 J E C T  Y E A R  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Without
Development         1            2             3             4             5             6             7            8             9           10-13           14         15-19            20
Model 1.  Beef Breeding/Growing RBnch - 5000 ha
Seles                                                      116.7         149.0         142.9         89.8         103.2         146.5         214.3        239.8         260.6         289.2         289.2         289.2         289.2         289.2
Operating Costa]/                                           77.6          82.0          93.8         95.8         118.9         122.3         128.9        124.6         124.6         124.6         124.6         124.6         124.6         124.6
Repl-e not of Maehine-y2                                     -             -             -             -            -             -             -          19.0            -      -                    -           19.0            -             -
Incre=ental Operating Inoene with Developent]/                -           26.9          10.0        (45.1)        (54.8)        (14.9)         46.3         57.1          96.9         125.5         125.5         106.5         125.5         125.5
Inveetrients                                                  -         (148.2)        (65.3)       (35.6)           ---                                       -            -                     -            -             -             -
Net CAsh Flow                                                 -         (120.3)        (80.7)                     (54.8)        (14.9)         46.3          57.1         96.9         125.5         125.5         106.5         125.5         451 3V
Finenciel Rate of Retarn - 19%
Model 2. Beef Breeding/FFttening Ranch - 1500 ha
SBles                                                      126.i         153.5         166.7        i96.o         240.2         331.3         375.0         386.o        390.8         394.0         394.0         394.0         394.0         394.0
Op-rating Costs!/                                          105.4         147.6         i65.o        195.6         245.9         292.4         290.4        292.3         292.3         292.3         292.3         292.3         292.3         292.3
Replacement of Machiner,/                                     -             -             -             -            -             -             -           16.2            -            -             -           16.2            -              -
Ineremental Operating ITnmean with Develop ent]               -          (i4.8)        (19.0)       (20.3)        (26.4)         18.2          63.9          56.8         77.8          81.0          81.0          64.8          81.0          8i.o
I-vestents                                                    -         (129.0)        (39.5)        (17.8)          -             -             -             -            -             -             -             -
Net Cash Flow                                                 -         (143.8)        (58.5)        (38.1)       (26.4)         18.2          63.9          56.8         77.8           81.0         81.0          64.8          81.0         200.1
Fin-ncial Rate of Retorn - 16%
Mhdel 3. Beef Breediolg/Pottcaiag/Baisy Bansil - 700 hla
Mnd.l 3. e -f B,zdm/F.tt-i.g/D.iy R-h - 700 hs    14ti.6                 120.0         121.5        101.)         203.2         237.1         271.6         302.0        308.9         313.4         313.4         313.4         313.4         313.4
Operating Costs]/                                           81.4          92.1         110.2        113.2         126.0      -  26.9          127.7         127.7        127.7          127.9        127.9         127.9         127.9         127.9
Replacoment of Machinery2                                     -            -              -             -            -             -             -           19.7            -             -             -          19.7             -             -
IncresZntal Operating Insome eti Development]/                -          (31.6)        (48.9)       (32.0)         17.0          50.0          83.7          94.4        12G.8         125.3         125.3         105.6         125.3         125.3
Invest-ents                                                             (1-i59.0)      (89.0)        (38.0)          -             -             -             -             -             -             -            -              _
Net Cnch Flow                                                 -         (190.6)       (137.9)        (70.0)        17.0          50.0          83.7          94.4        120.8         125.3         125.3         105.6         125.3         516.2-?/
L-o_nci  Rote ot Retoen- 189
IIodl 4. Beef Br-odisg/Fottcnlnc/Dlsry  ,tc.l - 125 ht
201cc                                     'I.2          2.>~        ~~~~     ~ ~~~~~           ~~~~ ~ ~~ 32.1  4,.-  76.0  97.9  739.4    79.3          77.3          77.9          77.9          )e.3          77.3          77.3
Rerstlen lost,]                                             1'2'0.5)     91.'0)         00 8)       (31.1)        (59 0)        (60 9)       5(53 .)        (49.6)        (47.6)       (45 6)        (4 .69)        (46          (46 0)        (46 .)
lepl..rtisent o  ntneyJ-                                                   -                                                                                 (5.0                                                    (5.0--
Ierrecemnsti Opr.ing Ino   with Do-rlopoet3/                (8.7)         (2.2)          i.6          8.4           7.7          14.2          1C.6         15.0          21.0          23.6          23.6          16 6          24.6          24.6
Investmcnta                                                   -          (16.6         (3t9(        (19.3)                         -                    -                    -
Net Cash Flow                                                 -          (18.8)        (34.3)        (10.9)         7.7          14.2          16.6          15.0         21.0          23.6           23.6         16.6          24.6           84.6-/
lIin-l IRts  of Retort - 21f
Model 5. Flrebred BReedita Center - 400 ho
Sales                                                      235.1         172.1         17S.1        245.1         266.3         353.5         456.8         518.2        522.4         522.4         522.4         522.4         522.4         522.4
Operating Costs]                                            '.1.4         88.3         100.2        109.5         136.8         127.5         131.2         131.2        131.2         131.2         131.2         131.2         131.2         131.2
InReeem-tl op-rMting Iccs-       h   -vrp-t]                         -   (55.0         (68%          (7.08        (14.2)         82.3         181.9        243.3         247.5         247.5         247.5         247.5         247.5         247.5
-evest-ento                                                   -         (201.6        (100.8        (80.7                                        -             -             -             -             -
Net Casth 91w                                                 _         (161.5)       (169.6)       988.5)        (14.2)         82.3         181.9         143.3         247.5        247.5         247.5         147.5         247.5         984.31]
Fiannolal Rats of Retons - 23%
Interest on operatig c-pital no-t innded.
| Oeplt'esent toes celreceiite  nO1R prIce .r les machInerly. Anly tesdc-On: oeluc of old osohinlecy wosld olCert ectinsted incirnor Isl prices ssice initIal investment pcrini.
Tie test 'iansnstnal" ;s used to denote inrc-ases i operatiag i-one over the pre-developnent level.
4 aIndcd   incrrmentr.l he-d valo- as difference between predecelop-ent and f,11 de-elopet- herod c--e:                       Predevelopment          Foll 1evelop,ent          Incrementas
Model 1              553.9                     879.7                  325.8
Model 2              229.7                     34'7.                  119.1
model 3              375.8                     766.7                  390.9
Model 4               56.3                    116.3                    6o.o
Model 5              7/3.3                   1510.1                   736.9



VENEIELA
§0                                                                                                                       LIVESTOCK DE51LOPMENT PROJECT
0                                                                                                                        6FRATE OF RETUR3  TO THE EC500N0
(B million)
---------------- ----------------     ---------------- ------    ---------   -- -------   -------- --- P-             - --- ----    -- --- --- --- ------o ect    Tear
1           2           3            4           5            6           7           8            9           10            11            12           13            14           15            16-19            20
Tncre tenal Valor of Ogles                      P.28         7.58       13.44       19.90        41.22       75.41      105.70       121.94      132.09        137.96       141.19        141.20        141.26       141.26        i41.26          141.26        i41.26
Increa--tel   glun of                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1 3erd  -    -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -73.37
Operatbag Expenses                              (2.52)    (10.73)       (21.37)    (34.60)       (73.34)    (67.66)       (70.89)     (69.80)      (69.19)      (68.88)       (68.76)       (68.76)      (68.76)       (68.76)      (68.76)          (68.76)      (68.76)
On-ranch Incrstrents                           (18.30)    (54.45)       (53.80)     (24.24)       (6.70)
Technical Services                              (3.42)       (2.3)       (P.11)       (2.06)      (1.98)
AchicistrLtivr Cost                              (0.05)      (0.23)      (0.47)       (o.64)      (0.73)       (L.04)      (0.93)       (o.83)      (0.72)       (0.62)        (0.52)        (0.41)       (0.31)        (0.21)        (0.10)
S,b.idi- s                                      (0).1i4)     (0.16)      (O.          (0.03)      (0.?3)      (0.23)       (0.3?3      (0.23)       (4.23)       (0.23)        (0.23)       (0023)        (0.23)        (0 23)        (023)           (0.23)       (o.,3)
Adjusrtd 1ncrescatsl Ince- to thr
Iconomy                                       (22.15)    (60,3)        (64,7C)    (4i.87)    (2L.76)          6.40       33.61        51.03       61.95         68.23        71.68         71.80         71.96        72.06         '2.17           72.27        245.64
3ste of Return to thc E:osom  -1
i/  Aggrrgntlsn of indicidunO  rancher's incr=enrtal valor of: sales, cpcrstislg rxp-es-r and o,-r,soh  -nvestnent.s, asusuing that sabot 160 ..m:hs would stact r-hob
d-relolp-t is year-l, abhot 410 is year-2 sod 247 in year-3.
Tubsidls p:id for mlk   -to  abt B  40 millio                         iy (US9 milli-), o    ot B 0.054 (1)$0.012) average per liter of ailk produced 1965-69.  Based on
projected ailk pr-ducti-o, 1970-74, the subsidy would decrease to abcut S 0.036  0(0.008), sod il 1975-79 to obout B 0.02 (us$o.oo4).  Foe abis ct loulatba,f
an  -veag  subs!idy of B 0.03 (US$o.(07) per liter ovcr P,oj-ct'  lifetime has b-er   --umd.



-  I                            ~~                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~I  I                       I                                   I                                    I                                   I
73-W                               7'W                                  C9-W                                67'W                                OS'W                                63W                                  61-W
%,SARUBA(Hol) }VENEZUELA
UR> ACAO(HoI) BoNAIRE(HoL.)                                                              lIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-12'N                X            0    X                    <                    <          X                                                                                                                                                                  I?N-
< s gS ._ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C A R /  BE FA /V                                                      S E A
"C)               C>         0020204050 ASUNCION
F    A   @        t      t                      _ L  C  O    N  HKMRIICHEITRINIDAD  &  TOBAGO
MARA                                                                       NORTHERN  OORDILLERA REGION                                                                  ---
RQ)ARIO              CA  ,/    X(.ARI                        \ r                                                                    A 1\1 Z OAT  E G    1YARACU  I      F
U' LA                                                              I I      I A  Af*.CIAD EAR S  u MANRA-PUERT
FRUJILL~O>    -, ~   'A  'i                     ....      IARAG'A
otOS MORROS     ..... 2                / .. .U                      MONAN DEA                             TE R .A   AX
R,~        I         S5TUUS 
%                TA                     ER A 8A\L-;  H ~}_ --   ric ein 
FTACHI~~~  ~ AMNEA                                                                                 jr5(                                                                            State boundaries & number     
'GuA-Tu uT_               MAN     ANOA S REGION                            R,BJ DA iA roads                                                                                                            N
\   -OGUA-SDUALIC\ "A, ATpIUGR        E                    1<                                  1\                                               *    BDA Bronch orof
\                   G@  U    A    R    I             I  V  A   R  A                          $;                 +    BDA Agency ofBeuf
**            7                     (B1                  t                    i\z              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Model 1-beef breedrng/groorugtrauch
E     U                                                                                                                                                                                             M P/B6fAA1   5fA  Rodel 2 - BEof breediogfattMI-  r          Nnc
~~0tPAR 0cc ~    ~          5~~R   N
(0000        1<                                      O   L  C    t      I  A( I D                           A A U H                                                                               M odel    3  Beef  bree(din)g/fa)ttening )& doiry raricb
YI4C/hC o0f      u oiL hA rI -u                                                                            TERRITORIO  .AMAZONAS {  @STz tzmSsA h,h ,,
U                                                                                                                              -                                   000
o7tJf3-5st is N   zsL nu                                         W u                                6W cc                                65-w                                 63-w            Model 5 is country oide nilz11 1 Nx;  EGION
FEbRUARY  1972
FEBRUARY 1972                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               IBRD-3322R3



