Document of                   HE
The World Bank                               COP
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 32 80-BD
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
April 17, 1981
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division B
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
US$1                 TK 16.0
TK 1            =    US$0.0625
TK 1 million         US$62,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1  acre (ac)                            0.405 hectares
1  cubic foot per second (cusec)        0.0283 cubic meters per second
1  foot (ft)                           30.5 cerntimeters
1  imperial gallon                      4.545 liters
1 maund (mid)                          37.3 kilograms
I metric ton (ton)                     26.8 maunds
1  seer                                 0.933 kilograms
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BADC      -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
B. Aman   -  Broadcast Aman paddy
BARD      -  Bangladesh Academy of Rural Development
BIDS      -  Bangladesh Institute for Development Studies
BKB       -  Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BUET      -  Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
BWDB      -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
CB        -  Commercial Bank(s)
DOAEM     -  Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
DPHE      -  Department of Public Health and Engineering
DTW       -  Deep tubewell
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GI        -  Galvanized iron
GOB       -  Government of Bangladesh
GPM       -  gallons per minute
HTW       - Hand tubewell
HYV       -  High-yielding variety
IBA       -  Institute for Business Administration, University of Dacca
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IRDP      -  Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS       -  Village Cooperative Society (Krishi Samabaya Samity)
LCB       -  Local Competitive Bidding
LLP       -  Low Lift Pump
MA        - Ministry of Agriculture
m-d       -  Manday
md/ac     -  Maund per acre
MIS       - Management Information System
MLGRD&C   - Ministry of Land Administration, Local Government, Rural
Development, and Cooperatives
M&E       - Monitoring and Evaluation
MOSTI     - Manually Operated Shallow Tubewell for Irrigation
MT        -  Medium Term
MTFPP     - Medium Term Foodgrain Production Plan
PVC       -  Polyvinyl Chloride
RDTI      -  Rural Development Training Institute
SFYP      -  Second Five-Year Plan 1980-1985
SSIP      -  Small Scale Irrigation Project
ST        -  Short Term
STW       -  Shallow tubewell
T. Aman   -  Transplanted Aman paddy
TCB       -  Trading Corporation of Bangladesh
TCCA      -  Thana Central Cooperative Association
TIP       -  Thana Irrigation Program
TOR       -  Terms of Reference
TTDC      -  Thana Training and Development Center
T&D       -  Taxes and Duties
T&V       -  Training and Visit extension system
UNDP      -  United Nations Development Program
UNICEF    -  United Nations Children's Fund
USAID     -  United States Agency for International Development
W         - With Project Case
W         -  Without Project Case
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BANGLADESH
HAN,D TUBEWELLS PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   INTRODUCTION .............................................               1
II.   BACKGROUND .......................1
The Agricultural Sector ......       ..................1.......... 
IDA Operations in the Agricultural Sector ...............         .      2
Crop Production, Constraints and Potential ...............               3
Cropping Patterns . ....       ...............................           4
III.    IRRIGATION         ....................................                  5
Strategic Importance of Irrigation ..... .............                   5
Groundwater Resources ...................................                5
The Exploitation of Groundwater through
Minor Irrigation   ...................................                 7
The Hand Tubewell Program ................................               7
Area Suitable for Hand Tubewells ..... ............                      9
Marketing of Hand Tubewells .............       ..    ...............    10
Credit to UNICEF MOSTI Purchasers .......... ..          ............    10
Demand for Hand Tubewells ................................    11
Domestic Mianufacture of Hand Tubewells .........           ..........    12
Supply of Pipes and Strainers ............................             14
Important Aspects of Future Hand Tubewell Projects .......    14
IV.   THE PROJECT         ..............................................      15
Project Background .......................................              15
Project Objectives and Target Group ......................    15
Project Area            .............................................    16
Project Description ......................................              16
Detailed Features ........................................    16
Distribution of Pumpsets and Tool Kits ................         ...    20
Hand Tubewell Purchase Price .....           ........................    21
V.   COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING .....           ........................    22
Cost Estimates            ...........................................    22
Financing           ................................................   22
Procurement           ..............................................    24
Disbursements and Audits ......          ...........................    25
VI.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES ............    26
Project Organization             ....................    26
Procurement and Distribution of Raw Materials ............    27
Fabrication of Pumpheads and Strainers ......... ..........    27



- ii -
Page No.
Quality Control of Pumphead and Strainer Fabrication   .....    28
Credit Program ........       ...................  ............    28
Training ........................................                   29
Research and Testing ....         ...................... ...........    29
Monitoring and Review .......... . . .. .    ...... . ..... ......    30
Project Accounts ......          .......................................    31
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND COST RECOVERY ... ...............    31
Cropping Patterns .... ..................................  ....    31
Yields and Production  .... .o... ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    32
Crop Input Requirements ............................0....           33
Irrigation Requirements and Pumping ......................          33
Energy Requirements for Pumping         ..........................    34
Marketing .-o ..............................         ...o.... 00 000006 ....0-.0    34
Farm Incomes and Cash Flow ....... .*. ......o.-o. .    35
Prices                   ....... ...................................    36
Cost Recovery          ............     ...................................    36
VIII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ........................    37
n-roject Benefits .................................. 00.....    37
Project Beneficiaries ... ..... .. . . . . . . . . .  ....... ..... .....    38
Environmental Effects . ... .-. . . . . ........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    38
Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests ..................          38
P-roject Risks ..... o-.... o...                                    40
IX.   RECOMMENDATIONS AND ASSURANCES          ...........................  40
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1 - Foundry Process for Pumphead Production
ANNEX 2 - Agricultural Production
Chart 1 - Length of Rainy Season (Records  1934-69)
2 - Seasonal Cropping Patterns
Table 1 - Present Adaptation of Cropping Pattern to Land and Soil
2 - Bi-Monthly Irrigation Requirements for Paddy Nurseries
(in inches)
3 - Bi-Monthly Average Field Irrigation Requirements
4 - Summary of Bi-Monthly Field Irrigation Requirement
(in inches of water)
5 - Relationship between Pump Discharge and Water Table Depth
6 - Cropping Systems by Land Elevation With and Without HTW
7 - Calculation of Pumping Requirements per Acre
8 - Per Acre Labor Requirements
9 - Family Manpower Utilization in HTW Operation
10 - Crop Inputs and Yields Per Acre
11 - Labor Requirements by Month (man-hours)
12 - Calorie Input/Output Analysis
13 - Annual Incremental Input Requirements at Full Development



ANNEXES
ANNEX 3 - Farm Budgets
Table 1 - 1 acre Farm Budget - Model I
2 - 1 acre Farm Budget - Model II
3 - 1 acre Farm Budget - Model III
4 - 1 acre Farm Budget - Model IV
ANNEX 4 - Project Costs
Table 1 - Phasing of HTW Distribution
2 - Cost of 1 HTW
3 - Spare Parts Cost and Replacement Schedule
4 - Project Staffing
5 - Incremental Staffing Costs
6 - Vehicles and Equipment Costs by Agency for IRDP
and DPHE
7 - Investments and Operating Costs for IRDP and DPHE
8 - Costs of Center Store at Natore
9 - Costs of Toolkits
10 - Training and Publicity Costs
11 - Research and Testing Component
12 - GOB Net Contribution to Project Costs
ANNEX 5 - Financial and Economic Analysis
Chart 1 - Locus of Benefit-Cost Switching Values
Table 1 - Financial and Economic Prices
2 - Price of Internationally Traded Commodities, 1982-90 Average
for Economic Analysis
3 - Economic Benefit and Cost Streams
ANNEX 6 - Disbursements
Table 1 - Disbursement Schedule
2 - Detailed Disbursement Allocation
ANNEX 7 - Credit
Table 1 - Incremental Medium Term Credit Requirements
2 - Seasonal Flow of Funds
3 - Credit Operations
ANNEX 8 - Working Papers and Documents in Project File
MAP     - IBRD 15454






BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Bangladesh (GOB)  has asked IDA for assistance
in financing a nationwide, hand tubewells project designed to increase the
irrigated area, production and incomes of small farmers and sharecroppers.
The project would be a follow-up to a successfully completed UNICEF project.
1.02      The first use of hand tubewells for irrigation arose spontaneously
from the UNICEF-supported Rural Water Supply Program, which supplied more than
350,000 village drinking water pumps throughout the country over a 15 year
period.   Farmers rapidly recognized the potential of these pumps for small-
scale irrigation and, in response to this clear demand, a UNICEF MOSTI 1/
project started with the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) in 1975.
Encouraged by the excellent response from farmers the project was extended
through 1979 by which time almost 90,000 hand tubewells had been sold. There
remains considerable unsatisfied demand for hand tubewells by small farmers
throughout the country, but financial constraints have curtailed the UNICEF
program.
1.03      The proposed project would build on the experience gained by UNICEF,
IRDP and associated Government agencies and would greatly increase the number
of hand tubewells available to the small farmers of Bangladesh. The project
was prepared and appraised in September 1980 by a mission consisting of Messrs.
W. A. Ward, J. A. Hayward, R. Moreno (IDA) and M. Maasland (Consultant).
II. BACKGROUND
The Agricultural Sector
2.01      Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for 55%
of GDP, 70% of total employment and more than 80% of the country's exports.
About 74% of agricultural GDP (in FY80) derives from crops and the rest from
forestry (6%), fisheries (8%) and livestock (8%). Of a total population of
almost 90 million, about 75 million live in 68,000 villages and comprise
farmers, 59%; agricultural laborers, 25%; and others 16%.
2.02      Bangladesh has a gross area of 35.3 million acres, of which about
4.0 million acres are perennial water, 5.7 million acres are state-owned
forests and 2.4 million acres are denuded forest lands subject to shifting
1/   The term 'MOSTI' (Manually Operated Shallow Tubewell for Irrigation) has
become the accepted name for all hand tubewells used for irrigation in
Bangladesh.



-2-
cultivation. Virtually all arable land is under cultivation. About 22.5
million acres are cropped at a cropping intensity averaging about 140%. Rice,
by far the most important crop, accounts for about 80% of the gross cropped
area; jute (the principal export) for 6% and a variety of other crops such as
wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane and vegetables for the remainder. Agricul-
tural productivity in Bangladesh is among the lowest in the world, the average
paddy yield being about 0.5 ton per acre.
2.03      Over 80% of all rural households in Bangladesh own less than 3 acres;
the land ownership distribution is highly skewed. Four percent of households
own 32% of the land, while 45 percent of households own 8% of the land. Fifty-
four percent of the rural population is virtually landless, owning less than
half an acre. The proportion of rural landless is growing rapidly.
2.04      In spite of having large areas of fertile deltaic soils, temperatures
suitable for year-round cropping, and abundant labor, Bangladesh has been a
food-deficit area for more than 20 years. During the 1960s, agricultural out-
put rose at an average annual rate of 2.5% and foodgrain production at about
2.4% per annum; both lagged behind a population growth of 2.8% per year. As
a result, annual foodgrain imports required to meet domestic consumption have
increased to over 1.5 million tons.
2.05      The main thrust of Government's agricultural development strategy
in the Second Five-Year Plan (1980/81 to 1984/85) is to achieve and maintain
food sufficiency in the country. Without this there is no prospect for more
rapid overall growth of the economy. Government's recognition of this prior-
ity is shown by various recent measures to step up agricultural growth and
rationalize food policies. The formulation of a detailed Medium-Term Food-
grain Production Plan (MTFPP), increased budgetary allocation to agricultural
development, increased recognition of the private sector's role in the provi-
sion of inputs, provided more effective price support policies and strengthened.
agricultural planning; factors which make it possible to foresee a more rapid
growth in agriculture.
IDA Operations in the Agricultural Sector
2.06      The focus of IDA assistance to Bangladesh in recent years has been
on agriculture. This is consistent with Government policies. In addition to
assisting in the preparation of the MTFPP, IDA is involved in a major program
of financing agricultural and rural development (15 of the 40 new projects
approved since independence, and two fertilizer import credits).
2.07      Seven projects involve irrigation and a further eight the develop-
ment of agricultural extension services, agricultural research, jute cultiva-
tion, the seeds industry, inland fisheries, grain storage, area-based rural
development, and drainage and flood control. Of the irrigation projects,
two involve the utilization of groundwater: the Northwest Tubewells Project
(Credit 341-BD, 1972, US$14.0 M), irrigation for about 180,000 ac; the Shallow
Tubewells Project (Credit 724-BD, 1977, US$16.0 X), irrigation for about
150,000 acres. The implementation of these projects has involved substantial
delays due largely to logistic problems in procurement. The Government has



- 3 -
taken steps to remedy the most serious bottlenecks and both IDA and Government
have increased emphasis on monitoring and supervision which has resulted in
noticeable improvements in implementation.
Crop Production, Constraints and Potential
2.08      Agricultural production in Bangladesh is constrained by scarcity of
cultivable land, climatic hazards, lack of irrigation facilities and deficient
transportation for moving farm inputs and harvest. About 90 percent of the
land surface is flat alluvial plain, mostly less than 10 feet above sea level.
Annual rainfall, which ranges from 50 inches in the southwest to over 200
inches in the northeast, follows a typical monsoon pattern; usually there is
either too much or too little water. Monsoon rains start in May and end in
October and the great rivers rise causing extensive flooding. During the long
dry season (November to April) the river levels are low and severe drought
conditions often prevail.
2.09      These constraints on agricultural development can, however, be over
emphasized. Bangladesh has extensive areas of highly fertile deltaic soils,
and an abundance of good quality groundwater for dry season irrigation. The
development of high yielding varieties (HYVs) of rice and wheat suitable for
cultivation over large areas of the country, in conjunction with irrigation,
has opened up the prospect of substantial increases in production that can be
brought about quickly and inexpensively. Much of the potential, however, has
yet to be exploited.
2.10      The heavy pressure of population on land represents a major develop-
ment constraint. It is estimated that only about 25 percent of rural house-
holds own more than 2 acres, the minimum holding necessary to provide subsis-
tence income at present production levels. A typical holding may be fragmented
into 5 or 6 plots which constitutes an obstacle to efficient farm management
and makes the organization of cooperative irrigation systems difficult. An
additional constraint faced by about 30 percent of Bangladesh farmers is that
they are forced to rent land to supplement their own production. Sharecropping
tenants are expected to provide all inputs but receive only half of the crop
and have no right of occupancy. For such tenants there is little incentive to
increase farm production.
2.11      The most important influence on agricultural practices in Bangladesh
is risk aversion. Traditional farming methods have evolved over time with
starvation the penalty for crop failure. Subsistence farmers are highly recep-
tive to proven innovations which do not increase their risks, but reject
technology of high potential but with high associated risk. Once farm produc-
tion increases to provide a food surplus the willingness to accept risks for
the promise of greater reward also increases.
2.12      Within the MTFPP, the single most important contribution to increased
foodgrain output is to be made by the provision of additional irrigation
facilities which will make grain production less vulnerable to the uncertain-
ties of rainfall. Newly irrigated area alone is targeted to contribute some 3
million tons in additional grain output by FY85; in addition, the utilization
of irrigation facilities to supplement the natural supply of water for rainfed



crops is expected to add some 500,000 tons per annum to gross output. GOB
recognizes that to achieve thes.e targets a major effort will be required to
overcome the critical shortage of irrigation equipment.
Cropping Patterns
2.13      Cropping systems and sequences, as well as planting dates for most
crops, are directly dependent upon the supply and amount of rainfall, surface
water or groundwater available. The seemingly flat land of much of Bangladesh
masks substantial localized variation in land elevation to which farmers are
completely sensitive. The relative degrees of flooding, the likely availabi-
lity of residual soil moisture, and thus the potential of each plot of land
is known to the landholder and the cropping pattern precisely geared to land
capability.
2.14      Three main paddy crops are grown in Bangladesh:
(a)  Aman - the main monsoon crop either long season (220-250
days) broadcast (B. Aman) on premonsoon rains in
March/April, 1/ or short season (150 days) (T. Aman)
sown in nurseries in June/July and transplanted 1
month later;
(b)  Aus  - short season (120 days) varieties either broadcast
(B. Aus) or transplanted (T. Aus) in March/April
and harvested in July/August; and
(c)  Boro - varieties grown in rabi (dry season) with irriga-
tion.
Both Aus and Aman may be grown from broadcast seed or transplanted; the trans-
planted crops give higher yields. Boro is sown in nurseries from November
to January, transplanted about one month later and harvested in May/June. Boro
encounters few natural hazards, and when adequate water is assured, it is the
highest yielding paddy. HYV Boro yields an average 35-40 md of paddy per ac
but is capable of much higher productivity where good management and recom-
mended fertilizer levels are applied. Extensive demonstration yields average
over 80 md per ac and research yields can more than double this figure.
Because of uncertain rains, disease, limited fertilizer use, and a high degree
of lodging, yields of local Aus and B. Aman are very low compared with HYV
Boro and T. Aman. Without reliable supplementary irrigation to overcome
post-monsoon drought during flowering and ripening stages and control of water
movement to prevent nutrient losses, farmers are reluctant to invest in
fertilizer and pesticide for T. Aman, either local varieties or HYV, and
average yields are well below the potential for this crop.
2.15      The most common cropping sequence is Aus and/or Aman followed, where
irrigation is available, by Boro or wheat, vegetables, pulses and oilseeds in
1/   About 15% of this crop is planted in deep water areas; this "floating"
rice is planted earlier, in February/March.



-5-
the dry cooler season. A cropping intensity of about 150 percent is usual
but in the most favored areas higher intensities are feasible. In small plots
near homesteads with irrigation, the inclusion of short season vegetables and
potatoes in the cropping sequence, make cropping intensities of 250 percent
achievable. Where, however, farmers have no access to irrigation and have
land which is deeply flooded during the monsoon season, only a single crop
(usually B. Aman) can be grown per year. Some land floods so deeply and dries
so rapidly that it is unsuitable for cropping and is used for grazing at the
end of the rains.
III. IRRIGATION
Strategic Importance of Irrigation
3.01      For centuries Bangladesh farmers have used bucket-lift methods for
irrigating dry season crops on lands near low-lying water and perennial streams.
Until the late 1950s, however, few further efforts were made to develop water
resources and the irrigated area remained stagnant at around I M ac. By the
early 1960s population pressure had increased and virtually all arable land
was under cultivation.
3.02      Increases in production can only come from increases in cropping
intensity and yields. At present the cropping intensity is determined by the
length of the monsoon season and the uncertainty of residual soil moisture.
Similarly, yields are determined by input usage which reflects farmers confi-
dence in a reliable water supply. Farmers whose lands are flooded in the
monsoon may experience severe drought during the dry season or, more critic-
ally, during breaks in the monsoon. The Bangladesh farmer faces a never-ending
series of unpredictable changes in water availability and the risks and uncer-
tainties are enormous. Not unreasonably, there is widespread unwillingness
to commit scarce capital to inputs, and yields remain very low.
3.03      The strategic importance of irrigation to Bangladesh is immense.
Not only would an assured water supply throughout the year guarantee greater
food production but it would change farmers' attitudes from resignation and
risk aversion to a sense of security and advancement.
Groundwater Resources
3.04      Groundwater constitutes the major source of water available to
most areas where irrigation from surface sources is difficult or impossible.
Flexibility of supply gives it special importance since groundwater supplies
can meet cropping needs during the dry season when surface flows are at a
minimum and irrigation requirements high.
3.05      The presence of accessible groundwater throughout most of Bangladesh
can be attributed to two principal factors: high rainfall and favorable
geology. With a minimum annual average rainfall of 50 inches in the west,



- 6 -
increasing to 200 inches or more in the northeast, the importance of rainfall
in recharging the groundwater is obvious. In addition, the generally flat
terrain, coupled with the large areas of bunded rice paddies, pervious soils
and permeable underlying sediments, is favorable for water percolation.
3.06      BWDB, BADC, DPHE and TTDCs have compiled data on wells drilled for
irrigation, municipal and domestic supply. The performance of the wells
varies considerably due to differences in aquifer characteristics, method of
well construction and development, and well design. Evidence from many hun-
dreds of test-wells shows that the entire area of Bangladesh is underlain by
groundwater with water table depths ranging from zero to 30 feet, depending
upon location and season. It is clear that high-yielding wells can be in-
stalled practically everywhere except in the complex geological areas of the
northeast, in the Barind area in the northwest and in the coastal belt, where
saline intrusion limits groundwater development.
3.07      With the exception of limited low rainfall areas in the west, the
potential rainfall recharge of some 50 million acre feet (MAF) is sufficient
to support full development of irrigated agriculture on some 16 million 1/
acres of cultivated land for most of which surface water supplies are not
readily available. Aquifer conditions are also satisfactory for tubewell
development in most of these areas.
3.08      The groundwater system in Bangladesh is in dynamic equilibrium--
that is, annual recharge is approximately equal to the discharge. Recharge
exceeds discharge during the rainy season and groundwater levels rise; but
during the dry season discharge exceeds recharge and groundwater levels
decline. In many parts of Bangladesh groundwater reaches the land surface
towards the middle of the monsoon after which a significant amount of poten-
tial recharge rainfall is rejected. If the initial groundwater level were
lower, a greater part of the rainfall would infiltrate. This recharge poten-
tial will be realized when tubewells lower the groundwater table at the end
of the dry season. The maximum water table levels will only change where
net annual groundwater withdrawals exceed recharge.
3.09      Although the monsoon rainfall is more than sufficient to recharge
aquifers depleted by any expected irrigation offtake, local fluctuations of
the water table during the dry season are of considerable significance to hand
tubewell usage. Not only does the water table gradually recede during the dry
season but the "drawdown effect" of DTWs and STWs can be substantial. Where a
DTW (drawing 2 cusec) or to a lesser extent a STW (drawing 0.5 cusec) is in
operation, a cone of depression is created in the water table. Within this
cone the water table may be too deep for hand tubewells to operate. To avoid
such interference between DTWs, a spacing policy has been initiated which
specifies a minimum spacing of 1-1/4 miles between DTWs. This policy should
also minimize the risk of over development of groundwater in the near future.
1/   From Bangladesh:  Land and Water Resources Sector Study, Volume VII,
IBRD Report No. PS-13, 1972. The "conservative estimate of 4 M ac"
reported in the same report greatly underestimates groundwater potential.



-7-
The Exploitation of Groundwater through Minor Irrigation
3.10      The Second Five Year Plan's agricultural and rural development stra-
tegy, supported by IDA, places special emphasis on increasing the productivity
of the small farmer and on generating employment opportunities through the
financing of low cost, quick yielding, labor intensive schemes. To support
the plan GOB is taking steps to improve the supply of crop production inputs,
including increased availability and access to short-term credit and medium-
term credit for agricultural purposes. Increased domestic manufacturing to
provide more of the inputs needed for irrigation development is also expected
to contribute to greater labor utilization. The MTFPP focuses on increasing
minor irrigation facilities by providing Deep Tubewells (DTWs) Shallow Tube-
wells (STW) Low Lift Pumps (LLPs) and Hand Tubewells (MOSTI). The targets for
the Minor Irrigation Sector of the MTFPP are summarized below:
Minor Irrigation in the MTFPP
Target
1980/81                  1984/85
Number        Acres        Number        Acres
Operated    Irrigated    Operated    Irrigated
Deep TWs                10,700      560,000        26,200    1,570,000
Shallow TWs            23,400       220,000      130,000    1,625,000
Low Lift Pumps         38,600    1,400,000         51,000    2,030,000
Hand Tubewells        120,000         60,000     500,000        150,000
3.11      In the light of implementation difficulties faced in the past in
large scale projects greater emphasis is being placed on easy-to-execute divi-
sible projects where benefits rapidly follow investment. All minor irriga-
tion projects fall within this category and are given highest priority in
Bangladesh.
3.12.     The current minor irrigation technology based on DTWs, STWs and LLPs
is suited to group operation rather than individual initiative. Command areas
of DTWs (100 ac), LLPs (60 ac), STWs (15 ac) all demand farmer cooperation in
water usage and in group decisions on cropping patterns. Social constraints
are still a major factor in limiting command areas to well below theoretical
optima. Hand tubewells, however, discharging about 8-10 gpm and capable of
irrigating between 1/3 ac and 1/2 ac, depending upon crop and soil conditions,
use largely family labor, and are ideally suited for catering to the individual
needs of the small farmer with a fragmented holding. Hand tubewells are inex-
pensive, easy to operate and maintain, and can be manufactured domestically
and, in some cases, installed by the farmers themselves.
The Hand Tubewell Program
3.13      Following farmers' spontaneous use for irrigation of hand tubewells
supplied by UNICEF for village drinking water, two hand tubewell projects were
financed by external aid agencies during the First Five Year Plan. These
were:



- 8 -
(a) the Manually Operated Shallow Tubewells for Irrigation (MOSTI)
project with UNICEF apsistance which started in 1975/76; and
(b) the Small Scale Irrigation Project (SSIP) with USAID assis-
tance which started in 1977/78.
3.14      The UNICEF MOSTI project started as a pilot project with the Integ-
rated Rural Development Program (IRDP) to install 10,000 hand tubewells in
the 1975/76 irrigation season. Encouraged by the excellent response from
farmers, the program was extended through July 1979; and 87,770 MOSTI had
been sold when the project was completed; there was still substantial unsatis-
fied demand.
The MOSTI Project Performance
Year             Target            Actual Sales
1975/76           10,000               9,220
1976/77           20,000              22,000
1977/78           30,000              30,100
1978/79           30,000              26,450
Total          90,000              87,770
Of the above MOSTI, 25% were sold for cash, and the remainder with medium-term
credit support. The distribution of MOSTI was arranged by each participating
TCCA through the affiliated KSS 1/ and only farmers owning less than three
acres of land were qualified to buy hand tubewells. However, non-members were
permitted to purchase MOSTI at a 5% higher price.
3.15      While tendering for raw materials and accessories was done by UNICEF,
importation, storage and delivery and local fabrication of pump heads were
organized by the Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE) based on their
experience in the UNICEF aided drinking water supply program. No additional
staff were employed by either agency to execute the MOSTI project.
3.16      Loan recovery performance for the medium term (18 months, 13% interest)
loans given to KSS members for the purchase of MOSTI was satisfactory. Of the
Tk 4.42 crores due by October 1979, Tk 3.5 crores had been remitted to IRDP
headquarters by TCCAs and recovery at field level was over 90%.
1/   The TCCA/KSS Cooperative System is an organization in which village agri-
cultural cooperative societies (KSS) of 40-60 landowners are federated
into a Thana Central Cooperative Association (TCCA). The KSS collect
thrift deposits, introduce group management of irrigation equipment and
provide institutional credit, to overcome handicaps of small and frag-
mented holdings, small individual surpluses and small input requirements.
There are presently 270 TCCAs and 40,000 KSSs. TCCA/KSSs are classified
on the basis of their performance in achieving their objectives (coverage
of farm families, loan recoveries, build up of thrift savings, income/
expenditure ratios, attendance at meetings, regularity in accounts and
audits). The highest classification is A; the lowest E. Approximately
46% of KSS are classified as A or B.



- 9 -
3.17      The Small Scale Irrigation Project (SSIP) executed by BADC under a
USAID credit aimed to sell 240,000 hand tubewells during the three year period
1978 to 1981. About half of these were to be sold on a cash basis through BADC
zonal stores or private dealers and 60,000 hand tubewells each were to be sold
through TCCA and BKB. While BADC and BKB have not applied restrictions on
ownership of land by purchasers of hand tubewells, the TCCA nominally followed
the UNICEF M4OSTI project criteria of selling only to farmers owning less than
three acres of land, though a follow-up study of UNICEF MOSTI project by IBA
indicated that the average landholding of MOSTI farmers was about 4 acres. 1/
3.18      The SSIP project, in common with many BADC operations, encountered
considerable delays through logistic difficulties in procurement--in this case,
of raw materials and accessories. By October 1980 only 7,500 hand tubewells
had been made available under SSIP. Of about 2,000 units allocated to TCCA
and BKB, and 3,462 to BADC's distribution channel, TCCA had rapidly sold their
entire allotment, whereas BADC and BKB had sold only 55% and 75% of their
allotments, respectively. Another 50,000 pump heads (locally manufactured)
had been procured by early October 1980 but the necessary accessory pipes and
strainers had not been imported. Because of cost escalation, the program was
reduced to 150,000 units.
3.19      Experience gained from the UNICEF MOSTI program indicated that:
(a) MOSTI sales move much faster when medium term credit and
equipment supply are linked together and are available to
the farmers at a single point such as the TCCA/KSS (IBA
Report);
(b) MOSTI can often be installed and lifted by farmers, can
be moved from one location to another with relative ease,
and are used seasonally for drinking water as well as for
irrigation;
(c) the need for additional staff in the agencies involved to
execute a MOSTI program is minimal (Annex 4, Table 5); and
(d) performance of DPHE has been acceptable.
Area Suitable for Hand Tubewells
3.20      The MTFPP anticipates 7.2 M ac being irrigated from groundwater
by 1984-85. This is more than double the existing irrigated area yet still
leaves at least half of the potential irrigable land without irrigation.
There is clearly great potential for further expansion of the hand tubewell
irrigated area.
3.21      The limits of hand tubewell usage are determined by maximum water
table depth which should not exceed 18-20 feet. Maximum water table depth
measurements for the year 1979, when there was a severe drought, indicated
1/   Institute of Business Administration, University of Dacca.  Manually
Operated Shallow Tubewell for Irrigation in Bangladesh: March 1980.



- 10 -
five areas where deep-set wells would be essential (Map 15454R). In normal
years the water table declines to only 10 feet or less below land surface in
more than half the country and the maximum water table depth of 18 feet occurs
in 75% of Bangladesh. Even in the severe drought of 1979, hand tubewells
could have been safely used in at least 7 M acres.
Marketing of Hand Tubewells
3.22      Hand tubewell equipment is usually sold at retail as a set composed
of pumphead, pipe and strainer. Foundries sell finished pumpheads through
three channels: private agents, the MOSTI Project channels, and the SSIP
Project channels. Practically none of the MOSTI pumps 1/ are sold through
private dealers because of the subsidized price offered by the MOSTI and the
SSIP Projects (para 3.32). A smaller pump 2/ is marketed through private
dealers, who add the required pipes and strainer before selling to the final
user at prices ranging from Tk 320 to Tk 375 for the pumphead, Tk 300-500
per 20-foot length of pipe, and Tk 150 for a six-foot strainer (without coir
wrapping).
3.23      Marketing channels for the SSIP and MOSTI Projects are essentially
the same. All hand tubewell equipment in the MOSTI Project and most of the
equipment in the SSIP Project are marketed through the TCCA/KSS system.
Orders are taken by the cooperatives and consolidated by IRDP. Available
supplies are allocated to the TCCA's by IRDP headquarters in Dacca. MOSTI
equipment is supplied to these TCCA's out of the DPHE Central Stores at
Chittagong, Dacca, and Khulna. SSIP equipment is supplied to the TCCA's out
of the BADC zonal stores. In addition to sales through private dealers and
Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB), it was planned under SSIP to sell approximately
half the available equipment on a cash basis through BADC zonal stores or
private dealers and the remainder on 18-month credit at 13 percent interest
through TCCAs and BKB. Sales on credit through TCCAs moved much more readily
than those through BKB and from BADC zonal stores; as a result BADC reallocated
the 1979/80 private dealers allotment for sale through TCCA's, which were able
to sell quickly the increased allotments.
Credit to UNICEF MOSTI Purchasers
3.24      Approximately 75% of the MOSTI sold under the UNICEF project were
sold on MT credit at 13% interest with the credit repayable in 3 equal semi-
annual installments. Farmers could obtain MT credit either by borrowing
through their KSS/TCCA or through Government commercial banks. Farmers prefer
to borrow through their own cooperatives because fewer steps are involved in
loan processing, the MOSTI equipment is available at the same site, and farmers
are more comfortable dealing with their own organization than with commercial
bankers (IBA Report). Lending channels for both MT and ST credit through the
1/   The pumphead used for the MOSTI is the No. 6 pumphead; it has a discharge
of about 8-10 gallons per minute.
2/   This pumphead is also known as the No. 4 pumphead and has a discharge
of about 5 gallons per minute.



- 11 -
cooperative system are well developed and are continuing to improve. However,
the terms of the MT and ST credit have not been geared to the needs of the
small, food-deficit farmers which are the target group for the MOSTI program.
Demand for Hand Tubewells
3.25      Because sales of HTWs have always been constrained by supply, the
demand for HTWs can not be ascertained directly by observing past sales.
Nevertheless, the unsatisfied demand for HTWs is believed to be substantial.
The magnitude of potential sales can be estimated from the factors which
contribute to demand for HTWs, discussed below.
The market for hand tubewells can be segmented in several ways:
(a)  Demand arising from farmers who wish to utilize HTWs for
family drinking water safety and convenience;
(b)  Demand by farmers for HTWs to be utilized in growing high-
value crops such as vegetables and pulses on parts of their
farms utilizing hired labor; and
(c)  Latent demand by small, food-deficit farmers who have excess
family labor during the dry season but who lack resources to
buy HTWs and related inputs without favorable medium and
short term credit respectively (paras 3.27, 4.20).
3.26      The UNICEF project distributed 87,800 MOSTI over a four year period
utilizing MT credit which was repayable over eighteen months. The 1980 IBA
study of the UNICEF MOSTI project indicated that the project scarcely touched
the poorest farmers, group (c) above. Average arable land holdings of MOSTI
farmers was 3.86 acres; more than half of the participating farmers used
their MOSTI for drinking water only; one fourth of the sales were for cash,
and many of the credit sales were to farmers who could have paid cash but did
not because the IRDP-TCCA policy of the time was one of charging a higher
price for cash than for credit sales. The UNICEF MOSTI project reached in
large part the relatively older and wealthier of the mid-size farmers (IBA
report, pages 47-50), because of the lack of a viable MT and ST credit package
for the smaller farmers. Still, demand for hand tubewells even among the for-
mer groups exceeded the ability of the UNICEF MOSTI project to supply pumpsets.
3.27      The major constraint on the purchase of MOSTI by small food-deficit
farmers has been credit availability. This point is strongly supported by
farm budget analysis (Annex 3) and by analysis of the UNICEF MOSTI project
results. These suggest that spreading the repayment of the loan for the
purchase of hand tubewells over three years rather than eighteen months would
considerably improve the ability of smaller farmers to bear the repayment
obligations. Also, the initial seasonal outlay for crop inputs is substantial
and short term credit must be made available to encourage HTW uptake by the
small farmer. With an assured source of short and medium term credit at
village level through the existing TCCA/KSS system together with a constant
supply of hand tubewells and spare parts, there is every justification for
believing that HTWs will reach the small farmers and that the MTFPP target of
an additional 380,000 to be installed during the period 1980-85 is conservative.



- 12 -
Domestic Manufacture of Hand Tubewells
3.28      All pumpheads for hand tubewells are made within Bangladesh.  The
foundry sector is composed of several dozen small foundries and about 40
medium sized firms which produce pumpheads more cheaply than importable
substitutes. The pig iron and coke for the production of the pumpheads, as
well as GI pipes, are imported. DPHE takes delivery of pig iron, coke and GI
pipes at the Ports of Chalna and Chittagong and supplies the required quanti-
ties of raw materials (80 lbs pig iron and 20 lbs coke per pumphead) to con-
tracted foundries (para 6.07).
3.29      A survey conducted by UNICEF identified about 30 foundries with the
capability and interest to manufacture pumpheads. Contracts were let to nine
of these foundries during 1975-80 and all performed satisfactorily although
some had initial difficulties meeting UNICEF's quality standards. The capacity
of these nine foundries alone exceeds 300,000 pumpheads per year which greatly
exceeds the planned procurement of the national hand tubewell program.
3.30      The foundry sector is internally competitive, with very little cross-
ownership of foundries. Most firms are family-owned or are partnerships. The
smaller foundries are primarily family-owned and family-managed. The larger
foundries have a combination of owner-managers and professional managers,
usually with a graduate engineer as production manager. Details of foundry
procedures are given in Annex I. Capacity is defined principally by casting
bay area and cupola capacity, with casting area the more prominent constraint.
Most foundries have spare capacity, with pourings occurring, at most, on alter-
nate days on a one-shift basis. The larger firms in the sector have land
available for casting bay expansion. Many of the smaller firms do not have
un-utilized land readily available, though most could increase the through-
put of the existing casting bay area if faced by expanded markets for their
products.
3.31      Cost Structure of Hand Tubewell Manufacturing.  Manufacturing costs
for cast iron pumpheads are dominated by variable costs (Annex 4, Table 2).
By far the most important item of cost is raw materials--principally pig iron
and coke, which accounts for 60% of the cost of a finished pumphead. Based on
a calculated ex-factory cost of Tk 494 for a finished pumphead, variable costs
account for approximately 90% of the price of the product, leaving only Tk 49
for overheads (including selling expenses) and profits.
3.32      Supply Response and Gross Margins in Pumphead Fabrication.  Variable
costs account for approximately Tk 446 of the ex-factory cost of Tk 494 for the
MOSTI pumphead. Thus, the elasticity of supply of pumpheads at prices less
than Tk 446 would be low or even zero. The existence of excess foundry capacity
and the ease of capacity expansion indicate a fairly high elasticity of supply
at prices between Tk 446-494, and a very high elasticity of supply at prices
exceeding Tk 494 per pumphead, ex-factory. Under the SSIP Project, the retail
price of a pumphead with strainer was Tk 400 (pipes were sold for Tk 300 per
20 ft section), which was less than the variable costs of manufacturing the
pumphead alone. Thus, foundries have not attempted to produce the No. 6
pumphead for the private market because of their inability to compete with
the Government's subsidized price. Instead, foundries have produced a smaller



- 13 -
and lighter pumphead (No. 4) which they have privately sold for Tk 320-375 per
unit (September 1980 prices). The lighter pumpheads have been sold through
private dealers without credit support and have been used mostly for family
drinking water because of their low yield of water and resulting limited
utility for irrigation. Because of the partial substitutability between the
two pumps, the subsidized price of the MOSTI pumphead has forced the foundries
to accept low gross margins on the smaller pumphead and to limit its sales to
a narrow portion of the handpump market (cash customers who can afford personal
drinking water wells and do not wish to wait for MOSTI or SSIP equipment).
The tIOSTI pumphead has been produced primarily under GOB contracts for the
SSIP and MOSTI Projects and for the village water supply program. Excess
capacity in the foundry sector has also led the foundries to accept low gross
margins on these contracts.
3.33      Procurement of Raw Materials for Pumphead Fabrication.  The major
items of raw material for production of hand tubewell pumpheads are pig iron
and coke, both of which are imported. A third item, scrap iron, is procured
locally, though there is a persistent shortage in the country (para 3.35). In
many cases, much of the scrap used comes from the foundries' own operations.
Pig iron and coke are imported and distributed to foundries through three
sources: Direct import by the larger foundries under import licenses issued
them by Government; Import by the Trading Corporation of Bangladesh (TCB) based
on orders placed with them by the foundries; Import by UNICEF/DPHE under the
village water supply and UNICEF MOSTI projects and distribution to the foun-
dries on the basis of contracts for the supply of pumpheads to these projects.
3.34      Few foundries are able to acquire import licenses entitling them to
directly import raw materials and in the quantities they desire. In addition,
TCB procedures are slow and bureaucratic, and foundries can not import pig
iron and coke through TCB in the quantities and at the times they would like.
A chronic shortage of pig iron and coke constrains the foundry sector and
restricts the supply of all cast iron products in the country. The problem
of shortages of imported raw materials arises out of the acute scarcity of
foreign exchange in Bangladesh and is not limited to pig iron and coke.
3.35      Foundries are also plagued by a scarcity of scrap iron.  However,
scrap iron seems to pose less of a constraint to foundry operations than does
the shortage of pig iron and coke. The scrap iron scarcity manifests itself
in higher prices for the material in the local market rather than as an
absolute shortage as is the case with pig iron and coke and contributes to
lower wastage factors for pig iron (Annex 1, para 4).
3.36     Remaining inputs for pumphead fabrication consist of nuts, bolts,
washers, steel pins, and steel rounds, none of which pose an insurmountable
problem at present. A shortage of higher quality imported nuts, bolts,
washers, and steel pins began to emerge during 1980. However, the availabi-
lity of cheaper, lower quality local substitutes reduces the problem to one
of more frequent replacement of these easily-serviceable parts. Because their
cost is such a small part of the total cost of the pumphead, more frequent
replacement has an insignificant effect on the life-cycle cost of the pump.
3.37      Steel rounds for making the piston rod are purchased in the local
market. Two sizes of rounds are required. The piston itself is made from 3/8



- 14 -
inch diameter construction grade rounds.The piston head which connects to the
pump handle is cut from 1-1/2 inch steel round in 3/8 inch slices which are
welded to the end of the piston rod and drilled to receive the bolt which con-
nects the piston rod to the pump handle.  One ton of steel rounds is sufficient
to make 2000 piston rods. Availability of steel rounds and steel pins does
not pose a problem for hand tubewell manufacturers at present and is not
expected to do so during the SFYP period.
Supply of Pipes and Strainers
3.38      Both GI pipes and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipes have been used for
village water supply wells. However, PVC pipes are less suited for irrigation
wells for two reasons: (a) MOSTI are moved frequently and the PVC pipes will
not withstand being repeatedly pulled and resunk; and (b) because they are
moved from site to site, the MOSTI pump head is not set in concrete, and the
stresses caused by pumping are borne entirely by the pipe; consequently a
stronger pipe is required for MOSTI than for drinking water supply wells.
Pipes for the SSIP project was supplied by the Government-owned National Tubes
Company, the only domestic supplier of GI pipe. Difficulty in maintaining
timely supply of pipe has been the major cause of delays in implementing the
SSIP Project. The previous MOSTI Project procured pipe from foreign suppliers
and experienced no difficulty in organizing timely delivery. While
domestically-produced GI pipe is likely to continue to present supply problems
during SFYP, it is not anticipated that there will be any difficulty in pro-
curing GI pipe internationally.
3.39      Three types of strainers were used in the MOSTI and SSIP Projects
and in the village water supply programme: imported PVC strainers, GI pipe
locally-holed and wrapped with imported brass screen, and GI pipe locally-
holed and hand wrapped with coir rope. The PVC strainers are inexpensive and
suited to village water supply, but are not sufficiently strong to withstand
frequent pulling and resinking.  Brass strainers, while sturdy, are very
costly and are suspected of early clogging due to corrosion resulting from
electrolytic action between the GI pipe and brass screen. Coir-wrapped GI
strainers can withstand frequent pulling and resinking, though the inexpen-
sive coir rope wrapping (approximately Tk 5 for one wrapping of a 6 ft
strainer pipe) must be replaced typically after each 1-3 pullings. Least-
cost analysis (at 12% interest) indicates that coir wrapped strainers exhibit
the lowest life-cycle costs of the three alternative strainers, in addition
to meeting strength requirements. Neither internationally-procured GI pipe
for holing nor locally-available coir rope are expected to present any supply
problems during project life.
Important Aspects of Future Hand Tubewell Projects
3.40      The experiences gained during the UNICEF MOSTI project implemen-
tation suggest that follow up hand tubewell projects should pay particular
attention to the following aspects:
(a)  Procurement.  Given the considerable time lag between submis-
sion of orders and arrival of materials at port, successful
and continuous project implementation requires adequate plan-
ning in the procurement and efficient distribution of imported
project inputs; and



- 15 -
(b) Credit. A major component to the successful distribution of
MOSTI under the UNICEF MOSTI project has been the availabil-
ity of medium-term credit for the purchase of MOSTI at the
point of sale. Improving the terms of the medium term credit
is expected to significantly increase the accessibility of
hand tubewells to smaller farmers. It is also important to
ensure the availability of short-term credit for the purchase
of related agricultural inputs, so as not to choke off the
demand for HTWs by smaller farmers unable to bear these costs
on their own.
These important aspects have been dealt with in the project described in the
following pages.
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Background
4.01      Following completion of the successful UNICEF MOSTI project in 1979,
GOB requested IDA to finance a second hand tubewell project. Under the UNICEF
MOSTI project, approximately 87,800 hand tubewell sets consisting of pumphead,
GI pipes and strainer were distributed, with peak annual sales of 30,100 units
being reached during 1977/78. The completion of the MOSTI project left substan-
tial unsatisfied demand especially amongst small farmers. The proposed project
would seek to meet this unsatisfied demand.
Project Objectives and Target Group
4.02      The main project objectives would be to increase the irrigated area,
production and incomes of small farmers and to provide safer domestic water
supplies. A secondary objective would be to encourage the domestic engineering
industry to manufacture irrigation equipment.
4.03      The project is targeted at farmers with small land holdings and with
surplus family labor who lack access to other sources of irrigation water
during the dry season. These farmers traditionally have been among the last
to benefit from agricultural programs. Short term credit would be made avail-
able to enable small farmers to utilize their hand tubewells to the best
advantage.
4.04      At no time did the UNICEF MOSTI project satisfy the substantial
demand for hand tubewells and the 87,800 units produced were rapidly sold to
relatively larger farmers (para 3.26). The peak sales figure of 30,100 units
in 1977/78 was limited by the availability of imported raw materials for pump-
head production and not by limitations either in the DPHE/IRDP organization
or by constraints in the foundry sector (para 3.29). With the provision of
complete hand tubewell units together with medium and short term credit at
TCCA/KSS level it is unlikely that hand tubewells will remain unsold. The
relatively small amounts of materials involved should present no major problems
to the experienced DPHE staff assisted by a small number of incremental
project staff (Annex 4, Table 4).



- 16 -
Project Area
4.05      The hand tubewell equipment provided under the project would be sold
nationwide in all IRDP Thanas having suitable groundwater conditions, i.e.:
(a) Sweet-water-bearing sand within sixty feet of ground surface;
and
(b) Static water table within 20 feet of the surface during period
of peak irrigation requirements.
GOB proposes to expand the IRDP network to cover all Thanas by June 1981; thus
all Thanas could participate in the MOSTI program subject to their meeting the
above physical conditions. Some areas of most Thanas are suitable for MOSTI
development, and problems exist mostly in the coastal districts where the
problem is one of groundwater salinity rather than water table depth (Map
15454R).
Project Description
4.06      The project would produce and distribute 180,000 hand tubewells over
a three-year period. Pig iron, coke and pipes required to produce complete
pumpsets would be procured by DPHE under ICB. Pumpheads would be fabricated
by qualified foundries in Bangladesh under contracts with DPHE (paras 6.06 and
6.07). Complete pumpsets would be distributed by DPHE from District Stores at
Khulna, Dacca and Chittagong and from a new store at Natore, to be constructed
under the project, to TCCA's from which they would be sold to farmers. Medium
term credit would be made available for MOSTI purchase (para 6.11). The
project would finance a research and testing program focussed on developing an
improved hand tubewell design.
4.07      The project would be implemented over a 3-year period with phasing
of MOSTI production as indicated below:
Number of HTWs to be
Year                   Produced and Distributed
1981-82                        40,000
1982-83                        60,000
1983-84                        80,000
Detailed Features
4.08      Importation of Raw Materials.  The largest element of project costs
would be the importation of raw materials--pig iron, coke and G.I. pipes.
These materials would be imported by DPHE according to annual requirements
(para 6.04).
4.09      DPHE has experience in international tendering and procurement as a
result of its activities in water supply. Detailed procedures and timetables
for procurement were established, tested and used under the MOSTI Project by



- 17 -
UNICEF and would be employed, with some adaptation, by DPHE. Thus, no prob-
lems are anticipated in the international procurement of pig iron, coke and
pipes. The annual requirements for raw materials would be as follows:
1981/82    1982/83      1983/84
Pig iron (ton)                  1,455        2,183         2,910
Coke (ton)                        365          548           730
20 ft length GI Pipes (No)   84,800       127,200       169,600
4.10      Distribution of Raw Materials and Pumpsets.  The Project would pro-
vide for the transportation of raw materials from ports at Chalna and Chittagong
to the DPHE stores at Chittagong, Dacca and Khulna.  DPHE would be responsible
for contracting local firms for the transport of raw materials and G.I. pipes
(para 6.04). The project would provide eight 5-ton trucks and two pick-ups to
be used by DPHE as back-up equipment in the event of non-compliance or break-
down of contractors' equipment, to provide additional flexibility and to
handle small and short hauls not suitable for local contracting.
4.11      Fabrication of Pumpheads and Strainers.  Contracts for the fabrica-
tion of pumpheads and strainers would be let by DPHE to local foundries and to
local machine shops. The pumphead design would be the 'improved' Bangladesh
No. 6 hand pump, the same pump that is manufactured for village drinking water
supply and was used for the UNICEF MOSTI project. The strainer would be made
from G.I. pipe slotted or drilled. Farmers who purchased pumpsets would wind
the strainer pipe with locally-bought coir rope, available in village markets.
Contract specifications for fabrication of pumpheads and strainers would
include the amount of raw material (pig iron, coke and pipes) provided to the
foundries and the amount to be paid by DPHE for the finished pumphead or
strainer. Foundries would be responsible for the transport of raw materials
from DPHE stores to the foundries and machine shops and for returning the
finished products to DPHE stores.
4.12      Quality Control of Pump Manufacturing.  Quality control of pumphead
manufacturing would be the responsibility of DPHE. An Office of Quality
Control would be composed of three staff. Under the previous MOSTI Project,
quality control functions were the responsibility of DPHE with technical
assistance from UNICEF. Standards and procedures are well established (Proj-
ect File). The Project would provide funds for technical assistance of 30
man-months from an internationally-recruited expert on quality control in
foundry operations (para 4.18). An assurance was obtained that the Office
of Quality Control would be established by January 1, 1982.
4.13      Storage Godown at Natore.  The project would finance retroactively
the construction of a DPHE storage godown at Natore. The godown would allow
DPHE to provide a more dependable supply of pumpsets to TCCAs in the north west
of the country at lower cost. Difficulty was experienced in the UNICEF MOSTI
project in supplying TCCAs above the confluence of the Brahmaputra and Ganges
out of DPHE stores at Dacca and Khulna because of the problems caused by ferry
crossings and transport disruptions due to flooding along the two rivers.
The new store at Natore would help to alleviate these distribution problems.



- 18 -
4.14      Training.  The project would provide both procedural training for
IRDP and TCCA staff and simple technical training for village mechanics and
farmers. Training of IRDP/TCCA staff would be carried out by senior IRDP
staff through programmes at BARD Comilla, BARD Bogra, RDTI Sylhet and IRDP
headquarters and would concentrate on procedures for project implementation
and on techniques to be used in farmer training programs. Farmers purchasing
HTWs would be trained by TCCA staff in maximizing irrigation efficiency while
using their HTWs. Village mechanics would be trained by DPHE staff at selec-
ted TTDCs in the installation, repair, and maintenance procedures of HTWs.
Prior experience as mechanics or as carpenters would be a prerequisite for
participating in the mechanics training program. Materials to be used in the
training programs would be adapted from materials used in the UNICEF MOSTI
project. As part of the training some publicity, in the form of posters and
booklets, will be distributed. Past experience indicates that such information
considerably increases recognition by farmers of the existence, benefits, and
availability of HTWs for irrigation. Costs of the training component are
estimated at $210,000 and are detailed in Annex 4, Table 10.
4.15      Provision of Tool Kits.  The project would provide two types of tool
kits; major kits and minor kits (Annex 4, Table 9). Some 400 major tool kits
each costing Tk 2,000 would be sold on MT credit or for cash and would enable
a private team of mechanics (3-4 persons) to perform the installation of
the HTWs and any major servicing required. Major tool kits would be made
available only to mechanics who had satisfactorily completed the mechanics
training program. The total cost of major tool kits would be approximately
$62,500. The project would also provide 2,000 minor tool kits (4-5 per KSS
group) at about Tk 200 each for routine maintenance work on HTWs. Any member
of a KSS would be eligible to purchase a minor tool kit on cash or credit
terms (para 4.19). Total cost of minor tool kits would be approximately
$25,000.
4.16      Research and Testing. The project would finance a three-year program
of research and testing of appropriate hand tubewell equipment with the objec-
tive of finding and developing design improvements to increase the efficiency
of manual irrigation. Many manual pumps are available worldwide but have not
been systematically tested in Bangladesh. A UNDP world wide program to search
for and test improved hand tubewells for purposes of irrigation and water
supply has recently begun. 1/ Coordination between the Research and Testing
Committee and the UNDP program representative in Bangladesh is likely to lead
to great savings in efforts to search for better models and to a more speedy
implementation of the research and testing component. Models suggested by the
UNDP program should be considered for field testing under the project. The
research and testing program under the project would be carried out by the
Department of Mechanical Engineering of the Bangladesh University of Engineer-
ing and Technology (BUET) under the supervision of a Research and Testing
Committee (para 6.16) and would consist of five stages: (i) an international
review and survey to find manual tubewells with potential for irrigation under
Bangladesh conditions; (ii) a rapid laboratory and field evaluation of all
appropriate types; (iii) minor modifications, if necessary, of the most appro-
priate type; (iv) field testing, evaluation, and feedback from manufacturers
1/   Program number UNDP/GLO7.



- 19 -
and users; and (v) detailed presentation of the most appropriate design for
adoption in follow up phases of hand tubewell projects. An assurance was
obtained that by November 30, 1981, Government will cause DPHE to have entered
into a contract, satisfactory to IDA, with BUET to carry out the Research and
Testing Program. The project would contract for ten percent (four man-days
per month) of two faculty members time and would provide for full-time employ-
ment for three years of two graduate engineers. Six man-months of technical
assistance from an internationally-recruited expert on manual irrigation
systems would be provided during the first two years of the project (at
US$70,000). Costs of research and testing are estimated to be approximately
US$244,000.
4.17      Monitoring and Review.  The project would provide financing for
project monitoring and review consisting of two elements: (i) continuous moni-
toring of project progress and feedback of information to management; and (ii)
a third-year joint review of the project by a team of IDA and GOB officials
assisted by one consultant. The project would provide an Assistant for Moni-
toring and Reporting posted in the office of the IRDP Deputy Director for
HTW (para 6.17) and one man-month of technical assistance from an inter-
nationally-recruited expert on management information systems to assist in
setting up the management information system (MIS) and assuring that the system
was consistent with and fed information into the larger MIS being implemented
agency-wide by IRDP. In addition, four man-weeks of consultancy would be
provided for the third-year review of the project to assist IDA (8 man-weeks
of supervision) and GOB (16 man-weeks of MLGRD&C staff time) to appraise
the remaining demand for HTW and the technical and economic viability of
the improved design pumpsets, developed and identified under the project and,
if appropriate, to prepare a follow-up project (para 6.18). An assurance was
obtained that by January 1, 1982, a management information system will have
been established within IRDP to provide continuous monitoring of project
progress and feedback of information.
4.18      Technical Assistance.  The project would finance the cost of inter-
nationally recruited consultants to provide technical assistance on research
and testing (6 man-months), quality control of pumphead fabrication (30 man-
months), a third year project review (one man-month) and to review and coor-
dinate the management information system (one man-month). Assurances were
obtained that to provide these services GOB would employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment were satis-
factory to IDA. The total cost of technical assistance is estimated at
approximately US$386,400. 1/
4.19      Medium Term Credit.  Medium term credit for the purchase of pumpsets
and tool kits by farmers and mechanics would be provided by the banking system
(para 6.11) and would not be funded under the project. Credit for 90% of
purchase prices of pumpsets and tool kits would be made available to TCCA
1/   Eight man-months of short-term consultancy at the rate of US$12,080 per
man-month covering salary and fees (US$8,000), allowances (US$2,760),
travel (US$1,010) and miscellaneous (US$310); and 30 man-months of
long-term consultancy at US$9,660 covering salary and fees (US$6,740),
allowances (US$2,200), travel (US$410) and miscellaneous (US$310).



- 20 -
members and would be repayable in equal annual installments over a three-year
period rather than eighteen months as was the case under the UNICEF MOSTI
project. The Bangladesh Bank would provide funds for medium term credit to
commercial banks (such as Sonali Bank), who would onlend funds to the TCCA/KSS
under the existing IRDP credit program. Terms for onlending are detailed in
Annex 7, Table 3. Assurances were obtained that Government would ensure the
availability of medium term credit sufficient to meet incremental medium term
credit requirements of the project on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA
and would inter into an onlending agreement with financing bank(s), satisfac-
tory to IDA. Incremental medium term credit requirements are estimated to
total $11.1 million 1/ (Annex 7, Table 1). An assurance was obtained that
medium term loans for the purchase of pumpsets and tool kits would be repayable
in annual installments over a three-year period at the prevailing rate of
interest for medium term agricultural loans plus a 1% TCCA margin, in total
not less than 13% per year (para 6.09).
4.20      Short Term Credit. Farm budget analyses (Annex 3) indicate the need
for short-term credit to permit farmers, and in particular the smaller ones,
to realize project benefits. Therefore, incremental working capital require-
ments of project farmers would be financed through short term credit to be
provided by Government. Estimated incremental short term credit requirements
during project implementation are shown in Table 4.1. An assurance was
obtained that government would provide, through the existing production credit
financing system, sufficient short term credit for the financing of incremental
on-farm working capital requirements of the project.
Table 4.1: SHORT-TERM CREDIT REQUIREMENTS /a
(Tk millions)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3
Short-term credit requirement         -       24.0      67.0
Repayment /b                                    -       25.4
Incremental ST Credit               -       24.0     41.6
/a   In current values.
/b   By farmers through Bangladesh Bank at 6%.
Distribution of Pumpsets and Tool Kits
4.21      The TCCA's would collect orders for pumpsets and tool kits according
to procedures established under the UNICEF MOSTI project (Project File), and
would forward summarized orders to the Project Management Unit in Dacca. The
Assistant Director for Distribution and Accounts would collate the orders from
TCCAs and in consultation with the DPHE Assistant Engineer for Distribution
would allocate available supplies on a quarterly basis, giving priority to
Class A and B societies in the event of insufficient supply of pumpsets. The
Director of Credit, Cooperatives and Marketing would notify the DPHE sub-project
management unit and each TCCA of the number of pumpsets allocated to the TCCA.
1/   In 1980 terms.



- 21 -
The TCCA would contract with local transportation firms for shipping pumpsets
to the TCCA from stores designated by DPHE, to be collected during a specific
period of time designated by DPIIE.
4.22      Up to twenty percent of the pumpheads produced under the project
would be eligible to be bought back by the foundries which produced them.
Foundries would be notified of the buy-back option prior to tendering. The
option could be exercised by the foundry at any time before the contract date
of delivery to DPHE of the finished pumpheads. The price to the foundries
would be the same as the TCCA sales price, minus a 17% marketing margin which
includes transport costs averaging about 2% (para 4.23). Foundries would be
allowed to market the pumpheads as they chose. Machine shops would be allowed
to buy back up to 20% of holed pipes on the same terms as above. This buy
back scheme is in line with the GOB policy to move toward privatization of the
input delivery system for minor irrigation and agriculture in general. An
assurance was obtained that foundries would be given the buy back option, and
that a provision for this option would be included in each contract.
Hand Tubewell Purchase Price
4.23      The price of a hand tubewell to farmers is expected to be about
Tk 1,320 1/ and Tk 1,660 1/ for a pumpset comprising two and three 20 ft.
pipes respectively. The price structure is detailed in Annex 4, Table 2
and includes a marketing margin of 17% on the ex-DPHE price. The ex-DPHE
price is based on full cost of raw materials, fabrication, and transport, net
of taxes and duties. Since the average transport cost of pumpsets from DPHE
to points of sale to farmers is about 2% of the ex-DPHE price, a net margin of
15% on the ex-DPHE price is maintained. This margin is essential to permit
the private sector to engage in the marketing of pumpsets and to permit the
TCCAs to become financially viable. Therefore, an assurance was obtained
that a pricing formula for hand tubewells, based on full cost 2/ net of taxes
and duties, and including a 15% margin net of costs of transport from DPHE
to TCCA/KSS would be adopted, and that the prices would be reviewed and if
necessary adjusted annually to account for changes in costs, and that the
existing practice of charging a higher price for cash than for credit sales
would be abolished. An assurance was also obtained that pumpsets sold to
foundries on the buy-back option would be sold at ex-DPHE full cost, net of
taxes and duties (para 4.22).
1/   In 1980 values.
2/   Full cost includes raw materials, fabrication and transport costs.



- 22 -
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
Cost Estimates
5.01      The total cost of the three-year project is estimated at US$30.1 M
of which US$16.2 or 54% would be foreign exchange and US$7.5 M or 25% duties
and taxes. Details of costs for the project components, summarized in Table
5.1 below, are in Annex 4. Cost estimates for staffing, vehicles, equipment,
civil works, and technical assistance are based on 1980 actual costs for com-
parable items or services in Bangladesh. The cost of pig iron and coke used
in the fabrication of hand tubewells and the cost of GI pipes are based on
1980 internationally-quoted prices for these items. Projections for the
project period indicate negligible changes in the real costs of these commo-
dities. The pumphead fabrication cost is based on bids made in 1980 for the
production of UNICEF MOSTIs. Physical contingencies included in the estimates
amount to about 5% of base costs and include 5% on pumpsets and 10% on vehicles
and equipment, maintenance, and civil works. Contingencies included for
forecasted price escalation over the project period amount to 30% of base
costs plus physical contingencies. Price contingencies for local costs have
been estimated on the basis of a 12% annual domestic inflation rate for the
years 1981 to 1984. Price contingencies for foreign costs have been calcu-
lated using the following estimates of international inflation for the years
1981 to 1984: 9%, 8.5%, 8% and 7.5%.
Financing
5.02      The proposed IDA credit of SDR 14.8 M (US$18.0 M) would finance
about 80% of the project cost excluding duties and taxes. It would cover the
full foreign exchange cost (US$16.2 M) and about US$1.8 M equivalent of the
local costs. Over the project implementation period, farmers purchasing HTWs
and tool kits on medium term credit would contribute a down payment equal to
10% of the price net of taxes and duties and repay part of the medium term
loan, equivalent to about US$1.9 M. (including the principal but excluding
interest payment). About 15% of farmers would purchase HTWs on a cash basis,
contributing US$1.6 M during project implementation. GOB would finance the
balance of the project costs including taxes and duties (US$8.6 M). 1/ Funds
would be made available to the implementing agencies in the form of budgetary
allocations. The proposed project financing is summarized below:
1/   To the extent that farmers pay for the pumps over the project implemen-
tation period, Government's burden in the financing of the project is
reduced. Therefore, the GOB share in the Financing Plan is equal to
total project cost less IDA contributions, and less payments for cash
and principal repayment made by farmers over the implementation period.
To account for the gap between government outlays and receipt of payments
by farmers, inflows from farmer payments are deferred by one year, and
consequently, government's share in financing increased correspondingly.



- 23 -
TABLE 5.1: TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Total            F.E.
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3  Tk '000  US$ '000  US$ '000
-Tk '000--------
Incremental Project
Staff
IRDP                       18        18        18        54       3.3       -
DPHE                       319      319       319       957       59.8
Vehicles and Office
Equipment
IRDP                      208        -         -        208      13.0        7.4
DPHE                    3,939        -         -      3,939     246.2      144.6
Buildings
DPHE Natore Store          600       -         -        600      37.5        7.5
Operation & Maintenance
Vehicles
IRDP                        55       55        55       165       10.3       8.3
DPHE                       392      392       392    1,176       73.5       58.8
Offices
IRDP                        15       15        15        45       2.8        1.4
DPHE                        35       35        35       105        6.6       3.3
Buildings                      9         9        9        27        1.7        1.7
Hand Tubewells
Pig Iron               10,152   15,228   20,304   45,684   2,855.2   2,283.7
Coke                    1,608    2,412    3,216    7,236        452.3      376.9
G.I. Pipes             44,604   66,906   89,209  200,719  12,544.8   7,840.8
Fabrication             8,180   12,270   16,360   36,810   2,300.6         642.6
Transport                1,772    2,658    3,544    7,974       498.4      398.7
TCCA Marketing and
Adm. Margin           6,971   10,456   13,942   31,369   1,960.6          -
Research and Testing         2,198    1,308       398    3,904       244.0      122.0
Technical Assistance         1,507    2,241    2,434    6,182        386.4      386.4
Training and Publicity
Courses                   645       883    1,105    2,633       164.6       -
Materials                   53       70        87       210       13.1      -
Publicity                  120      180       240       540      33.8       -
Toolkits
Minor                      100      133       167       400      25.0       12.5
Major                      200      350       450    1,000        62.5      62.5
Total Base Cost             83,700  115,938  152,299  351,937  21,996.0  12,359.1
Physical Contingencies       4,220    5,596    7,442   17,258   1,078.6         607.9
Price Contingencies         13,891   33,957   65,170  113,018   7,063.6   3,251.9
GRAND TOTAL                101,811  155,491  224,911  482,213  30,138.2  16,218.9



- 24 -
TABLE 5.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ '000)
Total Project
Costs including
Components                   Farmers        GOB            IDA     Contingencies
IRDP-                                          30            20            50
DPHE                             -            380           240           620
HTW Production +
Distribution                 3,500       7,919        16,836        28,255
Research and Testing             -             -            314           314
Technical Assistance                           -            500           500
Training                         -            274           -             274
Toolkits                          17           18            90           125
3,517       8,621        18,000        30,138
5.03      Retroactive financing for expenses incurred after January 1, 1981,
is proposed for preproject expenditures related to the ongoing construction of
a DPHE Center Store at Natore. Cost estimates are presented in Annex 4, Table
8. The amount involved is small and IDA's share of the retroactive financing
would not exceed US$.03 M.
Procurement
5.04      The pig iron and coke used in the fabrication of pumpheads (US$3.31 M)
as wells as the GI pipes (US$12.50 M) would be procured following ICB procedures,
with a preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. value of imported material or
the import duty, whichever is less, to local suppliers. The fabrication of
pumpheads and the holing of pipes for strainers would be carried out by local
foundries on the basis of contractual arrangements between DPHE and the found-
ries. Contracts for fabrication would be let following local competitive
bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA (US$2.30 M). Under this arrangement
DPHE would provide foundries with the required amount of pig iron and coke
for a specified number of pumpheads, on the basis of fixed coefficients. The
foundries would then supply DPHE with the pumpheads at the price specified in
the contract. Similarly, DPHE would provide machine shops with GI pipes which
would be cut and holed by the machine shops at contractual price arrangements.
Contracts for civil works are limited to the construction of the DPHE Center
Store at Natore (US$.04 M); such work is not suitable for ICB and has been
let following GOB local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory.
Contracts for vehicles and equipment (US$.35 M) costing more than US$50,000
would be let following ICB: a preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price
of imported goods or the import duty, whichever is lower, would be extended to
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. Items purchased under contracts
costing less than US$50,000, either urgently needed or not suitable for ICB,
would be procured through prudent shopping, following normal Government proce-
dures of comparing prices from no less than three suppliers. The total amount
of such purchases would not exceed US$500,000. Contracts for the transporta-
tion of materials from the ports to the DPHE stores, and from the stores to the



- 25 -
TCCAs would be let following local procedures satisfactory to IDA (US$0.5 M).
The balance of project costs would comprise incremental staff salaries (US$.06
M), TCCA administrative and marketing margin (US$2.0 M), maintenance and opera-
tion costs (US$.10 M), research and testing (US$.24 M), technical assistance
(US$.39 M), training and publicity (US$.21 M) and contingencies (US$8.1 M).
Disbursements and Audits
5.05      Disbursements from the proposed credit are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1984, approximately six months after the end of project imple-
mentation. The estimated schedule of disbursements is presented in Annex 6,
Table 1.  Disbursements under the credit would cover:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported pig iron and coke
(US$3.40 M);
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported pipes, vehicles
and equipment or 100% of ex-factory costs for local goods
bought through ICB or 60% of local expenditures for imported
goods procured locally (US$10.10 M);
(c)  100% of expenditures for research and testing and technical
assistance (US$0.72 M);
(d)  70% of the cost of local fabrication of pumpheads following
local competitive bidding procedures (US$2.10 M); and
(e)  70% of expenditures for civil works (US$0.03 M).  Retroactive
financing from January 1, 1981 is proposed.
The unallocated portion of the credit, comprising contingencies (US$1.65 M),
would be reallocated to the above categories as required. No disbursements
would be made against salaries and related administrative expenditures or
against local training. The funds for MT credit and incremental ST credit
would be fully financed by Bangladesh Bank and Government Commercial Banks
and disbursements would not be made against these items. Details of disburse-
ments are given in Annex 6, Table 2.
5.06      Fabrication of pumpheads and pipe holing for strainers would involve
numerous small contracts. Disbursements for these items would be made against
consolidated statements of expenditure. The supporting documents, including
contract documents, would be retained by the executing agency and would be
available for inspection to IDA. Disbursements for retroactive financing of
construction of the Natore Center Store would be made against contract docu-
ments (para 5.03).
5.07      IRDP, in its capacity as the coordinating agency (para 6.01), has
prepared the draft project proforma (PP - a document based on which government
approval is obtained for a project) and the Annual Development Program (ADP--
annual budget for release of funds by the government). Government funding of
the project would be through the coordinating agency. TRDP would maintain
separate records of funds received under the ADP and released to the imple-
menting agencies (IRDP and DPIIE). The implementing agencies have adequate



- 26 -
accounting procedures and would be required to prepare subproject accounts.
An assurance was obtained that IRDP and DPHE maintain separate accounts of
expenditures made under the project, irrespective of whether these would be
eligible for IDA disbursement. Project accounts, which would be a consoli-
dation of the subproject accounts, would be prepared by IRDP (see 6.19) and
include:
(a)  Project statement of source and application of funds
and balance sheet;
(b)  Schedule of withdrawals under the credit, including
category, amount allocated, percentage to be financed,
year-end expenditure, amount reimbursable, amount
reimbursed, and balance reimbursable.
Project accounts would be audited annually by an independent auditor accept-
able to IDA, and in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied. For this purpose the Auditor General would be an acceptable auditor.
An assurance was obtained from Government that within nine months from the end
of the financial year, audited financial statements would be furnished to IDA.
VI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
Project Organization
6.01      The project would be under the responsibility of the Ministry of
Local Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLGRD&C) and would be
implemented by the Ministry's Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) and
the Department of Public Health Engineering (DPHE). Overall management of the
project would be vested in the Credit, Cooperatives and Marketing Division of
the IRDP. The DPHE sub-project management unit would be in the office of the
Superintending Engineer, Planning. The Director of the Credit, Cooperatives
and Marketing Division of IRDP would serve as project manager, and a full-time
Deputy Director for HTWs would be assigned to assist in carrying out day-to-
-ay project administration. The DPHE Superintending Engineer, Planning, would
e the manager of the sub-project management unit in DPHE, and a full-time
Executive Engineer would be assigned to assist him. Incremental full-time
staff requirements of DPHE and IRDP are indicated in Annex 4, Table 4.
6.02      Coordination and consistency of project pricing, procurement,
research, and programming of hand tubewell production and distribution
between the project and the SSIP project of BADC would be maintained through
a National HTW Coordinating Committee to be set up under the project. The
Deputy Director for HTW would serve as Secretary to the Committee which would
meet at least semi-annually to plan and coordinate action timetables and poli-
cies and procedures to be followed in implementing hand tubewell projects.
A condition of effectiveness of the Credit would be that the the HTW Coordi-
nating Committee has been established.



- 27 -
Procurement and Distribution of Raw Materials
6.03      DPHE would be responsible for procurement of pig iron, coke, and
pipes under ICB procedures. The project would be the agency's first partici-
pation in an IDA-financed project. However, DPHE has experience in interna-
tional procurement as a result of its activities in village water supply.
Draft tender documents have been prepared (Project File), and no delays in
procurement are anticipated.
6.04      Tendering for raw materials (pig iron, coke and pipes) would be done
on an annual basis to meet the production requirements for the following year.
Imported raw materials would be received by DPHE at the ports of Chittagong
and Chalna and would be stored temporarily in the DPHE Central Stores at
Chittagong and Khulna (near Chalna). Raw materials would be reallocated between
these two stores and the Central Store at Dacca according to quarterly produc-
tion plans arising out of contracts with domestic foundries and machine shops
for the fabrication of pumpheads and strainers by firms located primarily in
the vicinities of Chittagong, Khulna and Dacca. DPHE would contract with local
transportation firms under LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA (draft tender
documents in Project File) for the transport of raw materials between the three
Central Stores. Trans-shipment between the port of Chalna and the store at
Khulna would be by barge. Other inland shipments would be by rail and truck.
Small inland shipments would be handled by DPHE using vehicles provided under
the project. Sufficient capacity exists in the local transport industry to
accomodate the needs of the project, and performance of local firms under the
UNICEF MOSTI project was satisfactory. With the additional back-up equipment
provided by the project, no difficulties in local shipment of raw materials
are anticipated.
6.05      A full-time Assistant Engineer for Tendering and Procurement in
the DPHE sub-project management unit, preferably with first-hand experience
of procedures under the UNICEF MOSTI project, would be appointed under the
project and would be responsible for international tendering and procurement
of raw materials. A full-time Assistant Engineer for Distribution would be
responsible for local shipment and storage of raw materials and finished
pumpsets between DPHE stores. Both Assistant Engineers would report to the
Executive Engineer for HTW. A condition of effectiveness would be that the
Executive Engineer and the Assistant Engineers for Tendering and Procurement
and for Distribution have been appointed.
Fabrication of Pumpheads and Strainers
6.06      Contracts for fabrication of pumpheads and strainers would be let
by DPHE under LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA. The pumphead design would
be the 'improved' Bangladesh No. 6 hand pump, the same pump that is used for
village drinking water supply and was used during the UNICEF MOSTI project.
The strainer would be made from GI pipe which had been slotted or drilled in
local machine shops. Farmers who purchased pumpsets would wind the strainer
pipe with locally-bought coir rope. Fabrication, machining, and assembly of
pumpheads would be contracted with domestic foundries having machine shop and
assembly capabilities satisfactory to DPHE quality control staff and their
consultants (para 6.08).



- 28 -
6.07      Contracts for pumphead fabrication would be on a 'net cost' basis.
Pig iron and coke would be supplied to foundries in fixed proportions accor-
ding to the number of pumpheads contracted (80 pounds of pig iron and 20
pounds of coke per pumphead). The first installment of raw materials to a
contracting foundry would be secured by a bank guarantee for the value of the
materials. Following installments of raw materials would be issued only on
receipt by DPHE of finished pumpheads from the previous installment meeting
established quality control standards and a continuing bank guarantee for the
value of raw materials supplied. Foundries would tender in terms of the cost
of fabricating pumpheads, excluding the cost of raw materials supplied by
DPHE. Foundries would be responsible for collecting the raw materials from
the DPHE Central Stores and for delivering finished pumpheads to the Central
Stores and would tender accordingly. Eligibility for tendering would be
limited to those foundries on the DPHE list of qualified foundries, developed
and continuously up-dated by DPHE with the assistance of UNICEF. In 1980,
the list included 32 qualified foundries. Qualification is based upon physi-
cal, financial, and managerial assets and an established record of supplying
good quality foundry products. An assurance was obtained that the standard
tender document for the fabrication of pumpheads and holing of pipes for
strainers would be acceptable to IDA. Contracts for the holing of pipes
for strainers would be let by DPHE under LCB procedures satisfactory to IDA.
Contracted machine shops would be required to collect GI pipes from the DPHE
Central Stores and to deliver holed pipes to those same stores. Pipes would
be supplied initially against a bank guarantee for the value of the pipes.
Second and ensuing installments of pipes would be supplied to machine shops
only upon receipt of holed pipes meeting DPHE quality control standards and
a continuing bank guarantee for the value of pipes supplied. Machine shops
would tender on a 'net cost' basis, excluding the cost of pipes supplied by
DPHE. Tenders would include the cost of transporting pipes from Central
Stores to the machine shops and returning holed pipes to the Stores. Contract-
ing for the holing of pipes would be the responsibility of the DPHE Assistant
Engineer for Tendering and Procurement.
Quality Control of Pumphead and Strainer Fabrication
6.08      Quality control of foundry operations and of machine shop operations
would be the responsibility of the DPHE. The project would provide a full-
time Assistant Engineer for Quality Control, who would be assisted by an
internationally-recruited quality control consultant provided under the
project (30 man-months). Standards and procedures for quality control in
foundry operations were established under the UNICEF MOSTI project (Project
File). DPHE has experience in foundry quality control as a result of the
previous MOSTI project and the continuing activities in village water supply.
Quality control staff would monitor production in participating foundries and
machine shops and would test samples both at the production site and upon
delivery of finished products at DPHE Central Stores.
Credit Program
6.09      Pumpsets and tool kits would be sold by TCCAs on both cash and
credit terms (para 4.19). For pumpsets bought on credit, a down payment of
10% of the purchase price would be required. The outstanding balance would be



- 29 -
financed over a three year period, with equal annual payments of principal
and interest beginning on July 31 of the following year for loans made in the
first half of the year and on December 31 of the following year for loans made
in the second half of the year. The due dates would approximate the end of
agricultural production periods, at which times farmers could most readily
repay the medium-term loan installment. Interest on the loans would be at the
standard rate for agricultural loans, but not less than the current 13% per
annum.
6.10      Major toolkits would be sold either for cash or on the same credit
terms and repayment schedule as pumpsets. Minor toolkits would be sold on
similar arrangements only if purchased together with a pumpset on medium-
term credit arrangements. It is estimated that approximately 15 percent of
purchases of pumpsets and minor and major toolkits would be for cash; the
remainder would be obtained on credit.
6.11      Government would arrange that sufficient medium term and short term
credit be made available to meet the incremental credit requirements of the
project on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (paras 4.19 and 4.20 and
Annex 7, Table 1). The lending rate (currently 13 percent per annum) and
interest margins (Annex 7, Table 3) would accord with prevailing Government
credit policy. Lending procedures would remain unchanged from the UNICEF
MOSTI project (Project File). The IRDP Director for Credit, Cooperatives and
Marketing would be responsible for ensuring that credit facilities reflected
planned production and distribution of pumpsets under the project. Incremental
short term credit requirements would be provided through existing production
credit programs available at the TCCA.
Training
6.12      Training of TCCA staff and farmers would be the responsibility of
IRDP while training of village mechanics would be the responsibility of DPHE.
Village mechanics would be trained in major hand tubewell repairs and in sink-
ing and lifting pumps, and farmers would be trained in minor maintenance
procedures. Training programs of farmers, village mechanics and TCCA staff
would be arranged and coordinated through the Assistant Director for Training
and Credit in the M1OSTI Project Management Unit of IRDP (para 4.14). An
assurance was obtained that a plan to execute the training program be agreed
upon with IDA no later than January 1, 1982.
Research and Testing
6.13      The research and testing program would be carried out by the Depart-
ment of Mechanical Engineering of the Bangladesh University of Engineering
and Technology (BUET), under a contract funded by the project and supervised
by a Research and Testing Committee to be established under the Project (para
6.16). Two staff members of the Mechanical Engineering Faculty would oversee
the research and testing and would provide guidance to two graduate engineers,
hired under the project, who would have primary responsibility for carrying
out the research and testing program.



- 30 -
6e14      During the first year of the research and testing program, efforts
would be concentrated on collecting promising alternative models of manual
irrigation equipment from within and from outside Bangladesh and upon develop-
ing benchmark measures for the No. 6 pump for comparison with potential
alternative designs. The possibility to coordinate with a recently initiated
worldwide research program by UNDP to find and develop improved models should
be explored (para 4.16). The project would provide for four international
trips by the research and testing staff to facilitate the search for alterna-
tive prototype equipment. In addition, provision would be made for the pur-
chase and air freight back to Bangladesh of promising prototypes.
6.15      The project would provide funds for hiring and equipping 5 field
interviewers to conduct user surveys under the direction of the research and
testing consultants. A benchmark survey of farmers' use of the No. 6 handpump
and the continuous monitoring of field-tested prototypes would be carried out.
6.16      A Research and Testing Committee composed of the IRDP Joint Director
of Irrigation, the Deputy Director of Irrigation, the Deputy Director for
HTW, the DPHE Superintending Engineer for Planning, and the Executive Engineer
for HTW would supervise the research and testing component. The Committee
would oversee the research activities and would ensure that the agreed plan of
work be carried out diligently and within the agreed time frame. An assurance
was obtained that the Committee would be established and for the third year
review would submit to IDA a report evaluating the results of such testing of
HTW models and a recommendation on whether any hand tubewell designs should be
adopted for future HTW projects. Upon receipt of the Committee's recommenda-
tion, IDA and GOB would mount a joint Review Mission in Project Year 3 to
appraise the feasibility of implementing the improved design in any follow-up
project (para 6.18).
Monitoring and Review
6.17      Maintenance of the monitoring and reporting system for the project
would be the responsibility of the IRDP Deputy Director for HTW. An assis-
tant to the Deputy Director for monitoring and reporting would be delegated
the routine monitoring functions. The MIS consultant hired under the project
would work with the Deputy Director for HTW and would report to the Director
General of IRDP.
6.18      The third year review would consist of twelve man-weeks of field
work. The review would appraise the remaining demand for hand tubewells and
the technical and economic viability of the improved design pumpset which the
Research and Testing Committee recommends. If the recommended pumpset were
found to be acceptable to farmers and foundries, the mission would prepare a
follow-up project based on the new recommendation. IDA would allocate eight
man-weeks of project supervision for the purpose, in addition to normal annual
supervision manpower needs, and GOB would make available 16 man-weeks of
_LGRD&C staff time to serve as a counterpart team. The review would be
scheduled to follow immediately the laboratory and field testing phase of the
research and testing component, which is expected to be completed at the end
of project year two, and would be contingent upon receipt by IDA of the
Research and Testing Committee report recommending adoption of the improved
design.



- 31 -
Project Accounts
6.19      Consolidated project accounts would be maintained by the HTW Project
Mianagement Unit in IRDP through the Assistant Director for Distribution and
Accounts. Individual accounts kept by DPHE would be provided to IRDP for
consolidation. Individual TCCAs would maintain records of pumpset orders,
cash and credit sales, and inventories of HTW sets and spare parts. Account
Assistants at the DPHE Stores at Chittagong, Khulna, Dacca, and Natore would
maintain detailed records of inventories and would provide monthly inventory
statements on raw materials and pumpsets to the DPHE sub-project management
unit. The Accounts Officer in the Office of the Executive Engineer would
supply monthly consolidated inventory statements to the DPHE Assistant Engineer
for Distribution and to the IRDP Assistant Director for Distribution and
Accounts within the HTW Project Management Unit. Records of project receipts
and expenditures by DPHE would be kept by the Executive Engineer for HTW,
assisted by the Accounts Officer, and would be forwarded on a quarterly basis
to the IRDP Assistant Director for Distribution and Accounts who would be
responsible for maintaining records of project receipts and expenditures by
IRDP and for producing quarterly consolidated accounts of overall project
receipts and expenditures. The IRDP Deputy Director for HTW, with the
assistance of the Assistant Director for Distribution and Accounts, would
be responsible for maintaining records and accounts detailed in para 5.07,
sufficient to meet the audit requirements of GOB and IDA.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND COST RECOVERY
Cropping Patterns
7.01      The effects of project implementation on cropping patterns and crop
production would depend on the siting of the HTW in relation to land elevation
and water table depth in the dry season. These features would be more signi-
ficant to HTW usage than would gross regional differences in climate. The
characteristics of four major land divisions (Models I-IV) are given in Annex
2, Table 6.
7.02      The provision of irrigation by hand tubewells would add a total of
over 62,000 acres per year to the cropped area of HTW farmers. While the
actual area irrigated by a HTW at any one time during the dry season would be
between 0.3 and 0.5 ac, depending upon elevation and crop, the peak water
requirements of different crops grown throughout the year would not coincide
(Annex 2, Chart 2 and Tables 3 and 4). Thus, the total area of influence of
the HTW throughout the year would be at least one acre. Farmers with small
plots would share the HTW with adjacent small farmers or rent adjacent land.
On higher land (Models (I and II) boro would rarely be grown because of exces-
sive pumping demands (at least 1,660 man hours per acre per season would be
required, Annex 2, Table 7). Thus, in these areas the intensity of paddy pro-
duction would remain constant at about 90% of the cultivated area. Increased
cropping intensity on higher land would result from the greater production of
wheat (10,500 acres), together with potatoes, chillies, oilseeds and two crops
of vegetables in the dry season.



- 32 -
7.03      On lower lands (Model III) irrigation would enable the dry season
cultivation of boro to be increased by about 6,000 acres per year. In addi-
tion, wheat (6,000 acres), oil seeds (4,000 acres) and chillies (2,000 acres
would be irrigated by HTWs in these areas. On flood plains (Model IV), where
only a single monsoon crop is currently feasible, about 0.3 ac of boro would
be grown with each HTW. With the addition of a small area of oil seeds and
vegetables, the effective farming area of a HTW farmer in the flood plains
would be increased by about 0.5 ac per year.
7.04      The availability of an assured water supply under the direct control
of the small farmer would be expected to change attitudes to risk. Farmers
with hand tubewell irrigation would adopt HYVs, fertilizer and pesticide usage
more readily than farmers reliant on uncertain rainfall. This would be
particularly important in affecting change from broadcast to transplanted
paddy. With assured water for nursery irrigation, crops would be sown and
transplanted earlier, thereby enabling the greater yield potential of HYVs to
be exploited. The ease with which the HTW can be moved between fields would
allow farmers to provide supplementary irrigation to paddy during short
drought periods in the monsoon season and to T. aman at the end of the rains
when the water table is still high. Irrigation availability would therefore
decrease risk to the rainfed crops including jute.
Yields and Production
7.05      With the increased use of HYVs, fertilizer and pesticides, the
increased emphasis on transplanted rather than broadcast paddy, and particu-
larly the use of irrigation to overcome drought periods, yields per acre with
the project, would increase substantially (Annex 2, Table 10). 1/ Yields of
boro, currently grown only in low lying ground with traditional irrigation
where possible, would more than double (from 22 md/ac to 46 md/ac) with an
assured water supply. Similarly, the change to transplanted HYV Aus with
fertilizer and plant protection would increase Aus yields from 16 to 34 md/ac.
Wheat yields are currently very low as attempts are made to grow this crop
with uncertain traditional irrigation. HTW usage would increase wheat yield
from 18 to 32 md/ac. The production of potatoes and lentils grown with irri-
gation during the dry season would be additional to normal production as these
are rarely attempted with traditional irrigation. Jute yields would increase
by over 70 percent where irrigation would allow reliable early sowing and the
greater use of crop inputs. In addition, irrigation during the dry season
would enable farmers to improve their incomes and the nutritional status of
their diets by growing two crops of vegetables, by improving the quality of
their pulses (from local khesari to lentils) and by growing a small area of
oilseeds and chillies.
1/   Yields are derived on the basis of the following sources:  (a) "Feasi-
bility Report on Comilla and Noakhali Project - Phase I (Dakatia Unit)
(Drainage and Flood Control II)"; (b) "Evaluation of N.W. Tubewell
Project", by Bangladesh Institute of Development Studies; (c) interviews
with government officials and farmers.



- 33 -
Crop Input Requirements
7.06      Annual incremental input requirements at full development are given
in Annex 2, Table 13. A total annual requirement of 8,000 tons of fertilizer
would be needed (54% urea, 29% triple superphosphate and 17% muriate of potash).
This would be in addition to animal manure traditionally used by farmers. The
annual incremental requirement of improved seed to plant 135,000 acres affec-
ted by HTWs would be about 2,325 tons. However, all crops are pure breeding
lines and farmers would save their own seed for some years. At a replacement
rate of 20 percent about 465 tons of seed per year would be required, the
greatest need being for HYV T. Aman (197 tons) and wheat (139 tons).
7.07      Procurement of fertilizer and improved seed is organized by BADC who
distribute fertilizer through registered dealers who sell directly to farmers
at Government fixed prices. Fertilizer is also made available to farmers by
BADC through traditional cooperatives and the TCCA/KSS system. BADC meets
farmers' seed requirements by organizing seed multiplication farms, contract
growers schemes and, as in the case of potatoes, by direct importation. Sales
of seed are made, under the supervision of the thana seed inspector, either
direct to farmers or through agricultural cooperatives. Availability of
fertilizer and seeds to meet project requirements is adequate.
7.08      The incremental requirements for animal power would be substantial
(1.7 M team days based on requirements outlined in Annex 3) but much of this
requirement would occur on irrigated land in the dry season when, without the
project, the use of work animals is relatively low. No shortage of animal
power is envisaged. The annual incremental requirement of pesticide for insect
control on paddy, wheat, jute and vegetables would be about 13 tons. Pesticide
procurement was formerly the responsibility of BADC but can now be imported by
private dealers. Spraying equipment is supplied through the Plant Protection
Inspector of the district extension office and the Plant Protection Assistant
at the thana level. Some shortages of pesticide have occurred at village level
but with privatization the supply position of all farm inputs is likely to
improve.
Irrigation Requirements and Pumping
7.09      Crop water requirements vary with geographic location, largely
depending upon the amount and distribution of rainfall, with the specific
crops involved and their stage of growth, and with the physical characteris-
tics of the soil. The calculation of bi-monthly irrigation requirements for
the ten crops most likely to be grown with HTWs is summarized in Annex 2,
Table 4. In calculating irrigation requirements no distribution losses were
included as the HTW is almost invariably sunk directly into the field to be
irrigated. The substantial effort involved in pumping hand tubewells (Annex
2, Table 12) usually results in highly efficient usage of water. The HTW
farmer does not keep paddy flooded but pumps almost continuously for land
preparation and transplanting purposes, then floods the field to shallow depth
intermittently throughout the cropping period. Boro is the most water demand-
ing crop, requiring at least 28 inches per season (equivalent to about 45
inches with distribution and some deep percolation losses) whilst wheat
requires about 11.5 inches and the other rabi crops, potatoes, vegetables (2



- 34 -
crops per dry season) pulses and oilseeds about 11.5, 13.4, 7.3 and 8.7 inches
respectively. The rainfed crops, T. Aus, T. Aman and Jute require supplemen-
tary irrigation in the early and late monsoon periods.
7.10      Labor requirements for pumping depend on the crop irrigation needs,
the area of land to be irrigated and the water table depth, which determines
pump discharge (Annex 2, Table 5 and Working Paper 2). Using average water
table depletion curves for the dry season, the pumping hours per acre for
each crop in each of the model areas is presented in Annex 2, Table 7 and
summarized under crop inputs (Annex 2, Table 10). By combining these values
for the farm models the pumping requirements per month for each tubewell was
calculated (Annex 2, Table 11). Total pumping requirements per HTW per year
would vary from 479 hours on low lying land (Model IV) to 837 hours on high
land (Model I). Peak pumping would occur during the 3 months, February, March
and April. The maximum pumping requirement of 213 hours per month occurs in
March for a Model I tubewell irrigating about 0.5 acres. A survey 1/ has
revealed that most members of a family take turns at pumping and that the HTW
is pumped both day and night at peak demand periods (Annex 2, Table 9). Thus
an average farm family of 7 persons could readily provide 120 hours per month
of pumping (1 1/2 adult equivalents at 5 hours per day for 16 days per month)
leaving at least 208 hours per month (1 adult equivalent for 26 days at 8
hours per day) for cultivation. Any requirement above these figures would
demand the use of hired labor.  All cultivation labor for HTW irrigated crops
can be provided from the family; only about 8 percent of the total labor
required for pumping is hired. This is confirmed by the 1980 IBA survey which
states that virtually all labor is provided from the smallholder's family but
that larger land owners employ labor for pumping.
Energy Requirements for Pumping
7.11      The No. 6 handpump is not an efficient pump for irrigation and
requires a substantial amount of energy to draw water. Nevertheless many
thousands of farm families use the pump for irrigation in Bangladesh. Annex
2, Table 12 compares the average incremental energy requirement for pumping
and cultivation with the average incremental grain production from using the
HTW. The calories used equal about 16 percent of calories produced in grain.
This takes no account of calorie production in vegetables and minor crops
which would also increase vitamin intake.
Marketing
7.12      The marketing system in Bangladesh is largely traditional.  Most
growers dispose of portions of their crop before or immediately upon harvest
for three reasons: the immediate need for cash; crop loan obligations; and
tenancy crop division arrangements. Such farmers often have to buy grain
later at higher prices for family consumption. However, only 2-3 million tons
of foodgrain, about 20-25% of national production, actually enter commercial
markets, and private traders handle about 80% of such trade. Approximately
another 25% are exchanged through barter trade. Commercial traders buy grain
1/   IBA Survey, University of Dacca, 1980.



- 35 -
principally at primary daily and local weekly markets. Farmer cooperatives
have been officially encouraged to market paddy and engage in rice milling,
but so far such efforts have not been successful. Government procurement in
the past has remained small, averaging about 3 percent of national production,
but recent moves to expand open market sales to stabilize food prices, to
increase procurement centers and storage capacity, and to contract private
dealers to purchase food grain have tended to reduce market price fluctuations.
Most villages are food deficit areas and per capita consumption remains at
about 15.5 oz of grain per day. To increase this for the 945,000 persons who
would be directly affected by the HTW project to the FAO/WHO recommended
level of about 19.2 oz of foodgrain per head per day would require about
36,250 tons of grain per annum. This is 66 percent of the incremental grain
production from the project. The nature of the HTW project would tend to
disperse hand tubewells widely. Thus no localized concentration of increased
production of vegetables, potatoes, chillies and pulses would be likely and
no resulting marketing problems are foreseen.
Farm Incomes and Cash Flow
7.13      The impact of the project on farm income was analyzed for four
different farm models based on different farm elevation and flood levels
(Annex 3, Tables 1-4). Because of scarcity of detailed data on off-farm and
other agricultural income and the fact that most of the incremental employment
due to the project would occur during the dry season, when unemployment is
relatively high, only crop production activities have been taken into account
in estimating farm income. Specific cropping patterns have been incorporated
for each model, while input requirements and yields are based on national
averages. As Table 7.1 shows, the project would have a pronounced impact on
net farm incomes in all models. Incremental income would vary for each model
within a range of 95 to 135% of the without project income situation.
TABLE 7.1: Project Impact on Incomes
Net Present Value of Income /a
Model                  Without Project    With Project   Increment
(Tk)               (Tk)          (%)
Model I                    8,786             17,332            97
Model II                   9,148             20,283           122
Model III                  7,820             15,549            99
Model IV                   5,673             14,449           155
/a   Over 10 years at 12%.
While the exact project impact on income distribution is unknown, it is
anticipated that a large number of small farmers would purchase HTWs under
the credit arrangements provided by the project. In this light, Table 7.1
suggests a substantial reduction in the absolute level of poverty.



- 36 -
Prices
7.14      Government provides guaranteed support prices for paddy and wheat.
The latest procurement price for 1980 for paddy is Tk 115 per maund; wheat
Tk 110 per maund. Because of weaknesses in the official procurement machinery,
paddy farmgate prices have demonstrated volatility and at times have dipped
below procurement prices. Current procurement prices are considered reason-
able and, if enforced effectively, provide adequate incentives to cultivators.
These prices, however, must be reviewed continually to ensure adequate incen-
tives in light of rising input prices and GOB's strategy to stimulate agricul-
tural production. Prices for paddy and wheat used in the financial analyses
are based on mission survey data. These prices conform with national averages
and official prices when adjusted for quality differentials and procurement
imperfections. Prices for other crops such as jute, chillies, pulses, oil-
seeds, potatoes, and other vegetables are based on government surveys of
market prices for these commodities. Farmgate prices used in the financial
analysis (Annex 5, Table 1) represent market prices adjusted for transport
and handling costs.
7.15     Prices for fertilizer and pesticides used in the analysis are sub-
sidized levels current at the time of appraisal (September 1980). Prices
for other inputs such as animal and human labor are based on prevailing
market prices in farming areas.
Cost Recovery
7.16      Government contribution to the project would consist of local costs
of institutional investments and medium-term credit for the purchase of pump-
sets and toolkits. Government would also ensure that the existing short-term
credit program would provide sufficient short-term credit for project farmers
to purchase inputs. Recovery of project costs would be through payment by
farmers for the purchase of pumpsets and toolkits. These payments would con-
sist of cash payments, and down payments and repayments on medium-term loans.
The projected flow of funds to Government over the project implementation
period is shown in Annex 4, Table 12.
7.17      The proposed pricing of HTWs under the project would cover full
costs (net of taxes and duties) of raw materials, fabrication and transport,
plus a 15% margin (para 4.23). Government's grant funding of the TCCA/KSS
system would be reduced by this 15% margin which would accrue to the TCCA/KSS.
The margin would, therefore, effectively constitute part of cost recovery, and
would be sufficient to cover full institutional project costs. Thus, once
repayments for pumpsets and toolkits are complete, project costs (net of taxes
and duties) would have been fully recovered.



- 37 -
VIII.  BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AIS  RISKS
Project Benefits
8.01      Production.  At full development, in 1986, successful project imple-
mentation would lead to incremental annual production of about 30,700 tons of
rice, 24,600 tons of wheat, and 6,750 tons of jute. On the basis of projected
world market prices, the incremental production of these commodities represents
a gross annual equivalent foreign exchange saving of US$24 M. 1/ Allowing for
the added imports of fertilizers and pesticides (US$3 M annually), which would
be necessary to obtain the projected yields, the project would represent a net
annual foreign exchange savings of about US$21 M 1/ at full development.
Accounting for the foreign exchange costs related to the production of the
HTW and other project related imports, in terms of net present value at the
estimated opportunity cost of capital (12%), total net foreign exchange
savings from the project would be about US$76 M 1/ over the project life. In
addition to these benefits, increased vegetable, pulses, and oilseed produc-
tion would result from the introduction of these crops on most farms purchasing
a HTW and from improved yields on those farms already producing these crops.
8.02      Drinking Water.  Most of the pumps (75%) produced under the project
would be used primarily for irrigation. The remaining 25 percent are expected
to be purchased by relatively wealthier farmers for meeting their domestic
water supply needs. Due to the lack of easily accessible safe water sources
in many parts of the project area, these incremental benefits are significant.
It is estimated that between 12 and 25 percent of the water production from
HTWs purchased for irrigation would be used for domestic needs. Those HTWs
purchased exclusively for domestic needs are expected to be operated about
one hour per day, while those purchased primarily for irrigation would be used
only about 20 minutes per day for domestic purposes. On the basis of these
estimates, the project would increase the supply of safe drinking water by 260
M gallons annually.
8.03      Employment.  Increases in employment opportunities due to the proj-
ect would be substantial. Most of this increase would result from the labor
input requirements to operate the HTW. Additional labor input in cultiva-
tion activities would also be required in view of the altered cropping patterns,
more intensive use of inputs, and higher yields (Annex 2, Tables 10-11). In
the first year incremental employment due to the project would be about 6
million mandays, not including incremental employment of 120,000 mandays in
the fabrication of HTWs. By full development, incremental employment would
have reached 26.7 M mandays annually. The majority of the increased employ-
ment would be filled by otherwise unemployed farm family members; only about
8% would be labor hired to operate the HTW. This implies an increase in
annual employment opportunity of about 200 man-days per farm family. Since
the HTW is operated during the dry season when agricultural employment is low,
(Annex 2, Table 11), the HTW has the added benefit of offering productive
employment at the time of year when the labor surplus is relatively high.
1/   In 1980 dollars.



- 38 -
Project Beneficiaries
8.04      Some 135,000 farmers and their families would benefit from increased
agricultural income from irrigation and from safe drinking water, while
another 45,000 farm families would use the HTW principally for providing safe
drinking water. Experience from the completed UNICEF MOSTI project suggests
that tubewells used for domestic purposes only will be purchased primarily, if
not exclusively, by the wealthier farmers. However, several characteristics
of the project and the nature of HTW irrigation are likely to lead to substan-
tial participation of small farmers in HTW irrigation:
(a) The HTW is capable of irrigating only a small area, so
that it becomes relatively less attractive to larger far-
mers who would benefit more from DTWs, STWs, and LLPs;
(b) Medium-term credit at the point of HTW sale (TCCA) would
be made available under the project;
(c) Short-term credit with which to finance the increased inputs
related to HTW use would also be made available under the
project; and
(d) Small farmers have a greater surplus of family labor, which
makes the highly labor intensive HTW more attractive to them
than to larger farmers with little surplus family labor.
The farm budgets for the four different models considered (Annex 3) indicate
that the HTW can significantly improve the income of small farmers. Much of
this increased income derives from productively employing farm family members.
Environmental Effects
8.05      The project would have no adverse effects on the environment.  Water
table draw-down due to HTW irrigation is negligible. Simulation analysis of
water table draw-down and replenishment rates suggest that the project could be
repeated many times without significantly affecting the water table depth and
stability. General hygiene and related health conditions would improve due to
the increased availability of clean water.
Economic Analysis and Sensitivity Tests
8.06      The economic analysis has been carried out for the project as a
whole. Summary economic costs and benefits are presented in Annex 5 , Table 3.
The following assumptions have been used in the analysis:
(a) benefits and costs are expressed in 1980 constant prices,
net of identifiable local taxes and duties;
(b) the incremental project output of paddy, wheat, jute, oil-
seeds and project inputs of urea, TSP, and MP are valued at
the average forecast world prices for 1982 to 1990 Annex 5,
Table 2;



- 39 -
(c) the exchange rate is taken at a constant Tk 16.0 = US$1.0;
(d) incremental farm labor is valued at a seasonally-adjusted
wage rate of 68% of the financial wage rate of Tk 10/manday,
to reflect the prevailing degrees of unemployment and under-
employment. A manday of cultural labor is equal to 8 hours;
pumping labor, 5 hours;
(e) the economic prices for traded goods (pig iron, coke, G.I.
pipes, paddy, wheat, jute, oil seeds, urea, MP, TSP, and
pesticide) are based on their border prices at the official
exchange rate. Domestic costs, i.e. local fabrication,
transport, marketing, labor, and other minor non-traded
costs and benefits are adjusted by the standard conversion
factor, 0.75;
(f) drinking water benefits from HTWs used primarily for irriga-
tion are taken to equal the operating and related maintenance
costs; those from drinking water wells are taken to equal the
annualized (at 12%) capital,operating, and maintenance costs
for each year. Since this procedure ignores the consumer
surplus benefit from drinking water, it results in a conser-
vative estimates of these benefits;
(g) full costs of the institutional support components have been
included; and
(h) the period of analysis is 12 years.
Using the assumptions given above, the best estimate for the ERR is 44%, 1/
and for the NPV (at the opportunity cost of capital of 12%) Tk 658 M. The
ERR when costs and benefits of drinking water MOSTI are excluded is 47%.
Sensitivity tests indicate that the project is mildly sensitive with respect
to most variables. It is somewhat more sensitive with respect to yield and
price changes but for all expected extreme changes in the variables, the
project maintains a rate of return well above the estimated opportunity cost
of capital of 12%.
1/   Since the analysis involves semi-annual crops, the rate of return would
be overestimated if unadjusted annual net cash flows were used in the
calculation. To adjust for this, a working capital cost stream has been
introduced along the lines presented in "Methodology of Farm Investment
Analysis", by Walter Schaefer-Kehnert, CN-67.



- 40 -
Table 7.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Switching
Values (%) a
1.  HTW costs                                     +375
2.  Farm non-labor costs                          +100
3.  Farm labor costs                              +100
4.  All farm costs (except HTW)                     +50
5.  All costs                                       +45
6.  Yields or output prices                         -32
7.  All benefits                                    -31
/a  Percentage changes in variables which would make the
net present value of the project, evaluated at the
opportunity cost of capital of 12%, equal to zero.
Project Risks
8.07      The project faces no major risks.  Annex 5, Chart 1 shows the switch-
ing value locus for changes in costs and benefits. For the project to become
uneconomic, benefits would have to fall by 31% or costs increase by 45%; both
events are highly unlikely. The techniques for HTW irrigation were proven
under the completed UNICEF MOSTI project and therefore present no risks to the
project. There is,however, a risk that the project may overextend the imple-
mentation capacity of the agencies concerned. Should this occur, targets would
not be met and both benefits and costs would be less than projected. The
project would remain viable under such circumstances, particularly in view of
the insignificance of institutional and overhead costs when compared to the
variable costs and benefits of HTW fabrication and on-farm use. Finally,
there is the risk that the establishment of DTW and STW in the project area
may dry up HTW wells.  However, because of its mobility and farm fragmentation
the HTW could be moved to another plot. If drying out were widespread, the HTW
could be sold in the market to other farmers where the benefits would continue
to be realized and the farmer would recoup most, if not all, of his original
investment.
IX. RECOMMENDATIONS AND ASSURANCES
9.01      The Government of Bangladesh gave the following assurances during
negotiations:
(a) that an office of quality control would be established
under DPHE by January 1, 1982 (para 4.12);
(b) that by November 30, 1981, Government will cause DPHE to
have entered into a contract, satisfactory to IDA, with BUET
to carry out the Research and Testing Program (para 4.16);



- 41 -
(c) that by January 1, 1982 a management information system
will have been established within IRDP to provide con-
tinuous monitoring of project progress and feedback of
information (para 4.17);
(d) that Government would employ consultants for technical
assistance whose experience and terms and conditions of
service were acceptable to IDA (para 4.18);
(e) that Government would ensure the availability of medium
term credit sufficient to meet incremental medium term
credit requirements of the project on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA and would enter into an onlending
agreement with financing banks, satisfactory to IDA
(para 4.19);
(f) that medium-term loans for purchase of HTWs and tool kits
would be repayable in annual installments over a three-year
period at the prevailing GOB interest rate for medium-term
agricultural loans plus a 1% TCCA margin, in total not less
than 13% per year (para 4.19);
(g) that Government would provide, through the existing production
credit financing system, sufficient short-term credit for the
financing of incremental on-farm working capital requirements
of the project (para 4.20);
(h) that foundries would be given a buy back option on up to
20% of the pumpheads they produce and that a provision for
this option would be included in each contract (para 4.22);
(i) that a pricing formula for HTW sales to farmers based on
full cost net of taxes and duties, and including a 15% margin
net of costs of transport from DPHE to TCCA/KSS, would be
adopted, and that the prices would be reviewed and if necessary
adjusted annually to account for changes in costs, and that the
existing practice of charging higher prices for cash than for
credit sales be abolished (para 4.23);
(j) that pumpsets sold to foundries on the buy-back option would
be sold at ex-DPHE full cost pricing, net of taxes and duties
(para 4.23);
(k) that IRDP and DPHE would maintain separate accounts of expen-
ditures made under the project irrespective of whether these
would be eligible for IDA disbursement (para 5.07);
(1) that within 9 months from the end of the financial year
audited financial statements would be furnished to IDA
(para 5.07);



- 42 -
(m) that the standard tender document for the fabrication
of pumpheads and holing of pipes for strainers would be
acceptable to IDA (para 6.07);
(n) that a plan to execute the training program be agreed upon
with IDA no later than January 1, 1982 (para 6.12); and
(o) that the Research and Testing Committee would be established
and for the third year review would submit to IDA a report
evaluating the results of the testing of HTW models and a
recommendation on whether any hand tubewell designs should
be adopted for future HTW projects (para 6.16).
9.02      Conditions of effectiveness would be that:
(a) the HTW Coordinating Committee has been established (para 6.02);
(b) two full-time Assistant Engineers for Tendering and Procure-
ment and for Distribution, having experience satisfactory to
IDA and the Executive Engineer for HTW had been appointed
to the DPHE sub-project unit (para 6.05);
(c) GOB has entered into an agreement with at least one Partici-
pating Credit Institution for onlending of funds to IRDP for
Medium Term Credit; and
(d) the Project Proforma shall have been approved.
9.03      With the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 14.8 million (US$18.0 M).



- 43 -
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT                             ANNEX 1
The Foundry Process for Pumphead Production
1.        The process for production of handpumps for drinking water or for
irrigation is the same and consists of three phases: casting, machining, and
assembly.
Casting
2.        Ninety-five percent (by weight) of the pumphead is cast iron.  Eight
pieces of castings are involved for each head. Ground molding is resorted to
for castings. Hot metal from the cupola is tapped into ladles from which it
is hand poured into models laid out in the specially-prepared dirt floors of
open-air "casting bays". The molding sand is prepared from fine sand, cow dung,
molasses, and graphite with traces of other materials added to give the desired
consistency and strength. Patterns for the various parts to be cast are carved
from wood in some cases and in others are formed from aluminum or other metals
and alloys. The patterns are placed in casting boxes laid out in the floor,
and the molding sand is filled in and pressed down around the form to create
a mold. The casting box is then opened, the form removed, and graphite sprinkled
or applied as a thin wetting on the mold surface for smooth flow of the hot metal
and to control abrasion of the mold.
3.        Pig iron, coke and scrap iron are "burned" together in the cupola at
temperatures of approximately 1350-1400C. For each 72-pound pumphead, eighty
pounds of pig iron and twenty pounds of coke are required. In addition a small
amount of scrap iron is used (UNICEF limits scrap to 5% of pig iron). The number
of molds which can be poured at one pouring depends upon the space available in
the casting bay, the number of molds ready and the capacity of the cupola.
4.        When the castings have cooled, the boxes are opened and the castings
removed for inspection, fettling, machining, and assembly. Runners and risers
are recovered to the extent possible and recharged as scrap iron in the next
melt. The shortage of scrap iron in Bangladesh and the low cost of unskilled
labor leads most foundries to pursue and achieve net wastage factors of less
than 5 percent.
Machining
5.        After removal from boxes, the castings are inspected, and those which
are acceptable are sent to the machine shop for surfacing of edges, boring of
bolt holes, and machining of the barrel of the pumphead to the tolerances required.
6.        The other major component produced in the machine shop is the piston
rod made from locally-procured construction grade steel rounds which are produced
in the rolling mill at Chittagong.
Assembly
7.        Assembly of pumpheads takes place at the foundry.  All parts except the
nuts, bolts, steel pins, and leather valves are produced by the typical foundry/
machine shop combination. Assembly, like the other phases of pumphead production,
is labor intensive. The typical system involves full assembly at one table,
rather than an assembly-line technique. Simple hand tools are used. Post-assembly
testing is done by visual and manual inspection. For those pumps being sold to
DPHE/UNICEF, sample lots are inspected by agency quality control staff before
delivery, and acceptance or rejection of the lot is determined by stringent
standards adopted by UNICEF.



- 44 -
ANNEX 2
Chart 1
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Length of Rainy Season (Records 1934-69)
Average     March      April       May       June       July      August   September  October  Noveber
rainfall    weeks      weeks      weeks      weeks      veeks      weeks      weeks      weeks     weeks      IeeksI
inches    1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4  1 2 3 4    1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4   1 2 3 4  al t 
Rajshahi          57                        -                                                              ---             27    23
Bogra             68                           --                                                                          27    25
Rangpur           81                    --                                                               ----              26    25
Khulna            66                                                                                         ----         29    26
Chittagong       112                                                                                                        29    27
Barisal           85                                                                                                       29    27
Mymensingh        88                                                                                                       31    27
Dacca             74              -------                                                                                  33    27
Comilla           99                                                                                                      33    28
1/  Probability of exceeding 0.5 inches in any one week (a -           302) (b -       502).
Souroes: IDA Report No. PS-13. Land and Water Resources Sector Study Vol. VII.



- 45 -                                          ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Seasonal Cropping Patterns
NOV    DEC    JAN    FEB    MAR    APR    MAY    JUN    JUL    AUG    SEP    OCT
RAINFALL PERIOD                                     m i                      ** E                    i u m
CROPS
PADDY
BORO LOCAL
BOROHYV
B. AUS LOCAL                                                              .......
T. AUS HYV
B. AMAN LOCAL                            G
T. AMAN LOCAL                                                                      l.**
T. AMAN HYV   *.........
WHEAT                   ..a..
POTATOES                                   -      .......7
CHILLIES                      _                                ..
PULSES                             -
OILSEEDS           .  <                   -
JUTE
VEGETABLES
Nursery
VVorld Bank-22224
Field



- 46 -
ANNEX 2
Table 1
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Present Adaptation of Cropping Pattern to Land and Soil
Soil               State of Flood                                Present Cropping Pattern
Land Type    Land Elevation                Permeability         During Monsoon Season                  Spring            Summer & Fall        Winter
1         High                              High                     Free                  Aus or Millet          Fallow or Karif        Rabi or Fallow
Fallow               vegetables           Rabi or Fallow
2         High(flood plain)                 Low                      Free                  Aus or Jute              Fallow                   Rabi
3         High(Barind Tract)                Low             Water poundable                Fallow or Aus            T. aman                  Fallow
by bunding
4         Medium                            High            Water poundable                Aus or Jute              T. aman              Rabi or Fallow
by bunding
5         Medium                            Low             Very shallowly                 Aus or Jute              T. aman              Rabi or Fallow
flooded
6         Medium                            Low             Flood up to 3 ft.              Aus or Jute              T. aman              Rabi or Fallow
7         Medium                            Low             With flood hazard              Aus                    Tall T. aman               Fallow
8         Low                           High or Low         Deep, but not                  Mixed Aus                B. aman
hazardous                     & B. aman               (continue)
Jute                     Fallow
9         Low                          High or Low          Deep and                       B. aman                  B. aman                  Fallow
hazardous                                             (continue)
Fallow                   Fallow                   Boro
10         Low, Char land                High or Low         Flood hazard                   Fallow                   Fallow                   Fallow
Aus, or millet           Fallow or
or B. aman               B. aman             Rabi or Fallow
(continue)
11         Low, Char land                High or Low         Flood hazard                   Fallow                   Fallow                   Fallow
B. aman                  B. aman(cont.)           Fallow
12         Low, Flood plain              High or Low         Flood hazard                   Aus or Jute
ridges outside                                                                or Millet                Fallow               Rabi or Fallow
of embankment
13         Low, Flood plain              High or Low         Flood hazard                   Mixed Aus &              B. aman                  Fallow
depressions outside                                                           B. aman                 (continue)
of embankment                                                                 Jute                     Fallow                   Fallow
Complied from data in (1) East Pakistan Soil Survey Reports, Bogra District and (2) Report on the Potential for
Rainfed HYV Rice Cultivation in Bangladesh, by H. Brammer, 1974.



- 47 -
ANNEX 2
Table 2
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Bi-Monthly Irrigation Requirements for Paddy Nurseries (in inches)
Boro                          T-Aus                       T-Aman
Dec  Jan   Jan    Total      March      Apr                June     July    Total
b    a     b                a     b     a                a     b      a
Av. Evapotranspiration Index       1.1  1.0   1.1              2.1   2.2   2.6              2.1   2.2   2.1
Crop Factor                        1.0  1.25  1.25             1.0   1.25  1.25             1.0   1.25  1.25
Consumptive Use                    1.1  1.25  1.38             2.1   2.75  3.25             2.1   2.75  2.63
Land Preparation Req, 1/           3.0  3.0                    3.0   3.0                    1.0   1.0   (land already wet
Deep Percolation Loss 2/                       1.0                          1.0                          1.0 from May rain)
Effective Precipitation            0.0  0.13  0.13             0.9   0.9   2.34             5.56  5.50  5.27
Net Field Requirements             4.0  4.02  2.25   10.14   4.20  4.85  1.91   10.96          -      -     - No irr. needed
Gross Field Requirements -         4.6  4.5   2.5    11.26   4.67  5.39  2.12   12.18          -     -      - "       "
1/  Includes a substantial deep percolation loss because seedlings are shallow rooted
2/  Deep percolation loss is defined as the amount of water that moves from land surface through the
soil to a depth beyond the root zone of crops.
3/ Assuming a water distribution efficiency of 90 percent.



BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELS PROJECT
Bi-Monthly Average Field Irrigation Requirements
October       November       December        January        February       March            April               ma              June           July          A~uaut       September       Tntal
aa     b             b        7a     b       a      b       a     b       a      b         a      b         a        b       a        b      a      b       a      b       a 
1/
Av. Evapotranspiration Index     1.8   1.7    1.4   1.2              0.9   1.1    1.0   1.1    1.3   1.4    2.1   2.2             2.6   2.8        2.8      2.7    2.1       2.0   2.1   2.2    2.1   2.1    1.9   1.8             44.
P~oro:  Crop Factor                                                                       1.25   1.25  1.30   1.35  1.40          1.45  1.50       1.30    1.30
Consumptive Use           +                                                       1.38   1.63  1.82   2.84  3.08          3.77  4.2        3.64
Land Preparation          +                                                       3.00   3.00
Soil Moisture Depletion-- 2.00    2.00
TrAus: Crop Factor                                                                                                                1.20  1.25       1.25    1.30   1.40    1.45  1.50  1.35
Consumptive Use                                                                                                           3.12  3.5        3.5      3.51   2.54    2.9   3.15  2.97
Land Preparation          +                                                                                               3.00  3.00
Soil Moisture Depletion -                                                                                                                                                  -2.0  -2.0
T-Amnan:Crop Factor                   1.50  1.45  1I.45  1.20    1.10                                                                                                        1.10  1.25  1.25   1.30  1.30   1.40  1.45
Consumptive Use           +  2.7   2.47   2.03  1.44    0.99                                                                                                         2.2   2.63  2.75   2.73  2.73   2.66  2.61
Land Preparation          +                                                                                                                                          3.00  3.00
Soil Moisture Depletion -                          -2.0 - 2.0
Deep Percolation Loss             +  1.0   1.0    1.0   1.0          1.0   1.0    1.0   1.0    1.0   1.0    1.0   1.0             1.0   1.0        1.0      1.0    1.0       1.0   1.0   1.0    1.0   1.0. 1.0   1.0
Effective Precipitation           -  2.59  2.0    0.5   0.44    0.09  0.0    0.23  0.2    0.44  0.40   0.9   0.9                 2.34  2.34       3.S      4.07   5.56    5.50  5.27  5.0    5.4   5.46   3.96  3. 50              60.59
Met Field Rlequirements
Born                                                                              5.18   5.19  2.42   2.98  3.18          2.43  2.86         -         -                                                                   24.24
T-Aus                                                                                                                     4.78  5.16       1.0      0.44       -        -      -    -                                      11.38
T-Aman                        1.11  1.47   2.53        -        -                                                                                                    0.70  1.36      -       -  -                0-13       1.28
Gross Field Requirenents (assum-
ing 107. loss for rice crops).                                                          57       .72
Bn~ro                                                                             5.6 57    .9   3.31  3.53               2.70  3.171                  -                                                                   26.92,
T-Aus                                                                                                                     5.31  5.73       1.11    0.49        -        -  -      -                                        12.64
T-Aman                        1.23  1.63   2.81        -        -                                                                                                    0.78  1.51                                  0.12       8.08



BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Bl-Monthly Average Field Irrigation Requirements (Continued)
October      November         December       January       February        March            Apr11              May              June            July          Au gust      September       Total
a     b       a      b        a      b       a     b       a      b       a      b         a      b         a                          b      a      b       a      b       a      b
Av. Evapotranapiration Index-         1.8   1.7    1.4   1.2         0.9   1.1    1.0   1.1    1.3   1.4    2.1   2.2             2.6   2.8        2,8      2.7     2.1      2.0   2.1   2.2    2.1   2.1         1.9   1.8        44.4
Wheat:  Crop Factor                                        0.5      0.5   0.55   0.7   0.85   1.0   1.20   1.15  1.0
consumptive Use       2/                          0.6       0.45  0.61    0.7   0.94   1.3   1.68   2.42  2.2
Land Prep. +/  NMD                                3.0                                                 -1,0  -2.0
Pulses/Oilseeds:  Crop Factor         0.5   0.55   0.75  1.05       1.10  1.10   1.10  0.95   0.5   0.55   0.75  1.05             1.1   1.10       1.10    0.95
Consumptive Use              0.9   0.94   1.05  1.26       0.99  1.21    1.10  1.05   0.65  0.77   1.58  2.31            2.86  3.08       3.08     2.57
Land Prep. + /SMD -          Wet soil                                                                                                  _ 1.0   - 2.0
eeables:  Crop Factor                 0.5   0.55   0.75  1.05        1.10  0.95   0.5   0.6    0.8   1.0    1.0   1.1             1.0   0.90
Consumptive Use              0.9   0.94   1.05  1.26    0.99  1.05   0.5   0.66   1.04  1.40   2.1   2.42                2.6   2.52
Land Prep. + /ISM   -        Wet soil                                                                                 - 1.0  -2.00
Fotatoes:  Crop Factor                                              0.5   0.55   0.65  1.05   1.2   1,2    1.1   0.8
Consumptive Use                                            0.45  0.61   0.65  1.16   1.56  1.68    2.31  1.76
Land Prep. +/SMD -                                          3.0                                        -1.0  -2.0
Chillies:  Crop Factor                                                                                           0.5   0.55       0.75  1.0        1.1      0.95
Consumptive Use                                                                                         1.05  1.21       1.95  2.8        3.08     2.57
Land Prep. +/SMD -                                                                                      3.0                             - 1.0   _ 2.0
Jute:   Crop Factor                                                                                                    0.5        0.65  0.90       1.15     1.30   1 40      1.40  1.40
Consumptive Use                                                                                                1.10      1.69  2.52       3.22     3.51   2.94       2.80  2.94
Land Prep. +/SMD -                                                                                             3.0- 1.0  -2.0
EFF. Precipitation-  -                1.72  1.72   0.30  0.26       0.05  0.00   0.13  0.13   0.25  0.25   0.50  0.88             1.0   1.81       2.60     3.08   4.00      4.30  3.40  3.30   4.15  4.00    2.80  2.79           43.12   '
Net Field Reg;  Wheat                                       3.34    0.40  0.61   0.57  0.81   1.05  1.43   0.92            -                                                                                                         9.13
Pulses/Oilaeeds                  -     -   0.75  1.0        0.94  1.21   0.97  0.92   0.40  0.55   1.09  1.73            1.86  1.27           -        -                                                                   IZ.70
Vegetables (two crops)           -     _   0.75  1.0        0.94  1.05   0.37  0.53   0.79  1.15   1.60  1.84            0.60      -                                                                                       10.62
Potatoes                                                    3.40  0.61   0.52  1.03   1.31  1.43   0.81           -                                                                                                         9.11
Chillies                                                                                                3.55  0.63       0.95   0.99              -   _                                                                     6.12
Jute                                                                                                           3.52      0.69  0.71       0.62     0.43        -       _       _                                            5.97
Gross Field Req. (Assuming 29/
loss for non-rice crops). -
Wbeat                                          -  4.18      0.50  0.76    0.71  1.01   1.31  1.79   1.15          -                                                                                                        11.41
Pulses/OilReeds                  -     -   0.94  1.25       1.18  1.51   1.20  1.20   0.50  0.69   1.35  2.16            2.33  1.59           -        _                                                                   15.90
Vegetables (two crops)           -     -   0.94  1.25       1.18  1.31   0.46  0.66   0.99  1.44   2.0   2.3             0 75      -                                                                                       13.28
Potatoes                                                    4.25  0.76   0.65  1.29   1.64  1.79   1.01           -                                                                                                        11.39
Chillies                                                                                                4.44  09         1.19  1.24           -                                                                             7.66
Jute                                                                                                          4.4        0.96  0.89       0.78     0.54        -       -       -                                            7.47
1I Dacca taken as representative.
o/ Por land preparation (land Prep.) of rice crops, it is assumed that 6 inches of water has to be supplied; for wheat and other rabi crops only 3 inches.  Wheat or rabi crops when cultivated just after
harvesting of the previous crop do not need water for land preparation, Soil moisture depletion (SMD) was allowed for in the last crop month: rice 4 inches and other crops 3 inches.
3/  Effective precipitation is calculated from the average rainfall to determine avers8e pumping req,uirements.  The effective rainfall was deduced from the recorded rainfall at Dacca by applying the
criteria developed by ACRES Int. (Guideline for the calculation of optimal surface drainage capacities for water projects in East Pakistan, 1971).
Rice:  From May to October           Reff '0-8 x Rrecord.
Fro  November to April :  R    - R
eff    record.
Other crops:  For every month             :  R    - 0.6 x R
eff           record.
4.  For non-rice crops, a water distribution efficiency of 80% is used while for rice an efficiency of 90% is used because  a field lOBS   f two inches per month to deep percolation is included with the
rice water requir-emnts.
Source:  Evapotranspiration in'ex, effective rainfall and crop factors taken from "Bangladesh Land and Water Resources Sector Study", TDA Report PS-13, 1972, Technical Report No. 20, "Overall Water                                     CS
Resources Potential".
December 12, 1980.



BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Summary of Bi-Monthly Field Irrigation Requirements (in inches of water)
October  November  December  January   February    March         April       May       June       July      August   September
a    b    a    b    a    b    a    b    a    b    a    b    a    b    a    b    a    b    a    b    a    b    a    b
Boro:                                                  5.8  5.8  2.7  3.3  3.5  2.7  3.2   -    -
n u r a e r y  4.6  4.5  2.5
T. Aus:                                                                           5.3  5.7  1.1  0.5    -    -    -
n u r s e ry      4.7  5.4  2.1
T. Aman:          1.2  1.6  2,8    -    -                                                                    0.8  1.5    -    -    -    _  0.1
Wheat:                            4.2  0.5  0.8  0.7  1.0  1.3  1.8  1.2    -
Pulses/Oilseeds    -    -  0.9  1.3  1.2  1.5  1.2  1.2  0.5  0.7  1.4  2.2  2.3  1.6
Vegetables:         -    -  0.9  1.3  1.2  1.3  0.5  0.7  1.0  1.4  2.0  2.3  0.8    -
Potatoes:                              4.3  0.8  0.7  1.3  1.6  1.8  1.0    -
Chillies:                                                              4.4  0.8  1.2  1.2
Jute:                                                                        4.4  0.9  0.9  0.8  0.5
D21
December 12, 1980.



- 51 -
ANNEX 2
Table 5
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Relationship between Pump Discharge and
Water Table Depth
Water Table                            Discharge -
Depth(ft)                         (Imp.Gals. per Min.)
10                                     16
15                                     11
20                                      8
25                                      6
30                                      4
1/ At 60 percent efficiency.
December 12, 1980.



- 52 -
ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH                                     Table 6
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Cropping Systems by Land Elevation With and Without HTW
MODEL I             MODEL II         MODEL III           MODEL IV
Land Elevation -               High (Flood Plain)        Medium             Low          Low (Flood Plain)
Average annual flood depth (ft)                0 - 1                1 - 3             3 - 6             >   6
Cultivated area represented by
land type (M.ac)                              6.0                  9.0               4.0               3.5
Percentage of total cultivated area             27                   39                18                16
Approx. depth of water table at end
of dry season (ft)                          18 - 30              14 - 18           10 - 14           (10
Cultivated area suitable for
HTW  (M.ac)                                  1.13                 3.38             1.58               1.13
Percentage of total cultivated area
suitable for  HTW 2/                           5                   15                 7                 5
Percentage of HTW supplied to
each model                                    16                   46                22                16
Cropping systems (per acre)-         *          __ w P    W_   w P    W                      w          PW
Paddy
Boro local                             0.0  0.0  0.0        0.0  0.0  0.0     0.1  0.1  0.0      0.1  0.1  0.1
Boro HYV                               0.0  0.0  0.0        0.0  0.0  0.0     0.0  0.0  0.2      0.0  0.0  0.3
B. Aus (local)                         0.3  0.3  0.2        0.4  0.4  0.3     0.5  0.5  0.4      0.0  0.0  0.0
T. Aus HYV                             0.0  0.0  0.1        0.0  0.0  0.1     0.0  0.0  0.1      0.0  0.0  0.0
B. Aman (local)                        0.1  0.1  0.0        0.1  0.1  0.0     0.5  0.5  0.5      0.7  0.7  0.7
T. Aman (local)                        0.4  0.2  0.1        0.4  0.3  0.1     0.0  0.0. 0.0      0.0  0.0  0.0
T. Aman HYV                            0.1  0.3  0.5        0.1  0.2  0.5     0.0  0.0  0.0      0.0  0.0  0.0
Wheat                                     0.0  0.0  0.2        0.1  0.1  0.2      0.1  0.1  0.3     0.0  0.0  0.0
Potatoes                                  0.0  0.0  0.1        0.0  0.0  0.1     0.0 -0.0  0.0      0.0  0.0  0.0
Chillies                                  0.0  0.0  0.1        0.0  0.0  0.1     0.0  0.0  0.1      0.0  0.0  0.0
Pulses                                    0.1  0.1  0.0        0.1  0.1  0.1     0.3  0.3  0.1      0.2  0.2  0.2
Oilseeds                                  0.0  0.0  0.1        0.0  0.0  0.1     0.0  0.0  0.1      0.0  0.0  0.1
Jute                                      0.2  0.2  0.2        0.2  0.2  0.2      0.0  0.0  0.0     0.0  0.0  0.0
Vegetables                                0.1  0.1  0.1        0.0  0.0  0.1      0.0  0.0  0.1     0.0  0.0  0.1
Cropping intensity %                      1.3  1.3  1.7        1.4  1.4  1.9     1.5  1.5  1.9      1.0  1.0  1.5
1/  Correspond to average land types (1-3) (4-6) (7-9) (10-13) - see Annex 2, Table 1.
2/  Excludes saline areas, flooded land and unsuitable groundwater areas.
3/ P = present; W = future without HTW ; W = future with HTW.
December 12, 1980.



BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
CalCUlation of Pumping Requirements per Acre
31
Hi-moonthly                                                       Boro               T. Aus         T. Aman    Wheat        Pulses    Vegetables       Potatoes       Chillies       Jute       Oilseeds
period      Model PFR  FLU  RFL   MAD  WTD   -2           D       Hours       D     Hours   D   Hours  D   Hours   D   Hours    D   Hours    D    Hours   D   Hours   D   Hours   D.  Hours
September b        1   0_75   15  11.3   20   8.7   8.3                                         0.1      5
II           12   9.0   16   7.0   9.3                                                 4
III            8   6.0   12   6.0   9.9                                                 4
IV            6   4.5    8   3.5  12.0                                                 3
October a           r   0.85   15  12.8   20   7.2   9.2                                         1.2    49
II           12  10.2   16   5.8  10.0                                               45
III            8   6.8   12   5.2  10.5                                                43
Iv            6'  5.1    8   2.9  12.5                                               36
October b          1   0.95   15  14.3   20   5.7  10.0                                          1.6    60
II           12  11.4   16   4.6  10.8                                                56
InI            8   7.6   12   4.4  11.0                                                55
VI            6   5.7    8   2.3  13.0                                                46
November a         I   0.85   15  12.8   20   7.2   9.2                                          2.8   115               0.9    37    0.9    37
11           12  10.2   16   5.8  10.0                                              105                        34            34
III            8   6.8   12   5.2  10.5                                               101                       32            32
IV            6   5.1    8   2.9  12.5                                               84                        27            27
November b         I   0.60   15   9.0   20  11.0   7.6                                                       4.2  208   1.3    64       1.3   64
II           12   7.2   16   8.8   8.4                                                           188           58            58
III            8   4.8   12   7.2   9.3                                                           170           53            53
IV            6   3.6    8   4.4  11.0                                                           144           45            45
December a         I   0.47.  15   7.1   20  12.9   6.8                                                      0.5   28   1.2    67    1.2    67    4.3    238                                                  1
II           12   5.6   16  10.4   7.8                                                            24           58            58             208
Tll            8   3.8   12   8.2   8.7                                                            22           52             52            186
IV            6   2.6    8   5.4  10.3                                                            18           44            44            157
1/
December b         I   0.35   15   5.3   20  14.7   6.4   (4.6)   (17)                                       0.8   48   1.5    88        1.3   77    0.8       47
II           12   4.2   16  11.8   7.3              (15)                                          42           77            67              41
ITT            8   2.8   12   9.2   8.2              (13)                                          36           69            60              37
IV            6   2.1    8   5.9  10.0              (11)                                          30           57            49              30
January a          1   0.27   15   4.1   20  15.9   6.2   (4.5)  (17)                                               42   1.2    73       0.5   30    0.7       43
II           12   3.2   16  12.8   6.9             (15)                                           38           66            27              38
III            8   2.2   12   9.8   7.9             (14)                                           34           57            24              33
IV            6   1.6    8   6.4   9.7             (11)                                           28           47            19              27
2/
January b          I   0.17   15   2.6   20  17.4   5.7    5.8    393 2/                                     1.0    66   1.2    79       0.7   46    0.3       86
II           12   2.0   16  14.0   6.6   (2.5)   341 2/                                           58           68            40              74
III            8   1.4   12  10.6   7.7              307 -                                         48           59            34              64
IV            6   1.0    8   7.0   9.3              259  /                                        40           49            28              53
February a         I   0.12   15   1.8   20  18.2   5.4    5.8    412                                        1.3    90                  1.0    70    1.6    112                                 0.5    35
12   1.4   16  14.6   6.5              342                                           76                         58              9329
8   1.0   12  11.0   7.6              288                                          64                          50              79                                     25--
6   0.7    8   7.3   9.3              236                                           52                         40              65                                      20
February b         1   0.07   15   1.1   20  18.9   5.1    2.7    201                                        1.8   134                  1.4   103    1.8    133                                 0.7    52
1I          12   0.8   16  15.2   6.4               160                                         106                          82             106                                     41
III            8   0.6   12  11.4   7.5              135                                           90                         70              90                                      35
IV            6   0.4    8   7.6   9.0              114                                           76                         59              75                                     29
March a            I   0.03   15   0.5   20  19.5   4.7    3.3    264            (4.7)    (24)               1.2    96                  2.0   160    1.0       80   4.4   353                  1.4   112
II           12   0.4   16  15.6   6.3              198                (18)                      72                         120             60           263                        84
III            8   0.2   12  11.8   7.3              170                (15)                      62                         103              52          227                        72
IV            6   0.2    8   7.8   8.9              138                 (12)                     50                          85             42          186                         59
March b            1   0.02   15   0.3   20  19.7   4.5    3.5    294            (5.4)    (28)                                         2.3   193                    0.8    67   4.4   369   2.2   184  
II           12   0.2   16  15.8   6.2              220                (21)                                                 140                          49           267          134    t
III            8   0.2   12  11.8   7.2              184                (18)                                                 120                          42           230          115
IV            6   0.1    8   7.9   8.8              150                (14)                                                  99                          34           188           94  



BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Calculation of Pumping Requirements per Acre
Bi-monthly                                                         Boro                T. Aus        T. Aman    Wheat         Pulses    Vegetables        Potatoes       Chillies        Jute oiiaeeds
period      Model  PFR   FLU  RFL   MAD  WTD    Q           D      Hours                                         o         Hours        D   Hours  D   Hours   D   Hours    D   Hours    D    Hours
April a             I   0.00   15   0.0   20  20.0   4.5    2.7    226             5.3      455 -                                         0.8      67                   1.2   101   0.9       75   2.3   193
II           12   0.0   16  16.0   6.2               170       (2.1)    330 2/                                                 49                            73            55          140
III            8   0.0   12  12.0   7.2               142                 284                                                    42                           63           47           120
IV            6   0.0    8   8.0   8.7               116                 235-/                                                  35                           52            39          100
April b             I   0.00   15   0.0   20  20.0   4.5    3.2    268             5.7      477                                                                         1.2   101   0.9       75   1.6   134
12   0.0   16  16.0   6.2               202                 346                                                                                73            55            97
8   0.0   12  12.0   7.2               168                 298                                                                                63            47            84
6   0.0    8   8.0   8.7               138                 247                                                                                 52           39            69
May a               I   0.00   15   0.0   20  20.0   4.5                           1.1       92                                                                                               67
II           12   0.0   16  16.0   6.2                                    67                                                                                               4p
III            8   0.0   12  12.0   7.2                                    58                                                                                               42
IV            6   0.0     8   8.0   8.7                                   48                                                                                               35
May b               I   0.00   15   0.0   20  20.0   4.5                           0.5       42                                                                                               42
II           12   0.0   16  16.0   6.2                                    30                                                                                               30
ITT            8   0.0   12  12.0   7.2                                    26                                                                                               26
IV            6   0.0     8   8.0   8.7                                   22                                                                                               22
-   I
June a             I   0.05   15  0.8    20  19.2   5.0
II           12  0.6    16  15.4   6.3
III            8  0.4    12  11.6   7.4
IV            6  0.3      8   7.7   9.0
June b             I   0.15   15  2.3    20  17.7   5.6                                           0.8    54
II           12  1.8    16  14.2   6.5                                                 46
III            8  1.2    12  10.8   7.6                                                 40
IV            6  0.9      8   7.1   9.3                                                 32
July a             I   0.25   15  3.8    20  16.2   7.0                                           1.5    81
II           12  3.0    16  13.0   6.8                                                 83
III            8  2.0    12  10.0   7.8                                                  72
IV            6  1.5      8   6.5   9.6       _                                         59   -                                                                                   _
2/               2/
Annual Totals                                                  27.7               13.4             8.0          11.5        7.3           13.4           11.5           7.6           7.5          8.7
1/ Figures in parentheses refer to nursery requirements (1/16 acre).
2/ Includes nursery requirement.
3/ Two crops per dry season.
NOTE:  Definition of symbols
PFR   - Percentage of water table fluctuation remaining (Figure G 1).
FLU   - Av. ann. water table fluctuation, in feet (Table G 3).
RFL   - Residual fluctuation at date concerned, in feet (PFR X FLU).
MAD   - Maximum water table depth, in feet (Table C 3).
WTD   - Water table depth below ground at date concerned, in feet (MAD minus RFL).
Q     - Pump discharge in inp. gallons per minute (from Figure L 5).
D     -Depth of irrigation in inches of water (from Table lR 6).                                                                                                                                      .
Hours - Time required to pump D for one acre with discharge Q, in hours [from: Tm hours = 376.92 (D/Q)].
December 12, 1980.



- 55 -
ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH                                         Table 8
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Per Acre Labor Requirements
Crop                Jan      Feb     Mar      Apr    May  Jun  Jul  Aug  Sep  Oct         Nov      Dec
Boro local        C -          12      27        5        5       11   17                                       6
Boro HYV          C 2/         14      29        7        7       13   20                                       6
Boro HYV            -  I    410       613      558      494                                                   17
II    356      502      418      372                                                   15
III    321      423      354      310                                                   13
IV    270      350      288      254                                                   11
B. Aus local      C                              7       13        2    2   12    9
T. Aus HYV        C                              9       19        4    4   20   13
T. Aus HYV        P 6-  I                       52      932      134
II                       39     676       97
III                       33      582       84
IV                       26     482        70
B. Aman local    C                               7       13        2    1    1                 6     14        6
T. Aman local    C                                                       7   15   21    3    4        16      10
T. Aman HYV       C                                                      7   15   21    5    4        25      18
T. Aman HYV       P    I                                              135               54  175
II                                             129               49  161
III                                             112               47  156
IV                                              91               39  130
Wheat (PW)        C             2       2       18        4                                          12       15
Wheat W           C             4       4       21        6                                           15       20
Wheat W           P    I    108       224       96                                                  208        76
II     96      182       72                                                  188       66
III     82      154       62                                                  170       58
IV     68      128       50                                                  144       48
Potatoes           C          25       19       10       25                                                   30
Potatoes          P    I    129       245       80                                                           285
II    112      199      60                                                            238
III     97      169       52                                                           223
IV     80      140       42 5/       5/                                               187
Chillies PW       C                             40 -    50 -    25    5
Chillies W        C                             25       40       30    6
Chillies W        P    I                       420      202
II                     312      146
III                      269     126
IV                     220      104
Pulses PW         C            3        2       20                                                    3        7
Pulses W          C            5        5       30                                                    8       12
Pulses W          P    I    152                                                                     101      155
II    134                                                                     92      135
III    116                                                                     85      127
l/    V     96                                                                      72     101
Oilseeds W        C                     8        7        3      24
Oilseeds W        P    I               87      296      327
II              70      228      237
III              60      187      204
IV              49      153      169
Jute PW           C                             23        6        5    3   36    5
Jute W            C                             25       10        5    3   50    9
Jute W            P    I                                150      109
II                               110       79
III                                94       68
IV-/75/75
Vegetables PW    C   IV        25       35 -    30       78       57                          20 -   35 -/   30 -/
Vegetables W 4/  C             10       25       30      25       30                          15      25       15
Vegetables W       P    I      76      173     353       67                                          101      144
II     67      140      260       49                                          92      125
III     58      120      223       42                                           85     112
IV     47       99      184       35                                           72       93
1/  C = Cultivation requirements in mandays.
2/ P = Pumping requirements in man hours.
3/ Oilseeds follow-on from pulses on same land with irrigation of both crops
4/  2 crops of vegetables with  HTW  irrigation.
5/ Includes 15 m.d. per month for traditional irrigation of vegetables and chillies.
6/ Figures for Model I, II, III, IV related to water table depth and crop requirements.
December 12, 1980.



- 56 -
ANNEU 2
Table9
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Family Manpower Utilization in HTW Operation-/
Average Hours
of Operation
Person                              per Day
Head of HTW  family                         3
Adult male family member                    3
Adult female family member                  2
Non adult family member                     1
Total                                 9
1/ Source: IBA Report, University of Dacca, 1980



BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1/                                 Crop Inputs and Yields Per Acre
Boro    Boro   B. Aus  T. Aus B. Aman  T. Aman   T. Aman    Wheat  Potatoes  Chillies                   Pulses        Jute     Vegetables  Oilseeds
Unit         (local)  (HYV)  (local)  (HYV)  (local)  (local)    (HYV)
IW -      w       Pw         w                           PW   W    pW   W         w    iw8        w   F W   w    PW   W        PtW       w          w
Seed                  seer           15          15      35        15      30         16      15   15   40   45         40     24/      24/ 12    12    4    4        54/    104/         4
Fertitizer
Urea              Seer            30         50      20         42      10        20       30   40   25   50        60   10         30    0    0   15   25   15            60         20
TSP               seer            15         30      15         24      10         10      15   25   15   25        20    4         10    0   20       7    5   10         30         10
MP                seer            10         15       10        11       0         10      10   10   10   10         20    2        10    0   10       5    5    5         30         10
Manure                maund          30          50      20        30        0         0      21   28   25   50         80   50        80    0    0   20   40   50           150         50
Pesticides            seer           0.5       1.0      0.5       1.0     0.5        0.5     0.0  1.0  0.0  0.5        0.0  0.0       0.0  0.0  0.5  0.0  0.5  0.8           2.0        0.5
Animal power          pair day       20          23      20        23       16        22      20   23   16   19         21   22        22   10   15   17   18   16            28         15
Labor
Cultivation:
Family3/3
Hired          man dav        83          96      45        70      46         76      76   95   53   70        109   90 3   101   35   60    78  102  175 -    175               42
Pumping:
Model   I    man hours         0      2,092        0    1.118         0         0       0  364    0  712        733    0       622    0  408       0  628      0      914        710
II    man hours        0      1,663        0       812       0          0       0  339    0  604       620    0        458    0  361       0  456      0      733        525
III    man hours        0      1,423        0       699        0         0       0  315    0  526        541     0      395    0  322       0  392      0      640        451
IV    man hours        0      1,184        0       578       0          0       0  260    0  438       449      0      324    0  269       0  323      0      530        371
Yield             maund           22         46       16        34      16         21      25   35   18   32    110         5       12     9   15   15   26   35           90         12
l/  Limited to Model IV areas.
2/  P = present; W = without IfTW; W   with HTW.
3/  Includes 15 man days traditional irrigation per month - see Table 8.                                                                                                                      ax
4/  Harvest equivalent                                                                                                                                                                           x
5/  Two consecutive crops of vegetables per dry season with HTW.
December 12, 1980.



- 58 -
ANNEX 2
Table 11
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Labor Requirements by Month (man-hours)
Jan.   Feb.   March   April   May   Ju,ne   July   August   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
Model I
Without Project       22     30       99       51      14      38    147    114        17       37    127       94      790
With Project:
Pumping            42      95      213      183      35     68      -       -        27       88      42     44       837
Cultural           34      48      150      136      82     50    187    140         22       31    157    148    1,185
Incremental           54    113      264      268    103       80     40      26       32       82      72     98    1,232
Model II
Without Project        4      3       95       65      16      40    157    121        15       21    102       75      714
With Project:
Pumping            51      77      158      133      26     65      -       -        25       81     47      51       714
Cultural           38      52      179      146      83     51    197    147         22       31    163    158    1,267
Incremental           85    126      242      214      93     76      40      26       32       91    108    113    1,267
Model III
Without Project       18     28      122      111      25      26     52      36        -       24      73      58      573
With Project:
Pumping           106    149       161      157       8     -       -       -         -       -       60     33       674
Cultural           44      86      193      189    106      50      58      39        -       36    118    103    1,022
Incremental         132    107       232       35      89      24      6       3        -       T12    15      78    1,123
Model IV
Without Project       14     25       75       77      20      19       6     -         -       34      83      50      403
With Project:
Pumping           104    120       120       97      -      -       -       -         -       -      14      24       479
Cultural           59    126       138      116      94     67       6      -         -       46    111      84       847
Incremental         149    221       183      136      74     48      -       -         -       12     42      58       923
February 2, 1981.



- 59 -
ANNEX 2
Tablel2
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Calorie Input/Output Analysis
Incremental Production per year:
Rice:        499 lb/ac       =       792,063
Wheat:       400 lb/ac       =       634,920
Total:                             1,426,983
2/
Incremental Calorie Consumption:-
Pumping:              3.75 cals/min3
Cultivation:          2.75 cals/min.-
Incremental Labor Utilization per Acre per year:
Pumping:              687 man hours 4/
Cultivation:          487 man hours -
Incremental Calorie Requirements per Acre
Pumping:              154,575
Cultivation:           80,355
Total:                234,930
Equivalent to 16% of incremental production
1/ At 3,500 cals/kg
2/ At rest 1.25 calories per minute
3/ Bank staff estimates
4/ Weighted average from all models



- 60 -
BANGLADESH                                ANNEX2
Table 13
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1/
Annual Incremental Input Requirements at Full Development-/
Fertilizer
Urea (ton)                                  4,325
TSP (ton)                                   2,332
MP (ton)                                     1,317
Pesticide (ton)                                 13
Animal power (pr. days)                 1,705,104
Hired labor (man days) 2/               2,185,560
3'
Improved Seed-/
Boro HYV (ton)                                  35
Aus HYV (ton)                                   32
Aman HYV (ton)                                 197
Wheat (ton)                                    139
Potatoes (ton)                                  62
1/ For 135,000 acres
2/ Hired labor required only for pumping.
3/ Assumes 20 percent replacement of seed per year.
December 12, 1980.



- 61 -
ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH                                  Table 1
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1 acre Farm Budget - Model I (High-Flood Plain)
Without
Project   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Years 6-10
Inf low:           /2'                                    2/
Farm production-/              2,458    4,368-/  4,915-   5,461    5,461    5,461    5,461
Outflow:
Seeds                             62        81        81       81        81        81        81
Fertilizer:
Urea                           56       143      143       143       143       143      143
TSP                            26        57       57        57        57        57       57
MP                             13        27        27       27        27        27        27
Manure                         49       172      172       172       172       172      172
Pesticide                         32       101       101      101       101       101       101
Animal power                     600       900       900      900       900       900       900
3 Pipe HTW                        -     1,660         -        -         -         -         -
Transportation and
installation  3/                -         75       -         -         -         -         -
Lift and re-sink--                -        110       110      110       110       110       110
Maintenance                       -         57        57        57       57        57        57
Hired pumping labor               -        312       312      312       312       312       312
Miscellaneous 4/                  65        85        85        85       85        85        85
Total Outflow               903    3,780    2,045    2,045    2,045    2,045    2,045
Net Benefit Before Financing
Total                          1,555       588    2,870    3,416    3,416    3,416    3,416
Incremental                       -       -967    1,315    1,861    1,861    1,861    1,861
Financing
Medium Term Credit-
Loan receipt7/                  -     1,494       -         -         -         -         -
Debt service-                   -        -        565       505       450       -         -
Short Term Credit 8/
Loan receipt7,                  -      1,142    1,142    1,142    1,142    1,142    1,142
Debt service-                   -        -      1,198    1,198    1,198    1,198    1,198
Net Benefit After Financing
Total                          1,555    3,224    2,249    2,855    2,910    3,360    3,360
Incremental        61              -     1,669       694    1,300    1,355    1,805    1,805
N'PV - Tk 8,546 -
j  Farm production includes on-farm consumption.  Off-farm income is unaffected by project
due to high incidence of surplus labor during dry season.  All figures in constant
1980 values.
2/  Full development benefits achieved in 3 years; benefits for years 1 and 2 at 80% and
90% of full development benefits.
3/  Tk25 to sink and Tk3O to lift 3 pipe pumpset.  This is done twice a year.
4/ Tk5O per acre cropped.
5/ Financing 90% of cost of pumpset at TCCA, at 13% annual interest rate.
6/ At 12% interest based on incremental net benefits after financing.
7/ Debt service adjusted to constant 1980 values by projected inflation (12%).
8/ 100% of incremental operating costs.
February 12, 1981.



- 62 -
ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH                                  Table 2
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1 acre Farm Budget- Model II (Medium Elevation)
(Tk)
Without
Project  Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Years 6-10
Inflow:           1                            2/        2/
Farm production-/            2,607    4,707-   5,296-   5,884    5,884    5,884    5,884
Outflow:
Seeds                           81        95        95.       95        95        95        95
Fertilizer:
Urea                         61       148       148       148       148       148       148
TSP                          29        64        64        64        64        64        64
MP                           15        30        30        30     -30          30        30
Manure                       43       177       177       177       177       177       177
Pesticide                       34       109       109       109       109       109       109
Animal power                    655      988       988       988       988       988       988
2 Pipe HTW                      -      1,320        -         -         -         -         -
Transportation and
installation  3/              -         60        -         -         -         -         -
Lift and re-sink-               -         90        90        90        90        90        90
Maintenance                      -        57        57        57        57        57        57
Hired pumping labor             -        101       101       101       101       101       101
Miscellaneous 4/                 70        95       95        95        95        95        95
Total Outflow             988    3,334    1,954    1,954    1,954    1,954    1,954
Net Benefit Before Financing
Total                        1,619    1,373    3,342    3,930    3,930    3,930    3,930
Incremental                     -       -246    1,723    2,311    2,311    2,311    2,311
Financing
Medium Term Credit-
Loan receipt7,                -      1,188       -         -         -         _         _
Debt service-                 -        -         449       401       358       -         -
Short Term Credit'8/
Loan receipt                  -        966       966       966       966       966       966
Debt service-                 -        -       1,013    1,013    1,013    1,013    1,013
Net Benefit After Financing
Total                        1,619    3,527    2,846    3,482    3,525    3,883    3,883
Incremental                      -     1,908    1,227    1,863    1,906    2,264    2.264
NP77= TK11,135-t/
1/  Farm production includes on-farm consumption.  Off-farm income is unaffected by project
due to high incidence of surplus labor during dry season. All figures constant 1980 values.
2/  Full development benefits achieved in 3 years; benefits for years 1 and 2 at 80% and 90%
of full development benefits.
3/  Tk2O to sink and Tk25 to lift 2 pipe pumpset.  This is done twice a year.
4/ Tk5O per acre cropped.
5/ Financing 90% of cost of pumpset at TCCA, at 13% annual interest.
6/ At 12% interest based on incremental net benefits after financing.
7/  Debt service adjusted to constant 1980 values by projected inflation (12%).
8/ 100% of incremental operation costs.
December 12, 1980.



- 63 -
ANNEX 3
Table 3
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1 acre Farm Budget - Model III (Low Land)
(TK)
Without
Project  Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5  Years 6-10
Inflow:           1/                             2/        2
Farm production-                2,348   4,063-   4,5712-  5,079    5,079    5,079    5,079
Outflow:
Seeds                             107      131       131       131       131       131       131
Fertilizer:
Urea                            47      122       122       122       122       122       122
TSP                             28       61        61        61        61        61        61
MP                              10       24        24        24        24        24        24
Manure                          36      147       147       147       147       147       147
Pesticide                           46     101       101       101       101       101       101
Animal power                       615     915       915       915       915       915       915
2 Pipe HTW                          -    1,320        -         -         -         -         -
Transportation and
installation                     -        60        -         -         -         -         -
Lift and re-sink3/                  -       90        90        90        90        90        90
Maintenance                         -        57       57        57        57        57        57
Hired pumping labor                 -      292       292       292       292       292       292
Miscellaneous 4/                    75       95       95        95        95        95        95
Total Outflow                964   3,415    2,035    2,035    2,035    2,035    2,035
Net Benefit Before Financing
Total                           1,384      648    2,536    3,044    3,044    3,044    3,044
Incremental                         -     -736    1,152    1,660    1,660    1,660    1,660
Financing            5/
Medium Term Credit-
Loan receipt                      -    1,188        -         -         -         -         -
Debt service7/                    -       -        449       401       358        -         -
Short Term Credit-/
Loan receipt7/                    -    1,071    1,071    1,071    1,071    1,071    1,071
Debt service-/                    -       -      1,124    1,124    1,124    1,124    1,124
Net Benefit After Financing
Total                           1,384   2,907    2,034    2,590    2,633    2,991    2,991
Incremental                         _    1,523       650    1,206    1,249    1,607    1,607
NPV = TK7729-1,
1/  Farm production includes on-farm consumption.  Off-farm income is unaffected by project
due to high incidence of surplus labor during dry season. All figures constant 1980 values.
2/  Full development benefits achieved in 3 years; benefits for years 1 and 2 at 80% and 90%
of full development benefits.
3/  Tk2O to sink and Tk25 to lift 2 pipe pumpset.  This is done twice a year.
4/ Tk5O per acre cropped.
5/ Financing 90% of cost of pumpset at TCCA, at 13% annual interest.
6/  At 12% interest based on incremental net benefits after financing.
7/  Debt service adjusted to constant 1980 values by projected inflation (12%).
8/  100% of incremental operating costs.
December 12, 1980.



- 64 -
ANNEX 3
Table4
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1 acre Farm Budget - Model IV (Low-Flood Plain)
Without
Project   Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5 Years 6-10
Inf low:          1,                            2/       2/
Farm production-               1,578    3,185-   3,583-  3,981    3,981    3,981    3,981
Outflow:
Seeds                             64       83        83        83        83       83        83
Fertilizer:
Urea                           23       76        76        76       76        76        76
TSP                            15       46        46        46       46        46        46
MP                              1       16        16        16       16        16        16
Manure                          7       87        87        87       87        87        87
Pesticide                         34        88       88        88        88       88        88
Animal power                     380       685      685       685       685      685       685
2 Pipe HTW                        -     1,320        -         -        -         -         -
Transportation and
installation                    -        60        -         -        -         -         -
Lift and re-sink-/                -        90        90        90        90       90        90
Maintenance                       -         57       57        57        57       57        57
Hired pumping labor               -        -         -         -        -         -         -
Miscellaneous 4/                  50        75       75        75        75       75        75
Total Outflow              574    2,683    1,303    1,303    1,303    1,303    1,303
Net Benefit Before Financing
Total                          1,004      502    2,280    2,678    2,678    2,678    2,678
Incremental                       -      -502    1,276    1,674    1,674    1,674    1,674
Financing
Medium Term Credit-
Loan receipt7                   -      1,188       -         -         -        -         -
Debt service-/                  -         -       449       401       358       -         _
Short Term Credit -/
Loan receipt-     2,109    2,109    2,109    2,109    2,109    2,109
Debt service7/                  -         -     2,213    2,213    2,213    2.213    2,213
Net Benefit After Financing
Total                          1,004    3,799    1,727    2,173    2,216    2.574    2,574
Incremental                       -      2,795       723    1,169    1,212    1,570    1,570
NPV = Tk 8,776
1/  Farm production includes on-farm consumption.  Off-farm income is unaffected by project
due to high incidence of surplus labor during dry season.  All figures constant 1980 values.
2/  Full development benefits achieved in 3 years; benefits for years 1 and 2 at 80% and 90%
of full development benefits.
3/  Tk2O to sink and Tk25 to lift 2 pipe pumpset.  This is done twice a year.
T/  Tk5O per acre cropped.
5/  Financing 90% of cost of pumpset at TCCA, at 13% annual interest.
16/  At 12% interest based on incremental net benefits after financing.
7/  Debt service adjusted to constant 1980 values by projected inflation (12%).
8/  100% of incremental operating costs.
December 12, 1980



- 65 -
ANNEX 4
Table 1
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Phasing of HTW Distribution
Percentage-/ Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Total
Model I               12        4,800      7,200      9,600    21,600
Model II              34        13,600    20,400    27,200    61,200
Model III             17        6,800    10,200    13,600    30,600
Model IV              12         4,800     7,200      9,600    21,600
Drinking Water        25       10,000    15,000    20,000    45,000
Total          100        40,000    60,000    80,000   180,000
Cumulative                     40,000   100,000   180,000
1/  Percentage of  HTWs in any year going to each end use.
November 18, 1980.



- 66 -
ANNEX 4
Iab-i.e 2.
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Cost of I  HTWi
Quantity
of        Price/Unit  Price/Utnit 2 Pipe If6del 3 Pipe Model
Units           (s)         (Tk)        Total         Total
(Tk)         (Tk)
A.  Raw Material Procured
by DPHE
Pig Iron                      .03636  T         349                     203.0        203.0
Hard Coke                     .00909  T         230                      33.5         33.5
Taxes and Duties:  Pig Iron .03636  T                      1396           50.8        50.8
Coke     .00909  T                      736           6.7          6.7
Transport to DPHE 2/          .04545  T                     200           9.1          9.1
B.  Local Fabrication 2/
Transport Raw mat.            .04545  T                     100           4.5          4.5
Nuts, Bolts, and Washer (set)    1  No.                       28         28.0         28.0
Long Pin                           "                           2          2.0          2.0
Short Pin                          "                           5          5.0          5.0
Piston Rod                                                    15         15.0         15.0
Leather Valve                                                  5          5.0          5.0
Bucket                             "                           5          5.0          5.0
Labor (wages)                      3 m.d.                     25         75.0         75.0
Overheads                                                                48.5         48.5
Transport to DPHE                  1                           3          3.0          3.0
Subtotal B                                                         191.0       TYIYU
Cost of 1 pumphead  at DPHE                                                 494.1        494.1
C.  Pipes and Strainer
C.I.F. (pipes)                    46 ft         .90        14.4         662.4
66 ft         .90        14.4                      950.4
Duties and taxes                  46 ft                     8.64        397.4
66 ft                     8.64                     570.2
D.  Transport pipes to DPHE       .07     T                      200          14.0
.095    T                     200                       19.0
E.  Strainer Fabrication
Transport pipes to foundry2-.0075   T                       100            .8           .8
Holing                     2/      6 ft                        2         12.0         12.0
Transport strainers to DPHE .007    T                       100            .7           .7
Full cost of Pumpset at DPHE                                               1581.4       2047.2
Cost of Pumpset at DPHE excluding taxes and duties                         1126.5       1419.5
F.  Local Distribution and Installation
Transport to TCCA-    3/                                                 20           25
Service Charge at TCCA-                                                 169          213
Cost of Pumpset to farmer at TCCA                                      1315.5       1657.5
Rounded to              1320         1660
Transport to site                                                        40           50
Installation charge                                                      20           25
Cost to farmer of installed pumpset                                    1380         1735
1/  For 2 G.I pipe and 3 G.I pipe pumpsets.
2/ Includes handling costs.
3/ Service Charge at TCCA amounts to 15% of the net of tax and duty price
of a pumpset at DPHE.
February 5, 1981.



- 67 -
ANNEX 4
Table 3
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Spare Parts Cost and Replacement Schedule -
(No. 6 Hand pump)
Expected  No. of replace-  Avg. annual
Unit Price      life       ments over    replacement
Item                    (Tk)        (years)   10 year life -/    cost
Leather Bucket                6.00         1/2            19             11.4
Leather Seat Valve            2.75         1/2            19              5.2
Plunger                       8.75         2               4              3.5
Piston Rod                    5.00         1               9              4.5
Barrel                      115.00        10 2/
Head Cover                   42.00        10 2/
Handle                       42.00         3               2.33           9.8
Base Plate                   41.00        10 2/            - 
Valve Weight                  2.50         2               4              1.0
Long Pin                      2.80         1               9              2.5
Short Pin                     2.40         1               9              2.2
Nuts and Bolts (4)            8.00         1               9              7.2
Coir for Strainer             5.00         1/2            19              9.5
Average Annual Maintenance Cost                                       Tk 56.8
rounded Tk 57
1/ The life of a pump is estimated at 10 years, under the assumed use and
maintenance schedule.
2/  Pumplife of 10years limited by pipe and strainer deterioration.
3/ Number of replacements = (pumplife - part life)/partlife.
November 12, 1980.



-68 -
ANNEX 4
Table 4
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Project Staffing
Grade      Incremental              Total
No.      Tk.         No.       Tk.
IRDP Headquarters
A. Office of Deputy Director
Deputy Director                        7        -        -            1      36,877
M&E Asst.                             14        1       8,805         1       8,805
Admin. Asst.                          14        -        -            1       8,805
Stenographer                         15         -        -            1       8,022
Typist                               17         -        -            1       6,386
Messenger                             21        -        -            2       9,536
Driver 1/                             17        1       8,786         1       8,786
B. Office of Aost. Director
Training and Credit
Asst. Director                        10        -        -            1      19,746
Training Asot.                        14        -        -            1       8,805
Credit Asst.                          14        -        -            1       8,805
Typist                                17        -        -            1       6,386
Messenger                             21        -        -            1       4,768
C. Office of Asst. Director
Distribution and Accounto
Asst. Director                        10        -        -            1      19,746
Distribution Asst.                    14        -        -            1       8,805
Account Asst.                         14        -        -            1       8,805
Typist                                17        -        -            1       6,386
Messenger                             21        -        -            1       4,768
IRDP - Total                                    2 .7t5              18    184,236
DPHE Headquarters
A. Office of Exec. Engineer
Exec. Engineer                         7        -        -            1      36,877
Admin. Officer                        12        -        -            1      10,545
Accounts Officer                      12        -        _            1      10,545
Admin. Asst.                          14        -        -            2      17,610
Account Asst.                         14        -        -            1       8,805
Stenographer                         14         -        -            1       8,805
Typist                               17         -        -            2      12,772
Messenger                             21        -        -            3      14,304
Driver 1/                             17        2      17,572         2      17,572
B. Office of Tendering and Procur ement
Asst. Engineer                         8        1      31,997         1      31,997
Typist                               17         1       6,386         1       6,386
Messenger                             21        1       4,768         1       4,768
C.  Office of Quality Control
Asst. Engineer                         8        1       31,997        1      31,997
Typist                                17        1        6,386        1       6,386
Messenger                             21        1        4,768        1       4,768
D. Office of Distribution
Asat. Engincer                         8        1       31,997        1      31,997
Typist                                17        1        6,386        1       6,386
Messenger                             21        1        4,768       .1       4,768
DPEE Headquarters - Total                      11      147,025       23    267,288
DPHE Center Store
A. Chittagong
Account Asst.                         14        -         -           1       8,805
Typist                                17        -         -           1       6,386
Messenger                             21        -         -           1       4,768
Driver 1/                             17        3       26,358        3      26,358
Driver/Helper                         17        3       19,158        3      19,138
B. Dacca
Subdiv. Engineer                       6        -         -           1      31,997
Account Asst.                         14        -         -           0       A0Rn5
Typist                                17        -         -           1       6,386
Messenger                             21        -         -           1       4,76g
Driver 1/                             17        2       17,572        2      17,572
Driver/Helper                         17        2       12,772        2      12,772
C.  Yhulna
Subdiv. Engineer                       8        -         -           1      31,997
Account Aoot.                         14        -         -           1       8,805
Typist                                17        -         -           1       6,386
Messenger                             21        -         -           1       4,768
Driver 1/                             17        3       26,358        3      26,358
Driver/Helpec                         17        3       19,158        3      19,158
D. Natore
Account Asst.                         14        1        8,805        1       8,805
Typist                                17        1        6,386        1       6,386
Messenger                             21        1        4,768        1       4,768
Driver 1/                             17        2       17,572        2      17,572
Driver/Helper                         17        2       12,772        2      12,772
DPHE Center Store - Total                      23      171,679       34    295,550
TOTAL Project Staffing                         36      336,295       75    747,074
1/  Salary of Tk6,386 plus Travel Allowa-c.s  of Tk2,400.
April 6, 1981.



- 69 -
BANGLADESH                                            ANNEX 4
Table 5
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
IRDP and DPHE
Incremental Staffing Costs (Tk'OOO')
Unit        Year 1          Year 2          Year 3         Incremental
Cost     No.   Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost          Cost
IRDP Headquarters
A. Office of Deputy Director
M&E Asst.                              8.8       1     8.8       1      8.8      1      8.8         26.4
Driver                                 8.8      1      8.8       1     8.8       1      8.8         26.4
Total IRDP Headquarters                          2    1TT?       2    17.6       2    17.6          52.8
DPHE Headquarters
A.  Office of Exec. Engineer
Driver                                 8.8       2    17.5       2    17.5       2    17.5          52.5
B.  Office of Asst. Eng. Tendering
Asst. Engineer                        32.0       1    32.0       1    32.0       1    32.0          96.0
Typist                                 6.4      1      6.4       1     6.4       1      6.4         19.2
Messenger                              4.8       1     4.8       1     4.8       1      4.8         14.4
C.  Office of Asst. Eng. Quality
Control and Monitoring
Asst. Engineer                        32.0       1    32.0       1    32.0       1    32.0          96.0
Typist                                 6.4      1      6.4       1     6.4       1      6.4         19.2
Messenger                              4.8       1     4.8       1     4.8       1      4.8         14.4
D.  Office of Shipping
Shipping Officer                      32.0      1    32.0        1    32.0       1    32.0          96.0
Typist                                 6.4      1      6.4       1     6.4       1      6.4         19.2
Messenger                              4.8       1     4.8       1     4.8       1      4.8         14.4
Total DPHE Headquarters                         11   147.1      11   147.1      11   147.1         441.3
DPRE Center Stores
A.  Chittagong
Driver                                 8.8       3    26.4       3    26.4       3    26.4          79.2
Driver/Helper                          6.4       3    19.1       3    19.1       3    19.1          57.3
B.  Dacca
Driver                                 8.8       2    17.6       2    17.6       2    17.6          52.8
Driver/Helper                          6.4       2    12.8       2    12.8       2    12.8          38.4
C.  Khulna
Driver                                 8.8       3    26.4       3    26.4       3    26.4          79.2
Driver/Helper                          6.4       3    19.1       3    19.1       3    19.1          57.3
D.  Natore
Account Asst.                          8.8       1     8.8       1      8.8      1      8.8         26.4
Typist                                 6.4       1     6.4       1     6.4       1      6.4         19.2
Messenger                              4.8       1     4.8       1      4.8      1      4.8         14.4
Driver                                 8.8       2    17.6       2    17.6       2    17.6          52.8
Driver/Helper                          6.4       2    12.8       2    12.8       2    12.8          38.4
Total DPHE Center Stores                       23   171.7       23   171.7      23   171.7        515.1
Total - Incremental Staff                       36   336.3      36   336.3      36   336.3       1,008.9
April 6, 1981.



- 70 -
BANGLADESH                             ANNEX 4
Table 6
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Vehicles and Equipmaent Costs by Agency for I.R.D.P. and D.P.H.E.
(Tk)
Unit Cost
C.I.F.   Duties    Other        Total   No.   Total
& Taxes   Charges
A. Vehicles
a) I.R.D.P.
Microbus                       74,304    36,037       6,620   116,961   1   116,961
b) D.P.H.E.
Car (1000 cc)                  55,305    60,836       6,968   123,109   1   123,109
Commuter (10 seater)           74,304    36,037       6,620   116,961   1   116,961
Pickup                         92,355    68,343       9,642   170,340   2   340,680
5T-Trucks                     249,840   121,172    22,261   393,273   8 3,146,184
Total Vehiclea                                                                  3,843,895
B. Maintenance and Operating Costs - Yearly
a) I.R.D.P.
Repairs                        15,000
Fuel/oil                       40,000
b) D.P.H.E.
Repairs                        96,000
Fuel/oil                      296,370
C.  Equipment                        Unit Cost    No.       Total
a) I.R.D.P.
18" typewriter (imp.)          16,000        1     16,000
18" typewriter (dom.)           6,500        1       6,500
26" typewriter                 20,000        1     20,000
Duplicating machine            25,000        1      25,000
Electric print calculator       6,500        1       6,500
Pocket calculator                 600        3       1,800
Statiso.y                                          10,000
b) D.P.H.E.
26" typewriter                 20,000        2     40,000
Paper copier                  100,000        1    100,000
Pocket Calculator                 600        2       1,200
Gastetner stencil              25,000        1      25,000
Stationery                        -          -     20,000
Total Equipment                                        272,600
D. Office Futniture
a) I.R.D.P.
Desks                           3,000        1       3,000
Revolving chairs                1,500        1       1,500
Armless chair                     400        2         800
b) D.P.H.E.
Desks                           3,000        4     12,000
Revolving chair                 1,500        4       6,000
Armless chair                     400        8      3,200
Miscellaneous                                        5,000
Total Office Furniture                                  3I,500
Total Vehicles, Equipment and Furniture                              4,147,395
Total Maintenance and Operation (yearly)                               447,370
April 6, 1981.



- 71 -
BANGLADESH                                           ANNEX 4
Ta=eT7
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Investments and Operating Costs for I.R.D.P. and D.P.H.E.
(Tk '000)
Year  1         Years  2-3          Total
Unit Cost      No.    Cost       No.   Cost       No.    Cost
Investments
A. Vehicles
Car 1000 cc.                          123.1         1       123.1      -      -        1       123.1
Microbus                              117.0         1       117.0      -      -        1       117.0
Commuter (10 seater)                  117.0         1       117.0      -      -        1       117.0
Pick-up                               170.3         2       340.6      -      -        2       340.6
5T-Trucks                             393.3         8    3,146.3       -      -        8    3,146.3
Subtotal Vehicles                                   3,844.0                            3,844.0
B. Buildings
Center Store at Natore                600.0         1       600.0     -       -                600.0
C. Office Equipment
18  typewriter (imported)              16.0         1        16.0     -       -        1        16.0
18" typewriter (dom-script)             6.5         1         6.5      -      -        1         6.5
26" typewriter                         20.0         3        60.0      -      -        3        60.0
Duplicating machine                    25.0         1        25.0      -      -        1        25.0
Gestetner stencil                      25.0         1        25.0      -      -        1        25.0
Paper copier                          100.0         1       100.0      -      -        1       100.0
Electric print calculator               6.5         1         6.5      -      -        1         6.5
Pocket calculator                       0.6         5         3.0      -      -        5         3.0
Stationery and Miscellaneous            -           -        10.0     -    10.0        -        30.0
Subtotal Equipment                                    252.0            10.0              2Y2.0
D. Office Furniture
Desk                                    3.0         5        15.0      -      -        7        15.0
Revolving chair                         1.5         5         7.5      -      -        7         7.5
Armless chair                           0.4        10         4.0      -      -       10         4.0
Miscellaneous                           -           -         5.0      -      -        -         5.0
Subtotal Furniture                                     31.5                               31.5
Total Investment Costs                              4,127.5            10.0
Operating Costs
Vehicles              1                 -           -       447.4          447.4             1,342.2
Building maintenance--                              -         9.0            9.0                27.0
Office operations                       -           -        50.0           50.0               150.0
Total Operating Costs                                 506.0          506.0             1,518.0
1/ Maintenance at 1 1/2% of capital cost per year.
April 6, 1981.



- 72 -
ANNEX 4
Table 8
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Costs of Center Store at Natore
Tk'OO0'
1/
Semi-permanent C.I. roof shed
5,000 sq. ft. @ TklOO/sq. ft.                               500
Guard shed 5" wall and C.I. roof
500 sq. ft. @ TklOO/sq. ft.                                50
Roadway (brick soling)
1,500 sq. ft. @ Tk33/sq. ft.                                 50
Total cost                                             600
1/ Corrugated Iron.
November 20, 1980.



- 73 -
ANNEX 4
BANGLADESH                                 Table 9
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Costs of Toolkits
Unit       Year  1        Year  2        Year  3           Total
Cost      -       ------------ Tk  '000' ---------------------
(Tk)      No.            No.            No.            No.
Minor Toolkit l
1.  Slide wrench             100
2.  Screwdriver                25
3.  Pull wrench                75
Total Set                200        500   100      667   133      833   167      2,000      400
Major Toolkit 2/
1.  Chain tong                600
2.  Slide wrench             300
3.  Pipe wrench - 18"        345
- 12"       210
4.  Pipe cutter               550
5.  Hacksaw w/12 blades      100
6.  Pliers                   120
7.  Screwdriver                25
8.  Hammer                     80
9.  Chain                      70
Total Set              2,000        100   200      175   350      225   450        500   1,000
Total Costs of Toolkits                   300            483             617              1,400
1/ One for every 15 farmers undergoing training.
2/ One for every 4 mechanics trained.
November 17, 1980



- 74 -
BANGLADESH
ANNEX 4
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT                              Table 10
TRAINING AND PUBLICITY COSTS
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Total
A.  TPO/DPO/Acct./PD/DPD at
Thana and District Level
No. of Thanas                         150         200         250
No. of Districts                       20          20          20
No. of Trainees 1/                    490         640         790
No. of Trainee Batches2/               10          13          16
Allowance for trainees-3/(Tk)      73,500      96,000    118,500        288,000
Honorarium for trainers- (Tk)    15,000        19,500      24,000        58,500
Stationery 4/ (Tk)                  7,350       9,600      11,850        28,800
Miscellaneous (Tk)                  2,150       2,600       2,860         7,610
Total   (Tk)                  98,000    127,700    157,210        382,910
B.  Training for Farmers -  HTW  Users
No. of Thanas  5/                     150         200         250
No. of Trainees-       6/           7,500      10,000      12,500
Allowance for trainees-7, (Tk)  375,000    500,000    625,000    1,500,000
Honorarium for trainers- (Tk)    75,000    100,000    125,000           300,000
Miscellaneous   (Tk)               15,000      20,000      25,000        60,000
Total  (Tk)                  465,000      20,000    775,000    1,860,000
C.  Training for Mechanics
No. of Thanas  8                      150         200         250
No. of Trainees-                      400         700         900
No. of Batches         9/              15          20          25
Allowance for traineesT-o/ (Tk)    60,000    105,000    135,000         300,000
Allowance for trainers-  (Tk)    13,500        18,000      22,500        54,000
Stationary 11/ (Tk)                 7,500      10,000      12,500       30,000
Miscellaneous  (Tk)                 1,500       2,000       2,500         6,000
Total  (Tk)                   82,500    135,000    1720           390,000
D. Preparation of Training Material and Publicity
Manuals-2'  (Tk)                   52,500      70,000      87,500      210,000
Booklets, Posters and
other Publicity (Tk)            120,000    180,000    240,000        540,000
Total  (Tk)                  172,500    250,000    327,500        750,000
Total Training and Publicity Costs  818,000  1.132,700  1,432,710    3,382,910
1/ Training for TPO/DPO/Acct. in each Thana, and PD/DPD in each district.
2/ Tk5O/day for 3 days course per trainee
3/ TklOO/day for 5 trainers per batch for 3 days.
4/  Tkl5/trainee.
5/ 50 Farmer-trainees per TCCA.
6/ Tk25/day per trainee for 2 days.
7/ Tk5O/day for 5 trainers for 2 days for each TCCA.
8/  5 Trainees per TCCA per year.
9/  Tk25/day per trainee for 6 days.
10/  Tk5O/day for 3 trainers for 6 days for each batch.
11/  TklO/trainee.
12/  Manuals at Tk7 each for each farmer trainee.
November 17, 1980.



- 75 -
BANGLADESH                                 ANNEX 4
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Research and Testing Component
(Tk '000')
Year 1        Year 2       Year 3       Total
No.           No.           No.
Staff-/    2/
Professor-                                   2      20    2       20    2    20           60
Graduate Engineer        3/                  2      80    2       80    2    80          240
Manual Irrigation Expert-                    1     580    1      580    -    -         1,160
Stenographer                                 1       9    1        9    1      9          27
Typist                                       1       7    1        7    1      7          21
Messenger                                    2      10    2       10    2    10           30
Driver                                       1      10    1       10    1    10           30
Admin. and Accts. Assistant                  1      10    1       10    1    10           30
Subtotal                                      726           726         146       1,598
Equipment, Furniture, and Supplies
Jeep                                         1     266    -       -      -    -          266
Bicycles for field interviewers              5      11    -       -      -    -           11
Laboratory Equipment                         -      30    -       -      -    -            30
Prototype Pumps                             30      90   15       45    -    -           135
International Freight                       30     150   15       75    -    -           225
Typewriter                                   2      13    -       -      -    -           13
Electric Print Calculator                    2      13    -       -      -    -           13
Office Furniture                             -      20    -       -      -    -           20
Office Supplies                              -       5    -        5    -      5          15
Vehicle Maintenance                          -        5    -        5    -     5           15
Lab. supplies and Industrial service         -     400    -      300    -    -            700
Subtotal                                    1,003           430         TO        1,443
Office Rental                                        100           100         100          300
Travel and Subsistence
6 International round trips                        203            67          -          270
4 Months subsistence abroad                        140            -           -           140
Local travel
Vehicle running costs                             35            35          35          105
Subsistence 4/                                    30            30          30           90
Subtotal                                      408           132          65         605
Field Evaluation of Existing Pumps
Local interviewers                                  50            50          50          150
Survey forms and other supplies                     12            12          12           36
Subtotal                                       62            62          62         186
Miscellaneous                                         115            28          15         158
Total                                       2,221                       398       4,290
1/  Staff salaries include 10% premium on government salaries for temporary nature of post.
Professor on part time (10%) basis.  Salaries include overheads.
3/ Internationally recruited consultant, 3 man-months in year 1 and 2.
4/  Subsistence for 150 man-days per year.
February 5, 1981.



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
GOB Net Contribution to Proiect Costs
(Tk millions)
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3
Project Cost Expenditures              17.3      24.2       32.7
Inflow from Farmers' Payments-
Cash Purchase 2/                       -        9.2      15.4
Downpayment 3/4/-                               5.2        8.7
Loan Repayment-                        -         -        17.5
Net GOB Contribution (Sub-Total)       17.3        9.8      (8.9)
1/ Inflows delayed by one year to reflect true burden on GOB budget.
2/ 15% of HTWs and Toolkits sold.
3/ 10% of HTWs and Toolkits purchased on MT credit (85%).
4/ Excluding interest payments.
April 13, 1981.



BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Locus of Benefit-Cost Switching Values
51
49
42
o    35
28
8~~~-      - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -  --   -- - -- - -- - -
21                                                                4+
14                                                                    K
t             >
7
+
+
0                                                                 +
-1         -5         -9          -13         -16        -20         -24         -27        -31
Percentage Shortfall In Benefits
Legend                                                                                                P z
*+  + = Maximum Expected Fall in Benefits is 20.0%                                                     I J
Maximum Expected Rise in Costs is    25.0%
- -~  Target Yield of 0.0%; Benefit Switching Point is -31.2%; Cost Switching Point is 45.3%.



- 78 -
ANNEX 5
Table 1
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Financial and Economic Prices
A. Crops and Seeds
Financial                         Economic
Seeds         Crops               Seeds         Crops
(Tk/seer)     (Tk/mnd)            (Tk/seer)      (Tk/mnd)
Paddy              2.6           105                  3.8           155
Wheat              2.5           100                  4.4 1/        175
Potatoes           1.1            45                  0.8 1/         34
Chillies           8.7           345                  6.5           259
Pulses 2/        2.4/4.3          95/170           1.8/3.2 1/        71/127
Oiloced8i          4.4           175                 10.3           410
Jute               4.4           135                  7.7           183
Vegetables 1/      1.1 3/         45                  0.8 1/3/       34
B.  Fertilizers and Pesticide
Tk/seer                           Tk/seer
Urea                             2.3                                4.2
TSP                              1.8                                5.0
MP                               1.4                                3.3
Manure (Tk/mnd)                  2.3                                1.7 1/
Pesticide 4/                    84                               252   4/
C.  Animal Power and Wages
Tk                                Tk
Animal Power/pair day             25                                 18.8 6/
Hired Labor/man-day 5/            10                                  5.1 7/
1/  Nontraded commodities adjusted by SCF = .75.
2/  The quality of pulses grown with the HTW   (Tkl7O/mnd) is better than
that grown without the HTW   tTk90/mnd).
3/ Crop price equivalent.
4/  Pesticides used are subsidized at about 67%.  Therefore, the price used
in the economic analysis is taken at 3 times the financial price.
5/  One man-day of pumping is equal to 5 hours; cultural work, 8 hours.
6/  Adjusted by SCF = .75.
7/  The economic price of labor is taken at 68% of the financial price,
adjusted by the SCF = .75.
April 13, 1981.



- 79-
ANNEX 5
Table 2
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Price of Internationally Traded Commodities, 1982-90 average
for Economic Analysis
Commodity
Oil
Item                                     Paddy   Wheat   Jute   Seeds   Urea   TSP   MP
1.  Projected Avg. 1982-90 World Market
Rice price (US$/ton)l/ 2/                  555     241      495    642     257   217   109
2.  Adjustments for quality differentials   -167=A      -        -      -        -     -     -
3.  Projected price adjusted for
quality (US$/ton)                      388      241     495    642      257   217   109
4.  Shipping costs to/from                                                        5/
Chittagong (US$/ton)                   +37      +59      -      +44     +15-  +59   +59
5.  FOB/CIF Chittagong price (US$/ton)         425     300      495    686     272   276   168
4/
6. Handling and Transport-/cost between
the Port and the Wholesale Market/
Main Godowns (US$/ton)                 +50      +44     -63    +50      -25   +25   +25
7.  Market/Ex-Godowns price (US$/ton)          475     344      432    736     247   301   193
8.  Processing, handling-/and transport
costs between the Wholesale
Market/Godown and the Farm Gate
(US$/ton)                              -76      -51     -51    -51      +30   +30   +30
9.  Farm Gate Price (US$/ton)                  399     293      381    685     277   331   223
10.  Processing Ratio (%)                        65     100       80    100      100   100   100
11.  Farm Gate Price adjusted for
processing losses (US$/ton)             259     293     305    685      277   331   223
12.  (Tk/md)                                    155     175      183    410     166   198   133
1/ Source: IBRD Price forecasts dated November 1980. The forecasts are in 1980 constant
dollars.
2/  Pricing Basis:  Rice    : Thai, milled 5% broken, FOB Bangkok.
Wheat      Canadian No. 1 Western Red Spring, ex-store Thunder Bay.
Jute    : Bangladesh white D.FOB Chittagong/Chalna.
Oilseeds:  Groundnuts, shelled, cif Europe.
Urea    : Bagged, FOB Europe.
TSP     : FOB US Gulf.
MP      : FOB Vancouver.
3/  For 25-35% broken.  A 30% discount is taken.
4/ Costs established by a GOB study of these costs and adjusted by SCF = .75.
/  Assuming Bangladesh would be an exporter and because of proximity to markets in
South Asia would command a Drice advantage over Eurovean suvpliers.
February 5, 1981.



BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Economic Benefit and Cost Stream
(Tk '000')
Benefits-/                                                 Costs-
Increment;l                  Net
1/               Drinking                     HTW                                              Working                  Econoraic
Year -   Irrigation      Water       Total      Production  Overheads   Farm Inputs Farm Labor    Capital 21    Total        Beoefits
1             0.00         0.00         0.00   5o001.00       9534.94         0.00         0.00    30744.00    90297.84   -90297.34
2         70982.00      1750.00    7Z732.00    75029.00       5064.13    31172.00    30318.00    4393G.00   1e5517.13  -112765.13
3        199259.00      4375.00   203633.00   100039.00       5437.13    73569.00    7579o.00    59743.0c   314578.13  -110945.13
4        3ss739.00      7875.00   403014.00         0.00         .c*    132423.00   136422.00         0.00   2s8845.00   13476S.00
*5        472084.00      7875.00   479939.00         0.00         0.00   132423.00   136422.00          o.oo   268645.00   211094.00
s        515667.00      7875.00   523562.00         0.00         0.00   132423.00   136422.00           0.00   zGe845.00   254717.00
7        515687.00      7875.00   523532.00         0.00         0.00   132423.00   136422.00           0.00   260845.00   254717.00          1
8        5156a7.00      7875.00   523562.C0         0.00         0.00   132423.0c   136422.00          .0.00   268845.00   25A717.00          0
9        515667.00      7875.00   523562.00         0.00         0.00   132423.00   136422.00           0.00   26845.00   254717.00          o
10       515G87.00      7875.00   5235G2.00         0.00         0.0o   132423.00   136422.00           0.00   268845.00   254717.00          I
11       515687.00      7075.00   523562.00         0.00         0.00   132423.00   136422.00           o.00   268845.00   254717.00
12       401089.00      7875.00   408964.00         0.CIO        0.00   1029SG.00   10IO06.00           0.00   209102.00   199862.00
13       z22194.00      7875.00   237069.00         0.00         0.00    50854.00    60632.00  -134423.00   -14937.00   252006.00
NPV ot 12% - Tk658 M
ERR - 44%
1/  All benefits, and costs, except investment costs (HTW  production and overheads), for purposes of this economic analysis
only,are deferred by one year along with the introduction of a dummy incremental working capital stream, to adjust for the
approximate semi-annual nature of the crops involved. This methodology is outlined in "Methodology of Farm Investment
Analysis", by Walter Shaefer-Kehnert, CN-67.
2/  The dummy incremental working capital for each year is equal to 50% of the difference between nonsinvestment costs
(i.e. farm inputs and labor) for each year and the following year. These costs are then recovered in the last year.
April 8, 1981.



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
Table 1
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Millions)
Calendar Year/Quarter                               Disbursements
Quarterly      Cumulative
1981/1
1981/2
1981/3                                           0.1              0.1
1981/4                                           1.1              1.2
1982/1                                           1.1              2.3
1982/2                                           1.2              3.5
1982/3                                           1.4              4.9
1982/4                                           1.5              6.4
1983/1                                           1.6              8.0
1983/2                                           1.6              9.6
1983/3                                           1.7             11.3
1983/4                                           1.7             13.0
1984/1                                           2,0             15.0
1984/2                                           2.0             17.0
1984/3                                           0.6             17.6
1984/4                                           0.2             17.8
1985/1                                           0.2             18.0
April 6, 1981.



-82-
ANNEX 6
Table 2
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Detailed Disbursement Allocation
(US$  '000')
Direct Foreign Costs                    Other  Costs                         Total
Costs   Financing  Disburse-   Costs   Financing  Disburse-   Costs   Financing  Disburse-
Category                               Ratio (%)    ment                  Ratio (%)    ment                  Ratio (%)    ment
1. Imported Raw Material
and G. I. pipes           13,250      100        13,250       6,750       -           -         20,000       -        13,250
2.  Local Fabrication             -         -           -         3,000        70        2,100       3,000       -         2,100
3.  Distribution                  -         -           -            700       -           -           700       -            -
4. IRDP and DPHE
Vehicles and Equipment        200     100           200         150       -            _           350       -           200
5. Staff Salaries and
Allowances                   -          -           -            75       -           -             75       -           -
6. Maintenance and
Operation                    -         -            -           120       -           -            120       -           -
7.  Civil Works                   -         -           -            45        70           32          45       -            32
8.  Research and Testing          140      100          140         150      100           150         290       -           290
9.  Technical Assistance          430      100          430         -         -            -           430       -           430
10.  Training and Publicity        -         -           -            260       -           -           260       -            -
11.  Toolkits                      -         -           -             88       60           50          88       -            50
12. TCCA Marketing and
Adm. margin                  -          -           -         2,400       -           -          2,400       -           -
13.  Unallocated                1,150        -         1,150       1,230       -            498       2,380       -         1,648
Total               15,170                15,170      14,968                  2,830      3                     18,000
April 7, 1981.



- 83 -
ANNEX 7
Table 1
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Incremental Medium Term Credit Requirements
(TK millions)
1981/82          *1982/83         1984/85           Total
MT Credit Requirements                44.60             66.93            89.21            200.74
Mostil/                             44.37             66.56            88.74            199.67
Tool Kits/                           0.23              0.37             0.47              1.07
Credit Repayments Due                                    6.63            24.94             31.57
Regular3/                             -                6.63            23.06             29.69
Past Due (25% of previous due)        -                1.66             6.24              7.90
Interest on Overdue                                    0.22             0.81              1.03
Actual Repayments (75% of 3.0)                           4.97            18.71             23.68
Incremental MT Credit Required        44.60             61.96            70.50            177.06
$million (@ TK 16)                   2.79              3.87             4.41             11.07
/  85% of each year sales would be on credit; average price at TCCA assumed to be TK 1450. Down
2/ payment of 10%.
-  85% of sales on credit.  Down payment of 10%.
-   Repayable in equal annual installments at 13% interest,



- 84 -
ANNEX 7
BANGLADESH                                   Table 2
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Seasonal Flow of Funds-
Year 1                       Year 2
Model I               Nov.-March   April-Oct.       Nov.-March   April-Oct.
Outflow:                2,863           917           1,128           917
Inflow:                   -           2,056           2,312         2,313
HTW Loan Receipt        1,494           -               -             _
Debt Service              -             -               633           -
Net Inflow        -1,369         1,139             551        1 396
Model II
Outflow:                2,359           975             979           975
Inflow:                   -           2,230           2,477         2,509
HTW Loan Receipt        1,188           -               -             -
Debt Service              -             -               503           _
Net Inflow        -1,171         1,255             995        1,534
Model III
Outflow:                2,498           917           1,118           917
Inflow:                   -           1,845           2,050         2,076
HTW Loan Receipt        1,188           -               -             -
Debt Service              -             -               503           -
Net Inflow        -1,310           928             429        1,159
Model IV
Outflow:                2,075           608             695           608
Inflow:                   -           1,564           1,369         1,759
HTW Loan Receipt        1,188           -               -             -
Debt Service              -             -               503           -
Net Inflow          -887           956             171        1,151
1/ For all practical purposes, the growing season can be divided into
two distinct parts; Aus and Aman crops are grown from March/April
through October, and the other crops from November through March.
November 18, 1980.



- 35 -
ANNEX 7
Table 3
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Credit Operations
Medium Term Interest Rate Structure
IRDP
Current 1/           Proposed 2/
BB to Sonali                             2                    6
Sonali to TCCA                           5 1/2                7 1/2
TCCA Margin                        + 3                   + 3
TCCA to KSS                              8 1/2               10 1/2
KSS Margin                          +1                   + 1
KSS Loan Commission                   1 1/2                1
Bad Debt at KSS                     +2                     1 1/2
KSSto Members                           13                   14
1/  As applicable under the IDA assisted RD I and STW projects and
the UNICEF assisted HTW project which were the only MT credit
programs in IRDP until 1980.
2/  As proposed under recently appraised IDA assisted Agricultural
Credit Project.
April 6, 1981.



- 86 -
BANGLADESH                               ANNEX 8
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECTS
WORKING PAPERS
1     Groundwater Conditions
2     Water Lifting
Documents in Project File
Survey on Maintenance and Condition of Public/Government handpump
Tubewells in Rural Bangladesh: May 1970
Small Scale Irrigation - I Project US Aid Project No. 388-0019:
June 1980
Audit of the MOSTI Account - IRDP:  June 1980
UNDP Project Document: Laboratory Testing of Rural Water Supply
Hand Pumps: Undated.
-UNICF - Hand Tubewells for Irrigation Purposes:  February 1975
Planning Commission, Bangladesh Minutes of Review Meeting on
Progress of Implementation of Hand Tubewells Project: November
1979
Choice of Ground Water Irrigation Technology in Bangladesh-
L.M. Hannah, The Bangladesh Development Studies, IV October
1976
Hand Pump Irrigation in Bangladesh:  A Comment by M.A.S. Mandal.
The Bangladesh Development Studies VI, 1978.
Handpump Tubewells for Irrigation Purposes:  Current Developments
and Recommended Actions; UNICEF Dacca, February 1975
- Training Manual for Hana Pump Caretakers - (in Bengali)
Manually Operated Shallow Tubewells for Irrigation (MOSTI).  Dis-
tribution Procedure: IRDP in Cooperation with UNICEF
Final Report on the Utilization/ Evaluation of an AID Hand-Operated
Water Pump: Project A-1894 Contract-document AID/ta-c-1354-
Georgia Institute of Technology, 1979.
Field Report on Irrigation by Hand Tubewells:  Nizam U. Ahmed,
USAID Dacca, 1975
Proposed Plan of Action for the Maintenance of Rural Water Supply
and Sanitation System in Bangladesh - September 1978
Proposed Subsidiary Plan of Action for the Maintenance of Rural
Handpump Tubewells in Bangladesh: September 1978
DPHE Data and Documents for MOSTI II Project (Including proforma
tender documents, specifications for handpumps, strainers and
pipes, proforma carriage contracts and training schedules).
Project Digest on Manually Operated Hand Tube Wells for Irrigation
(MOSTI) - 2nd Phase: Planning Division, IRDP, August 1980



-I                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BANGLADESH
A~~-'~~_  [2~~~                                                               MAJOR  HYDROLOGICAL REGIONS AND
MAXIMUM DEPTH OF GROUNDWATER
4,
'~~i  -ii                   H,,IH,,OOnOIOOOr  ~        ~     ~    ~ ~      ~~~-yd-lbnO-  Re0r-r RB.-rd, 
Doe                                                                                                -   M ooN,,    DnpE,rrF  GrnonTw IreA2
Oor.r                                         -~~~~~reTn'OnonR~IL  nor'S. Proow,erp                                            o Ao'
rrownss.               ~npvRnOrnR0nOPR~"RO&OOLE                                                                          Deep-rPrrn-A-e
a  A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
'N                                                                 Ns...,                    rAER Ooo5RLOOROU2Roe
2    rrw'                                                             Oe  nos rOHOO                                               eono  o L4He,rZ,grer~    ene   oe
~~   Rensrr,        $0                              rjEnOer)o njoorJe                                       -  ""now  Sorodor ee~~~~~~IN   Fj 
RReO.~.                         nr'R IenO e NOTOEO weoso OSI
K0o.,  ,  - ~ '             BeN',OrEROL0IJO nET F non,S rrr  nodore
N  . 'D ''"                                       ''                                      oOourRNRH R000                                      .      nen,oo   oro,e
t  r~~~rnrtB~~  -    Per   ON           N              0 non. 000
eNO err So ~ ~ ~     ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         ~         r
I A ~       ~           ~           r      ee i
'5 '0.'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~B        



