Document of
The World Bank                   FILE C Opy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3032-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATlON
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AS SOC IATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
April 20, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket
of reference currencies, with the Pound Sterling serving as
intervention currency. On February 26, 1981, the exchange
rate was set at Tk 37.10 buying and Tk 37.20 selling per Pound
Sterling. Depending on exchange rate movements between Sterling
and the US Dollar, the Taka/Dollar cross rate is subject to
change. For the past five months, this rate has fluctuated at
levels slightly above Tk 16/US$. Throughout this paper, the
rates shown below have been used:
US$1          =   Tk 16.0
Tk 1          =   US$0.0625
Tk 1 million  =   US$62,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre                        =   0.405 hectares
1 cubic foot per second       =   0.0283 cubic meters per second
1 foot (ft)                   =   30.5 centimeters
1 metric ton (ton)                26.8 maunds
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONDIS USED
BADC      -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BKB       -  Bangladesh Krishi Bank
BUET      -  Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
DPHE      -  Department of Public Health and Engineering
DTW       -  Deep tubewell
GI        -  Galvanized iron
GOB       -  Government of Bangladesh
GPM       -  gallons per minute
HTW       -  Eland tubewell
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
IRDP      -  Integrated Rural Development Program
KSS       -  Village Cooperative Society (Krishi Samabay Samiti)
LCB       -  Local Competitive Bidding
LLP       -  Low Lift Pump
MLGRD&C   -  Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development,
and Cooperatives
MTFPP     -  Medium Term Foodgrain Production Plan
SSIP      -  Small Scale Irrigation Project
STW       -  Shallow tubewell
TCCA      -  Thana Central Cooperative Association
UNICEF    -  United Nations Children's Fund
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:                People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:                  SDR 14.8 million (US$18.0 million equivalent).
Terms:                   Standard.
Project Description:    The project would provide for:  (a) the manufacture
and distribution of 180,000 hand tubewells; (b) the
purchase of tool kits for installation and maintenance
of hand tubewells; (c) medium term credit to enable
farmers to purchase hand tubewells and tool kits; (d)
research and testing of appropriate hand tubewell
equipment to develop design improvements to increase
efficiency; and (e) procedural training of IRDP and
TCCA staff and simple technical training for village
mechanics and farmers. Some 135,000 farm families
would benefit from hand tubewell irrigation and
improved domestic water supply, while another 45,000
farm families would use the hand tubewell principally
for meeting domestic needs. The project faces no
major risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost:                                          Local    Foreign    Total
-------(US$ million)-----
Incremental Staff/
Vehicles/Equipment/
Buildings/Operation
and Maintenance/Tool Kits  0.2         0.2         0.4
Hand Tubewells                 9.1       11.6       20.7
Research and Testing           0.1        0.1         0.2
Technical Assistance            -         0.4         0.4
Training and Publicity         0.2         -          0.2
Sub-total                   9.6      12.3        21.9
Physical Contingencies         0.5        0.6         1.1
Price Contingencies            3.8        3.3        7.1
Total Project Cost /a    13.9        16.2        30.1
Financing Plan:                                          Local    Foreign    Total
IDA                            1.8       16.2       18.0
Government                     8.6         -          8.6
Farmers                        3.5         -          3.5
Total                      13.9      16.2        30.1
Estimated IDA
Disbursement:                               FY82     FY83      FY84      FY85
Annual               3.5       6.1       7.4      1.0
Cumulative           3.5       9.6      17.0     18.0
Economic Rate of
Return:                44%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 3280-BD, dated April 20, 1981
/a   The cost estimates include taxes and duties of US$7.5 million equivalent.
Small discrepancies are due to rounding.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED
CREDIT TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A HAND TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 14.8 million
(the equivalent of US$18.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help finance a
project for hand tubewells.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Current Economic Situation
and Review of the Second Five-Year Plan (Report No. 3309-BD, dated February
23, 1981) has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.        The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.
With its economy already disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged
by the struggle for independence, the country was afflicted by poor harvests
in FY72 and FY73 and by devastating floods in 1974. Foodgrain output fell
drastically and recovered to the pre-independence level only in FY76; foodgrain
imports averaging over two million tons per year were required between FY72
and FY75 to maintain foodgrain consumption near minimum requirements. Aggre-
gate output in manufacturing recovered to the pre-independence level only in
FY75, as the sector needed to overcome the destruction and disruption caused
by the struggle for independence and, in its aftermath, the departure of
skilled labor and managers and widespread shortages of spare parts and
crucial inputs. The production of jute, the predominant export commodity,
declined sharply, and the terms of trade deteriorated. Inflation, declining
real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and political instability
added to the difficulties. In these early years, Bangladesh's policy makers
were by necessity almost entirely preoccupied with matters of relief and
rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out of a provincial
administration.
4.        Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the last decade provided planners and policy makers the opportunity to
turn their attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of
development. It was not until FY75 that GDP recovered to the pre-independence
level, but between FY75 and FY80, it has increased by about 30% in real terms
(or about 5.5% p.a.), despite serious setbacks in agricultural production in
FY77 and again in FY79 and FY80. Output in manufacturing (as measured by the
production index for large and medium-scale industries) rose by about 7.5%
annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place outside the
jute industry. The late 1970s may be seen, therefore, as a period of economic
consolidation. The Two-Year Plan (FY79-FY80) was intended as an opportunity
to complete this economic consolidation and to reconsider development priori-
ties before the country embarked on its Second Five-Year Plan (FY81-FY85).



- 2 -
5.        The last two years have also brought significant political change.
From 1975 until March 1979, Bangladesh had been governed under martial law.
In elections held in February 1979, 29 political parties and groups contested
300 seats in the National Assembly. Roughly two thirds of the seats were won
by the Bangladesh National Party (BNP) headed by President Ziaur Rahman, who
had won the presidential election in June 1978. Thirty additional seats,
reserved for women, were subsequently filled by the BNP. Following the
convening of the new Parliament in March 1979, martial law was lifted and a
new cabinet appointed.
Recent Developments and Short-term Outlook
6.        Economic growth slowed substantially in FY79 and FY80, but has risen
rapidly in the first half of this year (FY81). Mostly as the result of a
record grain crop (13.1 million tons) and a 10% increase in industrial output,
GDP had increased by nearly 8% (in real terms) in FY78. But the experience of
FY79 and FY80 again demonstrated the vulnerability of the Bangladesh economy
to unfavorable weather conditions. A severe and prolonged drought affected
adversely four successive rice crops as well as the size and quality of the
FY80 jute crop; this had significant repercussions throughout the economy.
The shortfall in foodgrain supplies led to a rapid rise in rice prices, and
inflation accelerated to an annual rate of about 18% in the first half of
FY80. The rate of growth of GDP fell considerably and inequity in income
distribution increased as lower income groups were affected more severely by
the foodgrain shortages and fast-rising prices than the middle and higher
income groups. The balance of payments, which still had been in overall
surplus in FY79, deteriorated markedly in FY80, mainly as a consequence of
costly food and petroleum purchases. GDP growth in FY79 and FY80 averaged
no more than 4.5% p.a.; with population growth still estimated at about 2.7%
annually, average incomes improved only moderately. In the current year, good
weather and expanded utilization of modern inputs are being reflected in a new
record level of foodgrain production (projected at 15.1 million tons), and GDP
is expected to rise by about 7%.
7.        The disappointing overall performance in FY79 and FY80 somewhat over-
shadowed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy steps during
this period. These included: (i) the successful mobilization and distribu-
tion of nearly 2 million tons of imported foodgrains in the first half of
FY80; (ii) continued rapid growth in wheat production and in fertilizer
consumption; (iii) a variety of policy measures taken to improve agricultural
input availabilities, to maintain incentive output prices for farmers, to
strengthen the administration of the family planning program, and to foster
a more active role by the private sector; (iv) increased capacity utilization
in several industries; (v) improved budgetary performance, reflecting a
strengthened tax administration, some reductions in subsidies and discipline
in curtailing current expenditures; (vi) substantial growth in non-traditional
exports and in workers' remittances; (vii) exchange rate adjustments and other
measures taken to encourage exports; and (viii) the conclusion of a Standby
Arrangement with the IMF. In December 1980, Bangladesh concluded a SDR 800
million EFF with the IMF.



8.        The growth of foodgrain production has become a principal concern of
Bangladesh's political leadership and economic planners. The Second Five-Year
Plan (SFYP), issued in draft form in May 1980, gives top priority to the expan-
sion of foodgrain production, aiming at self-sufficiency in foodgrains by the
end of the Plan period. The experience of FY79 and early FY80, when the severe
drought (combined with a major slippage in expected foodgrain imports) caused
a dangerous erosion of food stocks in the country and required an all-out
effort by the administration to avert a major famine, served to highlight the
importance of reducing the threat of crop failures and widespread starvation.
FY80 as a whole was a year in which food production and procurement were low,
while food imports, offtake from the public distribution system, domestic
foodgrain market prices, the budgetary deficit on the food account, and the
Government's expenditure of its own foreign exchange for commercial purchases
of food were all extremely high. By the autumn of 1980, however, the food-
grain situation had changed to one of relative abundance, and public food-
grain stocks stood at an all-time record level on the eve of an aman harvest
which also promised to reach an all-time high. Already by that time, food-
grain prices had fallen considerably and a principal concern of the Government
was to expand its storage and handling capacities fast enough to permit a
correspondingly record procurement effort. The immediate problem is two-fold;
how to cope, physically and financially with the unexpectedly abundant sup-
plies; and how to achieve a procurement level sufficient to prevent market
prices from falling so far that incentives to future production would be
diminished.
9.        Thus, in contrast to FY80, FY81 promises to be a year in which
production, procurement, and stock levels will be high while food imports
and offtake through the ration system will be relatively low. To a large
extent, the increased production in FY81 has been attributable to favorable
weather, but the Government deserves credit for a large part of the improved
performance attributable to increased investment in irrigation and other
agricultural infrastructure, increased capacity utilization, and improved
input delivery. In the realm of food policy, moreover, significant progress
has been made in reducing the extent of statutory rationing, changing the
ration mix, raising the ration price, expanding procurement facilities,
reducing input subsidies, and in privatizing the distribution of inputs.
The Balance of Payments
10.       The 1979 foodgrain shortage was reflected also in the balance of
payments. The need to finance commercial purchases of foodgrain imports led
the Government to be cautious in the implementation of other imports which
fell considerably below targets. In FY80 the current account deficit widened
considerably, primarily due to large increases in the volume and price of
foodgrain imports and to price increases for imported crude oil and petroleum
products. At US$250 million, reserves at the end of FY80 were equivalent to
little more than one month's projected FY81 imports. In the current year,
the balance of payments is under severe pressure, notwithstanding the avail-
ability of EFF resources, in large part due to declining jute goods prices,
higher POL prices, and a shortfall in commodity aid availabilities. A par-
ticularly crucial determinant of the FY82 balance of payments as well as
budgetary outlook will be the extent of commodity aid availabilities. The
pipeline of commodity aid in particular has been very severely depleted over
the past two years.



-4-
11.       Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive
structural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings
in FY80 represented less than 6% of GDP and less than one-third of the import
bill. Moreover, Bangladesh's exports continue to be dominated by raw jute and
jute goods, which together account for approximately 70% of total export
earnings. Exceptionally large food imports in FY80 accounted for 26% of total
imports; this share is expected to fall to about 10% in FY81. Capital goods
imports have risen rapidly in recent years and currently account for over
one-fourth of total imports. Petroleum and petroleum product imports have
increased very slowly in volume since the early 1970s; but their import bill
currently accounts for about 20% of total imports, and is equivalent to about
one-third of export earnings.
12.       The current account deficit in recent years ($1.5 billion in FY80)
has been considerably smaller than the trade deficit, owing mainly to the
rapid growth of workers' remittances from the Middle East. These receipts are
now the second most important source of foreign exchange earnings, exceeded
only by jute goods exports. Significant developments in the capital account
were the US$100 million increase in project aid disbursements in FY79 and
again in FY80, reflecting in part the country's growing absorptive capacity.
Total aid disbursements in FY80 were US$1.23 billion, equivalent to 52% of
total merchandise imports. Debt service payments were US$93 million in FY80.
Some debt relief measures undertaken by various donors contributed to a
decline in the debt service ratio from 15.8% in FY79 to about 13% in FY80.
13.       In early FY80, the IMF approved a Standby Arrangement for a period
of one year in an amount equivalent to SDR 85 million. Net of repayments, and
including disbursements from the IMF Trust Fund and new SDR allocations, the
IMF covered about US$60 million of Bangladesh's external financing require-
ments in FY80. In addition, Bangladesh has made extensive use of Fund
resources under the oil and compensatory financing facility. The financial
program agreed under the Standby Arrangement was designed to limit the expan-
sion in overall domestic credit. While the monetary targets embodied in the
financial program had to be revised upwards in midyear, the goals of the
program were largely met. The specific ceilings in the program on credit to
the public sector were exceeded, however, largely because of unanticipated
deficit financing by the Government in the last month of FY80. Under the
current EFF, Bangladesh expects net IMF financing in the current fiscal year
to exceed US$200 million, inclusive of Trust Fund loans and SDR allocations.
14.       The terms of trade remained essentially unchanged in FY80 as rising
export prices for jute goods helped offset the impact of rising petroleum and
other import prices. Total FY80 merchandise exports increased by about 21%
and imports by over 55% in value; foodgrain and petroleum purchases alone
accounted for over three-quarters of the increase in imports. The FY80
current account deficit was largely covered by disbursements of approximately
US$375 million in food aid, US$400 million in commodity aid and US$470 million
in project aid--total aid disbursements roughly 20% more than in FY79. In
addition, however, reserves were drawn down by some US$150 million.
15.       The FY81 balance of payments situation, as noted above, is precarious.
The terms of trade are projected to deteriorate markedly, reflecting mainly
an expected fall in jute goods export prices and a continuing rise in import



prices. At present, the Government faces the difficult prospect of having to
choose between a further reduction in reserves and the containment of imports
to less-than-targeted levels.
Public Finance
16.       Government finances improved considerably in FY79.  However, in
FY80, the budget came under some stress, largely as a result of expenditures
for investments in food stocks and a shortfall in commodity aid receipts.
The budgetary situation will continue to remain tight in FY81 for the same
reasons and the growth of development expenditures is likely to be restrained.
Further improvements in the mobilization of domestic resources are needed if
the ratio of public investment to GDP is to be raised above the level of
recent years.
17.       The task ot raising additional domestic resources is wide-ranging,
involving a broadening of the tax base and a strengthening of public sector
business enterprises and utilities as well as a reduction of the major sub-
sidies on food and fertilizer. The latter task has to be carried out with
due regard for both equity and production considerations. Reflecting its
growing awareness of the problem, the Government appointed a Taxation Enquiry
Commission in 1977 and five special committees in 1978 to review various
aspects of public financial resource mobilization. The five committees
reviewed, respectively: (i) gradual elimination of the food subsidy; (ii)
rationalization of the rate structure of public transport agencies; (iii)
economic pricing by public utilities; (iv) reduction in agricultural input
subsidies, including the fertilizer subsidy; and (v) improvement in the
financial performance of public sector enterprises. The committees have
concluded their work, and the final report of the Taxation Enquiry Commission
was submitted to the Government in April 1979.
18.       A start has been made in implementing some of the recommendations
of these advisory groups and of the measures suggested by the report of the
Taxation Enquiry Commission, especially those in regard to tax administration.
In the course of FY79 and FY80, the Government raised foodgrain ration prices,
several utility rates, and commodity sales prices of public sector enterprises.
Fertilizer prices, for example, were increased by an average of 28% in August
1979 and a further 24% in November 1980; and petroleum product prices were
raised by up to 45% in November 1979. Issue prices for foodgrains from the
public distribution system were increased in May 1979 and again in May 1980 by
a combined 40%, as the Government began to move toward a gradual elimination
of the foodgrain subsidy. In some cases, these price adjustments only kept up
with inflation, but in others--notably the fertilizer subsidy--they served to
reduce the subsidy per unit of product in real terms. Petroleum product
prices were raised by a further 45% in mid-1980--an adjustment which should
serve to eliminate the subsidy on this account during FY81.
19.       The Government is expected to incorporate the essential long-term
recommendations of the various review committees concerning the reduction of
subsidies and the rationalization of the pricing policies of public sector
enterprises and utilities into a comprehensive fiscal strategy paper for the
SFYP period by April 1981. This strategy paper will set out a time-phased



-6 -
action program for fiscal policy measures and other steps to improve the
mobilization of public sector financial resources for the financing of the
development program embodied in the SFYP.
20.       In FY80, Government revenues increased considerably more than cur-
rent expenditures, resulting in a substantial increase in the current surplus.
This favorable fiscal performance was accompanied, however, by a net erosion
in the financial position of the public enterprises and corporations, by a
very large increase in expenditures to build up food stocks, and by a large
shortfall (from the budgeted amount) in commodity aid receipts. The net
consequence was that a large (31%) increase in development expenditure was
able to be sustained only because the Government undertook unplanned deficit
financing amounting to Tk 3 billion, equivalent to 9% of total Government
expenditure. Although public savings are expected to increase markedly in
the current year, the budget is under severe stress. This is mainly because
of a projected further large increase in expenditures on food stocks, and
shortfalls (relative to budgeted levels) in food as well as commodity aid
receipts. The Government therefore faces the prospect that unless it effects
substantial cuts in targeted development expenditures (projected in the budget
to rise by a further 31% in current prices), it will have to resort to much
larger bank financing than is consistent with established credit ceilings
and monetary policy objectives.
21.       Inflationary pressures, which had re-emerged in FY78 (sparked pri-
marily by excessive liquidity creation by the banking system) continued into
FY79 and gained force in the latter part of the year when rice prices rose
very rapidly. The cost-of-living index for urban consumers rose by 19%
between June 1978 and June 1979, pushed by a 48% increase in average rice
prices; most of this rise occurred in the last months of the year. Rice prices
levelled off in the second half of 1979, and the inflationary pressure eased
considerably during FY80. As of June 1980, the cost-of-living index was about
12% above the June 1979 level, with overall liquidity (money supply plus time
and savings deposits) expanding by some 16% for the year ending June 1980.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
22.       FY79 and FY80 constituted the period of the Two-Year Plan, which
was meant to provide an opportunity for policy reappraisal and for prepara-
tion of the Second Five-Year Plan. In the process of preparing the Plan, its
authors addressed the factors underlying the slow development of the economy
over the past decade. These include poor land use, insufficient irrigation
and flood control, inadequate administrative capacity, low domestic resource
mobilization, and social impediments to change. The planners also analyzed
the problems posed by the basic structural characteristics of the economy:
an environment prone to natural disasters; poor physical capital stock; a
high rate of population growth; mass poverty; a highly skewed distribution of
income and land ownership; a high ratio of population to land; extreme frag-
mentation of landholdings and growing landlessness of the predominantly rural
population; high illiteracy; poor health and short life expectancy; high
unemployment and underemployment and scarce employment possibilities outside
agriculture; and a heavy dependence on foreign aid, not only for investment
financing, but also for food and other recurrent inputs.



- 7 -
23.       The Second Five-Year Plan accords top priority to three major
efforts: (i) achievement of self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with
domestic foodgrain production targeted to increase to an annual amount of 20
million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the population growth rate with a view
of bringing the net reproduction rate down to unity by the year 1990; and
(iii) progress towards mass literacy through the vehicle of free, universal
primary education. Enhanced priority is also to be given to energy develop-
ment, particularly through exploiting known reserves of natural gas.
24.       The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Yields and cropping intensity are well below potential levels,
fertilizer application rates are modest, and the available surface and ground-
water would permit a substantial expansion of irrigation. There is large
unsatisfied demand for irrigation; where irrigation is available, the increase
in fertilizer use and the shift to high-yielding varieties of rice and from
dry season rice to wheat have been widespread and rapid. The growth of fer-
tilizer consumption and of wheat acreage and production during the past few
years have been among the most notable positive developments in Bangladesh
agriculture and justify some optimism concerning the ability of the country
to achieve self-sufficiency in foodgrains in the foreseeable future. The
Government has formulated, with assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain
Production Plan which provides an investment portfolio geared towards the
attainment of the SFYP target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. 1/ While the
feasibility of this target is beyond doubt, its achievement will be possible
only if the Government demonstrates the determination and capacity to allocate
the resources required to provide the inputs needed by the farmers, and to
permit the private sector to play a substantial role in the provision and
servicing of modern agricultural implements and inputs. Other necessary
requirements are adequate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs,
improved farmer extension and training, and appropriate farm income and
incentive levels. Without suitable attention to these latter factors, farmers
demand for inputs could soon start to level off.
25.       Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus far.
Recent projections 2/ indicate that, unless the net reproduction rate is brought
down more rapidly than present trends indicate, the population of Bangladesh,
estimated at almost 90 million in January 1980, could rise to 143 million by
the year 2000. Birth control efforts in Bangladesh have suffered thus far
from poor implementation and have had only limited success. Recently there
has been some encouraging progress, however. The coordination of birth control
activities within the Government is improving, while training programs for field
staff have been revised and are now, for the first time, considered adequate.
GOB has decided to prepare a medium term implementation plan for population
and the Bank has agreed to provide technical assistance in preparing this plan.
1/   The MTFPP target is flexibly set at the 18-20 million tons range, allow-
ing for a 10% shortfall due to adverse weather or other factors beyond
the control of the implementing agencies.
2/   IBRD projections prepared for the World Development Report 1980.



26.       Vigorous pursuit of the measures that have been identified to improve
performance should enable GOB to come gradually to grips with the population
problem. It should make it possible to double approximately the number of
acceptors of family planning during the SFYP period (from 14% of couples of
reproductive age in FY79 to 28% by FY85). Officially, the planners aim at
reducing the net reproduction rate to the level of one by 1990, although they
note that, as yet, no other country has succeeded in reducing reproduction at
such a rapid rate. This target is clearly not achievable, but the Government
means to use it to galvanize institutions at all levels as well as the popu-
lation itself into determined action to stabilize the size of the population
as early as possible.
27.       The third of the central objectives of the SFYP is the drive for
general literacy. The planners recognize that its attainment will take longer
than five years, but they have set themselves the target of introducing uni-
versal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of primary-school
age by 1985. This program is to be supplemented by a national non-formal
mass education scheme for those already past primary-school age.
28.       A plan aimed at effecting a significant departure from past trends
will place a severe strain on domestic finance and managerial skills. Even
with the adoption of labor-intensive and low capital-cost techniques, a signi-
ficant step-up in development spending will be required. This in turn will
require sizeable increases in the mobilization of domestic and the inflow of
foreign resources. A critical factor will also be the extent to which project
implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate improvements
can be made in the ability of the administration to expedite project imple-
mentation, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies alone would be
adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government recognizes
that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed on the
private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent, activities
such as education and rural development should be carried out in a decentral-
ized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and grass-roots
participation. 1/
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
29.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of eleven
credits, amounting to US$148.6 million, made originally to Pakistan before
1971. In addition, as of March 31, 1981, 51 new credits have been approved,
totaling US$1,547.7 million; of these, US$665 million have been for program
credits (nine imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits).
Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as
1/   A full review of the (draft) Second Five-Year Plan is contained in the
Bank's 1981 economic report, entitled "Bangladesh: Current Economic
Situation and Review of the Second Plan" (Report No. 3309-BD, dated
February 23, 1981).



of March 31, 1981, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18,
1976 Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and two investments (for a ship-
building company and an investment promotion company) have been approved.
30.       Bangladesh's debt service ratio was 15.8% in FY79, 1/ but fell to
about 13% in FY80 following some debt relief measures undertaken by various
donors. The debt service ratiomight exceed 20% by the mid-1980s unless care-
ful debt management policies are pursued and aid is provided on appropriately
concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and disbursed external
public debt amounted to just over US$3 billion as of June 30, 1980, with IDA
credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 25% of the total. In FY80,
the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total debt service payments;
because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA credits, debt service
to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
31.       The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(15 of the 40 new projects approved since independence, and two fertilizer
imports credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Govern-
ment's priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects
that provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage facilities.
In addition to agriculture projects, emphasis is also being placed upon com-
plementary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks interfering with the economy's overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, we expect to emphasize rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity or distri-
bution facilities which have been a major impediment to utilization of existing
industrial capacity.
32.       Industry has been the main beneficiary of the nine imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the economy,
program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA operations
in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two fertilizer
production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project and several DFC
and small-scale industry projects. IFC recently approved a US$2.1 million
loan and US$200,000 equity for producing finished leather for export, and
is currently in the process of identifying further suitable investment
opportunities.
33.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive capa-
city. The first population project is now making encouraging progress, and
a second population project was approved in FY79. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
1/   As a percentage of merchandise exports only.  If workers' remittances
amounting to US$140 million are added to total merchandise export earn-
ings of US$602 million, the debt service ratio would drop to 12.9%.



- 10 -
34.       Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements initially lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. Progress
has been made recently on these issues and the disbursement performance is
improving. IDA and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring
and supervision in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA
is providing assistance both under specific projects and under technical
assistance credits to assist in improving planning, project preparation and
implementation capabilities.
35.       In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position, IDA
credits should continue to cover all foreign exchange costs; and in order
to direct IDA lending to sectors where the percentage of foreign exchange
costs is relatively low, local currency expenditures also are being financed
in certain priority areas such as agriculture and rural development, including
small-scale and cottage industries.
36.       Economic and sector work continues to provide the basis for a
dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on economic policy and
development strategy. It is also designed to enhance the coordination of
external assistance within the framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent
activities have concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy,
and increased domestic resource mobilization and have been undertaken in the
context of the recent detailed review of the Government's Second Five Year
Plan.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
General
37.       Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for
55% of GDP, 70% of employment and, directly or indirectly, over 80% of the
country's exports. About 74% of the agricultural GDP (in FY80) is derived
from crops and the rest from forestry (6%), fisheries (8%) and livestock
(8%). Bangladesh has a gross cropped area of 32 M ac of which about 22.5 M ac
are under cultivation at a cropping intensity averaging 140% in recent years.
Rice, by far the most important crop, accounts for about 78% of the cropped
area; jute, the principal export, for 6%; and a variety of other crops such
as wheat, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane and vegetables for the remainder.
Agricultural productivity in Bangladesh is among the lowest in the world;
paddy yields average only about 0.5 ton per ac.
Crop Production, Constraints and Potential
38.       Agricultural production in Bangladesh is largely constrained by
scarcity of cultivable land and climatic hazards. About 90% of the land
surface is flat alluvial plain, mostly less than 10 feet above sea level.
Annual rainfall, which ranges from 50 inches in the southwest to over 200



- 11 -
inches in the northeast, follows a typical monsoon pattern; often there is
either too much or too little water. Monsoon rains start in May and end in
October and the great rivers rise causing extensive flooding. During the long
dry season (November to April) the river levels are low and severe drought
conditions often prevail.
39.       These constraints on agricultural development can, however, be over-
emphasized. Bangladesh has extensive areas of highly fertile deltaic soils,
and an abundance of good quality groundwater for dry season irrigation.
Irrigation opens up the prospect of substantial increases in production that
can be brought about quickly and inexpensively. Much of the potential, however,
has yet to be exploited.
40.       The heavy pressure of population on land represents a major develop-
ment constraint. It is estimated that about 50% of farm households cultivate
less than 2.5 acres, the minimum holding necessary to provide subsistence income
at present production levels. A typical holding may be fragmented into 5 or 6
plots. This constitutes an obstacle to efficient farm management and makes
the organization of cooperative irrigation systems difficult. An additional
constraint faced by about 40% of Bangladesh farmers is that they rent land to
supplement their own production. For sharecroppers, this could mean that they
would provide all inputs but receive only half of the crop and have no right
of occupancy. For such tenants there is little incentive to increase farm
production.
The Exploitation of Groundwater through Minor Irrigation
41.       The Second Five-Year Plan's agricultural and rural development stra-
tegy, supported by IDA, places special emphasis on increasing the productivity
of the small farmer and on generating employment opportunities through the
financing of low cost, quick yielding, labor intensive schemes. To support
the Plan GOB is taking steps to improve the supply of crop production inputs,
including increased availability and access to short and medium-term credit
for agricultural purposes. Increased domestic manufacturing to provide more
of the inputs needed for irrigation development is also expected to contribute
to greater labor utilization. The Medium Term Foodgrain Production Plan
(MTFPP) focuses on increasing minor irrigation facilities by providing Deep
Tubewells (DTWs), Shallow Tubewells (STW), Low Lift Pumps (LLPs) and Hand
Tubewells (HTW). The targets for the minor irrigation sector of the MTFPP
are summarized below:
Minor Irrigation in the MTFPP
Target
1980/81                  1984/85
Number       Acres        Number        Acres
Operated    Irrigated    Operated    Irrigated
Deep Tubewells         10,700       560,000       26,200    1,570,000
Shallow Tubewells      23,400       220,000      130,000    1,625,000
Low Lift Pumps         38,600    1,400,000        51,000    2,030,000
Hand Tubewells        120,000        60,000      500,000       150,000



- 12 -
42.       In the light of implementation difficulties faced in the past in
gravity irrigation projects, greater emphasis is being placed on easy-to-
execute divisible projects where benefits rapidly follow investment. All
minor irrigation projects fall within this category and are given highest
priority in Bangladesh.
43.       The current minor irrigation technology based on DTWs, STWs and
LLPs is suited to group operation rather than individual initiative. Typical
command areas of DTWs (100 ac), LLPs (60 ac), and STWs (15 ac) all demand
farmer cooperation in water usage. The difficulties in organizing irrigator
groups has tended to limit command areas to well below theoretical optima.
Hand tubewells, however, discharging about 8-10 gpm and capable of irrigating
between 1/3 ac and 1/2 ac, depending upon crop and soil conditions, use
largely family labor, and are ideally suited for catering to the individual
needs of the small farmer with a fragmented holding. Hand tubewells are
inexpensive, easy to operate and maintain, can be manufactured domestically
and, in some cases, installed by the farmers themselves.
IRDP
44.       To achieve adequate utilization of most minor irrigation equipment,
it has been necessary to form farmer irrigator groups and in Bangladesh, the
main effort to organize these irrigator groups has been through the coopera-
tive system. Of the various forms of cooperatives in Bangladesh, the
most successful have been those organized under the Integrated Rural Develop-
ment Program (IRDP). IRDP was launched in 1972 under the Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLGRD&C) to extend the Comilla
model of cooperative development throughout the country. The Comilla model,
which was developed in the late 1950s in Comilla district, was originally
based on investment in irrigation. The main components of this integrated
rural development model were: (a) a Thana Training and Development Center
which provided a single rural center for the supply of goods and services to
farmers in a thana, and to coordinate all rural administration; (b) a rural
works program; (c) a Thana Irrigation Plan to coordinate irrigation groups
which operate and maintain minor irrigation systems; and (d) the TCCA-KSS
Cooperative System.
45.       The TCCA/KSS Cooperative System is an organization in which village
agricultural cooperative societies (KSS) of 40-60 landowners are federated
into a Thana Central Cooperative Association (TCCA). The KSS collect thrift
deposits, introduce group management of irrigation equipment and provide
institutional credit to overcome handicaps of small and fragmented holdings,
small individual surpluses and small input requirements. There are presently
270 TCCAs and 40,000 KSSs. TCCA/KSSs are classified on the basis of their
performance in achieving their objectives (coverage of farm families, loan
recoveries, build-up of their thrift savings, income/expenditure ratios,
attendance at meetings, regularity in accounts and audits). The highest
classification is A; the lowest E. Approximately 46% of KSS are classified
as A or B.



- 13 -
The HTW Program
46.        The first use of hand tubewells for irrigation arose spontaneously
from the UNICEF-supported Rural Water Supply Program, which supplied more than
350,000 village drinking water pumps throughout the country over a 15-year
period. Farmers rapidly recognized the potential of these pumps for small-
scale irrigation. As a result, two hand tubewell projects were financed by
external aid agencies during the First Five Year Plan. These were: (a) the
MOSTI (Manually Operated Shallow Tubewell for Irrigation) project with UNICEF
assistance started in 1975/76 which was the precursor to the proposed credit;
and (b) the Small Scale Irrigation Project (SSIP) with USAID assistance which
started in 1977/78.
47.        The UNICEF MOSTI Project started as a pilot project with the IRDP
to install 10,000 hand tubewells in the 1975/76 irrigation season. Encouraged
by the excellent response from farmers, the program was extended through July
1979; 87,770 hand tubewells had been sold when the project was completed. Of
these hand tubewells, 25% were sold for cash, and the remainder with medium-
term credit support. The distribution of hand tubewells was arranged by each
participating TCCA through the affiliated KSS and only farmers owning less
than three acres of land were qualified to buy hand tubewells. Non-members
were permitted to purchase hand tubewells at a 5% higher price.
48.        While tendering for raw materials and accessories was done by
UNICEF, importation, storage, delivery and local fabrication of pump heads
were organized by the Department of Public Health and Engineering (DPHE) based
on its experience in the UNICEF aided drinking water supply program.
49.        Under the UNICEF Project, medium-term credit was provided at 13%
interest with the credit repayable in three equal semi-annual installments.
Farmers could obtain medium-term credit either by borrowing through their
KSS/TCCA or through government commercial banks. Farmers seemed to prefer
to borrow through their own cooperatives because fewer steps were involved
in loan processing, the equipment was available at the same site, and farmers
were more comfortable dealing with their own organization than with commercial
bankers. However, the terms of the medium-term credit had not been geared to
the needs of the small, food-deficit farms which were the target group for the
program.
50.       A recent study of the UNICEF MOSTI Project indicated that it scarcely
touched the poorest farmers. Average arable land holdings of farmers were
nearly 4 acres; more than half of the participating farmers used their well
for drinking water only; one fourth of the sales were for cash, and many of
the credit sales were to farmers who could have paid cash. The UNICEF project
reached in large part the wealthier of the mid-size farmers, because of the
lack of a viable credit package for the smaller farmers.
51.       The Small Scale Irrigation Project (SSIP) executed by BADC under
a USAID credit aimed to sell 240,000 hand tubewells during the period 1978
to 1981. About half of these were to be sold on a cash basis through BADC
zonal stores or private dealers and 60,000 hand tubewells each were to be
sold through the TCCA and the Bangladesh Krishi Bank (BKB). While BADC and



- 14 -
BKB have not applied restrictions on ownership of land by purchasers of hand
tubewells, the TCCA nominally followed the UNICEF MOSTI criteria of selling
only to farmers owning less than three acres of land.
52.       The SSIP, in common with many BADC operations, encountered consid-
erable delays through logistic difficulties in procurement--in this case, of
raw materials and accessories. By October 1980 only 7,500 hand tubewells were
available under SSIP. Of about 2,000 units allocated to TCCA and BKB, and
3,462 to BADC's distribution channel, TCCA had rapidly sold their entire
allotment, whereas BADC and BKB had sold only 55% and 75% of their allotments,
respectively. Because of cost escalation, the program has been reduced to
150,000 units.
IDA Operations in the Agricultural Sector
53.       The focus of IDA assistance to Bangladesh in recent years has been
on agriculture. In addition to assisting in the preparation of the MTFPP, IDA
is involved in a major program of financing agricultural and rural development.
Seven projects involve irrigation and a further eight the development of
agricultural extension services, agricultural research, jute cultivation, the
seeds industry, inland fisheries, grain storage, area-based rural development,
and drainage and flood control. Of the irrigation projects, two involve the
utilization of groundwater: the Northwest Tubewells Project (Credit 341-BD,
1972, US$14.0 M), irrigation for about 180,000 ac; and the Shallow Tubewells
Project (Credit 724-BD, 1977, US$16.0 M), irrigation for about 150,000 acres.
The implementation of these projects has involved substantial delays due
largely to logistic problems in procurement. 1/ The Government has taken
steps to remedy the most serious bottlenecks and both IDA and Government have
increased emphasis on monitoring and supervision which has resulted in notice-
able improvements in implementation. IDA has also been involved in joint
reviews with GOB of the minor irrigation sector and of IRDP. The minor
irrigation sector review has focused on the roles of the public and private
sectors, institutional organization and management, the portfolio (including a
rational basis for pricing equipment at reduced subsidy levels) and water
resource management. The IRDP review focused on IRDP's medium-term objectives,
streamlining procedures, modifying the organizational structure, and identify-
ing areas for policy support.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
54.       The proposed project would build on the experience gained by UNICEF,
IRDP and associated Government agencies and would greatly increase the number
of hand tubewells available to the small farmers of Bangladesh. The proposed
project was appraised by a mission which visited Bangladesh in September 1980.
A Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 3280-BD, dated April 20, 1981) is being
1/   See the Project Completion Report for Northwest Tubewell Project
(Cr. 341-BD), February 3, 1981.



- 15 -
distributed separately. Supplementary project data are summarized in Annex
III. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington, D.C.
in March/April 1981; the Bangladesh delegation was led by Mr. M. Azizul
Haq, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Local Government, Rural Development and
Cooperatives.
Project Objectives
55.       The main project objectives are to increase the irrigated area,
production and incomes of small farmers. Secondary objectives are to provide
safer domestic water and encourage the domestic manufacture of irrigation
equipment. The project is targeted at farmers with small land holdings and
with surplus family labor who lack access to other sources of irrigation water
during the dry season. These farmers traditionally have been among the last
to benefit from agricultural programs.
Project Description
56.       The project would produce and distribute 180,000 hand tubewells.
Pumpsets would be fabricated by qualified foundries and machine shops in
Bangladesh under contracts with DPHE. Complete pumpsets (including pumpheads,
pipes and strainers) would be distributed by DPHE from district stores at
Khulna, Dacca and Chittagong and from a new store at Natore, to be constructed
under the project, to TCCAs from which they would be sold to farmers. The
project would provide two types of tool kits, major kits for private teams of
mechanics (3-4 persons) to install and service hand tubewells and minor tool
kits for individual purchase for routine maintenance. Medium term credit
would be available for the purchase of hand tubewells and for the tool kits.
The project would finance a research and testing program focussed on develop-
ing an improved hand tubewell design, and provide procedural training for
IRDP/TCCA staff and simple technical training for village mechanics and
farmers. The project would be implemented over a three-year period with
phasing of hand tubewell production as follows: 1981/82, 40,000; 1982/83,
60,000; and 1983/84, 80,000.
Project Organization
57.       The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Local Government,
Rural Development and Cooperatives (MLCRD&C), specifically by IRDP and DPHE.
Overall management of the project would be vested in the Credit, Cooperatives
and Marketing Division of the IRDP. The DPHE sub-project management unit
would be established in the office of the Superintending Engineer, Planning.
The DPHE Superintending Engineer, Planning, would be the manager of the
sub-project management unit in DPHE, and a full-time Executive Engineer would
be assigned to assist him. The Director of the Credit, Cooperatives and
Marketing Division of IRDP would serve as project manager, and a full-time
Deputy Director would be assigned to assist in carrying out day-to-day project
administration.



- 16 -
58.       DPHE would be responsible for procurement of pig iron, coke and
pipes under international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures satisfactory to
IDA. The project would be the agency's first participation in an IDA-financed
project. However, DPHE has experience in international procurement as a
result of its activities in village water supply. A full-time Assistant
Engineer for Tendering and Procurement in the DPHE sub-project management
unit, who preferably had first-hand experience of UNICEF procedures under the
UNICEF Project, would be appointed under the project and would be responsible
for international tendering and procurement of raw materials. A full-time
Assistant Engineer for Distribution would be responsible for local shipment
and storage of raw materials and finished pumpsets between DPHE stores. Both
Assistant Engineers would report to the Executive Engineer. A condition of
effectiveness of the credit would be that the Executive Engineer and two
Assistant Engineers had been appointed (Section 5.01(a) of the DCA).
59.       Coordination of project pricing, procurement, research, and program-
ming of hand tubewell production and distribution between the project and
other hand tubewells projects would be carried out through a Coordinating
Committee to be established under the project (Section 3.02 of the DCA). The
Deputy Director for hand tubewells would serve as Secretary to the Committee
which would meet semi-annually to plan and coordinate policies and procedures.
A condition of effectiveness of the credit would be that the Coordinating
Committee had been established (Section 5.01 (b) of the DCA).
Fabrication of Pumpheads and Strainers
60.       Contracts for fabrication of pumpheads and strainers would be let
by DPHE under local competitive bidding (LCB) procedures satisfactory to IDA.
The pumphead design would be the improved Bangladesh No. 6 hand pump, the
same pump that is used for village drinking water supply and was used during
the UNICEF Project. Fabrication, machining and assembly of pumpheads would be
contracted with domestic foundries having machine shop and assembly capabili-
ties satisfactory to DPHE quality control staff and their consultants. The
strainer would be made from galvanized iron (GI) pipe which had been slotted
or drilled in local machine shops. Three types of strainers were used in the
UNICEF and SSIP Projects and in the village water supply programme: imported
PVC strainers, GI pipe locally-holed and wrapped with imported brass screen
and GI pipe locally-holed and hand wrapped with coir rope. The PVC strainers
are inexpensive and suited to village water supply, but are not sufficiently
strong to withstand frequent pulling and resinking. Brass strainers, while
sturdy, are very costly and are suspected of early clogging due to corrosion
resulting from electrolytic action beween the GI pipe and brass screen.
61.       A survey conducted by UNICEF identified about 30 foundries with the
capability and interest to manufacture pumpheads. Contracts were let to nine
of these foundries during 1975-80 and all performed satisfactorily, although
some had initial difficulties meeting UNICEF's quality standards. The capacity
of these nine foundries alone exceeds 300,000 pumpheads per year which greatly
exceeds the planned procurement of the national hand tubewell program. All
pumpheads for hand tubewells are made within Bangladesh. It is estimated
that the economic cost of locally produced pumpheads is at least 20% below
import costs for comparable equipment.



- 17 -
62.       Quality control of foundry operations and of machine shop operations
would be the responsibility of DPHE. The project would provide a full-time
Assistant Engineer for Quality Control, who would be assisted by an
internationally-recruited quality control consultant provided under the
project. Standards and procedures for quality control in foundry operations
were established under the UNICEF Project. DPHE has experience in foundry
quality control as a result of the UNICEF Project and the continuing activities
in village water supply. Quality control staff would monitor production in
participating foundries and machine shops and would test samples both at the
production site and upon delivery of finished products at DPHE Central Stores.
The Government would establish an office of Quality Control within DPHE by
January 1, 1982 with at least three full-time staff members and a consultant
would be employed within six months of the date of effectiveness of the credit
(Sections 3.01(c) and 3.03 of the DCA).
Hand Tubewell Purchase Price
63.       Average prices of hand tubewells are expected to be about Tk 1,320
and Tk 1,660 for pumpsets comprising two and three sets of 20 ft pipes,
respectively. The price structure includes a marketing margin of 17% on the
ex-DPHE price. The ex-DPHE price is based on full cost, net of taxes and
duties, of raw materials, fabrication, and transport. Since the average
transport cost of pumpsets from DPHE to points of sale to farmers is about
2% of the ex-DPHE price, a net dealer's margin of 15% is maintained. This
margin is essential as an incentive for both the private sector and the TCCA
to engage actively in the marketing of pumpsets. Therefore, a pricing formula
for hand tubewells sold to farmers based on: (a) the equivalent of 100% of
ex-DPHE cost (net of taxes and duties); (b) a dealer's margin of 15%; and (c)
the average cost of transportation from DPHE to the point of purchase, would
be established. The price would be reviewed annually and, if necessary,
adjustments would be made to cover changes, if any in the sum of (a), (b) and
(c) above (Sections 3.10(a) and (b) of the DCA).
Medium and Short Term Credit
64.       The major constraint on the purchase of hand tubewells by small
food-deficit farmers has been credit availability. This point is strongly
supported by farm budget analysis and by analysis of the UNICEF Project
results. These suggest that spreading the repayment of medium term loans for
the purchase of hand tubewells over three years, instead of the 18 months
repayment period under the UNICEF Project, would considerably improve the
ability of smaller farmers to bear the repayment obligations. Medium term
credit for the purchase of pumpsets and tool kits by farmers and mechanics
would be provided by the banking system and would not be funded under the
project since the cost of producing the equipment itself is included in the
project costs. Medium term credit for 90% of the purchase price of pumpsets
and tool kits would be made available to TCCA members by IRDP and would be
repayable in equal annual installments over a three-year period with interest
charged at the prevailing rate for medium term agricultural loans plus a 1%



- 18 -
TCCA margin (in total not less than 13%). The Government would enter into an
agreement satisfactory to IDA with each participating credit institution under
which the Government, through the Bangladesh Bank, would make funds available
to the participating credit institution for on-lending to IRDP to be further
made available through TCCAs and KSSs to farmers (Section 3.06 of the DCA).
A condition of effectiveness of the credit would be that the Government had
entered into an agreement satisfactory to IDA for onlending of funds for
medium term credit with at least one participating credit institution (Section
5.01(c) of the DCA). The Government would also provide short term credit to
farmers who have purchased or are purchasing hand tubewells under the project
(Section 3.07 of the DCA). This credit, which would also be available through
the IRDP system, would ensure that small farmers purchasing hand tubewells
would be able to obtain seasonal credit for fertilizer and other inputs. The
banking system has access to adequate funds for this purpose.
Distribution of Pumpsets and Tool Kits
65.       The TCCAs would collect orders for pumpsets and tool kits according
to procedures established under the UNICEF MOSTI Project, and would forward
summarized orders to the Project Management Unit in IRDP. The Assistant
Director for Distribution and Accounts would collate the orders from TCCAs
and in consultation with the DPHE Assistant Engineer for Distribution would
allocate available supplies on a quarterly basis, giving priority to Class A
and B societies in the event of insufficient supply of pumpsets. The Director
of Credit, Cooperatives and Marketing would notify the DPHE sub-project
management unit and each TCCA of the number of pumpsets allocated to the TCCA.
The TCCA would contract with local transportation firms for shipping pumpsets
to the TCCA from stores designated by DPHE, to be collected during a specific
period of time designated by DPHE.
66.       To encourage the development of the private sector, up to 20% of the
pumpheads produced under the project would be eligible to be bought back by
the foundries which produced them. Foundries would be notified of the buy-back
option prior to tendering. The option could be exercised by the foundry at
any time before the contract date of delivery to DPHE of the finished pumpheads.
The price to the foundries would be the same as the TCCA sales price, minus a
17% marketing margin which includes transport cost averaging about 2% (Section
3.10(c) of the DCA). Foundries would be allowed to market the pumpheads as
they chose. Machine shops would be allowed to buy back up to 20% of holed
pipes on the same terms as above. This buy-back scheme is in line with the
GOB policy to move toward privatization of the input delivery system for minor
irrigation and agriculture in general. The Government would include a provi-
sion in each contract for pumphead fabrication or pipe holing under the
project which would permit the contracting foundry or machine shop to buy back
up to 20% of the pumphead or strainers produced under the contract (Section
3.11 of the DCA).
67.       The project would provide two types of tool kits:  major kits and
minor kits. One major kit would be provided for each TCCA (totalling about
400) to sell on medium term credit or cash and would enable a private team
of mechanics (3-4 persons) to perform the installation of hand tubewells and



- 19 -
any major servicing required. Major tool kits would be made available
only to mechanics who had satisfactorily completed the mechanics training
program. The project would also provide 2,000 minor tool kits for routine
maintenance work on hand tubewells. Any member of a KSS would be eligible to
purchase a minor tool kit on cash or credit terms. One farmer could handle
minor repairs for about 50 hand tubewells.
Training
68.       Training of TCCA staff and farmers would be the responsibility
of IRDP, while training of village mechanics would be the responsibility of
DPHE. Village mechanics would be trained in major hand tubewell repairs and
in sinking and lifting pumps, and farmers would be trained in minor maintenance
procedures. Hand tubewells can be easily installed and lifted by farmers and
can be moved from one location to another with relative ease. Training
programs for farmers, village mechanics and TCCA staff would be arranged and
coordinated through the Assistant Director for Training and Credit in the
Project Management Unit of IRDP.
Research and Testing
69.       The research and testing program would concentrate on developing
promising alternative models of manually operated irrigation equipment.
The research and testing program would be carried out by the Department
of Mechanical Engineering of the Bangladesh University of Engineering and
Technology (BUET). The Government shall cause DPHE to enter into a contract
with BUET by November 30, 1981 to carry out the research and testing program
(Section 3.08(b) of the DCA). The contract would be supervised by a Research
and Testing Committee to be established under the Project.
70.       A Research and Testing Coumittee composed of the IRDP Joint Director
of Irrigation, the Deputy Director of Irrigation, the Deputy Director for hand
tubewells, the DPHE Superintending Engineer for Planning, and the Executive
Engineer for hand tubewells would supervise the research and testing component.
The Committee would oversee the research activities and would ensure chat the
agreed plan of work be carried out within the agreed time frame. The Govern-
ment would establish the Committee by October 1, 1981 and the Committee
would: (a) supervise the research and testing program, taking into account
other hand tubewell research and testing programs in Bangladesh; and (b)
submit a separate report to IDA not later than June 30, 1983 evaluating the
results of the testing of hand tubewell models and offering a recommendation
on whether any new hand tubewell designs should be adopted for future hand
tubewell projects (Section 3.08(a) of the DCA).
Monitoring and Review
71.       The project would provide financing for project monitoring and
review consisting of two elements: (i) continuous monitoring of project
progress and feedback of information to management; and (ii) a joint review
of the project by a team of IDA and GOB officials. The joint review would
appraise the possible future demand for hand tubewells, the technical and



- 20 -
economic viability of any new hand tubewell designs developed under the
project and evaluate the socio-economic characteristics of those farmers
purchasing hand tubewells under the project to determine if the target group
was being reached. The project would provide an Assistant for Monito-ring and
Reporting posted in the office of the IRDP Deputy Director. The Government
would: (a) establish a management information system within IRDP to provide
continuous monitoring of project progress; and (b) conduct in conjunction with
IDA a review of project performance (Section 3.09 of the DCA). The Government
would also prepare the project completion report.
Cost Estimates
72.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$30.1 M of which
US$16.2 or 54% would be foreign exchange and US$7.5 M or 25% duties and taxes.
Cost estimates for staffing, vehicles, equipment, civil works, and technical
assistance are based on late 1980 actual costs for comparable items or services
in Bangladesh. The cost of pig iron and coke used in the fabrication of hand
tubewells and the cost of GI pipes are based on 1980 internationally-quoted
prices for these items. The project would finance the cost of internationally
recruited consultants to provide technical assistance on research and testing
(6 man-months), quality control of pumphead fabrication (30 man-months), a
third year project review (one man-month) and to review and coordinate the
management information system (one man-month). Physical contingencies included
in the estimates amount to about 5% of base costs and include 5% on pumpsets
and 10% on vehicles and equipment, maintenance, and civil works. Contingencies
included for forecasted price escalation over the project period amount to 30%
of base costs plus physical contingencies. Price contingencies for local
costs have been estimated on the basis of a 12% annual domestic inflation rate
for the years 1981 to 1984. Price contingencies for foreign costs have been
calculated using the following estimates of international inflation for the
years 1981 to 1984: 9%, 8.5%, 8% and 7.5%.
Financing
73.       The proposed IDA credit of US$18.0 M would finance about 80% of
the project cost excluding duties and taxes. It would cover the full foreign
exchange cost (US$16.2 M) and about US$1.8 M equivalent of the local costs.
Over the project implementation period, farmers purchasing hand tubewells
and tool kits on medium term credit would contribute a down payment equal to
10% of the hand tubewell price net of taxes and duties and repay part of the
medium term loan, equivalent to about US$1.9 M (including the principal but
excluding interest payments). About 15% of farmers are expected to purchase
hand tubewells on a cash basis, contributing US$1.6 M during project imple-
mentation. GOB would finance the balance of the project costs including taxes
and duties (US$8.6 M). Funds would be made available to the implementing
agencies in the form of budgetary allocations. While not included in project
costs, it is expected that project supplied hand tubewells would result in an
increase in demand for incremental short term credit of about $4 million in
the course of the project period. The demand would be met by GOB through its
ongoing short term agricultural credit program. Recovery of project costs
would be through repayment by farmers for the purchase of pumpsets and tool
kits. Once repayments for pumpsets and tool kits are complete, project costs
(net of taxes and duties) would have been fully recovered.



- 21 -
74.       To facilitate the distribution of pumpsets in the Northwest region,
the construction of the Natore Center Store has begun. Retroactive financing
for expenses incurred after January 1, 1981, is proposed for expenditures
related to the construction of the Natore store; the amount involved would not
exceed US$.03 M.
Procurement
75.       The pig iron and coke used in the fabrication of pumpheads (US$3.31 M)
as well as the GI pipes (US$12.50 M) would be procured following ICB proce-
dures, with a preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. value of imported
material or the import duty, whichever is less, to local suppliers. The fab-
rication of pumpheads and the holing of pipes for strainers would be carried
out by local foundries on the basis of contractual arrangements between DPHE
and the foundries. Contracts for fabrication would be let following local
competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to IDA (US$2.30 M). Under this
arrangement DPHE would provide foundries with the required amount of pig iron
and coke for a specified number of pumpheads, on the basis of fixed coeffi-
cients. The foundries would then supply DPHE with the pumpheads at the price
specified in the contract. Similarly, DPHE would provide machine shops with
GI pipes which would be cut and holed by the machine shops at contractual
price arrangements. Contracts for civil works are limited to the construc-
tion of the DPHE Center Store at Natore (US$0.04 M); such work is not suitable
for ICB and has been let following GOB local competitive bidding procedures
which are satisfactory to IDA. Contracts for vehicles and equipment (US$0.35 M)
costing more than US$50,000 would be let following ICB: a preference limited
to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods or the import duty, whichever
is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Items purchased under contracts costing less than US$50,000, either urgently
needed or not suitable for ICB, would be procured through prudent shopping,
following normal Government procedures of comparing prices from no less
than three suppliers; the total amount of such purchases would not exceed
US$500,000. Contracts for the transportation of materials from the ports
to the DPHE stores and from the stores to the TCCAs would be let following
local procedures satisfactory to IDA (US$0.5 M). The balance of project costs
would comprise incremental staff salaries (US$.06 M), TCCA administrative and
marketing margin (US$2.0 M), maintenance and operating costs (US$0.10 M),
research and testing (US$.24 M), technical assistance (US$0.39 M), training
and publicity (US$0.21 M) and contingencies (US$8.1 M).
Disbursements and Audits
76.       Disbursements from the proposed credit are expected to be completed
by December 31, 1984, approximately six months after the end of project imple-
mentation. Disbursements under the credit would cover:
(a)  100% of foreign expenditures for imported pig iron and coke;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures for pipes, vehicles and equip-
ment or 100% of ex-factory costs for local goods bought
through ICB or 60% of the cost of imported goods procured
off the shelf;



- 22 -
(c) 100% of expenditures for research and testing and technical
assistance;
(d) 70% of the cost of local fabrication of pumpheads following
local competitive bidding procedures;
(e) 70% of expenditures for civil works.
77.       Fabrication of pumpheads and pipe holing for strainers would involve
numerous small contracts. Disbursements for these items would be made against
consolidated statements of expenditure. The supporting documents, including
contracts, would be retained by the executing agency and would be available
for inspection to IDA. Disbursements for retroactive financing of construction
of the Natore Center Store would be made against contract documents (paragraph
74).
78.       IRDP, in its capacity as the coordinating agency, would prepare
the project proforma (a document on which government approval of the project
budget and staffing is obtained). Government approval of the project proforma
required to authorize the Government contribution to the project would be
a condition of effectiveness of the credit (Section 5.01(d) of the DCA).
Government funding of the project would be through MLGRD & C/IRDP which would
maintain separate records of funds received under the Annual Development Plan
and released to the implementing agencies (IRDP itself and DPHE). The imple-
menting agencies have adequate accounting procedures and would be required to
prepare subproject accounts. IRDP and DPHE would maintain separate accounts
of expenditures made under the project, irrespective of whether these would be
eligible for IDA disbursement (Section 4.01(a) of the DCA). Project accounts
would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, and in
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied. Audited
financial statements would be furnished to IDA as soon as they are available
but not later than nine months from the end of the financial year (Section
4.01(c) (iii) of the DCA).
Project Benefits
79.       At full development, successful project implementation would lead
to incremental annual production of about 31,000 tons of rice, 25,000 tons of
wheat, and 7,000 tons of jute. Some 135,000 farmers and their families would
benefit from increased agricultural income from hand tubewell irrigation and
from improved domestic water supply, while another 45,000 farm families would
use the hand tubewells principally for providing domestic needs. Increases in
employment opportunities due to the project would result from the labor input
requirements to operate the hand tubewells. The majority of the increased
employment would be provided by otherwise unemployed farm family members; only
about 8% would be labor hired to operate the hand tubewells. This implies an
increase in annual employment opportunity of 200 man-days per farm family. The
hand tubewell could significantly improve net farm income. Incremental income
from the project could vary from 95% to 135% which suggests a substantial



- 23 -
reduction in the absolute level of poverty among the beneficiaries. The
project will also encourage the development of the domestic engineering
industry to manufacture irrigation equipment.
80.       The economic rate of return, including the costs and benefits of
drinking water, for the project is 44%. Excluding hand tubewells used for
drinking water, the economic rate of return is 47%. Sensitivity tests indicate
that the project is mildly sensitive with respect to most variables. It is
somewhat more sensitive with respect to yield and price changes, but for all
expected extreme changes in the variables the project maintains a rate of
return well above the estimated opportunity cost of capital of 12%.
Project Risks
81.       The project faces no major risks.  The techniques for hand tubewell
irrigation were proven under the UNICEF Project. There is a risk that the
project may over extend the implementation capacity of the agencies concerned,
resulting in some delays in achieving the project targets which would mean
that both benefits and costs would be less than projected. The project would
still remain viable, however, economically and financially. Finally, there
is the risk that, in some areas, the establishment of DTW and STW may dry up
wells. However, because of the mobility of the han_ tubewells and farm
fragmentation, the hand tubewell usually could be moved to another plot. If
drying out were widespread, the hand tubewells would be readily salable to
other farmers in other areas.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENl1S AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
83.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be:
(i) the appointment of two assistant engineeis for tendering procurement and
distribution and one executive engineer (paragraph 58); (ii) establishment
of the Coordinating Committee (paragraph 59); (iii) an agreement with one
of the participating credit institutions to onlend funds for medium term
credit (paragraph 64); (iv) approval of the project proforma (paragraph 78).
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 24 -
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
April 20, 1981



- 25 -                                                  Annex I
Page 1
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                  RERE1IEE CROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRCES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. NH. )                                                 - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTAL            144.0                               MOST RECERT       LOW INCOME                MIDDLE INCOF
AGRICULTURAL      97.3              1960  lb   1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   ASIA & PACIFIC             ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  40.0        50.0    100.0               212.4                  1114.7
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       ..        32.0/e   43.0               166.0                    842.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MTLLIONS)    53.2        68.1      84. 7 
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 5. 1        7.6      10.4               20.8                     39. 1
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                    143.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                      314.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. Kl.                     369.0       473.0    588.0               193.2                    376.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    540.0      683.0    871.0               409.6                   2350.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        44.3        46.4      42.9               42.0                     40.4
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        51.0      54.4               55.0                     56.2
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.2         2.6       2.7                3.0                      3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4         2.5       2.7                2.2                      2.4
URBAN                             3.9         6. 5      6.9                3.9                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTE RATE (PER THOUSAND)    51.0        50.0      46.0               37.4                     28.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    25.0        25.0      17.6               14.6                      7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.5         3.1       3.2                2.6                      1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       345.6    903.8
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       8.9               15.6                     39.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        106.0       101.0      89.0              101.4                    116.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  85.0        85.0      75.0               92.4                    108.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         43.0        43.0      36.0               49.8                     60.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       9.0         9.0       6.4               12.0                     18.8
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    29.0        25.0      23.0               17.9                      5.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   40.0        40.0      47.0               50.8                     63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            ..       153.0    139.0                 ..                      52.8
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        45.0      53.0               30.2                     42.4
URBAN                              ..        13.0      15.0               66.0                     62.1
RURAL                              ,.        47.0      55.0               20.0                     29.7
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         6. 0      5.0               17. 7                    52. 8
URBAN                              ..          ..      40.0               71. 3                    71. 1
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                 ..                     42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             ..      B430.Oj  9260.0              6322.7                   4120.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        ..     79850.O0j  42080.0            9459.0                   2213.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              ..      6610.Ojd  5490.0             1758.4                    819.4
URBAN                              ..          ..
RJRAL                              ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..                 ..                     28.8
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOMt
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBAN                                         3. O
RURAL                               ..



- 26 -
Annex I
Page 2
TABLE 3A
BANGLADESH - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                    REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
-  MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)MA
MOST RECENT        LOW INCOME                 MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    ASIA & PACIFIC               ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  47.0         61.0      81 0                 80.9                     98.6
MALE                  66.0         80.0      103.0                94.3                      99.2
FEMALE                26.0         42.0       58.0                66.7                     97.7
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   8.0         19.0      23.0                 26.6                     55.5
MALE                  14.0         30.0       33.0                34.8                     60.7
FEMALE                 1.0          8.0      I.0                 18.2                     49.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.0        1.0                 9.9                     13.7
PU PIL-T EACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                               .,        49.0       55.0                 41.1                     34.6
SECONDARY                             ..         26.0      24.0                 20.5                     28.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         21. 6/f         .       26.0                40.9                     85.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          0.4       0.4                  1.8                      9.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND                                                      25.8                    118. 9
POPULATION                            ..          6.0      14.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            * -                   0.4                 2.4                      39.4
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           ..        5. 0               13.4
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..                  ..                       4.9
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    18515.0        23666.8   31000.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         16.5      17.0                29.4                      36.8
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               86.8         85.9      74.0                 70.5                     51.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.3          3.5      11.0                 11.6                     21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.6      34.4                 37.9                     39.1
MALE                                  58.7         55.8      55.3                 51.3                     48.5
FEMALE                                11.4         11.8      12. 1                23. 7                    29.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1. 3         1.4        1.4                 1.2                      1. 1
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   18.a3i         16. 7/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  44. 5/R        42. 3h    38. Oji
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6. 9/R         7. 9/h    8. Oi*
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.9/R         19.6h
POVERTY TARCET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     139.0                107.8                       .
RURAL                                 ..          ..      111.0                86.5                     192.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..        ..                  ..                     182.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      86.0                46.2
RURAL                                 * -                  86.0                51.7                      33.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
Lb   Unleso otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for liost Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   Registered, not all practicing in the country;  /d Government hospital establishments only;  /e 1973;
/f 1962; /g 1963-64; /h 1966-67; /i Estimated percent of national income.
Host recent estimate  of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 27 -
Annex I
Page 3
DEFINITIONIS OP SOCIAL INDOICATORS
Notes.  Although tb   aeaedae  rmsucsgnrlyjde   h    otetoiaieand reibl,i                                          ,soldes  be noted stat they say so  be  et
tatooaiycopuahI    ecus  o  the iabo                oadrddfinitin   n   ocpt  usdbydIfeetooone  itnolctn    he data.  The data are, .o...
th ls,  sful sode-ribe ord-s  of eagcrude, i.dibate tretde.  -adoast            -is    et-iy maJor diffarerose      -1  ..tee .contie..
Tho eirsegopar(1 th              s same country group1h  of the "ub'eo  c.snny mod (2)    country group  aish snhoe  bighen averge  moose this she country grou.p
of thesuta_  coute  jen_     fo  "feirl  urlu O_ ".IIFporer" gou  etrer  "Mttddia Income North Afeito eand tltddi:E.tea" Ie cho...s becaus  of asea
uorio-oultu.a..fIniiaI In the referents group data1 the.rrae  are "Popuaio  eIghted arttneIC me.na for sash indicatr- and shoe  only 'e. as
Ir..et half o f the oun in Itog-ou   hasdn   o   his Indicasor.  Since the o.ea.o.outiesn   tesdctt  dapenda on the a-ailbility of
fotef - Totl-   ut c  area      _piindiiu  lend urea and inland  anera.                      a cans qualiied  fom    msd,ioa_ soboidas  byisentbsy level
Psvaaien  m   Itesifita  gad -  oe.uba,a    eal-fptf a   sgl
lotE APT  .l  - tI  pr  nd pitaetaestcurnmcbgpis,al                                  uchan,  nd rurL)        I I  dividedby shel   ebseniv   m    .a  Iffhe pi... bide
troc)Icklgam    fca  eqilltle  cpia;ihI  ITO  ad191                                 sre  aidrif.1  dirtdf obyt ofe   npeiehtdmiemd  sed
1970, -d   d:IR~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~tl  incud  Pmblia                                            n prinn tpa   gasse l and spacialsa d Isapisat.1 aidre
PIThATI   O  PRTEI COAPTliI                                                           bopseslca   r  os bebapiniaan  medbica   edmcemtysmias
Tou.     ouaooIddSa   nllsa      to   uy1 iiNtO, i970.an19                                  dmstepr Nigpital bad - Totalnuber-o  admicset rdie                     thr
lane,       .                                                                       from       n hs italsIrda.d  tohe  ube   f  es
amergocuotours;8t. If tO,97, ev .197   iot.                                              Av 96.170   n  17enater tin  of  -uebeld  rran  e   bomholdl- (btonal. ur-s  md   ml
PPLTIOta  ocuncnh gXudmnedtecmrtltDn   ot   s  rate,STtheShousehold -fo  statist1.icli ponpesa.                                            ttit-          ,- f- 
T it P.life-pcac   nOrbioesn    ihcunr'   e  mct   nom                                    hro   een Wparru, 1 it all  urban  and  rurailid h-tpit.cnvui
locel. erd female life ropectancystabiliring  an 77.0, years. Ten p1es-              ICel 'Ing I r -petosy  hltealllngedoldiel t-pRmaataedsg           i
fertil oty eccordiog to income level a   pa faiypant  perormsc.              Atem  t  fI cttcid arn  o   eiiae lool   re,se    oe
teff..h conrI    nta   sIndoeo   hrenn   ohntoa                          otlt Cdnetioa1  oels yg ith-  -- ectIfit  inb nigqurerda  otes
rrreosnnteelofu2          nsar0rntrIonnc.oeschgoratt                               Pcoaosto.til               Iaenf aIn -uomesis_maeiafat
estimated on the hamed of  . the  hrojc .  ....cteIsiey o  _iba poaltin            en preimry echol--I.. psAsblemde;I  Indsal   mldeside    gdbl
it ste yearlyll, end  he rota ofdecline ofOernilttyreetcraclaoe             years butadjusted fr diffeegetl'sh-ba.of'rhmary..dnahies;ffe
metE lenel.                                                                     counte~~~Ilh  ....y.A~....I-"eIthIf nrea  eitab    erllment ma  gooseditpen
Tenancenr   nrltlnlerahe     TepersensatoarIoulton                                    nnesm  pplsme  ee  o   boeI--f--e  ebsiae
airs hamteen re ChdSeodrubol-tnlmanadtml-Coguamebv;eaaay
Per us.lam. -ffid-yec prycstlon  er squae btlester (50 terrcing)  f          prontee genra~ vettlisal  or techer..ribiagIsfnPICtama fePputti
Ponsittoc  se Stuctue loeceyr)- Chldren(1-14psar) . nckingage  15-           iciudstechncal,indusrial.oc oheripngran   ebiellingas tde`a
hO, yarnty -Cndea.g I N,- yr_e aed ndr  ma  f          'rennse   .fi-.app-                ..tyoe    srrmmtoacodr   ia utes
(anon;106, 191, and 1979d dane.                             _PunuA.                           -t. octEteno-ntoo   n   eodr      oa   n                   Asn   melg
Ponultien   onth  ats  percet) -  otal- Nonal gyert  ones  f Entl mi-  prIary ud eaondor  levae dfidad  y numers  f issbara  s th
pee  p_pulation  foI   95-0bin-7,ad  90-t                  .orepIdn   levls.t                                                I  ied
lanor  fo  150NO.190-0.  nd197-7.                                                  nseronngoof  onlIdul  ppsa                  jin geilbyersat   a  nac
rorublation  l9et. 17.  sod 197  da.te ..  endoNSUssFTfft..N..                                                                        .   -
Crude bras   ..acs loan thusnd -i-d Aensa  dethsprtosn   ofDed-CarTIOmNsrCefan btadeo                                              l-Famsrcrenmiemsr
ppltion; 1961. 1970, und           ..h    .i..ryPP            " 1978p data.             casmaIfng lees ths  sihs pers_re;  Ialdn..              ua.a,bar           a
bee nhrual reproductiv ~  e perio    IfdCn.fsh   ueecsfe-meen t. aescIfIc   fy        Radio ieuere  rrtomnyoueic      1  sppsa of..5Ea_vj5a Ifar eati
tmeSYh  r   l        itin-t nc irrsnrc ce of  Thnus  00-0  -  eren tageI. pf lartin.   courneacI hbdlicesing
ofcPd-srt  ae(P41yas 1ouehit-orindrcet                                                 O t.ecaco,sr        l Ietoeand bn1euICtbn)-  ht eacennere fu -bbreadn .   er..to
Per .,. k..                                                                                  1.~~~~~~~~~~~amrne    icuaio   ee   hosn   deaais      Shv  nba  veae  isi
itdmnof fod Proucruo oar(ante119h-71-lOkil  - Ine  ofpn  e laael                  tIro  "daily gneral itYrenesae"  da  nd  55peidca   rb
isr oncaena  yerh els.          - Coandiie   coerpimr  greda (5g   leuaand                toh   "dil"ifi  appearsen...a.    dee  siemsr
coenna ofsg )ticl are, adEhi  end 'O I  I  e ntIn  urients  (.g.  cofed   ad           ins  canaP.-tdnare                   ICtt  ear TsrP eadeIb  uaben
te   reecudd.    grgespndcio    fauhrour  i   aedo                                   toes  oddusoth9ea,itidn   ad St-an  -hto delve-in nitma
feccricsurlv  f clones  perentof hesuremnta  -         f Copted. fromP--C.C
coIs. osa le l-pp0. 1oopn7ee doesi  pouoir,l_ot  le                         Tenel     t labo  Foce(eouene    -    -Cd- - ino oslaT.in 1  tse ems,  -1ndla
I  opo Grn,acthagsistc. etupleacldanmlfe,mde                                              ard torct   af unmplye  hutI duludidag hoeaI.. e.   tethdamm,  tems
uroon oars ass smaned by PAl hamad on phy~AtloIginah  -amO   fo  uleta  scsi-  199  at.p.dg   - .
195r0ol lvel    1960-70,S,   and 19707  dte                                       Adietinsl      ecetgeo  tona Liabr.t forts  19          bl. itl aba 19Th data.
)ucrsmtcnV fo.r sit      _ ccu 9t 8 dr rtabtee   byUI  poie  o   iims170ad198dt.;::
World foo c1cey; 1961-S,  970an 1        971~:l   Oas,sr-m                                           stutr  of-- t     .e poua Pe   n   ognimta0            a    al
Gsc.aRfnarrormiosuReclvfrA- maoeunaIaneleC               eniatlPdoda                        etesr   drMnanionalourcee.e  -
PceC     rsaoesedple   ng-   e   a;1h1h,17   v   97dt.                                 toui  ornec   oto-lteo   ouaioudr1   n   5sdee
atf-y- (6.  90st   97   en.o  houseolds
ucssrcaf                                                                                    ... rcm    frrisio   oa,  ra.sdrua     .Asoue.ery   os   ee    In than incmelevel he.lm ehth..msla
tuabe  of  rocl  (hoad,  rbe f and i. eceal  ot - PInrhecemoaf                     urnialy  dqaedr   lu   aeta   e-on   eurmmai rem
hdnerly(nlds  rse    uraeass  ruteted hu  un-oained                                  ofI date
outer such netter fron protmon~~ed ars)btwha usprIngs, an dantryo11sfm         tetimas.d Ealainha      I Povert  'Eing. aa   1$orOeEa      om   i   u
pecntgt  fteid       seatirppuaios   Iinrbgreauhi                                        urlreetspnrn   vnm   lvlseya-hrdo   veae  e  gpt
orstndco   loae -c  a  era   00etr   rn     e           a  be           p-ersona  isomeo the. cond     y   Ura         ...e i-m demse  tea sh  eoet
LOOT, odnrn_d- Oshhgni.....vheaceso  ta   ome    trra   f                                    lae  poith mdf uthe.er  hihe  cupe,n o  lvngi  urban erase.
reumtac r acs  cud-t          i   ht h   oe-uso  moahd.  . erofteoubld                    anmsdPsein Nmeplam ...  P.   aIolt PoetyteoaLaa  femai.       e
!url- deh dcpaola(tnilurar..dff..seydhy                     ecnd
dInroedle   pecetages o  tediblependc tio n rocnlatoe   EnrICde                                                          Inotca   sca  Ot   bras
onelam  iclude thecY"erio ed  ieomi,  tn  oPuthnntaane;                                                          Coomit am fyie a   Pomeisesasem
of huoanencratee  9-ea t-ess --snr     - to .atr-t ho mynaaorth   seo                                                               OtPe  1
pitcnI petouse sod   d aidninlsiiethteYllastone.n



-28 -
Annex I
Page 4
UNCGLADZSN
ECoNMC INDICATORS
Population:                  89.5  million  (July  1980)
GNP  Per Capita:             US$90  (FY80)
Amount            Average Annual Increase (1)    Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)
(million US$         (in constant FY75 prices)             (in current prices)
Indicatcr                          in current prices)
FY79            1T60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80   FY60      FY70      FY75      FYS0 la
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product Lb                 9,512.5               4.0      -0.6       6.3   l0C.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Agriculture /b                          5,174.0               3.1      -1.3       4.3    59.9       56.9      63.6      51.9
Industry Lb                             1,170.2               7.9      -3.2       8.9      7.7       9.6       8.6     12.5
Services lb                             3,168.3               4.9       3.3       6.6    30.1       30.0      25.0     28.8
Consumption                               9,187.5               4.4     -0.7        6.7    92.4       92.8    100.0    102.1
Gross investment                          1,330.0              10.9    -10.9       13.5      6.9     1.1.3       7.0     15.0
Exports of goods & nfe                      603.0               0.8    -11.7        4.3    10.0        8.3       3.1       7.1
Imports of goods & ufs                    1,603.0               8.8    -12.0       14.4      9.3      12.5     10.1      24.3
Gross national savings                      465.0              26.5    -17.7        ...      0.9       6.1       0.9     -0.4
Composition of Merchandise Trade (S)
(in current prices)
FY73      FT75      FY79    FY8O
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                         603.0                                          100.0      100.0    100.0   100.0
Primary                                   217.0                                          41.9        31.4     36.0    30.1
Manufactures                              386.0                                           58.1       68.6      64.0    69.9
Merchandise imports                       1,603.0                                          100.0      100.0    100.0   100.0
Food                                      250.0                                           44.1      42.2      15.6    29.5
Petroleum                                 186.0                                            3.2       11.1     11.6    17.6
Machinery & equipment                     382.0                                           13.8        9.6      23.8    25.8
Other                                     785.0                                           38.9       37.1     49.0    27.1
FY74       FY75        PY76        FY77        FY78        FY79
PRICES AND TERMS OF TRADE (1972/73-100)
GDP deflator
Exchange rate (Tk/USS                              7.9661      8.8759     14.8521    15.4667     15.1215     15.2193
Export price index                                  104.6       132.9      108.7       117.7       136.7       168.9
Import price index                                  156.9      215.4       195.8       189.1       180.2       214.2
Term  of trade index                                 66.7        61.7       55.5        62.2        75.8        78.9
Am X GDP
(at current prices)
FY73       FY75        FY77         f79
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                                  5.0         5.4         9.5       10.3
Current expenditure                                              6.5         4.5         7.8         7.S
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                      -1.5       40.9         +1.7       +2.6
Capital expenditure                                              8.8         3.1         9.8       11.4
Foreign financing                                                7.1         2.4        7.8         8.5
1960-70     1970-75      1975-80
OTHER INDICATORS
GNF grovth rate (1)                                                  4.2        -0.7           5.7
GNP per capita growth rate CE)                                       1.5        -3.3           3.0
Energy consumption growth rate (Z)
/a AC constant rY78 prices.
7b  At market prices; components are expressed at factor cost and will not add due to exclusion of net indirect taxes and subsidies.
- not available
- not applicable
July 1, 1980
ASADD



-29 -                                              AnmexI
Page 5
BALWACS   POF    S   LR     L UCAPTUL AtD DRIT
(willion U1S is crrcent prices)
___ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ ___ __ __A_ __t_ __I_ __Pro  Jested
n74       FT75     Fn76       FY77     Fn78       rtig      rr8c       "Y8       FYn2      FY83
.et export. of goode & services                         -565.7    -6f.4   .847.4   -340.3   -786.0   -865.0   -1610.0  -1718.0  -2057.0  -2271.0
Esporta of goods & services                            418.6    302.7    507.6    610.0    643.0          819.0      993.0    1123.0    1176.0   1276.0
TIportr  of goods 6 service                            984.3    119.1   1355.0       950.3    14N9.0   1684.0       2603.0   2841.0   3233.0   3547.0
Net tranaf.er
Currsot tcoont balane                                   -565.7   -6f.4    447.4   -340.3          786.0O    -65.0   -1610.0  -1718.0   -7057.0   -2271.0
Direct priv,to  nv_otinOl                                  -                                       12.0      15.0       20.0      25.0      30.0      35.0
MT loa  (net)                                            274.4     508.2    502.9    246.0    399.0    465.4           861.5     950.0    995.0    1145.0
Grents & grant-like flows                                347.0     395.6    244.5       229.7    386.1      495.2      504.5     810.0    950.0   1100.0
Other capital floes (net)                                  2.0   -358.8      153.1   -216.1        14.0      13.4       88.0    -45.0      153.0      59.0
Change in racervee t- - increase)                        -57.8     151.3    -53.1        80.7    -25.2   -124.0        136.0    -22.0    -71.0    -50.0
interoational reserves (end of period)                   115.0     266.3    213.2    293.9        268.7    393.0       257.0     279.0     350.0    400.0
Re..rvea as eonths of ieports of next Year                1.15      2.36      2.69       2.47      1.91      1.81       1.09      1.04      1.18      1.26
FY74      m75       FY76      FY77      757        Y79
GROSS DISWURSDENTS
Offlcial grant.                                           347.0     395.6    244.5      229.7    386.1    495.2
Gross di.bor.eants of MLT .los                            285.1     529.1    569.3      276.1    434.4    520.8
Cooeesi.ooel                                              201.5    468.0    538.9        264.7     399.8    500.3
zilateral                                                 82.4    305.6    357.3       117.3    237.3    226.8
IDA                                                       51.0     112.5    128.2       86.1       U.2    152.5
Other mltilatarel                                         68.1      49.9      53.4      41.3       74.3    121.0
won-oonce..lonel                                           83.7      61.2      30.5      31.5       34.5      20.4
Official export  reditS                                   40.6      45.3      16.5       4.2        1.7       3.3
Other  olttllteral                                         5.4       0.3       1.2       0.5       0.5        0.1
Private                                                   37.7      15.6      12.8      26.8      32.3       17.0
EXTrNAL DEBT
Debt oot.tanodig ad disbursed (end of period)             490.6    1359.2   1806.5   2068.1    2581.8   3005.1
Official                                                 383.3    1240.9   1701.8   1951.8   2442.3   2856.4 -
IiRD                                                      -        54.9      54.9      54.9      54.9      54.9
IDA                                                     105.6    255.3    379.8    465.9        554.2-   706.7
Other                                                   277.7    930.7   1267.1   1431.0    1833.3   2094.8
Privete                                                  107.3     118.3    104.7      116.3    139.4    148.7
Undiebureed Debt                                          590.2    1033.2    952.7    1011.0   U316.2   1647.5
DEBT SEVICE
Total debt seice payments                                  18.0      31.0      88.3      58.5       67.4      95.4
Intor t                                                    7.3      10.1      21.9      28.4      32.1      40.1
Pcy_nt  a. % eaport.                                        4.3       6.2      17.4       9.6       10.5      11.6
Pyent. me 2 GNP                                             0.2       0.3       1.3       0.9       0.9        1.2
Average  intertat  arte on nw lons (%)                      3.2       2.0       1.7        1.6       1.5       1.7
Official                                                   2.9       2.0       1.6       1.5        1.4       1.6
Priv*t                                                     4.6       2.3       7.8       6.4       6.2        6.1
Averme, eturity of new lo-an  (yars)                       25.7      35.5      41.7      40.1      37.8       34.7
Official                                                  28.3      35.8      42.2      40.8       38.1      35.1
private                                                   13.4      15.2      11.3      11.0       9.5       14.8
ilROOUC9P WO  CI)
1810 700/tota IDoD                                                   4.0       3.0        2.6      2.1        1.8
r8RD disbursamnctottl gram. disboret. t                              -         -                   -           -
DllD debt *.rvce/total debt arfi                           -         -         1.8        5.6      5.0        4.0
IDA WD /total DOD                                          21.5    18.7       21.0       22.5      21.4       23.5
IDA disbursinnts/total gross diasbr_ment.                  17.8     21.2      22.5       31.1    20.3        29.2
IDA debt seovics/total debt mevice                          1.1      3.2       2.4        5.2      5.6         4.6
A. % of Debt Ouetandioa
at Cnd of FY79
TERM STRUCTURE
maturity etrotore of debt outstanding (7%)
H.turiti  due wthin 5 yers                                                        12.0
at-ritIss duc within 10 ymers                                                    32.7
ltatrest structure of debt outtanding (%)
lnterest due  ithin first p er                                                    1.7
July 1. 1980
ASADD



ANNEX II
- 30 -                   Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of lMarch 31, 1981)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                             US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 17 credits fully disbursed                     54.9    557.25       -
341    1972   Bangladesh   Tubewells (replaces
Credit No. 208-PAK
of 1970)                              14.00      0.96
407    1973   Bangladesh   Education (replaces
Credit Nos. 49-PAK
and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                 21.00      1.99
408    1973   Bangladesh   Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)                   25.00      2.97
410    1973   Bangladesh   Cereal Seeds                               7.50      3.04
487    1974   Bangladesh   Telecommunications II                     20.00      7.27
527    1975   Bangladesh   Ashuganj Fertilizer                       62.00      3.33
533    1975   Bangladesh   Population                                15.00      4.62
542    1975   Bangladesh   Barisal Irrigation                        27.00    15.89
605    1976   Bangladesh   Karnafuli Irrigation                      22.00    10.45
621    1976   Bangladesh   Agricultural and Rural Training           12.00      6.06
622    1976   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance II                    7.50      0.43
631    1976   Bangladesh   Rural Development                         16.00      8.30
632    1976   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                    25.00      6.22
724    1977   Bangladesh   Shallow Tubewells                 -       16.00      6.87
725    1977   Bangladesh   Muhuri Irrigation                  -      21.00    14.88
729    1977   Bangladesh   Extension and Research            -       10.00      6.38
735    1977   Bangladesh   Inland Water Transport II         -        5.00      3.24
765    1978   Bangladesh   Jute                              -       21.00    15.37
787    1978   Bangladesh   Foodgrain Storage II              -       25.00    23.03
/a   Prior to exchange rate adjustments.



ANNEX II
- 31 -                 Page 2
A.   Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                          US$ million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower            Purpose                  Bank       IDA  Undisbursed
825    1978   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry II            -       7.00    5.26
828    1978   Bangladesh   Agricultural Research              -       6.00    4.00
864    1978   Bangladesh   Drainage and Flood Control         -      19.00   16.48
866    1978   Bangladesh   Imports Program VII                -      75.00    0.17
872    1978   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance III           -      10.00    8.54
890    1979   Bangladesh   Oxbow Lakes Fisheries              -       6.00    5.43
912    1979   Bangladesh   Vocational Training                -      25.00   24.40
921    1979   Bangladesh   Population &  Family Health II -          32.00   31.76
934    1979   Bangladesh   Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                   -      28.00   27.87
941    1979   Bangladesh   Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                    -      22.00   16.68
944    1979   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports                 -      25.00    3.11
955    1979   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Drainage and
Flood Control                  -      25.00   24.50
964    1979   Bangladesh   Highways II                        -      10.00   10.00
980    1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program VIII               -      50.00   10.63
990    1980   Bangladesh   Low-Lift Pumps                     -      37.00   32.33
1001   1980   Bangladesh   Chittagong Water Supply II         -      20.00   20.00
1023   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -       29.00   29.00
1032   1980   Bangladesh   Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                -       20.00   20.00
1042   1980   Bangladesh   Mangrove Afforestation             -      11.00   11.00
1044   1980   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Imports II              -      25.00   21.80
1054   1980   Bangladesh   Education IV (Primary
Education)                     -      40.00   39.37
1065   1980   Bangladesh   Small-Scale Industry III           -      35.00   35.00 /c
1071   1980   Bangladesh   Imports Program IX                 -      65.00   57.22 /c
1091   1981   Bangladesh   Bakhrabad Gas Development                 85.00   85.00 /b /c
1096   1981   Bangladesh   Fertilizer Transport Project   -          25.00   25.00 /b /c
1117   1981   Bangladesh   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II          -      50.00   50.00 /b /c
1124   1981   Bangladesh   Technical Assistance IV            -      16.00   16.00 /b /c
Total,                                                      54.9  1,727.25  771.85
of which has been repaid                                   0.0      0.40    -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.9  1,726.85
Total undisbursed                                            0.0    771.85  771.85
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b   Not effective.
/c   These Credits are in SDRs but included in US$ equivalent.



ANNEX II
- 32
-32-                 Page 3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at March 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                       Amount in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1979      Highspeed Shipbuilding           Ship-
and Heavy Engineering           building
Co. Ltd.                                          1.20    0.36    1.56
1980      IPDC                            DFC                 -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -            -       -
Total commitments now held by IFC                            1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                            0.65    1.05    1.70
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
All 3,000 deep tubewells have now been drilled and all but 30 have
been commissioned, with the remainder awaiting arrival of engines. Approxi-
mately $1.2 million from the project and $0.7 million from the Extension and
Research Project (Credit 729-BD) will be consolidated to fund the Command
Area Development (CAD) of the deep tubewells in the Northwest of Bangladesh.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project:  US$7.5 MIillion Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1981
Improvements have been made in procurement and installation of
processing equipment, and in completion of civil works and land development,
with the exception of 8,000 tons of additional storage, for which bids
are being evaluated. Construction should be completed by December 1981.
Similar progress is being made in completing the Seed Certification Agency
(SCA) component. However, the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI)
component remains behind schedule due to inadequate funding. The contract
grower scheme continues to make good progress: wheat seed sales have exceeded
appraisal estimates. However, paddy seed sales remain well below appraisal
targets because of poor marketing arrangements and lack of suitable improved
varieties for multiplication. Consultants have already submitted recommend-
ations for improvements in seed distribution and marketing. The Seed Certi-
fication Agency would be further strengthened through an intensive training
programme currently being prepared. GOB made full ADP allocations for SCA and
BRRI to permit completion of their FY81 work programs. A second extension of
the Closing Date beyond its current date of June 30, 1981 is likely.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project:  US$27 Million Credit of April 29,
1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The project design has been modified and the Closing Date extended
to June 30, 1984, to permit the irrigation of a wider area while retaining the
number of primary pumping stations and sluices included in the original proj-
ect. Civil works in the original project area are nearing completion. About
735 low lift pumps were fielded in the FY80 boro season irrigating about 30,000
acres. However, extension and cooperatives staffing constraints continue to
inhibit full utilization of existing irrigation facilities.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project:  US$22 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
Overall project implementation is about 2.5 years behind schedule
with less than 50 percent of works completed. Draft tender documents for
remaining structures are being finalized by WDB. Works on embankments, a
major project component have not started. The current project cost estimates
prepared by WDB are about 34 percent higher than the appraisal estimate. WDB
has been urged to adopt additional cost saving measures, with particular regard
to the optimum height of the embankments. The project is expected to be
completed in June 1983.



ANNEX I I
Page 5
Cr. No. 631   Rural Development Project:  USS16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976: Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
After initial difficulties, project implementation is now proceeding
satisfactorily. The supply of irrigation equipment and inputs have been satis-
factory and field level staff have been performing well though headquarters
management needs further strengthening. The rural works program is making
good physical progress and is already having an impact on project area families.
However, contract supervision and maintenance of completed works need improve-
ment. The livestock, horticulture, extension and fisheries components have
also been making good progress. However, pond excavation has been slow and
improvements are needed in the registration of fisheries cooperatives, assign-
ment of pond leases, and identification of additional ponds suitable for
development.
Cr. No. 724   Shallow Tubewells Project:  US$16 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Progress in procurement has been satisfactory. Around 2,050 pump-
sets have already been sold and further 8,450 pumpsets, based on farmers'
preference, have been procured. The construction of workshops is proceeding
with a modified program.
Cr. No. 725   Muhuri Irrigation Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind schedule. Recent
delays were experienced because of equipment break downs, lack of heavy equip-
ment for excavation, and heavy rains. This has been resolved through the
purchase of new equipment and the renting of others. Construction works
of Feni Regulator considerably improved. Prequalification documents for the
closure dam and embankments, the only remaining major works, have been issued,
and tender documents are being finalized. A revised cost estimate shows a 10%
increase over the appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 729   Extension and Research Project:  US$10 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing
Date: April 30, 1981.
Project implementation has improved. Most of the vehicles have been
procured and Phase I civil works construction is nearing completion. Contact
farmer attendance has increased by 60 to 100% in most areas. Main achievement
of the extension service has been in expanding wheat cultivation throughout
Northwest. Some delays have been experienced due to late release of local
funds by the Government.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 765   Jute Project:  US$21 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1983.
Farmers have been encouraged to use higher quantities of fertilizer,
resulting in higher yields. However, project implementation has suffered due
to late release of local funds. GOB has also not carried out its agreement to
onlend IDA credit to the Sonali Bank. The Government has since 1979 promised
to resolve this problem.
Cr. No. 787   Foodgrain Storage II Project:  US$25 Million Credit of April 12,
1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
Phase I construction (56,000 tons) has been proceeding satisfactorily.
Of the 53,000 tons under Phase II, 8,000 tons sites have been tendered; and
site selection for 36,000 tons of new construction is underway. The godown
rehabilitation and paddy drying components are about 12 months behind schedule.
Selection of sites for Phase III has also been delayed.
Cr. No. 828   Agricultural Research Project:  US$6 Million Credit of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Implementation of the technical aspects of Project has been satis-
factory. BARC headquarters building is under construction and work has
commenced on the civil works component of the three regional research stations.
Consultants on farm development and potato research have been appointed but
not for research monitoring. The National Research Plan has been published
and 39 sub-projects have been selected for financing under the research grant
scheme. Arrangements have been completed for 20 students to take up overseas
Ph. D. courses and nine senior scientific staff have attended career develop-
ment courses. No progress has been made in the MSC training program. Pro-
vision of funds and management of project finances have been inadequate.
However, BARC and BARI have developed closer liaison and a consultancy
accounting firm will be employed to ensure proper planning and management of
future expenditures.
Cr. No. 864   Drainage and Flood Control Project:  US$19.0 Million Credit
of December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Construction of five regulators have commenced in Chenchuri Beel
(CCB) and Kolabashakhali (KBK) and some embankment work has been completed.
Some delays have occurred due to difficulties in land acquisition. Some
components proposed within Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) have been
rejected on cost grounds and modified proposals are awaited.



- 36 -                  ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 890   Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project:  US$6 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
A 45 ha. site has been acquired for the construction of the central
carp hatchery facility, the designs for which have already been prepared and
approved by IDA.
Cr. No. 955   Small Scale Drainage & Flood Control Project;  US$25.0 Million
Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
A total of 19 subprojects have been approved to date. Construction
has started on nine subprojects, and tendering is in progress on the remainder.
Cr. No. 990   Low Lift Pump Project:  US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980: Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Orders placed for 3,000 two-cusec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs
(Phase I of the sales program) were delivered in October 1980. A detailed
project Action Plan has also been prepared.
Cr. No. 1042 Mangrove Afforestation Project: US$11.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily. However, the
hiring of consultants for the preparation of programs for the Plantation Trial
Unit and the aerial-monitoring/remote-sensing has been delayed but this should
not affect the mangrove planting program.
Industry and Imports Program Credits
Cr. No. 527   Ashuganj Fertilizer Project:  US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of June 18,
1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK
and US, for a total of about US$190 million equivalent, in addition to the IDA
credit. The project is about three years behind schedule because of the
additional site works required to protect the proposed plant from earthquake
risks and initial delays in the placement of orders and construction planning.
Because of the additional site works, the delays and currency fluctuations,
supplemental financing was necessary and has been obtained. Plant construc-
tion is over 95% completed. Despite continuing minor delays, production of
urea is expected to start around the middle of 1981, slightly later than
anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, and total projects costs
are unlikely to exceed that approved at the time of IDA supplementary financing.



37                   ANNEX II
Page 8
Cr. No. 632   Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
Mtay 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of March 31, 1981, disbursements were about US$18.78 million and
Qualified Agreements to Reimburse (QAR) letters of credit were outstanding for
US$1.57 million.
Cr. No. 825   Small Scale Industry II Project:  US$7 Million of June 16,
1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implement-
ing Banks have developed rapidly, and the Project is expected to be completed
ahead of schedule. There has been significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks; and staff of the Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation have begun preparation of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion. The project was fully committed by the commer-
cial banks in July 1980.
Cr. No. 866   Seventh Imports Program:  US$75.0 Million Credit of December 22,
1978; Effective Date: January 8, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
As of March 31, 1981 disbursements were about US$74.83 million.
Cr. No. 944   Fertilizer Imports Project:  US$25 Million Credit to June 29,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
Credit funds have been fully disbursed except for some US$0.4 M
savings which are planned to be drawn before the closing date of June 30, 1981.
In total, the Credit will have financed the imports of about 70,000 t urea and
40,000 t TSP.
Cr. No. 980   Eighth Imports Program:  US$50 Million Credit of April 4, 1980;
Effective Date: April 21, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1982
As of March 31, 1981, QAR were outstanding for US$3.92 million and
US$39.37 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1023 Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project: US$29 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate
fertilizer manufacturing companies has been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Negotiations with consultants are underway.



ANNEX II
- 38 -                 Page  9
Cr. No. 1032 Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$20 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been fairly satisfactory though some
delay has been experienced in the recruitment of consultants. Tender Notices
for procurement of spares have been issued and those for the construction of
two new training centers are in preparation.
Cr. No. 1044 Second Fertilizer Imports Project: US$25 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Fertilizer prices were increased in November 1980 and tenders for
fertilizer and raw materials have been issued.
Cr. No. 1065 Small-Scale Industry III Project: US$35 Million of October 17,
1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
This Credit only became effective on November 11, 1980, but steps
have been taken by the Borrower to fully use the funds before the original
closing date of June 30, 1981. All major covenants under the credit have been
met.
Cr. No. 1071 Ninth Imports Program: US$65 Million Credit of October 17, 1980;
Effective Date: November 11, 1980; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
As of March 31, 1981 disbursements were about US$7.78 million.
Cr. No. 1117 Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project: US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Closing Date: April 30, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 407   Education Project:  US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project financed completion of the construction of the Bangladesh
Agricultural University (BAU), a fellowship program for BAU and building of
five new and equipping of eight existing technical institutes (polytechnics).
The credit was closed on December 31, 1980 and payments of commitments in the
pipeline will continue until March 31, 1981. Project costs (in dollar terms)
are close to appraisal estimates due to currency devaluation.



ANNEX II
- 39 -                 Page  10
Cr. No. 621   Agricultural and Rural Training Project:  US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of the civil works associated with the training insti-
tutions is about 85% complete and about 95% of the equipment has been procured.
The physical aspects of the project are generally on schedule. However, the
recruitment of consultants, to assist in implementation of studies and in
developing training programs has been delayed by about two years, largely
because of the ineffectiveness of the National Committee on Rural Training
(NCRT). IDA has agreed to finance the cost of local consultants to assist the
NCRT in performing its functions. The appointment of these consultants is now
being finalized.
Cr. No. 912   Vocational Training Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The PIU manager and architect have been appointed and project
buildings sites have been acquired. Consulting architects have been appointed
and preparation of designs are in progress. The equipment and office furniture
lists are under preparation and master lists of Technical Training Center (TTC)
equipment are ready to be submitted for IDA approval. Curricula in ten trades
have been prepared at TTC. Courses for 110 training officers in on-the-job
training have been concluded. Existing ILO/UNDP experts are assisting project
development.
Cr. No. 1054 Fourth Education (Primary) Project: US$40.0 Million Credit
of June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
Key staff for overseas training have been selected. Most key staff
for the Project Implementation Unit and the Regional Project Units have been
appointed. Preparation for a detailed program for first year School construc-
tion has been started.
Population Project
Cr. No. 533   Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 1981
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a total
of US$25 million equivalent, in addition to IDA credit. Program performance
during the last year has improved, with better coordination between the Health
and Population Control and Family Planning Divisions. Training programs for
field workers were recently upgraded, but the programs are not yet being
implemented as designed. Implementation of civil works components, has deter-
iorated, and is now behind schedule. Due to the slow pace of construction,



ANNEX II
- 40 -                 Page  11
disbursement of the credit has also been less than expected. The closing
date was recently extended to December 31,1981 to permit needed improvements
to complete the project and full disbursement of the credit.
Cr. No. 921   Second Population and Family Health Project:  US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
Progress has been made on project staffing, site acquisition, and
completion of a master plan. Project architects have been appointed and
design development and tender document preparation are under way.
Transport Project
Cr. No. 408   Highways Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
All works under the project are now complete. Arbitration on the
Sitalakhya Bridge contractor's claims is in progress. The Closing Date of
the credit extended to March 31, 1981 has been extended to December 31, 1982
to enable the use of uncommitted credit balance to cover short term protective
Feni Bypass pavement work, and to meet the cost of eligible components of the
arbitration. Significant failures have appeared on Feni Bypass. GOB and IDA
are investigating causes of the failures and possible remedies.
Cr. No. 735   Inland Water Transport II Project:  US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 13, 1978; Closing
Date June 30, 1981
Credit effectiveness was three and a half months behind original
schedule. Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels, navigation aids, hydro-
graphic equipment, and for BIWTC cargo vessel have already been prepared and
most items agreed. Consultants have been appointed and the studies are nearly
completed. A further extension of the Closing Date may be necessary.
Cr. No. 964   Second Highway Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Implementation of the project is being subjected to continuing delay
as a result of the Borrower's failure to make recommendations for award of
construction contracts tendered some eight months ago. Since these contracts
were scheduled to commence early October 1981, at the beginning of the con-
struction season, the project has been delayed by one year and completion by
the anticipated completion date of May 1983 is no longer possible. Completion
by the Credit Closing Date of June 30, 1984 is possible but is dependent on
much improved Borrower performance and elimination of further unnecessary
delays.



- 41 -                    ANNEX II
Page  12
Cr. No. 1096   Fertilizer Transport Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective. Contract for port dredging has
been awarded.
Telecommunications Projects
Cr. No. 487   Second Telecommunications Project:  US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Delays have resulted from procurement actions, award of civil works
contracts, reduced output of the domestic telephone switching equipment factory,
and in completing local construction and installation. Similar delays have
been encountered in TTB's organizing finances and accounts and in managing
efficiently its operations and development. An action program agreed with
IDA is now being implemented to improve TTB's performance. Most of the out-
standing problems have been reduced or are being resolved. Covenants are
now being complied with and TTB is taking final procurement action to commit
the funds remaining under the project. Consultants, financed under Technical
Assistance Credit 872-BD, are assisting in training TTB accounting staff.
Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. No. 622   Second Technical Assistance Project:  US$7.5 Million Credit of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
The credit is proceeding smoothly with 8 of the 24 subprojects
still in progress. As of March 31, 1981, disbursements exceeded US$7 mil-
lion or 94% of the credit amount. With the overcommitment of allocations
from Technical Assistance III, disbursements have rapidly accelerated and
the credit will be fully utilized by the closing date.
Cr. No. 872   Third Technical Assistance Project:  US$10.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
20 subprojects, totaling about $7.3 million have been approved and
a further 13 subprojects, totaling about $5 million have been approved in
principle. Those that are finalized first would be considered under this
credit (with the remainder being funded under the recently approved Fourth
Technical Assistance credit).
Cr. No. 1124 Fourth Technical Assistance Project: US$16.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Closing Date: April 30, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 13
- 42 -
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934   Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project:  US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Consultants have been appointed as scheduled and have begun design
work.
Cr. No. 1091 Bakhrabad Gas Development Project: US$85.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This Credit is not yet effective.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941   Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  USS22.0 Million
Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date: November 30, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Consultants have been engaged and have begun design work as
scheduled.
Cr. No. 1001 Second Chittagong Water Supply Project: US$20.0 Million Credit
of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit has just become effective. Consultants for design and
supervision of construction and financial management have been appointed.



- 43 -                    ANNEX III
Page I
BANGLADESH
HAND TUBEWELLS CREDIT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
One month. The project is a follow-up to a UNICEF
Project.
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
IRDP and DPHE.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA and date
of first mission to consider the project:
June 1980
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
August 22, 1980
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 3, 1981
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Action
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) The Coordinating Committee would be established
(para 59).
(b) an Office of Quality Control within DPHE would be
established by January 1, 1982 and a consultant
employed within six months of the date of effec-
tiveness (para 62).



- 44 -                     ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) The pricing formula for hand tubewells would be
established based on: (a) the equivalent of 100% of
ex-DPHE cost (net of taxes and duties); (b) a dealer's
margin of 15%; and (c) the average cost of transporta-
tion from DPHE to the point of purchase, and the price
would be reviewed annually (para 63).
(d) Government would provide medium term credit to partici-
pating credit institutions for onlending to IRDP for
medium term credit to be offered through TCCA/KSS
(para 64).
(e) Government would provide short term credit (para 64).
(f) Foundries and machine shops would be given the buy-back
option (para 66).
(g) Government would enter into a contract with BUET
by November 30, 1981 to carry out the research and
testing program (para 69).
(i)   Special conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) appointment of two assistant engineers and one
executive engineer (para 58);
(b) establishment of the Coordinating Committee (para 59);
(c) agreement with one participating credit institution
to onlend funds for medium term credit (para 64); and
(d) approval of the project proforma (para 78).



a                                                         210         B A N G LA D ESH
MAJOR HYDROLOGICAL REGIONS AND
4 -7ra=w  tW  '0 - 1                                      MAXIMUM DEPTH OF GROUNDWATER
94r.9    s    9  9( -l ,       ThE 22229229 22/2 Jn . }           Hyd,og-l Reg - E-d.-, L
....9....... G                      D.E'  0,Ide,oli2ub.IcHeaItF,E2g.2ee,agCode'Stoles
14                                                  -4
12201                      j                         ..~~~~~~~~~~~E~.1  - -   - $D      P PA.
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                -A
3N 
=/4                                    7=1    4Z
12 ~      t  8X t C.             a8i>    1Vft 2:'R                     g  >t  t$EQ :.Sp-~ 9                   f 
;e ,   4t   f Htyi  r;       =    hX   0<!    t1> ;t     a        a   i      X   :0 ; 1 L2 0           , 
I   D I  <RA            T     =_    =  =,==.  =   :                  h.=      =.,=      ==       ,         ..      b; 
)\  40 srv ee>SrEv  te    f    X X       f 0 f;;  e X  p E ffh @   S ' 4*    \;  2- 0 0 0a;:   f *' X     UBURRMMA



