OFFICIAL      CREDIT NUMBER 1140 BD
DOCUMTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Hand Tubewells Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1140 BD
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1981, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (here4nnfter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "hand tubewell" means Manually Operated Shallow Tubewell
for Irrigation (MOSTI), the accepted name for manually operated
hand tubewells in Bangladesh or such other hand tubewell design
as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association;
(b) "MLGRD&C" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local
Government, Rural Development and Cooperatives;
(c) "DPHE" means the Department of Public Health and Engi-
neering of MLGRD&C;
(d) "IRDP" means the Integrated Rural Development Program
of MLGRD&C;
(e) "TCCA" means Thana Central Cooperative Association,
under IRDP, an association of "KSSs" at the thana level;
(f) ."KSS" means Krishi Samabay Samiti, a farmer's coopera-
tive at the village level;


﻿-2
(g) "Participating Credit Institution" means a credit
institution established or operating under the laws of the
Borrower which the Borrower and the Association agree shall assist
the Borrower in providing credit under Part C of the Project;
and
(h) "Taka" and "Tk" mean the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fourteen million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 14,800,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be Maich 31, 1985 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1991, and ending April 15,
2031, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for.the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through IRDP and DPHE, acting under the overall responsibility of
MLGRD&C, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricul-
tural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) (i) The Borrower shall establish and maintain, or cause
to be established and maintained, a sub-project management unit
within the office of the DPHE Superintending Engineer, Planning;
and (ii) the Borrower shall at all times employ, or cause to be
employed, within said sub-project unit a full-time Executive
Engineer for Hand Tubewells, a full-time Assistant Engineer for
Tendering and Procurement and a full-time Assistant Engineer for
Distribution, all being qualified and experienced.
(c) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts A
(4) and D (2) of the Project and Section 3.09 of this Agreement,
the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed consultants and
experts whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment are satisfactory to the Association, by dates to be
agreed between the Borrower and the Association, including the
employment of the consultant for Part A (4) within six months of
the date of effectiveness of the Credit.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall establish and maintain a
Coordinating Committee, to meet at least .semi-annually, with
authority to ensure efficient coordination at a national level of


﻿-4-
policies, procedures and timetables between the Project and other
hand tubewell projects of the Borrower.
Section 3.03. In order to carry out Part A (4) of the Pro-
ject, the Borrower shall by January 1, 1982 establish and maintain
or cause to be established and maintained within DPHE an Office of
Quality Control with at least three full-time staff members.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
-cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish
to the Association at regular intervals all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project,
its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from
it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods
and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award of any contract for goods, works or
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the
Association may publish a description thereof, the name and


﻿-5-
nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and the
contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare or cause to be
prepared and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on
the execution and initial operation of the Project,*its cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by
the Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.06. The Borrower. shall provide the medium-term
credit under Part C of the Project in amounts and on terms and
conditions agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association,
including those set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. To that
end, the Borrower shall enter into an agreement satisfactory to
the Association with each Participating Credit Institution under
which the Borrower, through Bangladesh Bank, shall make funds
available to the Participating Credit Institution for on-lending
to IRDP to be further made available through TCCAs and KSSs to
farmers.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall provide short-term credit
to farmers who have purchased or are purchasing hand tubewells
under the Project.
Section 3.08. (a) By October 1, 1981, the Borrower shall:
(i) establish, or cause to be established, a Research and Testing
Committee to supervise the research and testing program under
Part D (2) of the Project, taking into account other hand tubewell
research and testing programs in Bangladesh; and (ii) not later
than June 30, 1983, submit a separate report to the Association
evaluating the results of such testing of hand tubewell models and
offering a recommendation on whether any new hand tubewell designs
should be adopted for future hand tubewell projects.
(b) By November 30, 1981, the Borrower shall cause DPHE to
enter into a contract satisfactory to the Association with the
Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology to carry
out the research and testing under Part D (2) of the Project.


﻿-6-
Section 3.09. (a) By January 1, 1982, the Borrower shall
establish, or cause to be established, within IRDP a management
information system to provide continuous monitoring of project
progress and feedback of information.
(b) During the third year of Project implementation, or
at such earlier time as the Borrower and the Association shall
agree, the Borrower shall conduct a review, in conjunction with
the Association, of Project performance, including an evaluation
of Project beneficiaries, remaining hand tubewell demand, and the
viability of such improved design pumpset as may be recommended
by the Research and Testing Committee.
Section 3.10. Unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower and
the Association:
(a) the Borrower shall establish the price for hand tube-
wella sold on a cash or credit basis to farmers by TCCAs and KSSs
under the Project at a level sufficient to cover, at the time of
establishment, the sum of: (i) the equivalent of 100 per cent of
ex-DPHE cost (net of taxes and duties); (ii) a dealer's margin of
15 per cent; and (iii) the average cost of transportation of such
hand tubewells from DPHE to point of purchase.
(b) the Borrower shall review such price annually there-
after, and, if necessary, make adjustments in such price in
order to cover changes, if any, in the sum of (i), (ii) and (iii)
in paragraph (a) of this Section.
*    (c) pumpheads and strainers bought back under contract
provisions referred to in Section 3.11 of this Agreement shall be
sold at the equivalent of 100 per cent of ex-DPHE cost (net of
taxes and duties).
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall include a provision in
each contract for pumphead fabrication or pipe holing under the
Project which would permit the contracting foundry or machine shop
to buy back up to 20 per cent of the pumpheads or strainers
produced under the contract, at a price consistent with Section
3.10 (c) of this Agreement.
Section 3.12. By January 1, 1982, the Borrower shall prepare
a detailed plan for carrying out the training program under Part D
(1) of the Project, to be agreed upon by the Borrower and the
Association.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, whether or not financed under the Credit, of the
implementing departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, including,
without limitation to the foregoing, separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures with respect to Category 4 in the table to
Schedule 1 to this Agreement on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates of
expenditure.
) The Borrower shall retain, or cause to be retained,
until '.e year after the Closing Date, all records (orders,
invoices, bills, receipts, contracts and other documents) evi-
dencing the expenditures on account of which withdrawals are
requested from the Credit Account on the basis of certificates
of expenditure and shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause: (i) IRDP to maintain con-
solidated project accounts, and DPHE to forward individual
accounts to IRDP for consolidat-on; (ii) have such consolidated
project accounts and consolidated financial statements (Project
statements of source and application of funds, balance sheets, and
schedules of withdrawal under the Credit) audited for each
fiscal year, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (iii) to be furnished to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than nine months after the
close of such year, (A) certified copies of the consolidated
project accounts and consolidated financial statements for such
year as so audited, (B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested including, without limitation to the fore-
going, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in Section 4.01 (b) above as
to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been used
for the purposes for which they were provided; and (iv) to be


﻿-8-
furnished to the Association such other information concerning the
consolidated project accounts and financial statements and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the departments and
agencies referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement, in
respect of activities relAted to the Project, to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions of effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Borrower has appointed or caused to be appointed
the two Assistant Engineers and the Executive Engineer referred to
in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
(b) the Borrower has established the Coordinating Committee
referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(c) the Borrower shall have entered into an agreement for
on-lending of funds pursuant to Section 3.06 of this Agreement
with at least one Participating Credit Institution; and
(d) the Project Proforma for carrying out the Project
shall have been approved by the Borrower.
Section 5.02. The date     0 X"' C"             , is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrover; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the External
Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's
Republic of Bangladesh
Dacca, Bangladesh
Cable address:                      Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                        BAHISAMPAD
Dacca                              886 DACCA
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the


﻿- 10 -
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
y.ar first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By
Authorized Representative
on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Raw materials                 2,780,000        100% of foreign
for pump manufacture                          expenditures
(2) Pipes, vehicles               8,260,000        100% of foreign
and equipment                                 expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory and
60% of local
expenditures
for other
equipment pro-
cured locally
(3) Research and                    590,000        100%
testing and
consultants'
services
(4) Fabrication of                1,720,000        70% of local
pumpheads and                                 expenditures
strainers
(5) Civil works                      30,000        70%
(6) Unallocated                   1,420,000
TOTAL        14,800,000


﻿- 12 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $30,000 may be made in respect of Category (5) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1981.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will.be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 13 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsisteit with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is for the production and nationwide distribution
of about 180,000 hand tubewells to increase irrigated area and
agricultural production throughout Bangladesh, and consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   Hand Tubewell Production and Distribution
(1) Acquiring raw materials required for hand tubewell
fabrication, and transporting such materials to local
foundries and machine shops.
(2) Fabricating pumpheads and strainers for hand tubewells.
(3) Providing about 400 major tool kits for installation and
minor servicing of hand tubewells, and about 2,000 minor
tool kits for routine hand tubewells maintenance.
(4) Maintaining a system to ensure quality control of pump
manufacturing.
(5) Distributing and transporting pumpsets and tool kits
to TCCAs for sales to farmers and mechanics.
(6) Acquiring about twelve vehicles for transportation
of personnel, raw materials and pumpsets, and equipping
IRDP and DPHE offices.
Part .B: Construction of DPHE Store
Construction of a DPHE storage godown at Natore.
Part C:   Provision of Credit
Providing financing from Bangladesh Bank to Participat-
ing Credit Institutions for on-lending through IRDP to
TCCAs and KSSs as medium-term loans for purchasers of
pumpsets and tool kits under Part A (5).


﻿- 15 -
Part D:   Training, Research and Testing
(1) Providing procedural training for IRDP and TCCA staff
and simple technical training for village mechanics
and farmers.
(2) Carrying out a program of research and testing of
appropriate hand tubewell equipment in order to find and
develop design improvements.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1984.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded I.n accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification to
prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods
in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
-the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods, shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the proce-
dures described in Part A of this Schedule, goods specified in
Categories (1) and (2) may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 17 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.    After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Asso-
ciation that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in Bangladesh equal to
at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eva-
luated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.


﻿- 18 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works under Part B of the Project
and fabrication of pumpheads and strainers under Part A (2) of
the Project may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
2.   Vehicles and equipment with values not exceeding the
equivalent of $50,000 for each contract may be purchased through
normal commercial channels after solicitation of at least three
price quotations; provided that the aggregate expenditure for
items so purchased shall not exceed $500,000.
3.   Contracts for the fabrication of pumpheads and strainers
under Part A (2) of the Project shall be awarded on the basis
of a standard tender document acceptable to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for raw materials, vehicles
and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would


﻿- 19 -
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   Subject to the provisions of Section 4.01 (b) of this
Agreement, with respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the res-
pective bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 5% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines 'that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Terms and Conditions for
Medium Term Credit
through TCCAs and KSSs
under Part C of the Project
1.   Medium-term credit shall be available to TCCA member farmers
and mechanics for the purchase of pumpsets and toolkits sold by
TCCAs and KSSs under the Project. Major toolkits shall be sold
only to mechanics who have successfully completed the training
program under Part D (1) of the Project.
2.   Ten per cent of the purchase price for pumpsets and toolkits
shall be-required in cash as downpayment, with the principal
balance of ninety per cent to be repaid in annual installments
over three years, with interest charged at the prevailing rate
for medium-term agricultural loans plus a one per cent TCCA
margin (in total not less than 13 per cent). Repayment shall begin
July 31 of the following year for loans made in the first half of
the year, and on December 31 of the following year for loans made
in the second half of the year.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the          -day of
198L.
FOR SECRETARY


