Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7253-BR 
 
Loan Agreement
 
(Sustainable and Equitable Growth Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 4, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7253-BR 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 2005, between the FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC 
OF BRAZIL (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter from the Borrower, dated January 
20, 2004, describing its program of actions, objectives and policies to support a set of 
microeconomic and institutional reforms that will foster sustainable growth by favoring 
capital accumulation and productivity gains in Brazil, especially aiming at reducing 
logistics costs, enhancing business environment, improving financial sector efficiency, 
access and soundness, and increasing technological progress and innovation (the Program) 
and declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; 
(B) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project, which is the first phase of the technical assistance 
required for the implementation of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
extend the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. 
The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans" of the Bank, dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modification of paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:  
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and 
furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, on the execution of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
Page  3
-
2
-
from it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective obligations under 
the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.” 
Section 1.02. 
Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings: 
(a) “ANTAQ” 
means 
Agência Nacional de Transportes Aquaviários
,
the 
Borr
ower’s Waterborne Transport Regulatory Agency; 
(b) 
“ANTAQ Coordinating Unit” means the ANTAQ unit referred to in 
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; 
(c) “ANTT” 
means 
Agência Nacional de Transportes Terrestres
,
the 
Borrower’s Land Transport Regulatory Agency; 
(d) 
“ANTT Coordinating Unit” means the ANTT unit referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Bankruptcy Framework” means the following Bills of Law already 
approved by the Borrower’s House of Representatives (
Câmara de Deputados
), and 
expected to become laws in the Borrower’s territory once they are approved by the 
Borrower’s Senate: (i) Bill of Law No. 4376-E, of 1993, which provides for a new 
bankruptcy law; and (ii) Bill of Law No. 72/03 (
Emenda Aglutinativa Substitutiva Global 
ao Projeto de Lei Complementar
 No. 72/03), which amends certain provisions of the 
Borrower’s Law No. 5172, of October 25, 1966 (the National Tax Code), applicable to 
enterprise bankruptcy and restructuring proceedings; 
(f) 
“Beneficiary Entity” means any of the following entities:  SRF, SPE, 
SEAE, SUSEP, SDE, MJ’s Secretariat of Judicial Reform, CADE, MT’s Secretariats of 
National Transport Policies and of Administration, DNIT, ANTT, ANTAQ, MCT’s 
Executive Secretariat and MCT’s Secretariats for Strategic Scientific Development 
Policies, for Social Inclusion, and for Strategic Development Policy, which benefit from the 
technical assistance provided under the Project as indicated in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, or any other entity which may benefit from a new activity to be included in the 
Project as provided in Section 3.03 of this Agreement; and “Beneficiary Entities” means all 
such entities together; 
(g) “CADE” 
means 
Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica
,
MJ’s 
Economic Defense Administrative Council;  
Page  4
-
3
-
(h) 
“COFIEX” means 
Comissão de Financiamentos Externos
,
the Borrower’s 
Comission of External Borrowings, within the Borrower’s Ministry of Planning, Budget 
and Management, and governed by the Borrower’s 
Decreto
 No. 3502, of June 12, 2000;  
(i) 
“Coordinating Unit” means the ANTAQ Coordinating Unit, the ANTT 
Coordinating Unit, the DNIT Coordinating Unit, the MCT Coordinating Unit, the MF 
Coordinating Unit, the unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement, or any 
other unit which may be included in the Project as a result of any of the reviews referred to 
in Section 3.03 (c) of this Agreement; and “Coordinating Units” means all such units 
together; 
(j) “DNIT” 
means 
Departamento Nacional de Infra-estrutura de Transporte
,
the Borrower’s Department of Transport Infrastructure; 
(k) 
“DNIT Coordinating Unit” means the DNIT unit referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement; 
(l) 
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(m) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(n) 
“FMR” means each report referred to in Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(o) “MCT” 
means 
Ministério da Ciência e Tecnologia
,
the Bor
rower’s 
Ministry of Science and Technology; 
(p) 
“MCT Coordinating Unit” means the MCT unit referred to in Section 3.01 
(b) (i) of this Agreement; 
(q) “MF” 
means 
Ministério da Fazenda
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance; 
(r) 
“MF Coordinating Unit” means the MF unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) 
(i) of this Agreement; 
(s) “MJ” 
means 
Ministério da Justiça
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of Justice; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(t) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to the 
Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account referred to in Part A.5 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(u) “MT” 
means 
Ministério dos Transportes
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Transport; 
(v) “SDE” 
means 
Secretaria de Direito Econômico
,
MJ’s Secretariat of 
Economic Law; 
(w) “SEAE” 
means 
Secretaria de Acompanhamento Econômico
,
MF’s 
Secretariat for Economic Monitoring; 
(x) “SPE” 
means 
Secretaria de Política Econômica
,
MF’s Secretariat of 
Economic Policy;  
(y) 
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;  
(z) “SRF” 
means 
Secretaria da Receita Federal
,
MF’s Federal Revenue 
Secretariat; and 
(aa) “SUSEP” 
means 
Superintendência de Seguros Privados
,
MF’s 
Superintendence of Private Insurance. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. 
The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twelve million one 
hundred twenty thousand Dollars ($12,120,000), as such amount may be converted from 
time to time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 
2.09 of this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. 
The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, as well as in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar 
payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions. 
Section 2.03. 
The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish, after having received evidence that COFIEX has recommended the 
extension of the Closing Date. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date, which shall not be a date beyond the date recommended by COFIEX. 
Section 2.04. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay 
to itself the amount of said fee. 
Section 2.05. 
The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (a) eighty 
five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (b) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. 
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period, at the 
Variable Rate; provided that, upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such 
amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 2.07. 
Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on January 15 and July 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. 
The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. 
(a)  The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of 
the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article 
IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c) 
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest 
Rate Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of 
the proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in 
accordance with Section 4.04 (c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from 
time to time for such purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.10. The following persons are designated as representatives of the 
Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the 
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions: (a) 
SPE’s Secretary, in respect of the first withdrawal of funds for the Special Account and the 
expenditures under Parts A and B of the Project; (b) the Borrower’s Minister of Transport, 
in respect of expenditures under Part C of the Project; and (c) the Borrower’s Minister of 
Science and Technology, in respect of expenditures under Part D of the Project.  Such 
Page  8
-
7
-
persons may designate, in writing, other persons to act on their behalf for the same 
purposes for which they are hereby being designated. 
ARTICLE III
 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall, under the 
general coordination of SPE and the assistance of the Beneficiary Entities, carry out: (i) 
Parts A and B of the Project, through the MF Coordinating Unit; (ii) Parts C.1 and C.2 of 
the Project, through the unit referred to in Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement; (iii) Part 
C.3 of the Project, through the DNIT Coordinating Unit; (iv) Part C.4 of the Project, 
through the ANTT Coordinating Unit; (v) Part C.5 of the Project, through the ANTAQ 
Coordinating Unit; and (vi) Part D of the Project, through the MCT Coordinating Unit, all 
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, economic, scientific, technical, regulatory, environmental and social practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
through MF and MCT, establish and maintain, during the 
execution of the Project, units within MF and MCT for purposes 
of coordinating and managing the carrying out of Parts A and B 
of the Project (the MF Coordinating Unit) and Part D of the 
Project (the MCT Coordinating Unit), respectively, such units to 
have a structure and functions satisfactory to the Bank, and 
qualified staff in adequate numbers as required to carry out their 
responsibilities under the Project; 
(ii) 
through DNIT, ANTT and ANTAQ, establish and maintain, 
during the execution of the Project, units within DNIT, ANTT 
and ANTAQ for purposes of coordinating and managing the 
carrying out of Part C.3 of the Project (the DNIT Coordinating 
Unit), Part C.4 of the Project (the ANTT Coordinating Unit) and 
Part C.5 of the Project (the ANTAQ Coordinating Unit), 
respectively, each such unit to comprise a coordinator with 
qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Bank; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
(iii) 
through MT, designate or establish, and maintain a unit, which 
may be the DNIT Coordinating Unit, the ANTT Coordinating 
Unit, the ANTAQ Coordinating Unit, or a new unit acceptable to 
the Bank, for purposes of coordinating and managing the 
carrying out of Parts C.1 and C.2 of the Project. 
(c) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
through MF and MJ, maintain, during the execution of the 
Project, arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, under which: (A) 
the MF Coordinating Unit will manage the carrying out of Parts 
B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the Project for the benefit of SDE, MJ’s 
Secretariat of Judicial Reform and CADE, respectively, by 
undertaking the responsibility for the procurement of goods and 
services and the financial management of the payments and 
expenditures under such Parts of the Project; and (B) MJ will 
make annual budget transfers to the MF Coordinating Unit as 
shall be necessary for such unit to carry out the tasks referred to 
in (A) above. 
(ii) 
through the MF Coordinating Unit and the MCT Coordinating 
Unit, maintain, during the execution of the Project, 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with an entity having 
capacity, satisfactory to the Bank, to assist each such unit in the 
procurement of goods and services under their respective Project 
components. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: 
(a) 
through each Beneficiary Entity, furnish to the Bank and SPE, at the end of 
each semester during Project implementation, a report, in such detail and of such scope as 
the Bank shall request, on the progress in the carrying out of the respective Project 
component under the responsibility of such Beneficiary Entity; 
(b) 
through SPE, furnish to the Bank, at the end of each semester during 
Project implementation, a report containing a summary of consolidated information on the 
progress of all components of the Project; and 
Page  10
-
9
-
(c) 
through SPE, review with the Bank, not later than April 30 of each year 
during the execution of the Project, the progress in the carrying out of the Project activities 
during the preceding twelve-month period, and the need to add or eliminate activities under 
the Project in order to achieve the objective of the Project.  The Bank may (subject to 
compliance with its internal approval processes) agree to finance new Project activities 
under the Loan if: (i) there is an express support to the carrying of such activities by the 
relevant Ministry or Ministries of the Borrower; (ii) there is availability of Loan funds to 
finance the additional activities; (iii) such additional activities do not trigger any of the 
Bank’s safeguard policies; and (iv) the Bank is satisfied with the arrangements for the 
implementation of such new activities. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall: (i) furnish to the Bank the reconciliation of 
the Special Account at the end of each calendar quarter during the execution of the Project; 
and (ii) cause each Coordinating Unit to establish and maintain financial management 
systems acceptable to the Bank, including records and accounts, and to prepare financial 
statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the 
Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to their 
respective Project components. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the Bank) 
audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year 
(or such other period agreed to by the Bank), as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and 
detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
Page  11
-
10 -
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i) 
through each Coordinating Unit, retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal 
year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that the relevant statements of expenditure and reports 
referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as the case 
may be, are included in the audits for each fiscal year (or other 
period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section. 
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.03 (a) and (b) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, through each 
Coordinating Unit, prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Bank (the FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the component or 
components of the Project under the responsibility of such 
Coordinating Unit, both cumulatively and for the period covered 
by said report, showing separately funds provided by the Loan, 
and explains variances between the actual and planned uses of 
such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in the implementation of such 
Project component or components, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under such Project 
component or components, as at the end of the period covered by 
said report. 
Page  12
-
11 -
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from 
the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days 
after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement, within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
the MF Coordinating Unit has been established as provided in Section 3.01 
(b) (i) of this Agreement; 
(b) 
at least two Coordinating Units have been established as provided in 
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement and their respective financial management systems 
referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement have been established as provided therein; 
and 
(c) 
the arrangements referred to in Section 3.01 (c) have been entered into 
between the respective parties thereto. 
Section 5.02. 
The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion to be 
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Loan has been validly registered with the Central 
Bank of Brazil. 
Section 5.03. 
The date January 9, 2006, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  13
-
12 -
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8
°
andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 412-1740 
 
With copies to: 
 
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5
°
andar 
 
70040-906 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 225-4022 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD  
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
Page  14
-
13 -
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  15
-
14 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Brasilia, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By/s/ Sonia de Almendra Freitas Portella 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By/s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
Page  16
-
15 -
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)       Goods 
1,000,000  
 
100% of foreign                                                                                                                           
expenditures,                                                                                                                                
100% of local  
 
expenditures  
 
(ex-factory 
cost) 
 
and 85% of 
local 
 
expenditures 
for 
other goods                                   
procured locally 
 
(2)       Consultants’ services 
8,600,000 
 
            84% 
 and 
training 
 
(3) 
Front-end fee 
        121,200 
Amount due 
 
pursuant to 
 
Section 2.04 of 
 
this Agreement 
 
(4) 
Unallocated 
  2,398,800 
 
(5)      Premia for Interest 
0 
Amount due 
 
Rate Caps and Interest 
under Section 
Page  17
-
16 -
Rate Collars 
 
2.09 (c) of 
 _________ 
this 
Agreement 
 
TOTAL                  
  12,120,000 
 
======== 
 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term: 
 (a) 
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country 
other than that of the Borrower for goods supplied from the territory of any country other 
than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b) 
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Borrower 
or for goods supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
 
(c) 
"training" includes reasonable costs of travel and per diems of trainees, 
training materials, and other training related expenditures other than consultants’ services. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $1,200,000, may be made 
on account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve months prior to the 
date of this Agreement; and 
 
(b) 
payments under the Project component or components that shall be carried 
out by a Coordinating Unit other than those referred to in Section 5.01 (b) of this 
Agreement, unless such Coordinating Unit has been established or designated and its 
respective financial management system referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement 
has been established as provided therein. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditures for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract; (b) consulting firms’ services costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract; (c) individual consultants’ services costing less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract; and (d) training, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
5. 
The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, 
such reports to include the FMRs and any other information as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower (Report-based Disbursements). In the case of the first such request 
submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made from the Loan Account, the 
Page  18
-
17 -
Borrower shall submit to the Bank only a statement with the projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the six-month period following the date of such 
request. 
Page  19
-
18 -
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Borrower may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account 
in a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and 
attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Borrower is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
(b) 
 if the Borrower is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the 
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably 
request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank at any time is not satisfied that the reports referred to in 
Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for 
Report-based Disbursements;
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from 
the Loan Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of: (i) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the 
records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of 
expenditure, as the case may be. 
 
Page  20
-
19 -
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from 
the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such 
notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further 
deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible 
Expenditure, or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank 
into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following such determination, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such 
outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all 
or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement. 
Page  21
-
20 -
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means 
the amount of $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited 
into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation 
shall be limited to the amount of $500,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding 
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the 
General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed $2,000,000. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of 
an amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals 
as the Bank shall specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments 
in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan 
Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
 
Page  22
-
21 -
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have 
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account 
as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
Page  23
-
22 -
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into 
the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) 
the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of 
this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in 
order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of 
such reports. 
 
Page  24
-
23 -
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in preparing and 
implementing the next phase of the Program. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as 
the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective: 
Part A
:
MF
1. 
Support for first activities to implement the modernization strategy of the 
Borrower’s customs (as such strategy is described in the Borrower’s letter delivered to the 
Bank on January 2, 2004), including a strategic plan for customs’ modernization, re-
engineering of customs’ procedures, integration of customs’ systems, and improvements in 
Customs’ security.  (Beneficiary Entity: SRF) 
 
2. 
Carrying out of studies for: (a) the efficient development of financial markets and 
studies for improved enforcement of creditor rights; and (b) simplification of procedures for 
opening and closing of firms. (Beneficiary Entity: SPE) 
 
3. 
Support for SEAE’s institutional restructuring, including the definition and 
implementation of an action plan for the restructuring and strengthening of SEAE’s 
economic regulation area, and provision of on-the-job training to SEAE’s staff. 
 
(Beneficiary Entity: SEAE) 
 
4. 
Support for SUSEP’s institutional development, and the continued improvement in 
the regulation, supervision and oversight of the insurance sector, including a diagnosis and 
plan of action aimed at improved institutional performance, continued adoption of 
international standards and best practices, the modernization of procedures, staff training 
and improvements in information technology infrastructure.  (Beneficiary Entity: SUSEP) 
 
Part B
:
MJ
1. 
Improvement of SDE’s capacity to implement activities related to the Bankruptcy 
Framework, including institutional strengthening, studies, workshops and seminars to build 
awareness of such Framework in the legal community, and the establishment of appropriate 
accompanying court procedures. (Beneficiary Entity: SDE) 
 
Page  25
-
24 -
2. 
Support for SDE to improve the efficiency of administrative processes of 
trust and anti-competitive behavior cases, including technical assistance and 
supply of computer hardware and software to modernize a
nd
expand SDE’s 
system for case management, and to identify and recommend changes in 
procedures.  (Beneficiary Entity: SDE) 
 
3. 
Carrying out of studies for the design of improvements to the capacity of the 
judicial system to resolve economic disputes in the public and private sectors, and to 
enforce property rights and contracts.  (Beneficiary Entity: MJ’s Secretariat of Judicial 
Reform) 
 
4. 
Support for the strengthening of CADE’s capacity to handle anti-trust cases, 
including the structuring of its information system, implementation of the first phase of 
such system expansion through supply of computer hardware and software, review of 
CADE’s technical analysis procedures and recommendation of measures for their 
improvement, and provision of training to CADE’s staff in anti-trust international best 
practices.  (Beneficiary Entity: CADE) 
 
Part C
:
MT
1. 
Support for the development of MT’s integrated, long-term planning and project 
financing capacity.  (Beneficiary Entity: MT’s Secretariat of National Transport Policies) 
 
2. 
Support to the Borrower’s efforts to define and undertake the actions required to 
complete the reform of the Borrower’s ports.  (Beneficiary Entity: MT’s Secretariat of 
Administration) 
 
3. 
Support for the strengthening of DNIT’s capacity to manage the federal road 
network.  (Beneficiary Entity: DNIT) 
 
4. 
Support for the strengthening of ANTT’s institutional capacity and for 
improvement of the regulatory framework in the road, railways, and interstate and 
international bus transportation sectors.  (Beneficiary Entity: ANTT) 
 
5. 
Support for the strengthening of ANTAQ’s institutional capacity and for 
improvement of the regulatory framework for ports and water transport.  (Beneficiary 
Entity: ANTAQ) 
 
Part D
:
MCT
1. 
Support for the strengthening of MCT’s capacity to improve the efficiency of 
public expenditures in the science and technology sector, as well as the implementation and 
dissemination of current actions related to the Bill of Law No. 3476/2004 sent to the 
Page  26
-
25 -
Borrower’s Congress on May 5, 2004, which provides for incentives for technological 
innovation and technological and scientific research in the productive sectors.  (Beneficiary 
Entity: MCT’s Executive Secretariat) 
2. 
Support for the strengthening of MCT’s institutional capacity to structure and 
manage the clean development mechanism in Brazil.  (Beneficiary Entity: MCT’s 
Secretariat for Strategic Scientific Development Policies)  
3. 
Support for MCT’s efforts in fostering development of poor communities by 
providing access to computers and the internet to groups of small producers.  (Beneficiary 
Entity: MCT’s Secretariat for Social Inclusion) 
4. 
Support for MCT’s efforts in fostering the development of nanotechnology 
industry in Brazil.  (Beneficiary Entity: MCT’s Secretariat for Strategic Development 
Policy) 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
Page  27
-
26 -
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of 
the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  
(a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first 
Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date, such 
repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 Installment 
Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each January 15 and July 15 
beginning July 15, 2009 through July 15, 2019 
4.55% 
on January 15, 2020 
4.45% 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts 
determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, 
the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment 
Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment 
Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts 
to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on 
any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Page  28
-
27 -
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if 
at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued 
on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such subparagraph shall 
no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be 
repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period shall be 
determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination 
immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that reflects the 
amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency 
Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in 
accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen 
Rate. 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall 
apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a 
separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
 
Page  29
-
28 -
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. National 
Competitive 
Bidding
Goods, estimated to cost less than $500,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 
3.4 of the Guidelines, using standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.  Without 
limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following 
shall apply to the procurement to be undertaken pursuant to this Part C.1: 
(a) 
Contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined 
to be the lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever 
appropriate, to also take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 
of the Guidelines, provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on 
factors that can be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall 
be disclosed in the invitation to bid. 
(b) 
Whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised 
for at least three consecutive days in a newspaper of wide circulation in Brazil. 
Page  30
-
29 -
(c) 
The arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for a joint-venture 
(
consórcio)
 of Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the 
Bank in each case. 
(d) 
The invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices. 
(e) 
The purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any 
change order under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the 
quantity of goods (and related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms 
and conditions of sale. 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of national or international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Such 
plan shall be updated every twelve-month period during the execution of the Project, and 
each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.  Procurement 
of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan (as updated) as 
shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of 
Parts B and C.1 above, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first contract to be awarded by each Coordinating Unit 
in accordance with the procedures referred to in Part C.2 above, the following procedures 
shall apply: 
Page  31
-
30 -
(i) 
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Bank shall receive a 
report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Bank shall receive a 
copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants 
by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the following provisions of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Schedule, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Quality-based 
Selection
Services for complex, highly specialized assignments or assignments which can be 
carried out in substantially different ways shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. Least-cost 
Selection
Page  32
-
31 -
Services for assignments of a standard or routine nature, estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for which the need for preparing and evaluating competitive procedures 
are not required, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants, costing not more than $3,300,000 equivalent in 
the aggregate, for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines: (a) shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; or (b) may be 
procured on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 
of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the Bank. 
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost estimates, 
contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be furnished to 
the Bank, for its review and approval, prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests 
for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every twelve-month period during the execution 
of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan (as updated) as shall have been approved by the Bank. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 
2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the 
qualifications and experience of the candidates, or the qualifications and experience of the 
Page  33
-
32 -
candidate in the case of sole-source selection, as well as the terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply, 
provided that the terms of reference for, and the proposed method of selection of, 
consulting firms shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval.
 
