                                              Documentof
                                          The World Bank


                                      FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                            ReportNo: 27987-BR



                                PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                                ONA

                                          PROPOSEDLOAN

                              INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$12.12MILLION

                                               TO THE

                               FEDERATIVEREPUBLICOF BRAZIL

                                               FORA

      SUSTAINABLEAND EQUITABLE GROWTHTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

                            INSUPPORTOFTHEFIRSTPHASEOFTHE

    SUSTAINABLEAND EQUITABLEGROWTHTECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROGRAM

                                             May 19,2004




  Finance,PrivateSectorandInfrastructureDepartment
  BrazilCountryManagementUnit
  LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegionalOffice


This documenthas a restricteddistributionand maybeusedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization

          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
             Currency Unit- Real (R$)
       (Exchange Rate Effective M a y 17,2004)


                R$1.00 = US0.34
                R$3.14   = US$l.OO

                 FISCAL YEAR
             January 1 - December 31




         Vice President:     David de Ferranti
CountryManagermirector:      VinodThomas
        Sector Manager:       Susan Goldmark
      Task Team Leader:      Aymeric-Albin Meyer



                         ..
                         11

                                                               FOROFFICLALUSEONLY


                                  ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

         ANTAQ      AgEncia Nacional de TrasportesAquaviArios       National Water Transport Agency
         ANTT       AgEncia Nacional de TransportesTerrestres       National Land Transport Agency
         CADE       Conselho Administrativo de DefesaEconamica      Economic Defence Council
         CAP        Conselho de Autoridade Portuiria                Port Authority Council
         CAPES      Coordenaqlo de AperfeiCoamentode Pessoalde      Coordination of Superior Education
                    Nivel Superior                                  Improvement
         CAS        Estrattgia de Assistsncia para o Pais           Country Assistance Strategy
         CDM        Mecanismo de Desenvolvimento Limpo              Clean DevelopmentMechanism
         CER        Reduqdes de EmissloCertificadas                 CertifiedEmission Reductions
         CSI        Iniciativade Seguranqa de Recipiente            Container Security Initiative
         DNIT       Departamento Nacional de Infra-estruturade      Department of Transport Infrastructure
                    Transporte
         EMBRAPA    Empresa Brasileira de PesquisaAgropecu6ria      Brazilian Agricultural Research
         FDI        Investimento Estrangeiro Direto                 Enterprise
                                                                    Foreign Direct Investment
         FINEP      Financiadorade Estudos e Projetos               Fund for Research and Projects
         FMR        Relatdrio de AdministragHo Financeira           Financial Management Report
         GDP        Produto Bruto Dome'stico                        Gross Domestic Product
         MCT        MinistCrio da Cidnciae Tecnologia               Ministry of Science and Technology
         M&E        Monitoramento e Avaliaqlo                       Monitoring and Evaluation
         OECD       OrganizaqHo paraCooperaq2o Econamicae           Organization for Economic Co-operation
                    Desenvolvimento                                 and Development
         OGMO       OrgPo Gestor de Mlo-de-Obra                     Labor Management Organization
         PC         Coordenador do Projeto                          Project Coordinator
         PCU        Unidade de CoordenagHodo Projeto                Project Coordination Unit
         PNAFE      ProgramaNacional de AdministraqHo Fiscal dos    National Fiscal State Administration
                    Estados                                         Programs
         PNAFEM     Programa Nacional de AdministraqHo Fiscal dos   National Fiscal Municipal
                    Municipios                                      Administration Programs
         POA        Conta Operacional do Projeto                    Project OperationalAccount
         PPA        Plano Plurianual                                Multi-Year Plan
         PPP        Parceria Publico Privada                         Public-Private Partnership
         R&D        Pesquisae Desenvolvimento                        Researchand Development
         SA         Conta Especial                                   Special Account
         SAFS       Declaraq6esde Fonte e Aplicaqdes de Fundos       Sources and Applications of Funds
                                                                     Statements
         SDE        Secretaria de Direito Econamico                  Economic Law Secretariat
         SEAE       Secretaria de Acompanhamento EconBmico           Economic Monitoring Secretariat
         SFC        Secretaria Federalde Controle                    Federal Control Secretariat
         SIAFI      Sistema Integradode Administraglo Financeira     IntegratedSystem for Financial
                                                                     Management
         SME        Pequenase Me'diasEmpresas                        Small and Medium Enterprises
         SPE        Secretaria de PoliticaEconBmica                  Secretariat of Economic Policy
         S T N      Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional                   National Treasury Secretariat
         SUSEP      Superintendencia de Seguros Privados             Private InsuranceSupervisor
         TAP        Programade Assistdncia TCcnica                   Technical Assistance Program
         TCU        Tribunal de Contas da Unilo                      Federal Court of Accounts




7




the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
lwithout World Bank authorization.                                                           A

                                                                                                      FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                            BRAZIL
          SustainableandEquitableGrowthTechnicalAssistanceProgram

                                                         CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                     Page

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                                 ..................................................................    1
 1. Country andsector issues....................................................................................................                       1
 2. Rationale for Bank involvement..........................................................................................                           2
 3. Higherlevel objectives to which the program contributes ..................................................                                         3

B PROJECTDESCRIPTION
.                                            ..................................................................................................        3
 1. Lendinginstrument..............................................................................................................                    3
 2. Program objectives and Phases............................................................................................
                   . .                                                                                                                                 3
 3. Project development objective andkey indicators ..............................................................                                     5
 4. Project components.............................................................................................................. 7
 5. Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design ............................................................                                     7
 6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection...............................................................                                   8

C IMPLEMENTATION
 .                                  ...........................................................................................................        9
 1 Partnershiparrangements.....................................................................................................
  .                                                                                                                                                    9
 2. Institutionaland implementation arrangements...................................................................                                    9
 3. Monitoring and evaluation of outcomes/results                                 ................................................................     10
 4. Sustainability .....................................................................................................................               11
 5. Criticalrisks andpossible controversial aspects...............................................................                                     11
 6. Loan conditions and covenants.......................................................................................... 13
                 ..

D
.  APPRAISALSUMMARY                        ............................................................       .......................................  13
 1. Economic and financial analyses.......................................................................................                             13
 2. Technical............................................................................................................................              14
 3. Fiduciary ............................................................................................................................             14
 4. Social .................................................................................................................................           14
 5. Environment ......................................................................................................................                 14
 6. Safeguard pollcles..............................................................................................................
                      . .                                                                                                                              15
 7. Policy Exceptions andReadiness......................................................................................                               15

                                                                    i v

Annex 1: Program Background.....................................................................................................          16

Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies ..........................                                     30

Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring .............................................................................. 31

Annex 4: Detailed ProjectDescription..........................................................................................            34

Annex 5: Project Costs .................................................................................................................. 42

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements....................................................................................... 43

Annex 7: FinancialManagement andDisbursement Arrangements .............................................                                   52

Annex 8: Procurement ...................................................................................................................  64

Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis..................................................................................                 74

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues ...............................................................................................         75

Annex 11:Project Preparation and Supervision............................................................................                  76

Annex 12: Documents in the Project File...................................................................................... 77

Annex 13: Statement of Loans andCredits ...................................................................................               78

Annex 14: Country at a Glance .....................................................................................................       82




                                                               V

                                            BRAZIL

  SUSTAINABLE AND EQUITABLE GROWTH TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

                             PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                            LATINAMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                                             LCSFR

Date: May 19,2004                                Team Leader: Aymeric-Albin Meyer
Country Director: Vinod Thomas                   Sectors: General industry and trade sector
Sector ManagerDirector: Susan G. Goldmark        (65%); General transportation sector (35%)
                                                 Themes: Regulationandcompetition policy
                                                 (P); Infrastructure services for private sector
                                                 development (P); Export development and
                                                 competitiveness (P)
Project ID: PO83533                              Environmental screening category: Not
                                                 Required
LendingInstrument: Technical Assistance          Safeguardscreening category: No impact
Loan

[XILoan      [ ]Credit   [ ]Grant    [ ]Guarantee      [ ]Other:

For Loans/Credits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 12.12
Proposedterms: FSL, (level repaymentsof principalin 16 years, including 5 years of grace

b
Deriod. with all conversion oDtions available).
                                    Financing Plan (US$m)
                  Source                         Local             Foreign              Total
BORROWER                                            2.28               0.00                2.28
INTERNATIONALBANKFOR                                9.72                2.40              12.12
RECONSTRUCTIONAND
DEVELOPMENT
Total:                                             12.00                2.40              14.40

Borrower:
MinistCrio da Fazenda
Esplanadados Ministe'rios, Bloco P
Brasilia - D.F.
Brazil
ResponsibleAgency:
Unidade de Gerenciamento do Projeto, Ministe'rio da Fazenda
Esplanadados MinistCrios, Bloco P
Brasflia - D.F.
Brazil

                                               vi

 Project implementation period: Start October 4,2004 End: June 30,2008
 Expectedeffectiveness date: September 27,2004
 Expectedclosingdate: December 31,2008
Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant respects?
Ref:PADA.3                                                                          [ ]Yes [XINO
~


Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?
Ref. PAD D.7                                                                        [ ]Yes [XINO
Have thesebeen approved by Bank management?                                         [ ]Yes   IN0
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                        [ ]Yes [ IN0
Does the project include any critical risks rated "substantial" or "high"?
Ref. PAD C.5                                                                        [XIYes [ ]No
Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor implementation?
Ref. PAD D.7                                                                        [XIYes [ ]No

 Project development objective Ref. PAD B.2, Technica2Annex 3
 The objective of the project i s to assist the Government inpreparing and implementing the next
 phase of its growth program, as agreed with the Bank under the recently-approved and Bank-
 financed FirstProgrammatic Loanfor Sustainable and Equitable Growth.
 Project description [one-sentence summary of each component] Ref. PAD B.3.4 Technical
Annex 4
The project consists of the provisionof technical assistance and training services, office
equipment and software to the various project beneficiaries to carry out activities neededto
 achievethe project's objective.
Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any? Ref. PAD 0.6, TechnicalAnnex 10
None.
 Significant, non-standard conditions, if any, for:
Ref. PAD C.7
Boardpresentation:
None.
Loan effectiveness:
         (a)    the MFCoordinating Unit has beenestablished;
         (b)    at least two Coordinating Units have been established, with operational financial
                management systems; and
         (c)    the arrangements have been entered into for: (i)    the implementation of activities
                to be undertaken by the Ministry of Justice; and (ii) procurement of activities
                                                                       the
                to be undertaken through the Coordinating Units of the Ministries of Finance and
                Science and Technology.




                                                   vii

Covenantsapplicable to project implementation:

        Project evaluation and monitoring: The Borrower, through SPE, shall review with the
Bank, not later than April 30 of each year during the execution o the Project, the progress inthe
carrying out of the Project activities during the preceding twelve-month period, and the need to
add or eliminate activities under the Project inorder to achieve the objective of the Project. The
Bank may agree to finance new Project activities under the Loan i f (a) there is an express
support to the carrying of such activities by the relevant Ministry or Ministries of the Borrower;
(b) there is availability of Loan funds to finance the additional activities; (c) such additional
activities do not trigger any of the Bank's safeguard policies; and (d) the Bank is satisfied with
the arrangementsfor the implementation of such new activities.




                                                 ...
                                                V l l l

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Countryandsectorissues

        With deep macroeconomic reforms but low and erratic growth, Brazil has proved that
stabilization is not enough on its own to guarantee growth. In the past decade Brazil has
transformed itself economically and laid the institutional foundations for solid macroeconomic
management.Chronic inflation has beeneradicatedand the trio of adept inflation targeting, fiscal
balance, and a floating exchange rate have created a stable macroeconomic base. Efforts have
begun to make public spending more effective in attacking poverty. Health and education
indicators have been transformed using per-capita transfers to states and municipalities.
Programs such as the ruralpension and conditional cash transfers (like the new "Bolsa Familia")
show aheightened preoccupation with makingsure that resources reach society's poorest.

        Economic growth has so far been the missing ingredient to rendering social progress
resilient and enduring. B y the 199Os, many Latin American economies had bounced back from
the "lost decade" of the eighties but for Brazil, still undergoing stabilization, the nineties
representeda second lost decade for growth. While Latin American per-capita income grew at an
average rate of about 2 percent, slightly above the world rate, Brazil managed only about half
that  ,In the absence of strong financial flows to emerging markets, and with the market
uncertainty of 2002, Brazil's growth has remaineddisappointing, and unemployment has reached
recordlevels of around 13 percent nationally.

        The incompleteness of some `ffirst-generation" reforms may be one explanation for
sluggish growth. Fiscal reforms did not increase budget flexibility enough to allow for public
investments in infrastructure or innovation. Continuing high public sector borrowing has well
known crowding-out effects on private credit and investments. Trade volume i s still low
compared with other large economies such as the US, Australia, Mexico, Indonesia, China and
India. Partial privatization in electricity (where 78 percent of generation is controlled by the
public enterprise Eletrobris), roads, and water and sanitation may also have attenuated both
capital accumulation and productivity gains. Repeated changes in taxation on the entry of
financial capital may have induced frictions on financial liberalization. And the estimated impact
of FDI on productivity has been limited, possibly due to the high share of investment in non-
tradable sectors.

        But further first-generation reforms may not be sufJicient in the absence of other
microeconomic and institutional reforms. Trade liberalization actually occurred almost twice as
fast as in the Korean Republic, but against a background of labor market rigidities, capital
market imperfections, poor infrastructure services, and low external financing. Privatization in
transport and electricity failed to generate sufficient competition or service expansion because it
precededthe establishment of appropriate legal and institutional framework for regulation. It has
been this regulatory incompleteness and instability - not the incompleteness of privatization -
that has curtailed private infrastructure investment. Poor enforcement hampers competition law
and policy; burdensome licensing procedures lead to firm informality; and the bankruptcy law
untilrecently provided few incentives for financial turnaround. Highfinancial spreads are caused
by taxation, mandatory credit lines at administered interest rates, and lack of creditor's rights.


                                                  1

        The Government has embarked on an ambitious growth program based on the
implementation of a series of microeconomic and institutional reforms, and achievements to date
clearly signal the commitment to the agenda's undertaking. With the approval of a reform plan,
the Government has started to modernize customs clearance, a historical bottleneck. A recent
White Paper clarifies and strengthensinfrastructure regulation and reinforces the role of the new
transport agencies. The new Bankruptcy Law - approved by the Lower House - provides a key
mechanism for the turnaround of potentially viable firms, while the tax reformfurther simplifies
tax collection for SMEs. Approval of the Amendment to Article 192 of the Constitution is an
essential step in approving fundamental legislation to improve the financial sector soundness.
With the Innovation Law before Congress, the Government has a chance to improve linkages
between public research institutes and the private sector, increasing the countries capacity to
transform knowledge into productivitygains.

        The elaboration and implementation of a sub-set of the Govemment's growthprogram is
supported by the recently-approved First Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable
Growth (Loan 7218-BR) and the proposed companion technical assistance program.                The
actions supported by the Loanfit into the four following components: (i) reducing logistics costs,
encompassing customs, ports, roads, and multi-modal transport; (ii)     improving the business
environment, including infrastructure regulation, competition policy, barriers to entry, and the
framework for corporate insolvency and creditor 'rights; (iii)enhancing financial system
efficiency and depth (including long-term credit, insurance, and venture capital), and (iv)
improving Brazil's capacity to transform knowledge into productivity gains (through the
innovation system). The proposed technical assistance program (see description in section B)
will support various government entities to implement such actions, using the Adaptable
Program Lending (APL) instrument. Annex 1 provides a short background for a first set of
issues the resolution of which will be supported by the Program. More details are available in
the Programmatic Loan's ProgramDocument (Report 27507-BR).

2. Rationale for Bankinvolvement

        The main objective of the new Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved by
the Board of Directors on December 9, 2003, i s to provide support towards a more equitable,
sustainable, and competitive Brazil, built on a foundation of good governance and
macroeconomic stability. In particular, the CAS emphasizes that, in the Bank's program of
support, growth has now gained equal priority with social equity and fiscal balance, and
identifies the Programmatic Loan Series for Sustainable and Equitable Growth as the flagship
vehicle to support Government efforts toward higher productivity and investment. The recently-
approved First Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Growth (Loan n. 7218-BR)
constitutes the first loan within the above-mentioned series. The Objective of the Government's
growth program supported by the first loan. and the proposed companion technical assistance
program. i s to support the establishment of the microeconomic foundations of sustainable and
equitable economic growth in Brazil. The growth program pursues a more competitive Brazil
initially through reduced logistics and financial costs, increased investment through better
regulation, competition, business and financial services, and increased productivity through
innovation.



                                                2

        The growth program also lends secondary support to the sustainability and equity pillars
of the CAS. It strengthens natural-resource management through improved environmental
licensing services, and through innovative market development initiatives such as the Clean
Development Mechanism under the Kyoto protocol. It also pursues more equitable growth
through measures to ensure access of the poor to financial services. And it is expected to
contribute to a pro-poor pattern of growth, owing to the structural changes in the Brazilian
economy since the Real Plan, the improved social policies, and the specific measures contained
inthe program suchas increasedaccessto infrastructure services.

        The proposed two operations will complement each other in helping build consensus
on the growth program. The series of programmatic loans will provide financial support for
observed progress along the implementation of the growth program. The proposed technical
assistance program will, through the provision of essential technical advice, training and
equipment, support Government entities in the implementation of the agreed reforms and in the
development of the next series of reforms which could eventually be supported by follow-up
programmatic adjustment loans.

3. Higher levelobjectives to which the programcontributes

    The proposedtechnical assistance program will, together with the associated adjustment loan
program, contribute to the objectives of a sub-set of the government's growth program, and thus
to sustainable and equitable economic growth, and to poverty reduction, by reducing logistic
costs, improving the business environment, enhancing the efficiency and depth of the financial
system, and increasing innovation capacity

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

        The Borrower chose a FSL in US$, with a 5-year grace period and a 16-year maturity
period, and level repayments of principal. The Borrower asked that all conversion options be
made available (both in terms of currency and interest rates), in order to facilitate the
management of the country's external debt. The cost of interest rate caps and collars will be
financed out of the loan's proceeds.

2. Programobjectives and Phases

        The overall objectiveof the technical assistanceprogram is to assist the Government in
implementing its economic growth program, as described in the Minister's of Finance
development policy letter dated January 20, 2004 and enclosed inthe ProgramDocument for the
First Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Growth (Report n. 27507-BR).          The
technical assistance of the Bank to the Government in implementing Brazil's growth program
was conceived as a program, using the Adaptable Program Lending (APL) instrument given: (i)
the highdemand on the side of the various Government entities involved in the implementation
of the growth program; (ii)    the limited fiscal space to accommodate at this point a larger
technical assistance loan; and (iii) agreement reachedbetween the Government and the Bank
                                  the


                                                3

on the relevance of developing a long-term partnership in resolving some of the key issues
constraining growth inBrazil.

     Specifically, the technical assistance program will help key Government entities undertake
already approved micro-economic policy and institutional reforms, and prepare for the
implementation of the next phase of the growth program, to achieve the following sub-
objectives:
     (i) reducelogisticscostsinordertoraiseproductivityandfacilitatetrade,byincreasing
     the effectiveness of customs, reducing port costs and delays, reducing road transport costs,
     andpromoting efficient multimodaltransport options;
     (ii) improvethebusinessenvironment, bystrengtheningtheregulatoryframework for
     infrastructure, anti-trust enforcement, corporate insolvency resolution, and by reducing
     administrative costs to businesses;
     (iii)enhancetheefficiencyanddepthofthefinancialsystem,byincreasingcompetitionin
     the banking sector, fostering mobilization of long-termcapital through strengthened markets
     for risk and stronger institutional investors in the insurance sector, and improving access to
     financial services;
     (iv)    increase Brazil's technological innovation capacity to transform knowledge into
     productivity gains, by increasing the effectiveness of public research and development
     (R&D), improving the incentive regime for private R&D, and structuring/managing the
     Clean Development Mechanism; and
     (v)     support the preparatiodimplementationof reforms and other institutional measuresto
     achieve other objectives of the Government's growth program, such as deepening trade
     integration, reducing tax distortions, and strengthening labor markets.

         Since the phasing and, to some extent, the scope of the reforms included in the growth
program will depend on many factors including some of a political nature, and the timing of the
activities under the technical assistance program will be constrained by other factors, including
the rigidity of Brazil's budgets and the possibly uneven performance of the various entities
benefiting from the program, flexibility had to be built into the design of the technical assistance
program and its first phase, the proposed project. Inparticular, the above list of program's sub-
objectives, as well as the list of project's activities and intermediate results (sections B.3 and B.4
hereafter) may have to be adjusted, to effectively contribute to the actual growth program. For
the purpose of these adjustments, the Government, through SPE, and the Bank will carry out
annual joint reviews of implementation progress and progress toward the achievement of
intermediate results, supported by an effective program monitoring and evaluation system
(section C.5).

         Such annual review will also provide the opportunity to evaluate the progress realized by
the Government in the implementation of the Government's Growth Program. This evaluation
will be conducted by a "higher-level committee" including, in addition to the GovernmenUBank
team in charge of project monitoring and evaluation, representatives of other stakeholders in the
implementation of the Growth Program, such as private sector, Government and research
institutes representatives. Annex Ipresents more details on the program's design and on the
linkages between actions to be implemented under the Government's Growth Program and the
first set of activities to be financed under the project.

                                                    4

        The technical assistance program consists of two phases, the first of which i s the project,
to be implemented using the Adaptable Program Lending instrument. The indicative program
cost is estimated at about US$24million, with a project cost of US$14.40 million (see indicative
program cost and financing table below).        The program cost has been estimated through a
screening of the initial demand expressed by the various Government entities involved in the
implementation of the Government growth program, screening which selected those activities to
which the participation of the Bank would add value, taking into account knowledge and
experience that can be made available through the Bank's participation. The program's duration
i s expected to be between 6 and 8 years, depending on progress in the implementation of the
project and the Government's growth program.

        Both phases of the program will support activities which will contribute to the
achievement of the five program objectives described above. The project will support the
undertaking of a first set of activities which will contribute to the achievement of the four first
program objectives describedabove. The trigger for the second phase Adaptable Program Loan
includes satisfactory project implementation and satisfactory contribution of the project to the
policy development and dialogue on the implementation of Brazil's economic growth program,
with respect to the impact that project activities will have on progress in the implementation of
the Growth Agenda. Satisfactory project implementation will be evaluated by the project team
as part of the regular project supervision. A satisfactory contribution of the project to the policy
development and dialogue on economic growth will require actions beyond the approval and
disclosure of project activities, but below the actual implementation of the related reforms
(reform implementation being the condition for the preparation and approval of a possible
secondprogrammatic loan). This evaluation will be conducted by the Bank team, on the basis of
Bank staff assessments inthe various sectors covered by the project, at the time the secondphase
could start to be prepared.


  Programcomponent                                 First    Of        Second      Of       Total
                                                   phase   which      phase     which     Program
                                                           World    (indicative World




3. Project developmentobjective and key indicators

        The objectiveof theproject is to assist the Governmentin preparing and implementing
the next phase of its growth program. Within the first four sub-objectives of the technical


                                                 5

assistanceprogram, the project will assist several Government entities in achieving the following
intermediate results:

       (i)reducinglogisticscosts:
           0   strategic plan defined for Customs' modernization, clearance procedures
               reengineered (with time release measurement in place), automation of Customs'
               systems improved, andport/cargo security enhancementplan approved;
           0   port reform and dock companies restructuring plans prepared and approved; and
               ANTAQ regulatory accounting and performance monitoringsystems established;
           0   highway strategic plan and managementreformprogramprepared and approved;
           0   public-private partnership capacity and program monitoring and evaluation
               systemestablishedinthe Ministry of Transport; and ANTT concession evaluation
               models operational.

       (ii)improvingthebusinessenvironment:
           0   anti-trust system capacity strengthened through improvedprocesses, systems, and
               training;
           0   bankruptcy framework strengthenedthrough appropriate regulations and training
               ofjudges and court personnel; and
           0   performance assessment of judicial system in resolving economic disputes in
               public andprivate sectors completed.

       (iii)enhancingefficiencyanddepthofthefinancialsystem:
            0   diagnostic studies and action plans prepared for reducing the cost of credit and
                reducing financial spreads through studies on financial systemcompetition;
            0   regulations and procedures in place to ensure application of anti-trust law in the
                bankingsector;
            0   studies undertakenon financial access for the poor which includes an evaluation
                of recent measures adopted;
            0   action plandeveloped for strengtheninginsurance regulations and supervision.

       (iv) increasingtechnological innovationcapacity:
           0  Ministry of Science and Technology's sector funds monitoring and evaluation
               systemestablished andreformplan approved;
           0  capacity for appraising and certifying Clean Development Mechanism projects in
              place;
           0  pilot internet technology/social inclusionproject completed and evaluated; and
           0  Ministry of Science and Technology's strategy to foster nanotechnology industry
              growth approved.

       This list of intermediate results may have to be adjusted in the course of program
implementation for the reasonsexplained insection 2 above.

       Performance under the growth program will be monitored under the programmatic
adjustment loan through the indicators set forth inAnnexes 2 and 3 of the ProgramDocument for
the First Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Economic Growth (Report 27507-
                                                 6

BR). Performance in achieving the project's objective will be monitored by an indicator
combining indicators of the quality and timeliness of the relevant key intermediate results
(Annex 3), following an evaluationmethodology described insection C.3 hereafter.

4. Project components

         The project consists of the provision of technical assistance and training services, office
equipment and software to the various project beneficiaries to carry out activities needed to
achieve the project's objective. The first set of activities, which has been defined and agreed
upon, i s presentedinAnnex 4, organizedby project beneficiaries.

         Other activities may be included inthe project in the course of implementation, either for
funding under the contingency allocations of the loan, or in substitution of activities which
would be postponed or no longer needed as a result of modifications in the growth program, or
which would be funded from other sources as a result of budget uncertainties, as explained in
section B.2 above. The inclusion of new activities will be subject to: (i) from the line
                                                                              support
ministryto an entity's request to include new intermediate results; (ii) proposed intermediate
                                                                          the
results evaluated as supporting priority reforms or institutional measures (following evaluation
by SPE and the Bank) being part of the Government's growth program, as described in the
Program Document for the First Programmatic Adjustment Loan for Sustainable and Equitable
Economic Growth. Such evaluation will be conducted in partnership between the Ministry of
Finance's Secretariat for Economic Policy, the line ministry, the entity and the Bank; (iii)
availability of funds under the unallocated part of the loan proceeds, as determined during the
annual evaluations of implementation performance; (iv) the activities to achieve the proposed
intermediate results not triggering any of the Bank's safeguard policies; and (v) the entity
responsible for the implementation of such activities demonstrating to the Bank that it has
implementation arrangementsinplace which satisfy the Bank's fiduciary requirements.

5. Lessonslearned and reflected inthe project design

         Decentralization of implementation arrangements: experience in Brazil and elsewherehas
demonstratedthat decentralization of implementation arrangements is key to ensure satisfactory
implementation performance under projects where several government entities are involved.
Centralization of such arrangements has often caused tensions between the government entity
responsible for implementation and the other entities, with lower accountability among the
entities not responsible, lower commitment from the entity responsible to ensure adequate
implementation of the other entities' activities, and difficulties in allocating appropriate budgets
in a timely fashion. As such, the project has been designed so that each of the ministries and
agencies involved under the project are responsible for the implementation of their activities,
with the exception of the Ministry of Justice, for which activities will be implemented by the
Ministry of Finance, to keep implementation arrangements from becoming too complex.

         Flexibility of design: a key to a successful implementation of a technical assistance loan
i s a flexible design adapted to project beneficiaries' needs as they evolve over the period of
implementation. As such, while the overall envelop of resources to be made available and the
scope of activities to be funded for each of the project's beneficiary have been clearly identified,

                                                 7

only those activities to be funded during the first year or so of project implementation have a
scope precisely defined. The scope of the other activities to be funded would be detailed during
the implementation period as part of the continuous dialogue between the Government and the
Bank on the implementation of Brazil's growth program. Progress in the implementation of
already agreed upon activities and in the definition of the detailed scope for other activities will
be evaluated as part of the annualjoint reviews of project implementation progress and progress
toward the achievement of intermediate results. Inaddition, the financing structure of the project
includes a relatively large unallocated amount, to, inter alia, accommodate additional needs
which may arise as implementation proceeds.

        Delays in disbursement of funds: timely disbursement of funds i s essential to ensure
satisfactory project implementation.     In Brazil, adequate annual budgetary allocation and
disbursement in timely fashion and at sufficient levels have proven to be difficult to obtain,
especially in years where compelling fiscal reasons have forced the Government to restrain its
spending. The project cannot be designed to mitigate the potentially negative impact of
Government's decisions on budget and resources allocations. However, agreement was reached
with the Ministry of Finance that, given the priority nature of the proposed project for the
Ministry,budget allocations andresourcesfor this project would not be submitted, inas muchas
possible, to budget or resourcesfreeze, if any was to occur duringproject implementation period.

6. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

        Involving; a smaller number of sectors: experience shows that involving various sectors
within a single project tends to cause project implementation to be more difficult. On the other
hand, given the breadth of the program agreed upon with the Government under the First
Programmatic Loan for Equitable and SustainableGrowth, it would have been difficult to design
a meaningfultechnical assistanceprogram which would not include the four key ministries inthe
implementation of Brazil's growth program, namely the Ministries of Finance, Justice, Transport
and Science and Technology.          To mitigate the risk associated with the multisectoral
characteristic of the project, agreement has been reached with the Government on decentralized
implementation arrangements, and on having the Ministry of Finance's Secretariat for Economic
Policy as the coordinator of the dialogue between the Government and the Bank on the
implementation of Brazil's growth program and on the proposed technical assistance program.
On the Bank's side, adequate supervision of project implementation will be essential, involving a
multidisciplinary team, a high level of coordination between the team and the Government
(through, for example, the annual evaluation of project performance and next steps for all
activities to be fundedunderthe project), and adequate budget resources (see annexes 6 and 11).

    Preparing;an isolated loan: The growth program for Brazilhasbeen developed inpartnership
with the Bank. Both the Borrower and the Bank agreed that such partnership should be
maintained and further developed during the implementation period of the agenda. This implied
that the technical assistance of the Bank had to be structured so as to provide: (i)  a base for a
continuous dialogue over the next four to six years, and (ii)     an effective and agile response
capacity to the Borrower's needs for technical assistance, needs which will be in part shifting as
progress in the agenda's implementation will most likely be uneven on each of the agenda's
components. In addition, the size of this project is much smaller than the aggregate demand for

                                                8

technical assistance received from the various entities involved in the implementation of the
growth program. Given the limited fiscal space available within the Ministry of Finance to
accommodate investment credit operations, it was not deemed possible to satisfy the bulk of the
demand in a single loan. It was thus agreed to place such demand within the context of a
program, to be supported by two loans, with the approval of the next loan conditioned upon
satisfactory implementation of activities financed under this project, and continued commitment
of the Government to the implementation of the growth program as discussed with the Bank.
Taking the above into account, an adaptable program lending structure was preferred to a
conventional sector investment loan structure, as it permits to better respond to the Borrower's
needs.

C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements
Not applicable.

2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

         The Borrower for the Bank loan will be the Federative Republic of Brazil. The project
will be under the overall coordination of the Secretaria de Politica Econ8mica (SPE) of the
Ministry of Finance. SPE will be basically responsible for: (i) conduction of the policy
                                                                                 the
dialogue with the Bank on the implementation of the Government's growth program; and (ii)                      the
overall evaluation and monitoring of project implementation, including the consolidation of
information on project implementation progress, on a semester and yearly basis.

         The project will initially benefit various entities within the Ministries of Finance, Justice,
Transport, and Science and Technology. Each of these ministries (with the exception of the
Ministry of Justice) is already responsible for the implementation of Bank and IDB projects. The
project will be implemented using staff and systems of existing Project Coordination Units
(PCUs) in charge of the implementation of those Bank and IDB projects, in order to limit the
administrative burden of project implementation on the Government, taking into account the: (i)
the small aggregate value of activities to be implemented by each entity, and (ii) relatively          the
strong project implementation capacity of the BrazilianGovernment.

     Inan effort to further reduce administrative burden of project implementation, it was agreed
that:
     a   the existing information systems of the PCUs could be used, with minor adaptations, to
        produce the requiredprocurement and financial managementreports;
     a   the PCU in the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the administrative aspects
         (procurement, financial management and overall project reporting) for those activities to
        be implemented by entities of the Ministries of Finance and, most likely, Justice;


'Final confirmation still pending from the Brazilian Government on the proposed implementation and financial
management arrangements for activities for the three project beneficiaries under the Ministry of Justice. Inthe
improbable case the above arrangements cannot be implemented under the Brazilian Legislation, the Ministry of
Justice will have to presentalternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to participate to the project.
                                                          9

     0   the structure of the PCUs inthe Ministry of Transport could be reducedto a single person
         ineachPCU(the project coordinator, or PC), given the small aggregatevalue of activities
         to be implemented, combined with the relatively strong implementation capacity of the
         Ministry's entities, and the fact that these entities would have to focus only on the
         implementation of activities within the Ministry.

     The project will be initially implemented through two PCUs (one in the Ministry of Finance
 under SPE and another in the Ministry of Science and Technology, under the Executive
 Secretariat) and three PCs (located in the National Department for Transport Infrastructure, the
 NationalAgency for LandTransport, and the NationalAgency for Waterborne Transport), which
 are basically responsible for the administrative aspects of project implementation (procurement,
 financial management and project reporting).                Each entity will be responsible (through task
 team leaders appointed to draw the terms of reference or specifications for the activities to be
 undertaken within the entity, to directly supervise contracts' execution, and to report on
 implementationprogress).

     Sixteen entities (or project beneficiaries) have been identified to participate to the project,
 and an initial list of activities to be fundedunder the loan has been agreed uponwith each entity
 (see annex 2).         The project's implementation, financial management and procurement
 arrangements are described indetail inannexes 6,7 and 8, respectively, of this report.

 3. Monitoringandevaluation of outcomeshesults

         The technical assistance program, including the project, and the associated adjustment
 loan program, will jointly contribute to the objectives of the Government's growth program. It
 was agreed with the Government that the results of the implementation of the growth program
will be monitored and evaluated through the indicators set forth in annexes 2 and 3 of the
Program Document for the First Programmatic Adjustment Loan for Sustainable and Equitable
Economic Growth (Report No. 27507-BR).

         The key intermediate results for the proposedproject (see initiallist inannex 3) consist of
 the approval and public disclosure by the relevant project beneficiary of the strategiedaction
plans necessary to reach one of the project's objectives. The results indicator will be the number
 of satisfactorily completed key activities (interms of substance and achievement of the activity's
original objective) to support the project beneficiary's preparation and/or implementation of
 strategiedactions plans, with related products forwarded to decision-making authority. The
outcome indicator will be the constitution of a critical mass, across project components, of key
approved and disclosed strategiedactions plans.



~




   Implementation arrangements for the activities to beneficiate the Administrative Secretariat and the Secretariat for
National Transport Policy of the Ministry o f Transport have not yet been defined. Payments for eligible activities to
be carried out by these Secretariats will be made under the condition that the Bank is satisfied with the Ministry's
implementation and financial management arrangements.



                                                          10

        The result and outcome indicators will be evaluated, by April of each year of the life of
the project, by an M&E team consisting of representatives from the Government's Program
Coordinator (the Ministry of Finance's Secretariat for Economic Policy), the relevant project
beneficiary, and of the Bank's project team (the Task Team Leader andor the specialist working
with the project beneficiary).

        Progress toward achieving the project's development objective will also be evaluated by
the M&E team, taking into account the above indicators, the relative significance of the achieved
results, and progress achieved and planned under the Government's growth program. The
annual evaluation will also review implementation performance and budget status of the various
project beneficiaries and, on this basis, decide on appropriate corrective actions, including
incorporation, elimination or substitution of project activities.

4. Sustainability

        Sustainability of project benefits is assured as (i) is a strong Government's
                                                                 there
ownership of the growth program supported by the First Programmatic Loan for Equitable and
Sustainable Growth and the proposed technical assistance program.           This implies that the
Government has the right incentives to use project outputs to reach its own policy objectives in
the area of growth; and (ii)   activities under the project support the implementation of reforms
and other institutional measures under the microeconomic growth agenda, taking into account
the fact that the achievement of a critical mass of such reforms and measures would allow the
preparation of a follow-up programmatic loan.

5. Criticalrisksandpossible controversial aspects

        The project is clearly a high-risk, high-reward case. On the one hand, the highnumber of
project beneficiaries and the diversity of sectors involved increase substantially the complexness
of project implementation. On the other hand, the project offers a unique opportunity for the
Borrower and the Bank to work as partners on the implementation of a common and
encompassing agenda to support economic growth in the country.                 Successful project
implementation will provide the base for a continuous, extensive and integrated dialogue on
economic growth, will strengthen the partnership developed during the preparation of the First
Programmatic Loan for Equitable and Sustainable Growth and the proposed technical assistance
program, and will most likely open upnew areas for collaboration.

        The main risk that may affect the achievement of the project development objective
stems from the project's characteristic of having a high number of project beneficiaries
distributed among various sectors. This has resulted in a multitude of project activities, the
preparation and implementation of which will have to be supervised, both on the sides of the
Government and the Bank, by a relatively large group of persons with different technical
profiles. In other words, an effective coordination mechanism, backed by a strong commitment
of the Government to the undertakingof project activities and of the Bank to an effective project
supervision, as well as the allocation of adequate resources (both on the Government's and the
Bank's side) during project implementation, will be fundamental to ensure that project
implementation can proceed adequately for all project beneficiaries).

                                                  11

        The risk of not succeeding, during project implementation, to maintain an effective
coordination mechanism andor the necessary resources has been rated as substantial, taking into
account the mitigation measures describedhereafter. The following measures have been agreed
upon to mitigate the risk. On the Borrower's side, the Secretariat of Economic Policy (SPE)
from the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for overall coordination of the Government's
actions and be the Bank's main counterpart in the implementation of the project and of the
growth program supported by the First Programmatic Loan for Equitable and Sustainable
Growth. In addition, each Ministry has a designated coordinator who will be the main contact
point between the Ministry and the Bank, with respect to coordination of activities within the
Ministry's entities participating to the project. Finally, each entity will designate task team
leadersresponsible for the implementation of activities within the entity.

        On the Bank's side, the above coordination structure will be basically replicated. A
representative of the Brazil Country Management Unit will be in charge of maintaining the
policy dialogue with the Government on the implementation of its growth program.                       The
project's task manager (the "coordinating" task manager) will be SPE's main counterpart with
respect to project matters andoverall project coordination. Inaddition, five "task managers" will
be fully responsible for implementation of project activities pertaining to the following topics         3:
(i)reduction of logistic costs; (ii)     strengtheningof anti-trust systemcapacity, reducing barriers to
business entry, and increasing technological innovation capacity; (iii)supporting the
implementation of the new corporate insolvency law, and enhancing efficiency and depth of the
financial system; (iv) strengthening supervision capacity on the insurance sector; and (v)
developing market structuresfor carbon trading.

        In addition, a joint coordination mechanism has been established: each year during
project implementation, an in-depth evaluation of implementation progress will be carried out, as
well as a review of the time schedule for remaining activities. Action plans will be drawn to
resolve the main issues at hand, and if necessary, resources will be reallocated from non-
performing to better performing project beneficiary. The reallocation will be based on the
number of project activities which will not be completed in a satisfactory fashion (as defined in
section C.3 above).

        The main risks which may affect the achievement of the project's outputs are: (i)                a
potential lack of sufficient budgetary allocations and resources to finance activities under the
project, given Brazil's difficult fiscal situation. This risk has been rated substantial, taking into
account the indication of the Ministry of Finance that, given the fact that the implementation of
the project i s a Ministry's priority, budgets and expenditures for activities included under the
project will be given, in as much as possible, a differentiated treatment, which should ensure that
lack of budget andor resources will not be a bottleneck to project implementation; and (ii)              a
potential inadequate supervision performance on the Bank's side, which would be triggered by a
lack of human and budgetary resources, given the complexity of the project's structure. This risk
has been rated as substantial, taking into account the agreed-upon supervision team structure,
agreement reachedon a higher supervision budgetary norm with the understandingthat this norm



 This divisionof responsibilitiesis indicative and may be modifiedduringprojectimplementation,dependingon
changes in staffprofiles andintroductionof new activities.
                                                        12

will be completed as necessaryusing cross-funding from other related activities implemented by
the Bank inBrazil.

        Nopotentiallycontroversial aspect hasbeen identifiedduringproject preparation.

6. Loan conditionsand covenants

Conditions of Effectiveness
        (a)     the MFCoordinating Unithasbeen established;
        (b)     at least two Coordinating Units have been established, with operational financial
        management systems; and
        (c)     the arrangementshave beenenteredinto for: (i)   the implementation of activities to
        be undertaken by the Ministry of Justice; and (ii) procurement of activities to be
                                                              the
        undertaken through the Coordinating Units of the Ministries of Finance and Science and
        Technology.

Conditions of Disbursement
        No withdrawals shall be made from the loan proceeds for payments under the Project
component or components that shall be carried out by a Coordinating Unit other than those
establishedto meet the condition of effectiveness (b) mentioned above, unless such Coordinating
Unithasbeenestablishedor designatedandits respective financial managementsystemhasbeen
satisfactorily established.

Loan covenants
        Project evaluation and monitoring;: The Borrower, through SPE, shall review with the
Bank, not later than April 30 of each year during the execution o the Project, the progressinthe
carrying out of the Project activities during the preceding twelve-month period, and the need to
add or eliminate activities under the Project in order to achieve the objective of the Project. The
Bank may agree to finance new Project activities under the Loan i f (a) there i s an express
support to the carrying of such activities by the relevant Ministry or Ministries of the Borrower;
(b) there is availability of Loan funds to finance the additional activities; (c) such additional
activities do not trigger any of the Bank's safeguard policies; and (d) the Bank is satisfied with
the arrangementsfor the implementation of such new activities.

D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicandfinancialanalyses

        Quantitative economic and financial analyses are not appropriate for technical assistance
operations.     However, if carried out successfully, the project will help support the
implementation of Brazil's microeconomic growth program, expected to generate substantial
economic and financial benefits for the country's economy. The fiscal impact of the proposed
loan is evaluated as minimal, when comparing the small size of the loan, US$12.12 million, to
the large potential benefits to Brazil of successfully implementingits growth program, and to the
benefits resultingfrom an increasedfiscal stability at the federal level, following the approval of



                                                 13

the First Programmatic Loan for Equitable and Sustainable Growth, worth US$505.05 million
equivalent.

2. Technical

        To ensure quality of activities under the project, various Bank specialists have been
assignedto work on specific technical issues in partnership with the corresponding Government
entity.  Bank specialists are in charge of ensuring the adequacy of the proposed terms of
referenceor technical specifications, and of supervising the implementation of the activities (see
details inAnnex 6, paragraph 8).

3. Fiduciary

        Overall, the risk assessments carried out during project preparation have rated the risks
that fiduciary responsibilities would not be assumed in a satisfactory fashion, as moderate with
respectto financial management andhigh with respect to procurement (see annexes 7 and 8). An
action plan to strengthen the PCUsPCs capabilities and mitigate the risks has been agreed with
the project team, and it i s expected to be concluded by project effectiveness. The detailed action
plani s attachedinAnnex 7.

4. Social

        The project i s not expected to have any significant social impact.

5. Environment

        For purpose of OP4.01, the project has been given an environmental rating "C", meaning
that the project is likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental impact. As such no
specific environmental assessment or environmental managementplanneed to be prepared.

         As this project provides technical assistance (through provision of consulting services
and office equipment), it does not finance investments and therefore its implementation would
not generate direct negative environmental impacts. The activities to be financed under the loan
would not have significant indirect negative environmental impacts, as activities aim at the
institutional strengthening of the project beneficiaries, and the strengthening of legal and
regulatory frameworks, which will be done taking into account the requirements of the Brazilian
legislation on environment. On the other hand, the project will include activities which will have
a positive impact on the environment, such as the establishment of a market for carbon credit
trading, andthe enforcement of environmental requirements inport operations.

        Theses activities will be complemented by a set of measures being defined under an
environmental SAL currently under preparation, to, at the same time: (i)    improve conditions for
economic growth, through the streamlining of environmental requirements for licensing of
activities which would not generate significant adverse impacts; and (ii)  mitigate the potential of
economic growth to generate adverse impacts, through the review of procedures to review
environmental screening and impact evaluation procedures in sectors which typically generate

                                                 14

large negative environmental impacts. The review would have as objective to improve the
efficiency of such proceduresand ensuringthat environmental assessments are carried as early as
possible in the project preparation cycle, to ensure that environmental concerns can be better
taken into account during the project design phase.

6. Safeguard policies

         None of the following safeguard policies will be triggered by the project, given its nature
(a technical assistance operation), and the scope of the activities to be supported by the project
(see description in annex 4). As mentioned in section B.4 above, other activities could be
included under the project, depending on the evolution of the dialogue between the Bank andthe
Government on the implementation of Brazil's microeconomic growth agenda. To be included
under the project, such activities would need to be evaluatedby the Bank as not triggering any of
the following safeguard policies. Such evaluation will be conducted by the Bank project team,
early on during the discussions (between the staff of the Secretariat for Economic Policy of the
Ministry of Finance and the Bank), on the contribution of the proposed activities to a successful
implementation of the growth program (see details inparagraph2, annex 1).

   Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                            Yes                     No
   Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP4.01)                                                 [I                     [XI
   NaturalHabitats (OPBP 4.04)                                                             [I                     [XI
   PestManagement (OP 4.09)                                                                [I                     [XI
   Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, beingrevised as OP 4.11)                                  11                     [XI
   Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                   [I                     [XI
   Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20, beingrevised as OP 4.10)                                   [I                     [XI
  Forests (OPBP 4.36)                                                                      [I                     [XI
   Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                             [I                     [XI
   Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                               11                     [XI
  Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)                                      [I                     [XI

7. Policy Exceptionsand Readiness

         No policy exception is required to implement the proposed Program. The project meets
Regional criteria for readiness for implementation. Inparticular, preparatory activities have been
undertakenso that: (i) highpriority first year activities can be bidand executed immediately,
                            the
with relatedexpenditures to be reimbursed from the loanproceedsusingthe retroactive financing
mechanisms; and (ii)       biddingfor other first year activities can be initiated as soon as the project
i s declared effective. In addition, the project's implementation structure (coordination units and
coordinators) i s already in place, for 11 out of 16 project beneficiaries and the operational
manual havebeen completed.




* By supporting theproposed project, the Bank does not intend toprejudice thefinal determination of theparties` claims on the
disputedareas
                                                             15

                                 Annex 1:ProgramBackground
                                             BRAZIL
              Sustainableand EquitableGrowth TechnicalAssistance Program



1. Programbackground
1.1      Reducinglogisticscosts

         High logistics costs afSect Brazilian firm productivity and competitiveness. Logistics
costs are estimated at about 20 percent of GDP in Brazil, almost twice the level in OECD
countries. They account for an average 35 percent of industry operating costs in Latin America,
against only 20 percent of manufacturing costs in OECD countries. Several critical issues
hamper the provision of effective logistics services in Brazil: outdated customs procedures and
practices, high port charges, the poor condition of the main highway network, which still carries
the bulk of freight moved in the country, and regulatory obstacles to the development of railway
and multi-modal transport.

        Modernizing Customs.Customs proceduresrepresent one of the major hurdles companies
have to overcome in international trade. Clearance time on imports and exports (averaging 5.0
and 2.0 days respectively) are more than double the international norms. The Government
recently approved a general strategy for the reform and modernization of Customs. Trade
facilitation has now become a major objective in Customs' mission. For this purpose, Customs
will simplify its clearance procedures for both imports and exports, update and integrate its
computerized operations information systems accordingly, and upgrade arrangements to ensure
cargo security, while ensuring that improved cargo security arrangements will not hamper
operational efficiency.    The new procedures will seek to fully implement the Mercosul
agreement for joint customs operations. Customs will also revise their staff performance
evaluation criteria and provide themwith adequate training.

         Completing the port sector reform. With almost 500 million tons passing annually
through its ports, Brazil has by far the largest port industry in Central and Latin America. The
reform of the port sector was initiatedwith the Port ModernizationLaw of 1993. But only in the
late 1990s, was progress significant, particularly with the concessionning of the major terminals
to private operators, the opening of private (own account) terminals for public use, and the
establishment of local Port Authority Councils (CAPS), and Labor Management Organizations
(OGMOs), to help rationalize labor use. These changes have resulted into substantially reduced
port costs. But the costs still remain substantially higher than those in European or even other
Latin American ports. The Government has decided to complete the reform in line with its
economic and trade growth objectives. This will require resolving outstanding issues regarding
the institutional and competitiodregulatory framework, port administration and monitoring,
labor productivity, trade-related operations control systems, and environmental management in
the sector. The achievement of the Government's trade growth objective will also require the
definition of specific arrangementsto ensure compliance with provision of the ISPS code coming
into force on July 1,2004.


                                                 16

        Restoring and maintaining the condition of the highway network. Brazil's federal paved
road network, totaling about 58,000 km, was built between the 1950s and the 1970s and
represents assets of nearly US$10 billion. It carries most of the country's long-distance traffic.
Maintenance has been inadequate for many years, so that today the proportion of network in
good condition has declined to about 25 percent, the lowest such percentage registered over the
last twenty years. This state of affairs adds about US$500 million each year in vehicle
operational costs, principally to the private sector. A broad policy and institutional reform was
initiated to improve the management of the highway network, but much remains to be done to
ensure an actual decrease of road transport costs on the Federal road network, including: (i)  the
continuation of the decentralization of Federal roads of local interest to the States, (ii)further
concession of road management to the private sector; (iii)     the consolidation of the Federal
network maintenance policies; (iv) the establishment and strengthening of the necessary
planning, management, supervision and control systems within the recently-created National
Department for Transport Infrastructure (DNIT), as well as appropriate systems in the Ministry
of Transport to monitor and evaluate the multi-year highway expenditure programs included in
the PPA; and (v) the strengthening of the capacity of the National Land Transport Regulatory
Agency (ANTT), in particular through the development of adequate information and control
systems to effectively perform its functions.

        Fostering the development of efJicient multimodal transport options. Brazil's transport
market, which ships large volume of low value-to-weight commodities over long distances,
would appear to favor low-cost coastal shipping or rail-based options. But trucking clearly
dominates with an output share of over 80 percent. Multimodal transport options would thus
substantially increase Brazil's international competitiveness, particularly that of the poorer
regions. Conservative estimates in a Bank report suggest that avoidable logistics costs were
adding more than US$1.2 billion per year to the costs of external trade and at least US$1.3
billion per year to the costs of domestic interregional trade in corridors with available rail
services. These excessive costs restrict business opportunities, particularly in the North,
Northeast and the Center-West regions, far from the major markets and ports of the South and
Southeast. Further measures to foster multimodal transport include: (i)   appropriate regulations
and conflict resolution mechanisms for multimodal operations, and (ii)       the strengthening of
transport planning and the promotion of public-private partnerships (PPP) to develop critical
investments neededto improve connectivity of the transport networks.


1.2 Improving the businessenvironment

        Investment levels and productivity gains have been negatively affected by the
deterioration of the business environment during the 80s and part of the 90s. The result has been
areduction of the marginal productivity of investments and therefore of their attractivenessto the
private capital. The paragraphs below focus on issues in four specific areas: (i)    infrastructure
regulation; (ii)domestic competition; (iii)  settlement of business disputes; and (iv) bankruptcy
and relatedlaws.




                                                 17

          Strengthening the regulatory framework for infrastructure services. Inthe 1990s, Brazil
carried out major reform programs in the infrastructure sectors with disappointing results in
terms of investment expansion. The reforms were built around privatization, unbundling telecom
and electricity companies, and new regulatory frameworks. Regulatory reform followed
international practice in separating commercial, regulatory, and policy activities. In telecom,
port, railways, and energy, new legal frameworks also emphasizedcompetition. But while these
reforms reduced fiscal burdens and improved operational performance, the results in terms of
lower prices, improved services, and increasedinvestment have - with the exception of telecom
-beendisappointing. Inkeysectorssuchasroadsandelectricity, Brazilhasnotclosedthegap
with most of it international competitors. The weak investment response is linked to a poor
regulatory framework, in which much remains to be accomplished. The main challenges lie in
deepening and sustaining reforms, resolving financing issues for the less attractive concessions,
building a sound, stable, regulatory framework and effective regulatory agencies, and
implementing a consistent, sustainable strategy for improving poor people's access to
infrastructure services.

         Improving the competition environment.         Despite the complexity of the national
competition law adopted in 1994, competition law enforcement has made discernible progress,
not only in terms of the number of cases ruled, and of cartel investigations, but also in terms of
the advocacy roles increasingly played by the public sector. Two remaining weaknesses are the
small number of hard-core cartel cases condemned and the complex enforcement of merger
control provisions. Contrasting with the growing emphasis on anti-cartel enforcement adoptedby
other antitrust agencies and with the condemnation of more than 15 international cartels since the
mid 1990s, only one domestic cartel case was successfully prosecuted in Brazil between 1994
and2000. Future challengesfor government authorities inthe competition enforcement area are:
(i) rationalizingthesystemofcompetitionlawenforcement;(ii)
    the                                                                establishing a corps of stable
well paid qualified professionals; (iii)   the passing of a new law improving governance and
efficiency in the enforcement of competition law; and (iv) amending the constitution to provide
for revision of antitrust decision at the second-level of thejudiciary.

         Promoting more eficient settlement mechanismsfor business disputes. The resolution of
business disputes i s a long, costly, cumbersome and uncertain process, which lacks several
proceedings, especially to conduct out-of-court settlements, such as mediation or arbitration.
The Government has thus established, within the Ministry of Justice, a new Secretariat for
Judicial Reform responsible for the revision and improvement of judicial processes. Next steps
include the identification and implementation of measures to, inter-alia, increase the efficiency
of the judicial systemto resolve business disputes in public and private sectors (e.g. to collect bad
debts), andreinforce property contracts. This will result ina more securejudicial environment in
which business will take place more efficiently.

         Preparing for the implementing the new Bankruptcy Law. The availability and cost of
credit in Brazil has been significantly affected by its weak framework for creditor rights.
Difficulties associatedwith judicial debt collection processesweaken creditors' rights and render
credit ultimately more expensive. A major weakness in the framework for creditor rights in
Brazil has been its antiquated framework for corporate insolvency, embeddedlargely inthe 1945
Lei de Falencias. Although it provides for both a concordata process (reorganization in the case
of insolvency) as well as falhcia (liquidation), the system has been characterized by weak
                                                  18

creditor protection and few meaningful rehabilitation options, resulting in disproportionately
high default rates of potentially viable companies, long delays and erosion of asset value in
liquidation processes. As a consequence the cost of exit of non-viable companies is increased
andproductivity and employment inthe real economy is reduced.

         In2003, Brazil made landmark progress in addressingissuespertaining to creditor rights
through the submission of a proposed new law for bankruptcy, which: (i)     establishes flexible and
modern judicial and extra-judicial restructuring proceedings to replace the ineffective
concordata; (ii)  significantly increases the participation of stakeholders (both increasedcreditor
and employees) in insolvency proceedings through a Recuperation Committee (ComitC de
Recupera@o), and the AssemblCia Geral de Credores (Creditors General Meeting), and permits
themto approve alegallybindingrestructuring plan; (iii)     improves creditor protection; (iv) gives
priority to selling the company as a going concern; and (v) permits a simplified restructuring
mechanism for micro and small companies. The main next step consists of preparing the ground
for the implementation of the law, through the adaptation of the overall legal, normative and
procedural framework for management of corporate insolvency, and the provision of training to
judges and court staff to enablethem to apply adequatelythe new law.

1.3      Enhancing financial efficiency and depth

         The relatively high concentration in Brazil's banking industry, coupled with the
consistently highprofits of Brazil's banking system in recent years, has led to queries regarding
possible links between high bank spreads and banking sector competition. The financial system
at present is not subject to Brazil's Competition Law, with the Central Bank being responsible
for the oversight of both mergers and acquisitions as well as market conduct issues in the
financial system. However, the effectiveness of competition and anti-trust oversight in the
bankingsector is currently limited, with the Central Bank having limited involvement inmarket
competition issues and an approach towards bank mergers and acquisitions based primarily on
financial sector stability considerations rather than on competitiveness. Recently, a draft law has
been put to Congress to formally require Brazil's anti-trust entities to deal with competition
issuesinthe financial sector. The draft law proposesthat the Central Bank will retain the right to
examine mergers and acquisitions of systemic importance. In parallel, a study group has been
constituted to explore the preparation of a code of conduct for mergers and acquisitions of
financial institutions, to prepare for an adequate implementation of the law.

         Enabling institutional investors to play a more important role infinancial intermediation.
InBrazil, the contribution of pension funds and insurance companies to financial intermediation
and growth has yet to achieve its potential, due, among other reasons, to their moderate size
relative to banks, the partial success in increasing membership and mobilizing resources, under-
funding problems in closed pension funds and excessive financing of the public sector (which
accounts for roughly half of their portfolios). In order to fulfill their potential role these
institutional investors must strengthen their capacity to invest and manage risk. The Government
has been implementingpolicies designed to promote the sound growth of institutional investors,
and enable them to play a more important role in financial intermediation. During 2002 the
Government passed regulations allowing the creation of closed pension funds by professional
associations and trade unions, and in the second half of 2003 the first funds of this type were
authorized. These new funds will operate on a defined contribution basis, are expected to attract
                                                  19

a large number of new members and mobilize a significant amount of resources. The
Government has also allowed insurancecompanies to offer a greater variety of pension products,
andthis has contributed to an expanded membership in open pension plans in recent years. The
Government expects to expand further membership in the complementary pension system,
through the creation in 2004 of pension funds for civil servants, in the context of a pension
reform that is trimming the excessive pay-as-you-go pension benefits of public sector employees.

        The Government has also taken steps to improve the funding status of closed funds and
insurance companies, by encouraging the shift from defined benefit to defined contribution
plans, the imposition of stricter funding requirements and extraordinary contributions for closed
funds, the softening of returnguarantees for pension products sold by insurance companies, and
the drafting of solvency margins for life and non-life products offered by the insurance sector.
The Government plans to strengthen further the regulatory framework for closed funds and
insurance companies during 2004. Areas of regulation that need to be strengthened further
include internal corporate governance rules, the role of auditors and actuaries, funding and
solvency regulations (taking into account the continuous increases in longevity), and product
regulation (especially disclosure).

        SUSEP, the supervisor for the insurance sector, has made very impressive progress over
the preceding five years to improve both the quality of the regulation and the veracity of
supervision of the insurance sector. Recent regulatory improvements include, for the new life
insurance products, a requirement for prudent actuarial evaluations; a draft requirement for a
solvency margin; moves to develop a new mortality table. Technical capacity within SUSEP is,
however, in need of development. Efforts are ongoing to adjust supervisory procedures in line
with new IAIS principles, the enhancement of the valuation and solvency regime in the light of
emerging new accounting standards for insurance, and the enhancement of disclosure.

        Although Brazil is not noticeably underserved financially relative to comparator
countries, thepace, equity and efJiciency of growth could be expanded by greater penetration of
financial services to small enterprises, and to the poorer segments of society. From May, 2003,
the government has introduced a series of new measures aimed at supporting financial access to
the poorer segments. They include, first, eased access to the banking system, through (i)      the
establishment of simplified accounts for individuals, which offer a basic package of bank
services and are free of charge up to certain transaction limits; (ii)   simplified conditions for
opening a bank account, without the needfor proof of income; (iii)    an expansion in the scope of
services offered by correspondent banks including the opening of accounts and credit facilities;
and (iv) payroll loans. Such measures for basic or lifeline banking can be a good practice
techniqueto broadenaccess to financial services for the under-servedpopulation.

        More controversially, the measures also include the reservation of 2 percent of sight
depositsfor microfinance lending, including loans to thepoor and loans to small business. Ifnot
usedfor this purpose, these resources will insteadbe deposited as unremunerated reserves at the
Central Bank. Interest sates on loans made from these resources will be capped at 2 percent per
month. Banks may undertake these microcredit operations directly or through microfinance
entities; however in the latter case the interest rate caps are bindingon the onlender. In parallel,
Brazil's large federal banks have adopted similar microfinance schemes. The BNDES bank will
restricts onlending rates for microcredit financed by BNDES credit lines to 2 percent or 5 percent

                                                  20

per month, depending on loan size. At CEF, holders of its new special accounts, the Caixa Aqui,
will have access to pre-approvedrotating credit lines, also at the 2 percent rate. At the Banco do
Brasil, a new subsidiary has been established, - "Banco Popular," - as an independent
subsidiary,specifically for

        Going forward it will clearly be important to see how significant, in terms of scale, the
new `social' schemes will be and whether they do significantly afSect the overall microcredit
market, or the risks and porgolio quality of the banking system. The Ministry of Finance is
prepared to take the budgetary implications seriously and supports proposals for monitoring and
assessment. Such programs need to be closely monitored in terms of cost, impact on clients as
well as on participating financial institutions, and outreach, with a view to their gradual phase-in
to rates which are closer to market rates, and to the adoption of incentive compatible measures
for commercial banks.

1.4 Increasing innovation capacity
        Since the constitution, in 1969, of the National System of Science and Technological
Development and associatedfund, Brazil has had a bewildering array of policies and subsidies,
which taken overall have lacked stability and coherence. Early investments generated some
results in terms of building institutions to support Science and Technology objectives. This
allowedBrazil to achieve success incertain areas. Brazilian scientists were the first to crack the
genetic code of the Xylella bacteria that attacks orange trees and vines. A group of Brazilian
scientists i s beingfunded by Brazil and the United States to unravelthe genome of the bacterium
spreading Pierce's disease. World-class technology programs have been developed in
aeronautics (Embraer), satellites (CBERS), biotechnology (Genoma), tropical agriculture
(Embrapa) and deep-water exploration (Petrobras).

        Nevertheless, the overall peq5ormance of Brazil's Science and Technology sector remains
low, more as a result of a low effectiveness of Research and Development (R&D) expenditures
than of a shortage of inputs: (i)
                                inpublic R&D, cost-effective output-oriented researchis not duly
rewarded, nor i s the transfer of public-sector generated knowledge to the private sector
encouraged for commercial application; (ii)     the design of tax incentives as well as the design,
management and performance of sector funds available do not allow for an efficient private
sector participation to R&D; and (iii) intellectual property laws remain inadequate, a disincentive
for private R&D.

        To improve efectiveness of public R&D expenditures, the government recently sent to
Congress a draft "Innovation Law " which, if approved, would clearly improves the incentive-
regime for results-oriented public research and results transfer for the private sector. The
government also issued a policy paper entitled "Livro Branco: Ciencia Tecnologia e Inovapio",
with general principles and objectives for the Brazilian science and technology strategy. These
are significant steps toward an improved institutional framework for R&D. A number of
complementary actions will nevertheless need to be taken to ensure that such institutional
improvements do induce an enhanced sector performance.




                                                 21

        Increasing the eficiency of public R&D, andfoster private sector participation. Some of
the mainnext steps include: (i) overall strengtheningof the Ministry of Science and Technology,
with a view to improve the Ministry's capacity to: define and implement a coherent set of
technology and innovationpolicies, andensure adequate coordination between the various actors
involvedinthe sector; set appropriate incentives for productivity inpublic researchinstitutes and
universities; encourage technology transfer from the public to the private sector through
licensing by universities and public research centers to the private sector or facilitating
entrepreneurship by public sector employees; and establish incentive regimes for partnerships
between public research institutes and the private sector; (ii)preparation for the implementation
of the Innovation Law, through the adaptation of the existing legal, normative, and procedural
framework to the provision of the new law; (iii)   improvements, with a view to rationalize, the
design, targeting and management of sector funds, as well as design of a monitoring and
evaluation system, as a mean to foster private sector participation inR&D through more efficient
provision of public funding; and (iv) design andor implementation of selected innovation
programs in areas in which Brazil i s lagging and which have a strong potential impact on
businesses'   competitiveness,   such as technological        extension   to   small businesses,
nanotechnology, and carbon credit trading.

        Innovating in Environmental Markets.        The Kyoto Protocol aims to reduce global
greenhousegas emissions: it targets reductions in OECD and transition economies of 5.2 percent
from 1990 levels by 2012. It also states that OECD countries will purchase part of the emission
reduction commitment through trading mechanisms, namely (i)       Joint Implementation, a trading
mechanism between OECD countries and Economies in Transition and (ii)the Clean
Development Mechanism (CDM), which sets up a "Certified EmissionReduction" trade between
industrialized countries and developing countries. CDM transactions foresee that OECD
countries can purchase "Certified Emission Reductions" (CERs) from projects in development
countries to contribute to their reduction commitment. The Clean Development Mechanism
(CDM) represents an opportunity for Brazil: the first global environmental trading scheme, with
the objective to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions. Brazil's private sector is prepared to
take advantage of this market, estimated as several billion dollars per year to development
countries. First experiences demonstrates that CDM projects can increase access to clean
technology and promote local environmental and social benefits.

        An Interministerial Commission for Climate Change chaired by the Minister for Science
andTechnology has recently beencreatedto addressall issues related to the Kyoto Protocoland
the Clean Development Mechanism. The main next steps to establish a national carbon credit
trading market in Brazil (asides from the entry into force of the Kyoto Protocol) include: (i)
formulation of transparent sustainable development criteria for project developers; (ii)   design
and establishment of a CDM authority with appropriate methodologies and mechanisms to
screen and approve project proposals; (iii) development and implementation of an outreach and
investment promotion strategy; and (iv) structuring of mechanisms for carbon crediting and
effective transfer of Certified Emission Reductions (CERs), so that Brazil can benefit from the
CDM soon after the Kyoto Protocol enters into force.




                                               22

    2. Programdesign

The Program's design hasthe following mainfeatures:
            0   a broad development objective, namely to assist key Government entities in
                implementing Brazil's microeconomic growth agenda;


            0   opened lists of intermediate results and entities to be supported by the Program,
                with the possibility, during implementation, to modify or include new
                intermediate results and entities provided a set of clear conditions is met (see
                Annex 6);


            0   decentralized implementation mechanisms, with each entity responsible for the
                implementation of its own activities, with operational support (on procurement,
                financial management and reporting) to be providedby project coordination units
                or project coordinators (see section C.2 inthe maintext);


            0   an annual overall evaluation of the performance of each entity in implementing
                their activities, with the possibility o f (i)deciding on reallocation of resources
                from the low- to high-performing or new entity.           Such evaluation will be
                conducted in partnership between the Ministry of Finance, the entity concerned,
                its line ministry and the Bank (see section C.3 in the main text); and (ii)
                modifying as necessary the list of activities, intermediate results andentities; and


            0   disbursements made on a "first come, first served" basis, meaning that better
                performing entities would not be constrained in their ability to pay for activities
                until they reach the limit of their initial allocation under the Program, at which
                point a reallocation from lower-performing entities or the unallocated part of the
                Program will be discussed.


3. Programscope

        The Program will provide the necessaryresources, including consulting services, training
of entities' staff, and some IT equipment and software, to support the Government inachieving a
critical mass of intermediate results which would allow for a successful achievement of some of
the mainobjectives of Brazil's economic growth program. The initiallist of such objectives and
intermediate results is presentedbelow. The list may be revised during implementation period,
depending on the evolution of the dialogue between the Government and the Bank with respect
to the agenda's implementation (see paragraph 4 below).

        Reducing logistics costs with:
        0   in the customs' sector, strategic plan for customs' modernization approved, customs
            procedures and practices reengineered (including introduction of risk management
            systems), information systems integrated, podcargo security improved, and human
            resourcespolicy revised;

                                                 23

  0   in the port sector, public port companies restructured, guidelineshorms for port
      authorities established, trade-related operations information and control systems
      integrated, port performance monitoring system established, and other improvements
      to port productivityachieved, inline with new international mandatory standards;


  0   in the road sector, road management and financing capacity strengthened,
      government's strategy for road maintenance improved (through, inter alia, use of
      output-based contracts), transfer continued of federal roads of local interest to state
      management, draft of the road network classification law finalized, and capacity to
      develop public-private partnershipsinthe road sector established;


  0   in the multimodal transport area, Transport Ministry's planning, monitoring and
      evaluation capacity strengthened, railway concessions' restructuring completed,
      regulations and norms for rail and intermodal transport operators established, and
      maintransport bottlenecks gradually resolved.

      Improving the business environment, through:
0 in the area of infrastructure regulation, career development plan created for regulators,
  regulatory framework completed in infrastructure sectors, and framework in place for
  implementation of the Public-Private Partnership law;


0 in the area of competition, operational capacity strengthened for anti-trust enforcement,
  regulations established on access to "essential facilities" (in sectors such as rail transport
  andnatural gas distribution), andbusinessregistry processessimplified;


0 in the area of corporate insolvency, legal and normative framework adapted to the new
  Bankruptcy Law, commercial legislation on collaterals harmonized, credit registries
  improved, amendments to Tax Code defined, and efficiency in debt collection improved;
  and


0 in the area of resolution of economic disputes by the judicial system, performance
  assessment of the system completed andreformproposal designed.

  Enhancing efficiency and depth of thefinancial system, through:
0 in the area of competition in thefinancial system, guidelines and procedures prepared on
  oversight of mergers, incentives reduced for a posteriori filing of Merger and Acquisition
  cases, as well as anti-trust entities' role clarified in opinions and decisions in banking
  competition;


0 In the area of reduction of overall cost of credit and bank spreads, strengthening the legal
  framework for creditor rights, through the new bankruptcy law, and preparing for its
  introduction andapplication;




                                           24

        in the area of access tofinancial services' offer, studies undertakenwhich will evaluate
        recent measures adopted to expand the availability of financial services to the poor, in
        terms of their costs to the government and financial institutions, impact andbenefits; and

        in the area of capital, markets, action plan prepared to foster capital markets'
        development and deepening, particularly with regardto housing finance;

        in the area of institutional investors, strengthening the insurance system in terms of its
        regulatory and supervisory framework andproduct design.

        Increasing innovationcapacity,through:
            in the area of public research and development, necessary regulations and norms
            drafted to allow implementation of the new Innovation Law, capacity of the Ministry
            of Science and Technology strengthened, and recommendations approved for
            improvement of the Ministry of Science and Technology's programs for
            technological extension andfostering of nanotechnology industry;

            in the area of private innovation, recommendations approved to improve (i)     science
            and technology sector funds design, management and performance; (ii)cost-
            effectiveness of FINEP; and (iii)tax incentives schemes for research and
            development, as well as monitoring and evaluation system for sector funds'
            performance designed; and

            in the area of carbon credit trading, capacity of the Inter-Ministerial Commission on
            Climate Changes strengthened, and systems to register, evaluate and monitor Clean
            Development Mechanisms projects operational.


4. Programcost and components
        The technical assistance program consists of two phases, the first of which is the project,
to be implemented using the Adaptable Program Lending instrument. The indicative program
cost is estimated at about US$24 million, with a project cost of US$14.40 million (see indicative
program cost and financing table below).        The program cost has been estimated through a
screening of the initial demand expressed by the various Government entities involved in the
implementation of the Government growth program, screening which selected those activities to
which the participation of the Bank would add value, taking into account knowledge and
experience that can be made available through the Bank's participation. The program's duration
i s expected to be between 6 and 8 years, depending on progress in the implementation of the
project andthe Government's growth program.

        Both phases of the program will support activities which will contribute to the
achievement of the five program objectives described above. The project will support the
undertakingof a first set of activities which will contribute to the achievement of the four first
program objectives described above. The trigger for the second phase Adaptable Program Loan
includes satisfactory project implementation and satisfactory contribution of the project to the
policy development and dialogue on the implementation of Brazil's economic growth program,
                                                 25

with respect to the impact that project activities will have on progress in the implementation of
the Growth Agenda. Satisfactory project implementation will be evaluated by the project te&
as part of the regular project supervision. A satisfactory contribution of the project to the policy
development and dialogue on economic growth will require actions beyond the approval and
disclosure of project activities, but below the actual implementation of the related reforms
(reform implementation being the condition for the preparation and approval of a possible
secondprogrammatic loan). This evaluation will be conducted by the Bank team, on the basis of
Bank staff assessments in the various sectors covered by the project, at the time the secondphase
could start to be prepared.

        For the purposes of project costing and resources allocations, to be consistent with the
Government's structure of expenditure planningand monitoring, program components havebeen
defined by ministry rather than by the Government's growth program objectives to which the
program will contribute.     The matrix below shows to which objective(s) activities to be
undertakenunder eachministry will contribute.

                               Reducing    Improving          Enhancing         Increasing
                                logistic    business     efficiency anddepth    innovation
                                 costs    environment       of the financial     capacity
                                                                system
        Ministryof Finance        X             X                  X
        Ministry of Justice                     X                  X
        Ministry of Transport     X
        Ministry of Science                                                         X
        and Technology

        The table below presents the cost per component of the program's two phases. At this
stage, the cost breakdown per component of the second phase's is indicative (based on the initial
request for technical assistance activities received from the various ministries at the onset of
project preparation), and will be revised during the preparation of the loan for the second phase
of the program.




                                                26

                 Indicative Program Cost and Bank Financing Table (US$ million)




        Ministry o f Development,                                      1.oo          0.84          1.oo
        Industry and Commerce
        (indicative)
        Total program cost                14.28        12.00           9.52          8.00         23.80
        Front-end fee                     0.12         0.12            0.08          0.08          0.20
        Total financing required       I  14.40    I   12.12      I    9.60      1   8.08     I   24.00   I
5.        The table below presents the linkages between the main actions foreseen under the
Government Growth Program (as supported by the First Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and
Equitable Growth) and the first activities underthe proposedproject.

                         Linkages between actionsunder the Growth Program
                              and fir ;tactivities under the proposedproject
Policy Areas       Main actions       Proposed initial key            IGovernment GrowthProgram     -
and                under              actihties under TA First         expected outcomes and
Government         Government         Phase Adaptable Program monitoringindicators
Growth             Growth             Loan
Program            Program
Goals
A. Reducelo stic costs
1. Improve         . Developand        . PreparationofCustoms          . Averagegrossreleasetime
Customs            implement          strategic plan and plan for re-  decreasedfrom 5 to 3 days (imports)
effectiveness      Customs' reform    engineering of Customs           and from 2.0 to 1.O day (exports)
                   strategy for trade clearanceprocedures
                   facilitation
2. Reduceport      . Pursue           . Definitionofportreform         . Averagecargotransit time through
cost and delays    implementation     plan, dock companies             port decreasedfrom 13.8 to 10days
                   of port reform     restructuringprogram, and        (imports) and from 8.4 to 5.0 days
                   . Improveport      structure of ANTAQ               (exports), and average container
                   productivity       regulatory accounting system     handling cost decreased 10%from
                                                                       2003 levels
3. Reduce          . Strengthen       . Preparationofhighway           . 50% ofroadnetwork ingood
transport cost     road               strategicplan and management condition (as evaluatedby the
on federal road    managementand      reform program                   International RoughnessIndicator)
network            financing          . Preparationofactionplan        and average road transport costs
                   capacity           for MOTPPPcapacity               decreased 5%
                   . Increase         strengthening
                   participation of   . Definition ofMOTM&E
                                                       27

                 private sector in system structure
                 the sector        . DefinitionofANTT
                                   concession evaluation models
                                   onment
                 . Strengthen      . Preparationof
        I
1. Enhance the                                                    . Increaseinnumber of "hard-core"
competitive      anti-trust system recommendations for            cartel cases successfully prosecuted
environment                        improvements of anti-trust     to 5 cases per year
                                   system processes
2. Strengthen    . Strengthen      . Identification of changes    . Moreeffectiveresolution of
corporate        Bankruptcy        required in legal framework,   enterprises in structural and financial
insolvency       Framework         norms and procedures           difficulties, with better preservation
framework                          . Training ofcourt staff       of their value. Indicator: increased
                                                                  speed and higher recovery value of
                                                                  bankrupt enterprises as well as
                                                                  increased speed ofjudicial and
                                                                  extrajudicial workouts processes
                 . Improve         . Evaluation and preparation
                 process o f       of recommendations to
                 judicial and      improve performance of
                 extrajudicial     judicial system in resolving
                 workouts          economic disputes inpublic
                                   and private sectors
C. Enhanceeffi ency and deptho hefinancial system
1. Enhance       . Ensure          . Preparation ofguidelines     . Expandedcompetition in banking
financial system application of    and procedures on oversight of system and thus inbuilt incentives for
competition      anti-trust law to mergers                        reduced spreads and margins
                 the banking       . Definition ofroles ofanti-
                 sector            trust agencies inproviding
                                   opinions and decisions in
                                   banking sector
2. Improve       . Strengthen      . Definition of a detailed     . Accelerated expansion ofinsurance
mobilization of  insurance sector  institutional development plan industry assets on sound basis
long term        oversight         for SUSEP, incorporating       . enhanced service providers in
capital markets  . Improve         regulatory changes,            reinsurance
resources by the customer          supervisory practices, human   . strengthenedprovisioning and
insurance sector education,        resource development and       solvency coverage
                 disclosure, and   infrastructure
                 solvency
                 requirements
3. Improve       . Simplify and    . Evaluationof impact of new   . Broadened access to financial
access to        adapt current     microfinance measures          services for under-served population
financial        requirements to   . Establishment ofinterlinked  as monitored by increased number of
services for the needs of under-   credit registries              bank accounts and reduction in the
poor             served                                           numbers of unbanked persons
                 population




                                                     28

D. Increaseinnovationcapacity to transform knowledge intoproductivity gains
1. Foster      I . Restructure   I . Structuringof reformand     I . 10percentpointsincreasein
private          public sector     M&Emechanismsfor public        privatelyfundedR&D share intotal
innovation       funds             sector funds                   R&D expenditures
                 management
                 . Provide         . Definition of strategyto
                 incentivesto      foster nanotechnology
                 nanotechnology    industrygrowth
                 industry
2. Increase      . Strengthen      . Identificationof changes      . Numberoftechnology transfer
public R&D       Innovation        required in legal framework,   contracts betweenpublic research
effectiveness    framework         norms and procedures           centers and the privatesector
                                                                   increasedby 209 from 2002 levels
3. Create        . Structure and   . Definition of structure for   . Endorsementlettersissuedfor
innovationin     manage Clean      appraising, certifying and     CDM projects increasedup to
environmental    Development       monitoringCD projects                          carbon credits
markets        I Mechanism                                       I US$lOO million
6. Evaluationof implementationperformanceandmodificationof intermediateresults
         The implementation performance of each entity will be reviewed, by April of each year
over the life of the project, jointly by representatives of SPE, the Ministry of the entity in
question, the entity itself and the Bank. Performance evaluation will lead potentially to changes
in resources' allocation from: (i) low to the high performing entities, as a mean to foster
                                     the
competition among entities. Any entity which will not achieve its implementation schedule (as
agreed during the previous year's review) over a 1-year period, will be considered a low-
performing entity; andor (ii)    the parts of the loan proceeds allocated to the various project
components to the loan's unallocated part.              In addition, during project implementation,
depending on the evolution of the dialogue between the Government and the Bank on the
implementation of the Government's economic growth agenda, new intermediate results
contributing to the objectives of the agenda may be includedunder the program. Such inclusion
will be subject to: (i)support from the line ministry to an entity's request to include new
intermediate results; (ii)   the proposed intermediate results evaluated as supporting priority
reforms or institutional measures (following evaluation by SPE and the Bank) being part of the
Government's growth program, as described in the Program Document for the First
Programmatic Adjustment Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Economic Growth.                        Such
evaluation will be conducted in partnership between SPE, the line ministry, the entity and the
Bank; (iii)  availability of funds under the unallocated part of the loan proceeds, as determined
during the annual evaluations of implementation performance; (iv) the activities to achieve the
proposed intermediate results not triggering any of the Bank's safeguard policies; and (v) the
entity responsible for the implementation of such activities demonstrating to the Bank that it has
implementation arrangementsinplace which satisfy the Bank's fiduciary requirements.

         Progress inthe implementation of the Government Growth Program (as supportedby the
First Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Growth) will be conductedby a "higher-
level committee" including, in addition to the Governmentmank team in charge of project
monitoring and evaluation, representatives of other stakeholders in the implementation of the
Growth Program, such as private sector, Government and research institutes representatives.


                                                     29

  Annex 2: Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and/or other Agencies


            BRAZIL: Sustainable andEquitable Growth Technical AssistanceProgram



               Sector Issue                     Project             Latest Supervision
                                                                       (PSR) Ratings
                                                               (Bank-finance1 projectsonly)
                                                              Implementation  Development
                                                              Progress (LP)   Objective (DO)
  Bank-financed
  Poor condition of federal road     Federal Highway                S                S
  network, lack of public fundingfor Rehabilitation &
  road maintenance and               Decentralization(L4188)
  rehabilitation, and inadequate
  institutional capacity

  Low efficiency infinancial         Programmatic Financial        H S              HS
  intermediation, low effectiveness  Sector Adj. I(L7053)
  of regulationand supervision of    Programmatic Financial         S                S
 the banking system and securities   Sector 11(L7121)
  markets, and weak defenses         Financial Sector TAL           S                S
  against financial crisis           (L4637)
I Low   efficiency of the energy     Energy Sector Reform           S                S
  sector                             (L7120)
                                     Energy Sector ReformTAL        S                S'
                                     (L4780)

  Low performance of scientific      ThirdScience &                 S                S
  researchand technological          Technology (L4266)
  innovation




  Other development agencies
  Poor condition of federal road     IDBhighway projectsin
  network and road infrastructure    the states of Bahiaand
  bottlenecks                        CearA
                                     IDBBeloHorizonte-Sgo
                                     Paul0 -Florian6polis
                                     highway dualization
                                     projects




                                                   30

                             Annex 3: ResultsFramework and Monitoring


          BRAZIL: Sustainableand Equitable GrowthTechnicalAssistanceProgram

                                         RESULTS     FRAMEWORK


      Programpurpose               End-of-Program Indicator                     Useof Outcome
                                                                                  Information
Assist the Government in         Number of key intermediate results      . Evaluationoftechnical
implementing its growth program  used (e.g. strategies or action plans'  assistance program performance
                                 main recommendations implemented
                                 or systems operational) to support the
                                 achievement o f selected growth

              PDO                                                               Useof Outcome
                                                                                  Information
Assist the Government in                                                 .Reallocation   of funds from
preparingand implementing the    results achieved                        non-performing to performing
next phase of its growth program                                         activitiedentities as part ofjoint
                                                                         annual reviews
                                                                         .Decisiononsecondphaseof
                                                                         technical assistanceprogram
 Key Intermediate Results         ResultsIndicators for Each                     Use of Results
                                             Component                             Monitoring
ComponentOne:                    Component One:                          Component One:
ReducingLogisticsCosts
. Customs strategic planandplan Number ofrelated activities funded       . Corrective measuresduring
for re-engineering o f Customs'  under the project satisfactorily        activities' implementation for
clearance procedures approved    completed, and related products         quality assuranceand timeliness
and disclosed                    forwarded to decision-making            of products to be delivered
                                 authority                               . Reallocationoffundsfrom
. Portreformplan, dock                                                   non-performing to performing
companies restructuringprogram,                                          activitiedentities as part ofjoint
and structure o f ANTAQ                                                  annual reviews
regulatory accounting system
approved and disclosed

. Highway strategic plan and
management reformprogram
approved and disclosed

.Action planfor MOTPPP
capacity strengthening approved
and disclosed, structures of MOT
M&E system established, and
ANTT concession evaluation
models approved and disclosed
ComponentTwo:                    ComponentTwo:                           ComponentTwo:
Improvingthe Business
Environment
.Recommendations     for         Vumber of related activities funded     . Corrective measuresduring

                                                     31

improvement of anti-trust system     under the project satisfactorily   activities' implementation for
processesapproved and disclosed      completed, andrelatedproducts      quality assurance and timeliness
. Actionplanfor strengtheningof forwardedtodecision-making              of productsto be delivered
corporate insolvency law             authority                          . Reallocationoffundsfrom
framework approved and                                                  non-performing to performing
disclosed                                                               activitiedentities as part ofjoint
. Recommendationsfor improved                                           annualreviews
performanceofjudicial system in
resolving economic disputes in
public andprivate sectors
approvedand disclosed
Component Three:                     Component Three:                    Component Three:
Enhancing Financial Efficiency
and Depth
Action plans approvedand             Number of relatedactivities funded  . Corrective measuresduring
disclosedfor:                        under the project satisfactorily   activities' implementation for
.promotion ofcompetitive             completed, andrelatedproducts      quality assurance and timeliness
structures inthe banking sector
...                                  forwardedto decision-making        of productsto be delivered
   facilitation of access to credit  authority                           . Reallocationof fundsfrom
   developmentof capital markets                                         non-performing to performing
    institutional strengtheningof                                        activitiedentities as part ofjoint
SUSEP                                                                    annualreviews
Component Four: Increasing           Component Four:                     Component Four:
Innovation Capacity
. Actionplanforreformand             Number of relatedactivities funded  . Correctivemeasuresduring
M&Eof sector funds approved          under the project satisfactorily    activities' implementation for
and disclosed                        completed, and related products     quality assurance and timeliness
. framework approvedand              forwardedto decision-making         of productsto be delivered
disclosedfor implementation of       authority                           . Reallocation of funds from
the Innovation Law                                                       non-performing to performing
. Designoftechnologicalpilot                                             activitiedentities as part ofjoint
IT/social inclusionproject                                               annualreviews
approvedand disclosed
. Organizationfor appraisingand
certifying CDMprojects
approved and disclosed
. Ministry's strategy to foster
nanotechnologyindustry growth
approvedand disclosed




                                                        32

f       m




        r




I       N    W    N    I




        0    0    0



I




     33

                               Annex 4: Detailed Project Description

        BRAZIL: Sustainable andEquitable Growth Technical Assistance Program


Note: for background informationon, andrationale for includingthe beneficiaries below inthe
project, pleaserefer to the ProgramDocument of the recently approved First Programmatic Loan
                                for Sustainable andEquitable Growth.

MinistryofFinance Component (US$4.3 million)

       a. Beneficiary: Customs Administration (US$2.98 million)
       The component consists of the first set of activities needed to implement the recently-
approved Customs's modernization strategy:


 0   Strategic plan for Customs' modernization:contracting of a consulting firm to formulate
     such plan, and contracting of specialists to advise on specific issues such as needs for
     organizational restructuring, design of training program and development of a Customs'
     integrity program (US$0.2 million).


 0   Re-engineering of Customsprocedures and integration of systems:
         >     Re-engineering of Customs' procedures, including contracting of a consulting firm
               to identify needs for re-engineering, in light of international best practice (US$0.2
               million), as well as contracting of specialists to advise on issues such as
               development of risk management procedures, streamlining of management
               proceduresfor bonded warehouses, review of Customs house broker proceduresand
               set up of a time releasemonitoring system (US$0.22 million);

         P Improvement in automation of Customs' systems, including improvements to
               permit subsystem, development of advance release subsystem and improvements to
               the selectivity and express merchandise shipment subsystems, as well as
               development of monitoring subsystems. The modernization will be supported by
               the contracting of one mainconsulting firm to help Customs define the nature of the
               improvements or the structure and information base of specific subsystems (US$0.3
               million), the contracting of two consulting firms to improve/develop specific
               subsystems (US$0.2 million each), the contracting of specialists to provide
               technical advice on specific issues (US$O. 15 million), and the purchaseof computer
               hardware and software (US$O. 14million).

                                               4
 0   Portkargo security improvements,            through the contracting of 2 consulting firms to: (i)
     prepare a diagnostic on security capacity inBrazil's main ports (US$O. 15 million), and (ii)
     develop an action plan to ensure compliance of Brazilian ports with the International Ship
     and Port Security Code (ISPS) of the International Maritime Organization, and inparticular



Port security improvementswill be defined in collaboration with the Ministry of Transport.


                                                     34

      for the Port of Santos (Siio Paulo) with the requirements of the US-initiated Container
      Security Initiative (CSI) (US$0.07 million).

        b. Beneficiary: Secretariat for Economic Policy (US$0.42 million)

        The component will consist of studies for the efficient development of financial markets
andthe reduction of spreads arisingfrom weak creditor rights.As a result, it is expectedto lower
credit costs and spreads.

        The first part of the project involves studies, to be contracted to private consultants, that
will analyze and recommend policy actions to improve financial sector competition, support the
expansion of financial access for the poor andevaluate the costs of recent measures, and help the
development of capital markets, especially in areas such as housing finance. The methodology
would include theoretical and empirical approaches, with special attention to international
standards and experiences. The first activities to be implemented consist of the preparation of
detailed Terms of Reference for studies to improve financial sector competition, access to
financial credit and development of capital markets, through the contracting of three specialists
(US$0.02 million for each contract).

        A second area of activities is aimed specifically at simplifying procedures for opening
and closing of firms.     The first activity, to determine the scope of simplification, will be
contracted to a specialist (US$0.02 million).

        c. Beneficiary: Secretariat for Economic Monitoring(US$0.3 million)

        The component will help strengthen SEAE to allow for a more efficient involvement of
the Secretariat in the analysis of the economic impacts of anti-trust cases. First activities to be
included under the project consist o f

               0    definition and implementation of an action plan for the modernization of the
                    Secretariat's procedures, through the contracting of a consulting firm
                    (US$O. 15 million);


               0    set up a legal counsel capacity to ensure the legal soundness of SEAE's
                    reviews and recommendations, through contracting of a consulting firm
                    (US$O.OS million);


               0   resolution of specific technical issues, as a means to provide on-the-job
                   trainingto the Secretariat's staff, through contracting of specialists (US$0.07
                   million).

       d. Beneficiary: Insurance SupervisoryAuthority (US$0.6 million)

       The component will provide the platform for the institutional development of SUSEP and
the continued improvement inthe regulation, supervision and oversight of the insurance sector.




                                                 35

       The first activities of the project will be:
               0   the analysis and development of the detailed institutional development plan,
                   working with consultants incorporating regulatory change, supervisory
                   practices, human resource development and infrastructure (US$O.OS million);


               0   the supply of identified computer hardware and the development of the
                   associatedsupervisory software (US$0.20 million);


               0   the subsequent development of new circulars, procedures manuals and
                   training arising from the development plan (US$0.32 million).

MinistrvofJustice Component (US$1.61million)

       a. Beneficiary: Secretariat of Economic Law (US$0.77 million)
       The component will provide support to SDE to prepare for the implementation and
enforcement of the new bankruptcy law. The first activities to be financed include:


          0    Contracting of specialists to help SDE improve the efficiency of judicial
               instruction of trust and anti-competitive behavior cases, by consolidating and
               improving the consistency of administrative procedures, so as to minimize the
               risk of canceling of administrative decisions for vice-de-fomze (US$O. 12million);


          0    Supply of computer hardware and software to modernize and expand SDE's
               system for instructions' administration (US$0.03 million);


          0    Contracting of a consulting firm to help SDE identify the changes required in
               improving SDE's capacity to implement activities related to the bankruptcy
               framework in place in Brazil, and prepare recommendations to undertake such
               changes (US$0.15 million);


          0    Contracting of a consulting firm to: (i) a training program for judges and
                                                       develop
               court staff to build judicial awareness of the changes underway within the
               bankruptcy framework; and (ii)establish appropriate accompanying court
               procedures, thus allowing the buildup of sound jurisprudence at the outset of the
               introduction of the new legal framework (US$0.2 million for each contract).

       b. Beneficiary: Secretariat of Judicial Reform (US$0.24 million)

       The component will helpdesign improvements to the judicial system to resolve economic
disputes in the public and private sectors (e.g. to collect bad debts), and to enforce property
rightsand contracts. The aim is a more reliablejudicial environment inwhich business will take
place more efficiently.
          0    The first activity to be supported by the project i s an analysis of how well the
              judicial system has been functioning in this regard in Brazil, and how it might be
               improved. The methodology will include questionnaireshterviews with a sample




                                                  36

               of businesses and with members of the judicial system. The analysis will be
               undertaken by a consulting firm (US$0.12 million); and


          0    The second activity will be a quantitative analysis to estimate the cost of judicial
               processes as well as its benefits, aiming to evaluate the break-even point
               regarding the values involved, the length, the number of appeals of public and
               private judicial causes. The methodology will include data survey in courts of
              justice and other private and public institutions that may supply relevant
               information. The analysis will be undertaken by a consulting firm (US$0.12
               million).

       c. Beneficiary: Anti-trust Council (CADE, US$0.60 million)
       The component will help strengthenthe recently-created CADE, an essentialentity inthe
Braziliananti-trust system. The first activities include:


          0    structuring of CADE's information system and definition of needs for system's
               expansion, through contracting of a consulting firm (US$O. 15 million);


          0    implementation of the first phase of system's expansion, through supply of
               computer hardware and software (US$O.OS million);


          0    review and proposals for improvements to CADE's technical review procedures,
               as well as training of CADE's staff to international best practices, through
               contracting of specialists (US$O.15 million).


Ministryof Transport Component (US$3.14 million)

       a. Beneficiary: Secretariat for National Transport Policies(US$0.36 million)
       The component will support the development of the Transport Ministry's integrated,
       long-term planningand project financing capacity. The first activities include:


          0    design of a system for monitoring and evaluation of transport policies and
               programs, including (a) definition of adequate technical, financial, environmental
               criteria for evaluation of impacts of transport policies and programs on economic
               and social development at the regional level, (b) identification of existing
               information databases to feed the system, and definition of supplementary
               information needs, and (c) design of the system structure. The system's design
               will be contracted to a consulting firm (US$O. 1million);


          0    institutional strengthening of a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) unit within the
              Ministry, definition of procedures and methodologies for identifying projects
               suitable for private sector financing, setting-up of project financing models
               adapted to Brazil's specificities, and training of staff, through contracting of a
              consulting firm (US$O.15 million).




                                                37

     b. Beneficiary: Administrative Secretariat (US$0.36 million)
     The component will support the Government's efforts to define and undertake the
     necessary actions to complete the port reform. The first activities include:


          0   diagnostic of present situation, organization and animation of debates between
              interested parties in Brazil to define strategic directions to complete the port
              reform (especially in the areas of increased labor productivity, restructuring of
              port authorities, and port delegation policy), and preparation of an action plan,
              through the contracting of a consulting firm (US$O. 15 million);

          0   preparation of recommendations to resolve specific technical issues related to the
              implementation of the above action plan, through contracting of specialists
              (US$0.08 million).

     c. Beneficiary: National Department for Transport Infrastructure (US$0.4 million)
          The component will help strengthen DNIT's capacity to manage the federal road
          network. First activities to be financed under the project include:


              0  consolidation of road management policies and technical standards (taking
                 into account international experience) for road maintenance and rehabilitation
                 activities, and dissemination of results to DNIT's staff, through the
                 contracting of a consulting firm (US$O.15 million);


              0  streamlining of administrative procedures for management of road
                 maintenance and rehabilitation contracts, through the contracting of a
                 consulting firm (US$O.l million).

     d. Beneficiary: National Land Transport Regulatory Agency (ANTT, US$1.07
          million)
The component will help strengthen the recently-created agency as well as improve the
regulatory framework in the road, railways and interstate bus transportation sectors. The first
activities include:

        upgrading of the Agency's valuation models, through contracting of specialists
        (US$0.08 million), and supply of computer hardware and specialist software (US$0.03
        million);

        development of procedures and of a management system to ensure efficient and
        consistent supervision of concessions by the Agency, through the contracting of a
        consulting firm (US$O. 1million);

        training of Agency staff in international best practices on valuation models and
        management strategies (US$0.07 million);




                                               38

    completion of the regulatory and normative framework for land transport, including
    multimodal transport (entry and licensing criteria for intermodal operators, rights and
    obligations of operators, liability and insurance, commodity certification, equipment
    interchange, and electronic data interchange), through the contracting of experts
    (US$O. 1million);

    definition of uniform rules for concessionaires and permit holders to present their
    financial information to the Agency, and structuring of related information database,
    through the contracting of a consulting firm (US$O.OS million);

    elaboration of rules for the financial-economic equilibrium clause in concession
    contracts, and related valuation models, through the contracting of a consulting firm
    (US$O. 1million);

    definition of objective and transparent procedures for concessions' tariff revisions,
    through contracting of a consulting firm (US$O.1million).

  e. Beneficiary: National Water Transport Regulatory Agency (ANTAQ, US$0.95
      million)
          The component will help strengthen the recently-created agency, as well as
improve the regulatory framework for ports and water transport. The first activities include:

    strengthening of the Agency's         management and supervision processes, and
    consolidation of its organizational structure, through the contracting of a consulting
    firm (US$O.15million), andprovisionof managementtraining (US$0.06 million);

    completion of the normative framework, including accounting norms for port
    administrations, and integration and harmonization of the flow of information in the
    ports, through contracting of experts (US$O.12 million);

    completion of the regulatory framework, including for delegation of ports to
    statedmunicipalities, and delegation of inland water transport services, through
    contracting of experts (US$O.1million);

    improvements to the regulatory information and accounting system, through
    contracting of a consulting firm (US$O.15 million);

    development of procedures and of a management system to ensure efficient and
    consistent supervision of concessions and permissions by the Agency, including
    assessment of level of competitiodmonopoly power in various market segments,
    establishment of uniform accounting rules and standards for financial reporting as well
    as definition of performance indicators for port administration, through the contracting
    of a consulting firm (US$O.12 million), and supply of computer hardware and software
    (US$0.03 million).




                                           39

Ministry of Science and Technology Component (US$2.49 million)

      a. Beneficiary: Executive Secretariat (US$0.95 million)
      The component will help the Ministry: (a) strengthen its capacity to improve the
      efficiency of public expenditures in the sector, and (b) strengthen Brazil's innovation
      framework. The first activities include:


          0   evaluation of sector funds' design, management and performance, preparation of
              recommendations for improvement, and elaboration of a performance monitoring
              system, through the contracting of a consulting firm (US$O. 15 million);


          0   evaluation and preparation of recommendations for improvement of the
              Ministry's technological extension program, initially through the contracting of an
              expert to designthe program's evaluation strategy (US$0.02 million);


          0   implementation and dissemination of current actions related to the Bill of Law on
              Innovation, including drafting of necessary regulations and norms, through the
              contracting of 2 consulting firms (US$O. 1million each), and of experts (US$0.05
              million);


          0   supply of office computer andhardware equipment (US$0.03 million).

      b. Beneficiary: Secretariat for Strategic Scientific Development Policies (US$0.71
          million)
          The component will support the strengthening of the Ministry's capacity to structure
      and managethe clean development mechanism inBrazil. The first activities include:


          0   design processes, methodologies and criteria for evaluation, approval and
      certification of CDM project proposals, and for monitoring and evaluation of approved
      CDM projects, initially through contracting of experts (US$0.02 million) and then
      through contracting of a consulting firm (US$O. 15 million);

              implementation of processes, through the contracting of experts (US$O.1million),
      and supply of computer hardware and software (US$O.OS million);


          0   design of an outreach program for government entities and companies potentially
      interestedin CDM projects, through contracting of experts (US$O.OS million);


          0   capacity building of the Ministry's Climate Change Coordination Unit, through
      strengthening of organizational structure and design of training program, through
      contracting of experts (US$0.04 million) and supply of essential office equipment
      (US$O.Ol million).

      c. Beneficiary: Secretariat for Social Inclusion (US$0.65 million)
          The component will support the Ministry's efforts in fostering development in poor
      communities, by providing access to computers and Internet to groups of small producers


                                              40

for which gaining such access would generate significant productivity gains. The first
activities include:

    0   definition of criteria to select groups of small producers, design of evaluation
methodology and participatory mechanisms to define communities' hardware and
software needs as well as counterpart to the project, through contracting of a consulting
firm(US$O.15million);

        design and implementation of a pilot project with 15 communities, through
contracting of a consulting firm (US$O.1million);

        supply of necessary computer hardware and software to communities, and
trainingof beneficiaries (US$O.18million);


    0   carrying out of pilot project's evaluation, through contracting of a consulting firm
(US$0.07 million).

d. Beneficiary: Secretariat for Strategic DevelopmentPolicy (US$O.lS million)
        The component will support the Ministry's efforts to foster the development of
    the nanotechnology industryinBrazil. The first activities include:


        0   evaluation of the industry, and preparation of recommendations to foster the
            industry's development, through the contracting of experts (US$0.08 million);


        0   strengthening of information capacity on worldwide developments in the
            industry, through contracting of experts (US$0.04 million).




                                         41

                                  Annex 5: Project Costs
        BRAZIL: Sustainable andEquitable Growth Technical Assistance Program


Project Cost By Component andor Activity             LocalI      Foreign       Total
                                                   US $million U S $million U S $million
Ministry of Finance                                    2.67        1.80         4.47
Ministry of Justice                                    1.17        0.50         1.67
Ministry of Transport                                  2.27        0.95         3.22
Ministry of Science andTechnology                      1.77        0.75         2.52


Total Baseline Cost                                    7.88        4.00        11.88
Physical Contingencies                                 0.88        0.37         1.25
Price Contingencies                                    0.81        0.34         1.15
                             ~ o t aProject Costs'
                                     l                 9.57        4.71        14.28
                       Interest during construction
                                     Front-end Fee                 0.12         0.12
                       Total Financing Required        9.57        4.83        14.40




                                             42

                           Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements


        BRAZIL: SustainableandEquitableGrowthTechnicalAssistanceProgram


1.      Implementationperiod

        The project i s expected to be implemented over a four-year period, with a completion
date of June 30,2008, anda closing date of December 31,2008.

2.     Borrowerandimplementingagencies

       The Borrower for the Bank loan will be the Federative Republic of Brazil. The project
will be under the overall coordination of the Secretaria de Politica Economica (SPE) of the
Ministry of Finance. SPE will be basically responsible for: (i)the conduction of the policy
dialogue with the Bank on the implementation of the Government's Economic Growth Agenda,
Agenda supported by the recently-approved First Programmatic Adjustment Loan for
Sustainable and Equitable Growth (Loan n. 7218-BR); and (ii) overall evaluation and
                                                                       the
monitoring of project implementation, including consolidation of information on project
implementation progress on a semester and yearly basis. Each Ministry or ministry entity
benefiting from the project will be responsible for the implementation of their respective
components. Implementation arrangementscharts can be found at the end of this annex.

       The loan will finance procurement of goods and services, with at least 90% of loan
proceeds to finance consulting services. The amount of loan proceeds already (or to be)
allocated to each beneficiating entity is (or is expected to remain) small (about US$0.7 million
on average, with an expected minimum of US$0.2 million and an expected maximum of US$3
million). The estimated value of individual contracts is also expected to remain small (the
estimated value of already identified activities i s between US$O.OS and 0.7 million, with an
average of about US$0.2 million).

       The project will initially benefit various entities within the Ministries of Finance, Justice,
Transport, and Science and Technology. Each of these ministries is already responsible for the
implementation of Bank and IDB projects. A Project Coordination Unit under the Executive
Secretariat of the Ministry of Finance i s implementing two major IDB-financed projects
(Programa Nacional de Administracao Fiscal dos Estados-PNAFE, and Municipios-PNAFEM).
Another Project Coordination Unit in the Ministry of Science and Technology i s responsible for
the implementation of the ongoing Bank-financed Third Science and Technology Project (Loan
4266-BR). Finally, three Project Coordination Units inthe Ministry of Transport are responsible
for the implementation of the ongoing Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization
Project (Loan 4188-BR), and various other road projects financed by the IDB. The three PCUs
are housed in the National Department for Transport Infrastructure (DNIT), the National Land
Transport Regulatory Agency (ANTT), and the National Waterborne Transport Regulatory
Agency (ANTAQ). All PCUs have adequate staffing and project management systems and
procedures.



                                                 43

         It was agreed that the project will be implemented using staff and systems of these
existing PCUs, in order to limit the administrative burden of project implementation on the
Government, taking into account: (i)          the small aggregate value of activities to be implemented by
each entity, and (ii)       the relatively strong project implementation capacity of the Brazilian
Government. It was further agreedthat, in the case of the Ministry of Transport, a single project
coordinator (PC) in each DNIT, ANTT and ANTAQ, working as necessary with the relevant
departments within hisher entity, would be able to handle project implementation, given the
small aggregate value of activities to be implemented, combined with the relatively strong
implementation capacity of DNIT, ANTT and ANTAQ, and the fact that these three entities
would have to focus only on the implementation of activities within the Ministry. Finally, for
each activity to be undertakenwithin an entity, a task team leader will be appointed.

         The project will be initially implemented through two PCUs (one in the Ministry of
Finance under SPE and another inthe Ministry of Science and Technology, under the Executive
Secretariat) and three PCs (located in the National Department for Transport Infrastructure, the
NationalAgency for LandTransport, and the NationalAgency for Waterborne Transport), which
are basically responsible for the administrative aspects of project implementation (procurement,
financial management and project reporting).                 Each entity will be responsible (through task
team leaders appointed to draw the terms of reference or specifications for the activities to be
undertaken within the entity, to directly supervise contracts' execution, and to report on
implementation progress).

3.       Staffing of implementingagencies

         As indicated above, the PCUs have been performing adequately inimplementing project
financed by multilateral agencies.

         The Project Coordination Unit under SPE in the Ministry of Finance, a small unit of 5
employees, is headed by a competent and most senior staff who, until recently, worked in the
PCU of the Executive Secretariat, established many years ago to assist the MoF in project
implementation. Both, he and his deputy, also a senior staff of the PCU of the Executive
Secretariat, have had a great deal of experience in implementing projects financed by the Bank
(e.g., Programade Apoio a Reforma de Sistemas Estaduais de Previdencia -PARSEP) andby the
IDB. However, they have had limited experience with the requirements of Bank procurement
since the Ministry of Finance generally delegates this function to UNDP. This potential risk will
be mitigated since UNDP will take over procurement and contracting processes for project
activities for the Ministriesof Finance andJustice.

         TheProject Coordination Unit under the Executive Secretariat of the Ministry of Science
and Technology, a small unit of four employees, i s headedby a very experienced manager who


  Implementationarrangements for the activities to beneficiate the Administrative Secretariat and the Secretariat for
National Transport Policy of the Ministry o f Transport have not yet been defined. Payments for eligible activities to
be carried out by these Secretariats will be made under the condition that the Bank is satisfied with the Ministry's
implementationand financial management arrangements.




                                                         44

was in charge of the PCUs that successfully implementedfive Bank financed projects. The MCT
PCU has had some limited experience in carrying out project procurement in line with Bank
procurement procedures, but the core procurement group under the Third Science and
Technology Project has been dismantled now that implementation i s almost complete; and
although the PCU will absorb one or two of those employees, the staff experienced in Bank
procurement procedures are no longer with the MCT. Since the project components for which
MCT i s responsible will entail only a limited amount of procurement, the MCT PCU's
management is of the opinion that it i s not worthwhile hiring staff for this work. Thus it has
been decided to follow the example of the Ministry of Finance and also engage the services of
UNDPto carry out procurement on its behalf.

        Theproject coordinator of theANTT. The project coordinator for the project is presently
the head of the PCU under the ANTT component of the Bank-financed Federal Highway
Decentralization and Rehabilitation Project and was also the Project Coordinator for the now-
closed Bank-financed Federal Railways Project. Several other staff from the ANTT are
participating or have participated, on the procurement and financial management aspects, in the
implementation of the two projects. ANTT thus has a combination of staff which provides for an
extensive experience inmanaging Bank-financed projects.

        Theproject coordinator of ANTAQ. The project coordinator for the project is presently
the head of the PCU under the ANTAQ component of the Bank-financed Federal Highway
Decentralization and Rehabilitation Project. Although ANTAQ staff has been involved only
recently in implementation of Bank-financed project, the staff has demonstrated that it has the
skills andthe systems to managethe implementation of small activities.

        The project coordinator of DNIT. Staff involved in the implementation of projects
funded by multilateralagencies has adequateprocurement and project management skills. DNIT
i s presently ensuring the satisfactory implementation of externally-funded projects worth close to
US$1.3 billion, including the Bank-financed Federal Highway Decentralization and
Rehabilitation Project (Loan 4188-BR), of 5 road rehabilitatiodconstruction projects financed by
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and of 1roadconstruction project managedby the
Cooperacao Andeana para o Foment0 (CAF).              Implementation responsibilities (including
responsibilities for preparation of request for proposals and biddingdocuments) for the activities
to be implemented by DNIT will lay with the headof DNIT's Project Coordination Unitfor 3 of
the IDB-financed projects, who will rely on the Unit's staff as necessary. The head of this Unit
(the project coordinator for the proposed project) was previously the assistant-manager for the
unit incharge of the implementation of the FederalHighway Decentralization andRehabilitation
Project.




                                                 45

4.      Project Beneficiaries

        Sixteen entities have been identifiedto participate inthe project, and a list of activities to
be funded under the loan has been agreed upon with each entity. Such list is subject to change
duringproject implementation, dependingon the evolutionof the dialogue between the Bank and
the entities, provided that new activities proposed for funding contribute to the achievement of
the project development objective.       Terms of Reference have been prepared for first year
activities of twelve of the entities. The project's implementation, financial management and
procurement arrangementsare describedindetail inAnnex 7 and Annex 8, respectively.

5.      Implementation responsibilities, of Project Coordination Units and Project
Coordinators

        The PCUsPCs will havethe following responsibilities:

        e   Supervise each secretariat/agency/department that is directly responsible for a project
            component in its preparation and issuance of terms of reference (TORS) for
            developing a specific project activity;

        e   Perform, involving the Entities' relevant departments, the financial management of
            the project, including preparing project accounts and issuing the project's financial
            statements;

        e   Ensure the execution of project procurement and contracting of the required goods
            and consulting services, through UNDP or involving the Entities' relevant
            departments, as the case shall be;

        e   Review and clear all contracts financed by the project;

        e   Ensure payments under the contracts financed under the project, through UNDP or
            involving the Entities' relevant departments, as the case may be;

        e   Maintain the project's administrative and financial records and procurement
            information;

        e   Prepare and submit to the Bank, each quarter, project information and financial
            monitoring reports in accordance with the format established in the project's
            operational manual;

        e   Prepare and submit Statements of Expenditure (SOEs) and Summary Sheets (SSs) to
            the Bank;

        e   Monitor project implementation and deadlines;

        e   Provide support to external independent auditors; and



                                                 46

        0  Preparethe annual budgetary request for project funding.

        The PCUs will havethe following additional responsibilities:

        0  Supervise UNDP in the procurement and contracting of the required goods and
           consulting services; and


        0  Authorize the paymentsthat UNDP will maketo suppliers andconsultants.

        The MoF PCU will have two added responsibilities: (i) prepare the reconciliation of
                                                                    to
the Special Account each quarter, and to consolidate, at the end of each year, the financial
information provided by all the PCUsPCs; and (ii)          to consolidate information on project
implementation progresson a semester basis.

6. Implementation responsibilities of the beneficiary entities

        Each beneficiary entity i s responsible for the technical aspects of project implementation,
including: overall monitoring and supervision of activities, preparation of terms of reference
(TORS)and purchase orders, quality review, policy dialogue, project technical reporting to the
Bank and SPE. Each of these entities will name task team leaders who will liaise with the
PCUPC in charge of project implementation (mainly financial management and procurement)
for the respective componentsand assist that PCUPC on all technical matters.

7. Implementation responsibilities of task team leaders

        Task team leaderswill have the following responsibilities:


          0  Establish a policy dialogue on the assignments under hisher responsibility within
             the entity and with other participating entities, including with the Ministry under
             which hehhe operates, and the Bank;

          0  Prepareall TORSfor contracting consultants and/or purchaseorders for goods under
             the project;

          0  Assist the PCUPC or the UNDP on the technical aspects of the preparation of the
             procurement documents, and on the evaluation of consultants' proposals

          0  Review all reports and studies produced by the consultants, and provide clearance
             so that the PCUPC can make payments (or authorize UNDPto make payments) to
             consultants; and

          0  Summarize, in the form of a report, the consultants' findings and recommendations
             to the entity's direction, the related ministry, and the Secretariat for Economic
             Policy of the Ministry of Finance, andthe Bank.




                                                 47

  8. Implementationresponsibilitiesonthe Bank's side

           A representative of the Brazil Country Management Unit will be in charge of
  coordinating the policy dialogue between the Government and the Bank on the implementation
  of the Government's growth program. Asides from organizing/participating meetings with
  relevant Government entities on specific aspects of the Government's growth program, he will
  also participate to the project annual evaluation process, and provide, as necessary, guidance to
  the project "coordinating" task manager with respect to the inclusion of activities supporting the
  Government in achieving objectives of its growth program not presently included under the
 project  .

           The project "coordinating" task manager will be in charge of ensuring the overall
 coordination during project implementation, including leading the dialogue with the Ministry of
 Finance's Secretary for Economic Policy on project-related matters, participating to the annual
 evaluation process, providing support as possible to ensure adequate implementation
 performance under all project components ,and coordinating project reporting.

           Five task managers will be responsible for the implementation of the project activities
 related to the following topics 6: (i)         reduction of logistic costs; (ii) strengthening of anti-trust
' system capacity, reducing barriers to business entry, and increasing technological innovation
 capacity; (iii)   supporting the implementation of the new corporate insolvency law, and enhancing
 efficiency and depth of the financial system; (iv) strengthening supervision capacity on the
 insurancesector; and (v) developing market structuresfor carbon trading. They will be incharge
 of undertaking the technical dialogue with the relevant project beneficiaries, including
 revisioddefinition of activities to be funded under the proposed loan, review of terms of
 reference or equipment specifications for such activities, support to the definition of the technical
 aspects of the biddingdocuments, supervision of activity implementation, as well as participation
 inthe annualevaluation processesas neededandinthe project reporting.




   this divisionof responsibilitiesis indicativeand may be modifiedduringprojectimplementation,dependingon
 changesin staffprofiles andintroductionof new activities.


                                                         48

                           ImplementationArrangementsCharts

                                              CHARTA

      SummaryInstitutionalandManagementArrangementsfor MinistryofFinance
                                      andMinistryofJustice




                                                                                   -COORDINATIONAND
                              - PROCUREMENTSUPEAVlSlON




Note 1:SPE will also be incharge of the overall monitoring and evaluation of the project.
Note 2: Finalconfirmation still pending from the BrazilianGovernment on the proposed
implementation andfinancial management arrangements for activities of the three project
beneficiaries underthe Ministry of Justice. Inthe improbable case the above arrangements
cannot be implementedunder the BrazilianLegislation, the Ministry of Justice will have to
present alternative arrangementssatisfactory to the Bank to participate to the project.




                                                     49

                                             CHART B

 SUMMARY INSTITUTIONAL AND MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTSWITHIN THE MINISTRY                                       OF
                                             TRANSPORT




m                                                         NATIONAL W D TRANSPORT          NATIONALWATERBORNE
                                                            REGULATORY AGENCY            TRANSPORT REGULATORY
                                                                                                AGENCY
                  4      PROJECT COORDINATORI
-GOB FUNDS     1                                        I   PROJECT COORDINATOR I
                F W \ C & HMAGEMEh-
                PROCLREMENTVAUSEMEVT/?ROCESS
                PAYVEhTS TO CONS-L~AN-SI                                           .PAYMENTST
                                                  SUPPLIERS




                                                                                i
   WORD BANK

                                                 'RESPONSIBLE FOR
                                                  -TECHNICAUQUALITY REVIEW
                                                  - COORDIN AND POLICY DWLOGUE
                                                  -.CERTIFYINGSATISFACTON
                                                    REPORTING ON TASK TO WE
                                                                           FOR
                                                  WORK RENDERED BY
                                                  CONSULTANTS AND/OR FOR GOODS
                                                  R E C E M D




                                               50

                        CHARTC

SUMMARY INSTITUTIONAL AND MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
                                                FOR THE
           MINISTRYSCIENCEANDTECHNOLOGY
                     OF




I




                '-I
                           A




                            51

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
        BRAZIL: SustainableandEquitableGrowthTechnicalAssistanceProgram


1. CountryIssues

        Brazil's Country Financial Accountability Assessment draws the following conclusions:
"Brazil has a well-developed and centralized system of public financial management. Overall it
i s able to reliably track budget expenditures. However, the institutional arrangements and
processes are complex. While good results are achieved in terms of aggregate fiscal control, the
Government is less successful in achieving good expenditure prioritization and operational
efficiency." Brazil's system of public financial management yields reliable information and
adequate management and tracking of the receipt and use of funds at the national/federal level,
and is able to support Bank lendingprograms. Therefore, the risk that country issues could affect
the project's financial management system or the fiduciary responsibilities of the implementing
agency i s considered low.


2. StrengthsandWeaknesses

        The PCUs housed in the Secretaria de Politica Economica (SPE) of the Ministry of
Finance and in the Executive Secretariat of the Ministry of Science and Technology are staffed
by competent employees who have had great deal of experience implementingexternally-funded
projects (including two large IDB-funded projects, and a Bank-funded project). However, the
staff of the PCU in the Ministry of Finance have had little prior experience in Bank financial
management procedures. The three PCs that will be coordinating the implementation of project
componentsare presently active under ongoing Bank-financedprojects andhave carried out their
responsibilities in a satisfactory manner. Their financial management reporting to the Bank has
been considered adequate, and the external auditors have provided an unqualified opinion on the
project accounts. Nevertheless, given especially the limited experience the PCU of the Ministry
of Finance has had with Bank projects, and the large financial management responsibilities that
that PCU will needto undertake, the Bank rates the overall risk on financial managementmatters
as moderate. The following measureswill mitigate this risk:

    e   Early in project start-up the Bank will sponsor a project launch seminar with special
        emphasis on procurement andfinancial management;

    e   The CMU Implementation Team in Brasilia will assist the PCUs/PCs as necessary on
        financial managementmatters;

    0   Supervision missions will be undertaken three times during the first year of project
        implementation and at least twice a year thereafter; and

    0   Financial audits will be undertaken by the Government's Federal Secretariat for Control
        (SecretariaFederal de Controle, SFC).



                                                52

 3. FinancialManagement InstitutionalArrangements


 Implementing entities

         Project implementation and institutional arrangementsare discussedat length inAnnex 6.

         The Project coordination units (PCUs) of the Ministry of Finance (MF) and Ministry of
 Science and Technology (MCT) as well as the Project Coordinators (PCs) in the National
 Department of Transport Infrastructure (DNIT), the National Agency for Land Transport
 (ANTT), and the National Agency for Waterborne Transport (ANTAQ) will be responsible for
 all financial management aspects of the project, maintaining financial records and accounts for
 all the financial and procurement transactions of the project. The PCUsPCs will be responsible
 for project accounting, financial planning, reporting, making (or, for the MoF and MCT PCUs,
 authorizing) payments to consultants and suppliers, preparingstatementsof expenditures (SOEs),
 preparing project accounts and financial           statements,  and operating the financial
 management/monitoring system. The MoF PCU will have the added responsibility of
.consolidating the financial information provided by each PCUPC and, in particular, the
 preparation of the reconciliation of the special account. Finally, the PC of DNIT may also be
 responsiblefor financial management and procurement of the project components assignedto the
 Administrative Secretariat and the Secretariat for National Transport, both secretariats of the
 Ministry of Transport. Final agreement on these arrangements will be required as a condition of
 disbursementagainst eligible activities undertakenby the Secretariats.

         The PCUsPCs will prepare semester and annual project financial monitoring
 reportslstatements in line with the samples included in the project's operational manual. Since
 this is a technical assistance loan to a non-revenue-earning entity, the.main financial accounts
 and reports for the project will relate to funding received, project expenditures accounts, and
 Sources and Applications of Funds Statements (SAFS). Each SAFS will be supported by a
 reconciliation of the project's bank account and SOEs, including supporting evidence for all
 financial and procurement transactions. The PCUsPCs will also prepare the request for project
 funds to be included in the annual budget (except that the Executive Secretariat of the MoJ will
 prepare the budgetary requests for the project components of interest to that ministry, with the
 assistanceof the MoFPCU).

         The charts at the end of this annex provide an overview of the detailed financial
 managementarrangementsagreed with the MoF (and MoJ), MOT(DNIT, ANTT, ANTAQ), and
 MCT.

 Flow of funds

         According to the Federal Government's procedures, the National Treasury Secretariat
 (STN) under the MoF will advance funds to the project, and the Bank will subsequently
 reimburse eligible expenses. The first Bank disbursement from the Loan Account will be to the
 special account (SA) allocation, with an initial deposit of US$0.5 million in the STN account of
 Banco do Brasil, New York. STN cash advances to the project, including federal budgetary
 fundslcounterpart funding, will be deposited in Reais (R$) in five project operational accounts


                                                 53

(POAs), each managedby and under the responsibility of a PCUPC. The PCUs/PCs will request
funds in advance from STN in R$ on the basis of payments to be made to consultants and
suppliers (except those PCs under the MOTthat have to submit their request to STN via MOT'S
Sub-secretariat of Planning and Budgeting). No other advances will be provided to the
PCUs/PCs. The PCUsPCs will then prepare SOEs and forward them directly to STN to draw
from the SA and request subsequent replenishment from the Bank's Loan Account. Whenever
the PCUsPCs make payments to contractors or suppliers, these payments are reflected as
"ordens bancarias" inthe SIAFI system, hence STN will be electronically informed of the use of
the given advances to each PCU and PC, and is then able to draw the payments from the Special
Account. The PCUsPCs will then prepare SOEs and forward them directly to the Bank and
request subsequent replenishment from the Bank's Loan Account.              Since UNDP will be
contracting and makingpaymentson all procurement on behalf of the MoF (andMoJ) and MCT,
it will request the MoF and MCT PCUs to transfer funds each time it requests a payment
authorization.

        In addition, in order to allow the PCU of the Ministry of Finance to pay for activities
undertaken by the Ministry of Justice, the latter will transfer each year annual budget allocations
to the Ministryof Finance in accordancewith the convenio/project implementation agreement to
be signed between saidministries.


4. Staffing

       MoF PCU. The full-time administrator of the PCU is a competent procurementlfinancial
management specialist, a senior consultant (retiree) of the MoF. He and his deputy, also a senior
MoF consultant, manage this PCU of 5 employees. Because the proposed project components
under the MoF PCU's implementation responsibility would entail only a small number of
technical assistance services, and very few purchase orders for goods (computer software and
hardware), the PCU's present staffing arrangements are considered adequate. There is always a
risk that contracts of fixed-term consultants may not be renewedbecauseof budget shortfalls. If
these consultants were to disappear, there i s a danger that the remaining staff would not be able
to implement the proposed project adequately. However, the MoF has indicated that if the Loan
Agreement for the proposed project clearly stipulates the duties and responsibilities of the PCU,
there should be no major problem in renewing the contract of some of the present long-term
consultants or hiring new consultants to complete the project. The project (and the Bank loan)
includes funding for this purpose.

       DNIT Project Coordinator. As indicated in Annex 6, DNIT presently manages the
implementation of seven externally-funded projects, through various Project Coordination Units,
which are small units (e.g. two employees in addition to the manager), that generally contracts
out the management of large investment projects to consultants, supervising their work and
remaining responsible for project implementation. Under the project, DNIT will be in charge of
implementing its own activities and may also be in charge of implementing activities under the
Ministry of Transport's Administrative Secretariat and Secretariat for National Transport Policy.
Implementation responsibilities will lay with the head of DNIT's Project Coordination Unitfor 3
of the DB-financed projects, who will rely on the Unit's staff and systems as necessary. Since



                                                 54

the total amount of procurement for the above-mentioned activities will be small, the Bank
considers that the Unit is adequately equipped to coordinate project implementation and
reporting to the Bank, and that, in particular, the project coordinator, with the support of the
PCU's systems, will be able to undertakehisduties under the project.

        ANTT and ANTAQ Project Coordinators. The project coordinators of ANTT and
ANTAQ are well known to the Bank and have a great deal of experience with Bank procurement
and financial management procedures. The Project Coordination Units that they presently
manage under the Bank-financed Federal Highway Decentralization and Rehabilitation Project
(L.4188-BR) are small units of about three employees each in addition to the manager. It is the
Bank's assessment that these PCUs are satisfactorily equipped to coordinate project
implementation and reporting to the Bank, and that, in particular, the project coordinators, with
the support of the PCUs systems, will be able to undertaketheir duties under the project.

        MCT PCU. The MCT's PCU is headed by a very experienced manager who was in
charge of the PCUs that were responsible for the successful implementation of five Bank-
financed projects which have now all been fully implemented. In addition, this unit of four
employees will absorb one or two employees that are presently concluding the coordination and
implementation of the Bank-financed Third Science and Technology Project-Loan          4266-BR,
which will have been fully implemented by mid-2004. Given that the staff of this PCU has a lot
of experience in working with the Bank, it is the Bank's assessment that this PCU is
satisfactorily equippedto coordinate project implementation andreporting to the Bank.

        Annex 6 of this report provides further information on these PCUs' experience in
coordinating and implementing Bank-financed projects.


5. Information andFinanciaYAccountingSystem and Policies

        The Federal Government's budgeting, accounting, and public financial management and
monitoringsystem, SIAFI, provides an excellent basis for tracking project expenditures. SIAFIis
centralized at STN in Brasilia and i s interconnected with Federal Government agencies
nationwide andabroad. All project transactions are recorded in SIAFI.

        TheMoF,MCT andthe DNIT,ANTT, andANTAQ PCUs/PCs will operate andmaintain
satisfactory accounting systems and accounts in line with the Federal Government's budgeting,
accounting, and public financial management and monitoring system, Sistema Integrado
Administrativo e Financier0 (SIAFI). SIAFI also provides managerial information through the
SIAFIGerencial. These PCUs produce project managementreports satisfactory to the Bank by
manually extracting project informationfrom SIAFI.

        System within the Ministry of Finance.         The PCU will: (i)adapt the financial
management reporting system developed for the Bank-financed project Programa de Apoio a
Reforma de Sistemas Estaduais de Previdencia (PARSEP)-Loan             No.4369; and (ii) an
                                                                                          use
already developed software to extract data from SIAFI to prepare financial management,
procurement, and other reports. In addition, the staff of the PCU has been carrying out the



                                               55

financial management of two large IDB projects for a total of about US$3 billion-Programa
Nacional de Administracao Fiscal dos Estados (PNAFE) and Municipios (PNAFEM). Thus the
PCU is fully equipped to establishand maintain accountsfor the proposed project.

        The project accounting system will be fully integrated with the FMRmanagement system
for monitoring and controlling project execution and financial management, including
accounting, reporting, special account control, disbursements, SOE preparation, and procurement
management information. This system is able to record budgets, estimates, and objectives as per
the Federal Government's Annual Operational Plan, and to compare these with actual results and
performance. It will allow the PCU to produce the financial monitoring reports-Sources        and
Uses of Funds, Physical Progress Report, and Procurement Report-in             the agreed formats.
Adequate internal controls are inplace to guarantee the reliability of the system.

        Systems within MCT, DNIT, ANTT, and ANTAQ. The PCUs in these entities,
established specifically to implement other ongoing Bank- and IDB-financedprojects, have been
inplaceandoperating for many years andhave aproven track record. They operate andmaintain
satisfactory accounting systems and accounts in line with the Federal Government's SIAFI
system. They will all be able to produce reports satisfactory to the Bank-as    they already do for
other Bank-financed projects-by        manually extracting project information from the SIAFI
management system (unlike the MoF PCU, which can extract that information electronically).
Given that each PCU will only have to deal with a very limited number of financial
transactions/processes in the implementation of the components of the TAL under their
responsibilities, the current financial arrangementsare considered adequate.

        UNDP's information system. UNDP will do procurement processing and contracting, as
well as makingpayments to consultants and suppliers, on behalf of the MoF (and the MoJ, since
the MoF PCU will handle its project procurement and financial managementunder a convenio or
project agreement between those ministries) and the MCT. The MoF and MCT PCUs will
supervise these processes and authorize all payments. For the two large IDB-fundedprojects, the
MoF and UNDP maintain an efficient on-line system that monitors procurement processes and
payments. This system is also used satisfactorily under another Bank project (PARSEP), and
will be adaptedby the PCU under SPE to monitor the implementation of the project components
for the Ministries of Finance, Justice and Science andTechnology.

7.      Audit Arrangements

External audit
        Inaccordancewith the establishedarrangementsfor Bank-financed projects inBrazil(per
the protocol of understanding signed in 1998), the annual financial audit of the project accounts
and financial statements for the period January 1to December 31 of each year will be carried out
by the Secretaria Federal de Controle (SFC). On the basis of Diretrizes: Relatorios Financeiros
Anuais e Auditoria de Atividades Financiadaspelo Banco Mundial, the Bank and the PCUs will
agree on TORfor project-specific audits, and the PCUsPCs will then instruct SFC to carry out
the audits accordingly. The objective of the SFC audit is to judge the accuracy of the financial
statements preparedby the PCUsPCs for the year-end in the FMR format. The SFC audit will
encompass all of the financial transactions under all project components, and the TOR will



                                                56

include specific instructions to the auditors to audit the amounts applied in the project and to
certify the eligibility of the expenditures financed by the Bank. The auditors will then express
opinions on the yearly FMRs. The auditor's report should also include an opinion on the
eligibility of the project's expenditures and the adequacy of the internal controls. Any weakness
should be reported in the auditor's management letter, together with recommendations for
improvement. The Bank`has provided a copy of these guidelines to the PCUsPCs and will also
include them in the operational manual. The MoF PCU will coordinate these arrangements to
ensure that the external auditors provide an opinion on the consolidated financial accounts of the
TAL, which the MoF PCU will prepare on the basis of informationprovidedby all other PCUs
and PCs.

Internal audit
         MoF. About two years ago, to give the SFC a more independent status, the Government
removed it from the MoF and placed it under the Office of the President. However, the SFC
continues to perform internal audit functions within the MoF and, as part of an overall program
of internal audit, to carry out internal control adequacy assessments for the MoF. This activity
facilitates SFC's external audit and reporting on the MoF. The close link between SFC and the
MoF ensures a high level of financial supervision of MoF activities.

         MCT, DNIT, ANTT, and ANTAQ. All of these entities have an Internal Audit
Department that reports directly to the Minister (MCT) or the Director General (the other
entities). The internal auditors of all federal government agencies are subject to the instructions
provided by SFC, which is itself under the Office of the Presidency. The internal audit that is
carried out is largely an administrative, accounting, and legal audit. The scope of the internal
audit would appear to be adequate as far as ANTT and ANTAQ are concerned, since these
agencies do not carry out investment projects. It may not be adequate for MCT and DNIT, both
of which carry out large investment projects and would benefit from a managerial and
operational audit (focusing on contractors' work in progress, the quality and quantity of work
delivered, managementconsultant reports on work inprogress, the environmental compliance of
projects, and district offices). However, since the proposed TAL does not include investments,
except for the purchase of a small quantity of goods-computer hardware and software-and
will mainly finance technical assistance services, the present internal audit arrangements are
consideredreasonablyadequate.

Audit report
         The following audit report will be required within six months after the end of each
calendar year:

Project accounts-financial    statements
Statementsof expenditures
Special account at STNin US$
Five project operational accounts inR$
Compliance with legal covenants
Management letter




                                                 57

Other audit
Activities at the levelof each project beneficiary and of the overall project are subject to audit by
the Federal Court of Accounts or Tribunal de Contas da Uniao (TCU).


8. DisbursementArrangements

        Inaccordance with Brazil's recently revised procedures for external financing, STNwill
prefinance by advancing funds to the project. After all conditions of effectiveness are met and
the action plan i s completed, LOA will release a Disbursement Letter giving instructions for
disbursements from the Loan Account. Disbursements will be based on transactions and not on
reports, and will follow standard Bank procedures. Withdrawal applications for eligible
expenditures will be supported by SOEs or Summary Sheets (SS), as appropriate. All pertinent
documentation will be filed at the PCUs for inspection by the auditors and the Bank's
supervision missions. Table A of this annex provides the allocation of loan proceeds.

        The PCUs will prepare and submit SOEs for individual consultants costing less than the
equivalent of US$50,000; for consultant firms costing less than the equivalent of US$lOO,OOO;
and for goods costing less than the equivalent of US$lOO,OOO.                 Above these limits,
reimbursement requests will be submitted via SS, with complete documentation attached. The
Bank may raise these thresholds during project implementation, if it i s satisfied with the
performance of the PCUs/PCs.

        MoF, MOT and MCT will designate the personnel authorized to sign withdrawal
applications and will send the relevant signature specimens to LOA. To allow early hiring of
consultants, retroactive financing of up to 10 percent of the loan amount will be available for
eligible expendituresmade within 12months before the date of loan signing.


9. ReportingRequirements

        To keep the Bank informed about project implementation, not later than45 days after the
end of each quarter the PCUs/PCs will submit to the Bank a financial management progress
report that will include, inter alia, (a) a statement on project sources and uses of funds; (b) a
statement on uses of funds by project activity; and (c) a statement/reconciliation of the special
account. Formats for these reports are provided in the FMR Guidelines of November 30, 2001,
and are included in the Operational Manual. Samples of financial management reports that are
specifically designed for the management of this project are also included in the Operational
Manual. The MoFPCU will have two addedresponsibilities: to prepare the reconciliation of the
Special Account each quarter, and to consolidate, at the end of each ye&, the financial
information provided by all the PCUs and PCs.




                                                 58

10. Action Plan
Action                                                          DueDate

Financial/Administrative Management                             By effectiveness
   1) Strengthening the financial/administrative
  team of the MoF PCU, including at least one
  full-time professional accountant/financial
  management specialist and one full-time
  professional informatiordadministrative
  assistant.

  2) At least 2 PCUor PC to beestablished                       B y effectiveness
  and to set up the proposedproject
  accounts/system, including:
       a) financial managementlmonitoring
            system;
       b) financial, administrative, and
            accounting records; and
       c) funds flow mechanism agreedwith
            STN.

3) Other PCUsPCs to be establishedor                            Beforedisbursementsfrom the loancan be
designatedand to set up the proposedproject                     made for activities related to said PCUPC
accounts/system

4) MoF andMCT submit to the Bank the                            B y effectiveness
signed "PRODOC" or project agreement
betweenMoF/MCT and UNDP

5) MoF submits to the Bank signedconvenio                       By effectiveness
or project agreementbetweenMoF and MoJ

6) The MoF PCUsubmitsto the Bank:                               Three months following effectiveness
   a) TORfor external auditors (SFC)                            Within 6 months after the end
   b) auditedyearly financialstatements                         of the calendar year.




'Incase  the above arrangements cannot be implementedunder the Brazilian Legislation, the Ministry of Justice will
have to present alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to participate to the project.


                                                          59

11. FinancialCovenants


       (a)     Audit covenant. The PCUs and PCs will have the projects accounts audited by
auditors acceptable to the Bank and, within six months after the end of the calendar year, will
submit to the Bank (a) audited project accounts and financial statements, (b) audited Statements
of Expenditures, (c) audited special account, (d) an audited report on compliance with legal
covenants, and (e) the auditor's managementletter.

       (b)     PCUPC responsibilities. The PCUs and PCs will have the following
responsibilities:
(a) serve as the executive secretariat for the project; (b) carry out all financial management
functions of the project; (c) carry out (or, for the MoF and MCT PCUs, supervise) the
procurement and contracting of goods and services under the project; (d) review and clear all
contracts financed by the project; (e) make (or, for the MoF and MCT PCUs, authorize)
payments to consultants and suppliers; (0 maintainthe administrative and financial records and
procurement information of the project; (g) each quarter, prepare and submit to the Bank project
information and reports in accordance with the format established in the project's Operational
Manual; (h) prepare SOEs and SSs and submit them to the Bank; (i)                  monitor project
implementation deadlines; (i)provide support to external auditors; and (1) prepare the annual
budgetary request for project funding.

       (c) Reporting requirements. The PCUsPCs will submit to the Bank, not later than 45
days after the end of each quarter, information on the financial management of the project (refer
to paragraph 11above on reporting requirements).

       (d) Flow of funds and disbursementarrangements. The borrower will advance funds to
the project, and the Bank will subsequently reimburse eligible expenses. The advances to the
PCUsPCs' project operational accounts (in R$) will be made on the basis of payments to be
made to consultants and suppliers (refer to paragraphs on flow of funds and disbursement
arrangements).


13. SupervisionPlan

       To help ensure satisfactory project management, early in project start-up the Bank will
sponsor a project launch seminar, which will include Bank specialists in procurement, loan
disbursements, and financial managementissues-areas       that require special attention.

       The Bank will undertake supervision missions twice a year, plus an additional full
supervision mission during the first year. Responsibility for daily procurement and financial
management supervision and client assistancewill be provided through the CMU Brasilia-based
implementation team that i s staffed to carry out these functions. Inaddition, supervision missions
will periodically include a financial management specialist and a procurement specialist. In
addition to regular supervision, and distinct from the assessment of project implementation
progress, the Bank will periodically review progress on economic growth with the MoF, MoJ,
MOT,DNIT,ANTT, ANTAQ, and MCT.


                                                60

                                 Financial Management Arrangements Charts

                                                                   CHART 1I.A
   FinancialManagement Arrangements Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Justice
                                                                          -


                                                                                                    COkVENlOi PROJECT
                                                                                               ~PLEMENTATIONAGREEMENT                   MIMSTRY OF JUSTICE



          I                                                                                                              .Submits     annual budoet for I
                               loroiect inciudino B a i loan I t       I                       /                            project including Bank loan
                                                                                                                                EIzl
                                                                                                                            and government counterpart




                                                                                                                                     EXECUTIVESECRETMI41



       tlinilialdepos)l)
          replenishments                            -Maintaining Project Accounts
       I-                                                                                          certticate of
                                                                                                   satisfacliin for work
                                                                                                   rendered by
                                                                                                   consultants or for
                                                                                                   goods received
                                                                                                   2. Submiis technical
                           Submits SOEs ISS                          preparation of                clearance for payment
                                                                     SOEs and




                                         contract payments                           ~ h v i N i O / P R O J E C T
   WORM B*WS                                                      I                 I   iMPLEMENTATiON            I
       t


Note: Finalconfirmation still pending from the BrazilianGovernment on the proposed
implementation andfinancial managementarrangements for activities for the three project
beneficiaries underthe Ministry of Justice. Inthe improbable case the above arrangements
cannot be implemented under the Brazilian Legislation, the Ministry of Justice will have to
present alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to participate to the project..




                                                                               61

                                                     CHART1I.B
               Financial Management Arrangements within the Ministry of Transport




                              and gwemment counierpal


                                                             SPM: NATIONALTRMSPORT
                                                             POUCY SECRETMN
                                                             SEGES: MilORLT2ANSPORT       I  \    I
                                                                                                       satisiaciion for wok renderedby




     U                                                                                                                  i
ieplenishment




                                                                                                                        t


                                                         1. Maintainini aioiecl accounts




             t                                                                                                          I




                                                               62

                                      CHART 1I.C
Financial Management Arrangements Ministry of Science and Technology
                                                 -




                      /       I f financial management          I I

            managements
            reports                            for preparation of
                                               SOE's and supporting
                                               -documentscopies of ail
                                                           for SS
                                                 Submits


                   Icontract payments


                                                                          T




                                              63

                                       Annex 8: Procurement
        BRAZIL: SustainableandEquitableGrowthTechnicalAssistance Program


ProcurementCapacityAssessment


       A procurement assessment was carried out on the basis of two visits in Brasilia in
September and December 2003. The overall procurement risk assessment is estimated as
high: although all entities which will be responsible for procurement under the project do have,
on average, good knowledge of Bank procurement, and agreed procurementlcontract
management systems and arrangements are adequate, the sheer number of activities to be
procured, the technical complexity of the consulting services to be procured, and the flexibility
of the project design, are all elements which increasethe procurement risk.


ProcurementInstitutionalArrangements


       Procurement under the loan will be handled as follows (see procurement arrangement
charts at the end of this annex): (i)   through 3 entities, for activities to be undertaken by the
Ministry of Transport. These entities, all involved in the implementation of the ongoing Federal
Highway Decentralization and Rehabilitation Project (Loan 4188-BR), have varying levels of
experienceof procurement under Bank-financed operations; and (ii)       through UNDP for activities
to be undertaken by the Ministries of Finance, of Justice and of Science and Technology. One
contract (the PRODOC agreement) will be signed between the Ministries of Finance, and
Science and Technology and the UNDP, as the procurement and financial management
responsibilities for activities to be undertaken by the Ministry of Justice will be assumed by the
Ministry of Finance, through a technical cooperation convenio.

        As described in more details in Annex 6, all staff of entities in charge of project
implementation and, in particular, execution or supervision of procurement activities, have been
or are presently responsible for the implementation of projects funded by the Bank or the IDB,
and implementation performance of these entities has been satisfactory.

        During project implementation, other entities of the Federal Government will have the
possibility of requesting, through the Ministry of Finance (the coordinating ministry for this
operation), funding under the loan of activities which will contribute to the achievement of the
project's development objective. Such funding will be made available upon the following
conditions: (i)Ministry of Finance and Bank's agreement to the entity's request, (ii)  presentation
of implementation arrangementsacceptableto the Bank, and (iii)     procurement assessment.




                                                 64

ProcurementMethods


        Procurement for the proposed project will be carried out in accordance with Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (World Bank, January 1995; revised
January/August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999); and Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (World Bank, January 1997; revised
September 1997, January 1999, and May 2002). The Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments and
Standard Request for Proposals will be used for Bank-financed ICB goods and consultant
services, respectively. For NCB procurement of goods the model standard bidding documents
issued by SEAIN in November 2000 will be used. The project's procurement methods for each
category and component are summarizedinTable A of this annex.

        The loan will finance procurement of goods and services, with at least 90% of loan
proceeds to finance consulting services. The amount of loan proceeds already (or to be)
allocated to each beneficiating entity is (or is expected to remain) small (about US$0.7 million
on average, with an expected minimum of US$0.2 million and an expected maximum of US$3
million). The estimated value of individual contracts i s also expected to remain small (the
estimated value of already identified activities i s between US$0.05 and 0.7 million, with an
average of about US$0.2 million).

        International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods estimated to cost US$500,000
equivalent per contract or more, will be procured through International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures. At preparation, no contracts have been identified to use ICB, but since new
entities may adhere to the project and given the project flexibility, ICB should remainan option.

        National Competitive Building(NCB). Goods estimated to cost less than US$500,000
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of NCB
procedures. Three contractshave beenidentified to be procured under this method. They relate to
the purchase of computer hardwarehoftware for the various government entities involved in
project implementation.

        Shopping (IS-NS). Goods estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceedUS$500,000, may be purchased on the basis of
price quotations from at least three eligible suppliers. All equipments for the project and
technical services, with the exception of the three mentioned above (to be procured under NCB
method), will be procured under this method. This includes packages of computer equipment and
logistics for trainingevents.

        Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedure will be used for consultant
services and training contracts. 90% of the contracts under the project will be procured through
this method, for a value of approximately US$lO,OOO,OOO.

        Quality-Based Selection (QBS) procedures will be used for highly specialized
assignments or assignments which can be carried out in substantially different ways. Contracts
totaling about US$1million are expected to beprocured usingthis method.           .




                                                 65

        Least-Cost Selection (LCS) procedure will be usedfor consultant services of a standard
or routine nature, estimatedto cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract.

        Selection based on Consultants' Qualifications procedure will be used for consultants
services for which the need for preparing and evaluating competitive proceduresare not required,
estimatedto cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract.

        Individual Consultants will be hiredfor assignmentswhich meet the criteria specified in
Section V of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$3,300,000 equivalent.


Advertising
        A General Procurement Notice for hiring of consultant services, and the ICB goods and
consultants services should be publishedin the UnitedNations Development Business, no later
than January 31 of each year. The Notice will be updated annually for outstanding consultant
services and ICB goods. In addition, detailed consultant services and assignments will be
advertised, as they become available, in at least one national newspaper of a large circulation.
Furthermore, the implementing agencies may also advertise some of the project's studies in an
international newspaper or a technical magazine. The agencies may also seek "expressions of
interest" by contacting embassies, professional organizations, or firms that it knows or that are
registered in DACON (paragraph 1.15 of the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of
Consultants). In this case, the information required would be minimum, limited to make a
judgement on the firm's suitability. Sufficient time (not less than 30 days) will be provided for
responses, before preparing the short lists.

        Procurement Records. Procurement records of the project, including records of time
taken to complete key steps inthe process and procurement activities will be maintainedby each
entity carrying out procurement. These records will be available to the Bank for post reviews or
audits and must be maintained for at least one year after project closing. The records for goods
andworks will include public notices, biddingdocuments and addenda, bidopening information,
bid evaluation reports, formal appeals by bidders and outcomes, signed contracts with related
addenda, records on claims and other useful information. The records for consultants will include
public notices for expression of interest, request for proposals and addenda, technical and
financial reports, formal appeals by consultants and outcomes, signed contracts and related
addenda, records on claims and other useful information. Copies of contract payment
information must also be kept inthe files.


Review by the Bank of the Procurement Decisions


        Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement plans will be prepared on an annual basis, and
agreed with the Bank. The procurement plan for the first year will be agreed to by project
appraisal.




                                                66

        Prior Review. The Bank's procurement review will be made in accordance with
Appendix 1of the Guidelines for Procurement and Appendix 1of the Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants andthe provisions stipulated inthe LoanAgreement.

        The following tendering processes will be subject to the Bank's prior review (refer to
table B):

        all ICB tender processes, irrespective of the estimated amount of the contract;

        all NCB tender processes for procurement of goods, as it i s expected that each PCUPC
        will not needto procure more than 3 such contracts;

        the first IS-NS tender processes for procurement of goods, to be undertaken by each
        PCUPC;

        all consulting firms' contractsestimated to cost the equivalent of US$lOO,OOO or more. In
        this case, the following documents will be reviewed: terms of reference, request for
        proposals, short lists, terms and condition of contracts as well as evaluation reports and
        recommendation for award;

        for consulting firms' contracts estimated to cost less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent, the
        TOR and the proposed selection method must be submitted to the Bank for prior
        approval.

        all individualconsultant contractsestimated to cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more,
        in which case the qualification, terms of reference, evaluation justification, and draft of
        the contract will be forwarded to the Bank and will be awarded only after the Bank's
        concurrence.

        Ex-post Review. All tenders, regardless of value, are subject to ex-post review. All
documentation, includingbut not limitedto: terms of reference, biddingdocuments or requestfor
proposals, bids or proposals received, correspondence on all bids either prior to or following
award of contract, evaluation reports, including Bank's no objections, contracts and any
subsequent amendments should be maintained until at least two years following the closing of
the Project. During Bank's supervision missions, not less than 1 in 5 tenders not subject to
Bank's prior review, will be examined ex-post. Ex-postreviews will be conducted twice a year.


Project reporting


        A CD-Rom-based project operational manual was prepared for the project. On the
procurement side, it includes electronic copies of the Bank procurement guidelines, standard
bidding documents and request for proposals, and formats for reporting on procurement
activities, especially in the phases of planning and monitoring. Copies of the CD-Rom will be
distributed to each entity responsible for procurement under the project.




                                                 67

                        Table A: Project Costsby ProcurementArrangements
                                        (US$ millionequivalent)

                                                 Procurement Method'
  ExpenditureCategory            ICB              NCB               Other2         N.B.F.       Total Cost
1.Works                           0.00             0.00              0.00            0.00          0.00
                                 (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.57              0.43            0.00          1.oo
                                 (0.00)           (0.48)             (0.37)         (0.00)        (0.85)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00              13.28           0.00         13.28
                                 (0.00)           (0.00)            (11.15)         (0.00)       (11.15)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00             0.00              0.00            0.00          0.00
                                 (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Front-end Fee                  0.00             0.00              0.12            0.00          0.12
                                 (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.12)         (0.00)        (0.12)

                     Total        0.00             0.57              13.83           0.00         14.40
                                 (0.00)           (0.48)            (11.64)         (0.00)       (12.12)

'Figures inparenthesesare the amountsto be financedby the Loan. All costs include contingencies.

21ncludesgoods to beprocuredthrough nationalshopping,consultingservicesandtraining.



                      Table A1: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
                                        (US$ million equivalent)

                                                        ~~~~


                                                                -Selection Method
       Consultant Services                                                                         Total
      Expenditure Category        QCBS         QBS           LCS       CQ       Other     N.B.F.

  A. Firms                          7.50       1.oo          1.oo     0.50      0.00       0.00   10.00
                                  (6.30)      (0.84)        (0.84)   (0.42)    (0.00)     (0.00)  (2.94)
  B.Individuals                     0.00       0.00         0.00      0.00      3.28       0.00    3.28
                                  (0.00)      (0.00)        (0.00)   (0.00)    (2.75)     (0.00)  (2.75)

                           Total    7.50       1.oo                   0.50      3.28       0.00   13.28
 ~                                                           1.oo
                                  (6.30)      (0.84)        (0.84)   (0.42)    (2.75)     (0.00)  (11.15)




                                                     68

               Table B: Thresholds for ProcurementMethods and Prior Review'

                              Contract Value                                   Contracts Subject to
 Expenditure Category           Threshold         Procurement Method              Prior Review
                             (US$ thousands)                                     (US$ millions)
1.Works                              0                                                    0
2. Goods                            >500                   ICB                           0
                                                                                        All
                                    > 100and              NCB                          0.57
                                    c 500                                               All
                                    > 100                 IS-NS                        0.43
                                                                              Firstcontract for each
                                                                                entity incharge of
                                                                                   procurement
3. Services              Firms      > 100                 QCBS                          9.7 1

                         Individuals > 50        Section V of Guidelines                All




             Total value of contracts subject to prior review: US10.71 million

                          OverallProcurementRiskAssessment: High

Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 6 months (includes
specialprocurement supervision for post-review/audits)


                              Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds


     Expenditure Category         Amount in
                                 US$ million                   FinancingPercentage


Goods                               1.oo       100% of foreign expenditures; 100%of local
                                               expenditures (ex-factory cost); and 85% of local
                                               expenditures for other items procuredlocally
Services                           8.61                       84%
Unallocated                        2.39
Premiafor Interest Rate Caps       0.00        Amount due under Section 2.09 (c) of the Loan
andInterest Rate Collars                             Agreement
             Total Project Costs   12.00
                 Front-endFee       0.12                     100%




                                               69

Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
        The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of
SOEs for expenditures under contracts for: (i) costing less than US$lOO,OOO equivalent;
                                                goods
(ii) forconsultingfirmscostinglessthanUS$lOO,OOO equivalent;and(iii) of
    services                                                                          services
individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; all under such terms and
conditions as the Bank shall specify to the Borrower. All other expenditures will be fully
documented when submittedto the Bank. All documentation relevant to SOEs will be available
at the project coordinating unitsor project coordinators' offices for review by Bank missions and
auditors.

SpecialAccount:
        To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and
operate, under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US Dollar in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. An initial authorized Special Account allocation of
US$0.5 million will be established. The authorized allocation of the Special Account will be
US$l.O million once the aggregate disbursements under the loan total US$2.0 million or more.
The minimum amount of each application should be 20% of the authorized allocation.
Replenishment applications should be submitted by the Borrower at least every four months, and
mustinclude reconciled bank statementsas well as other appropriate supporting documents.




                                               70

                                                  Procurement Arrangements Charts


                 ProcurementArrangements Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Justice
                                                                     -CHART             l.A




                                                                     1 SECRETARIAT FOR ECONOMIC
                                                                               POLICY (SEP)




                                                                                                                               and purchase orders

Contracts technical evaiuatlon final                                                       Sends copies 01
evaluation and recommendation of                                                           finai contracts to
award draft negotiated contracts
blddlng documents and 0ValUallOn
repoiland recornendation 01award
(lor all procurement SUbleCt to Prior




                                           Clears eackstep
                                         /:Assist UNDP

                                                                                                                 PARTICIPITINOEWITIESZ
                                                                                                                 Mof (SEAE)                Mai (SDE/DPDEZ
                                             Prepare/ Is responsible for:                                        MOF [SEP)                 Mhl(CAPE)
                                             A    -Procurement 01 cansuiting services                            YOF {SVIlEPI              WOJ jsRn
                                             I) Letters 01 invitation
                                             (1) Short 1 k t S
                                             iii) Draft contracts
                                             iv) Technical evaluation                                       i)Preparing TOR'Sand purchase orders
                                             v) Final evaluation and recommendation tor award               ii) Monitoring/ Supervising work of
                                             vi) Dralt negotiated contracts                                 consuitants
                                             vii) Final contracts
                                             B Procurement01 goods
                                                  -
                                             i) Bidding documents
                                             t i )Evaiuation report and recommendation for award
                                             iii) Finai contracts
                                             <                                                   /




~,ate:Finalconfirmation still pendingfrom the Brazilian Government on th- proposed
'h

implementation andfinancial management arrangements for activities for the three project
beneficiaries under the Ministryo f Justice. Inthe improbable case the above arrangements
cannot be implementedunder the Brazilian Legislation, the Ministry of Justice will have to
present alternative arrangements satisfactory to the Bankto participate to the project.




                                                                                  71

                                                                         CHART l.B
                            ProcurementArrangementswithin the Ministry of Transport




                         z-z-lI                          1   PROJEC?COORDIWTOR           I
            PRCUECT~OO~U~NP~U~            - -
                                               (with the inrobemen1 of the Enlity'srelevant
                                               dsprRmen5):
                                               A . Procurement of conauhg                        deprrunsna):
                                                                            S B M S O I                                                                   0
                                               I) Lenm of inmiion                                A. Pmcuiement of consvnlng SemCes
                                                                                                                                              1                       I
                                                   Shon lists                                     0 Letters of imnatton
                                                                                                   11) Shon lists
                                               ii,) DrsR COnllaCtE
                                               n] Technical evaluation                             111)nian cD"llaC1s                          EACH ENTliY DESIGNATESA

                                               J FinalWalustion andrecommendationforpnard          n]Technical s*slun#on                         TASKTEAMLEADER
                                                                                                 J Finalmlustionand recommendationfor wardI
n) DiaR negotiated contiacts                   n) DraR negotnted Contracts                       nlDiaR negotiated contracts              I
ni) ~ i n comracto
          d                                    no Finalcomrecti
                                                   .                                             no]Finalco&ects                               ,-
B Procurement of goods
   .                                           B Procurement of goods                                  .
                                               I] Biddingdocumenh                                  B Procurement of goods
i) Biddingdocuments                                                                                #I  Biddona documents
,,) bluat,on reponand rocommend*zon for ward    11) blurtion  repon and recemmendstion for ward
                                               iii) Finalsontmc1~




                                 \\



                                                                         A




                                                                                       72

                                                                        CHART l.C
                  Procurement Arrangements for the Ministry of Science and Technology




                                          "LEMENTATION         I      1

                                                                                                  \Submits    cleared      1


contracts. technical evaluation. final
evaluation and recommendation of                                               final contracts for
award, draft negotiated contracts,                                       I  Ticlearance
bidding documents and evaluation                                                                      contracts to entities
report and recomendation of award (for
all procurement subject to prior review)
-Submits procurement management
reports                J /
-Submits final contracts
                                             initiate procurement
                                             process                                                      Jq
                                             -Clears each step
                                                        I                                                                                         T
                                                                             I

                                                                        UNDP

                                                            Prepare/ is responsible for:
                                                            A   IProcurement of consulting services
                                                            i) Letters of invitation
                                                            ii) Short lists                                                i.. . J
                                                            iii) Draft contracts
                                                            iv) Technical evaluation
                                                            v) Final evaluation and recommendation for award
                                                            vi) Draft negotiated contracts                                 i) Preparing TOR'Sand purchase orders
                                                            vii) Final contracts                                           it) Monitoring/ Supervising work of
                                                            8 Procurement of goods                                         consultants
                                                                                                                           iii) Assessing1evaluating consultant's
                                                                ~
                                                            i) Bidding documents
                                                            ii) Evaluation report and recommendation for award                                      .
                                                            iii) Final contracts




                                                                                73

                  Annex 9: Economic and FinancialAnalysis
      BRAZIL: SustainableandEquitableGrowthTechnicalAssistance Program

Not applicable.




                                    74

                       Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
      BRAZIL: SustainableandEquitableGrowthTechnical AssistanceProgram

Not applicable.




                                     75

                        Annex 11:Project Preparationand Supervision
        BRAZIL: Sustainable andEquitable Growth TechnicalAssistance Program

                                                    Planned            Actual
PCNreview                                         06/26/2003         0611912003
Initial PID to PIC                                                   0713112003
InitialISDS to PIC                                                   0412012004
Appraisal                                         03/08/2004         0411512004
Negotiations                                      03/22/2004         0511312004
Board/RVP approval                                0611712004
Planned date of effectiveness                     9/23/2004
Planned date of mid-termreview                    9/20/2007
Plannedclosingdate                                6/30/2009

Key institutions responsible for preparation of the project:
Ministry of Finance's Secretariat for Economic Policy andWorld Bank

Bank staff and consultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                             Title                 Unit
Aymeric-Albin Meyer                    Sr. Transport Specialist       LCSFT
Paulo Guilheme Correa                      Sr. Economist              LCSFR
Anjali Kumar                          LeadFinancialEconomist          LCSFF
Wemer Kornexl                              PSDSpecialist              LCSRF
Craig Thorbum                      Sr. FinancialSector Specialist      OPD
Jose August0Carvalho                        LeadCounsel               LEGLA
Tulio Correa                      Financial Management Specialist     LCOAA
Lucian0Wuerzius                        Procurement Assistant          LCOPR
Chris Pare1(peer reviewer)               Sr. Country Officer          LCSPS
Marc Juhel (peer reviewer)            LeadTransport Specialist        TUDTR
Roberto Mosse                                Consultant               LCSFT
Steve Ettinger                               Consultant               LCSFR
Adolfo Rouillon                              Consultant               LEGPS
Jacques Cellier                              Consultant               LCSFT
Solanne Van Veldhuizen                     Team Assistant             LCSFT


Bank funds expended to date on project preparation:
    1. Bankresources: US$193,000.00
    2. Trust funds: US$ 0.00
    3. Total: US$193,000.00

EstimatedApproval and Supervision costs:
    1. Remaining costs to approval: US$lO,OOO.OO
    2. Estimatedannual supervision cost: US$160,000.00



                                                76

                          Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File
       BRAZIL: Sustainable andEquitable GrowthTechnical AssistanceProgram



Project documentation
Procurementassessment, February 2004
Financial management assessment, January 2004
Operational manual, April 2004

Background documentation
ProgramDocument for a FirstProgrammatic Loan for Sustainableand Equitable Growth, World
Bank, January 21,2004
Brazil -Equitable, Competitive andSustainable- Overview andContributions for Debate,
World Bank, November 2002




                                            77

                                  Annex 13: Statementof LoansandCredits
          BRAZIL: SustainableandEquitableGrowthTechnicalAssistanceProgram

                                                                                                         Differencebetween
                                                                                                         expectedandactual
                                                     OriginalAmount inUS5 Millions                          disbursements

Project ID FY   Purpose                         IBRD        IDA       SF         GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Orig.     Frm. Rev'd

PO49265    2003 BR-RECIFEURBANUPGRADING          46.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   45.54     1.54         0.00
                PROJECT

PO70827    2003 BR-2ndAPL BAHIA DEV.             60.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   60.00     0.00         0.00
                EDUCATIONPROJECT

PO54119    2003 BAHIA DEVT (HEALTH)              30.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   30.00     0.00         0.00

PO74777    2003 BR-MunicipalPensionReformTAL      5.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00    4.95     1.48         0.00

PO76977    2003 BR-EnergySectorTA Project        12.12       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   12.12     0.84         0.00

Po78310    2003 BR-CAIXA Water                   75.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   75.00     2.67         0.00

PO80400    2003 BR-AIDS & STD ControlIII         100.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   100.00    0.00         0.00

PO57665    2002 BR-FAMILYHEALTH                  68.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   60.52   29.99          0.00
                EXTENSIONPROJECT

PO57653    2002 BR- FUNDESCOLAIIIA               160.00      0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   178.34  -18.30         0.00

Po55954    2002 GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY              65.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   50.73    39.06         0.00
                MANAGEMENT

PO43869    2002 BR SANTA CATARINA                62.80       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   60.64     8.63         0.00
                NATURALRESOURC& POV.

Po51696    2002 SA0 PAUL0METROLINE4             209.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   206.38  110.14         0.00
                PROJECT

PO74085    2002 BR SergipeRuralPovertyReduction  20.80       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00    16.01    4.91         0.00

PO73192    2002 BR TA FinancialSector            14.50       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00    9.30    -1.81         000

PO70552    2002 GEF BR PARANA BIODIVERSITY        0.00       0.00      0.00       8.00    0.00    8.45     2.45         0.00
                PROJECT

Po66170    2002 BR-RGN2ND RuralPoverty           22.50       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   20.47     4.96         0.00
                Reduction
Po60221    2002 FORTALEZA METROPOLITAN           85.00       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00   111.47   34.35         0.00
                TRANSPORTPROJECT

PO50880    2001 BR PemambucoRuralPoverty         30.10       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00    23.87   12.27         0.00
                Reduction
PO50875    2001 BR CearaRuralPoverty Reduction   37.50       0.00      0.00       0.00    0.00    24.27     9.27        0.00
                Project

PO50881    2001 BR PIAUIRURALPOVERTY             22.50        0.00     0.00       0.00    0.00    15.35     8.68        0.00
                REDUCTIONPROJECT

PO57649    2001 BR Bahia RuralPovertyReduction   54.35        0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   33.27   11.89         0.00
                Project

PO59566    2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION        90.00        0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   79.01  -10.99         0.00

PO73294    2001 BR Fiscal& Fin. Mgmt.TAL          8.88        0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00    7.23     5.61        0.00

PO50772    2001 BR LAND-BASED POVRTY     '      202.10        0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00  208.53  172.30         0.00
                ALLEVIATION I(SIM)

PO35741    2000 BR NATLENV 2                     15.00        0.00     0.00       0.00     2.32    7.64     8.95         7.63

P062619    2000 BR INSS REFLIL                    5.05        0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00    0.36    -0.14         0.67

PO39200    2000 ENERGYEFFICIENCY                 43.40        0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   42.97   39.83          0.87
                (ELETROBRAS)
PO39199    2000 BR PROSANEAR 2                   30.30        0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   29.21   27.21          0.00

PO06449    2000 BR CEARAWTR MGT                  136.00       0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   92.10   50.00          0.00
                PROGERIRHS I M

PO50776    2000 BR NEMicrofinance Development    50.00        0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00   33.11   -16.89         0.00

PO47309    2000 BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY(GEF)         0.00        0.00     0.00       15.00    0.00   15.04    12.98         5.51

PO58129    1999 BR EMER.FIREPREVENTION           15.00        0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00    6.38     6.38         2.35
                (ERL)
PO43874    1999 BR- DISEASESURVEILLANCE -        100.00       0.00     0.00       0.00    25.00   25.71    50.71         0.00
                VIGISUS




                                                             78

PO48869   1999    BR SALVADOR URBANTRANS          150.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    94.23    92.57    0.00
PO50763   1999    BR- Fundescola2                 202.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    17.58    10.92    0.00
PO38895   1998    BR FED.WTRMGT                   198.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   101.30   101.30   101.30
PO38947   1998    BR- SC. & TECH3                 155.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   88.80    9.89    98.69    0.00
Po06559   1998    (BF-R)SP.TSP                     45.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00     3.88     3.88    0.00
PO51701   1998    BR MARANHAOR.POVERTY             80.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00     0.64     0.64    0.00
PO06474    1998   BR LAND MGT 3 (SA0 PAULO)        55.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    49.48    44.88    2.06
PO43421   1998    BR RIM.TRANSITPRI.              186.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   17.17  118.25   135.42    0.00
PO57910   1998    BR PENSIONREFORMLIL               5.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00     2.50     2.50     1.77
PO43420   1998    BR WATERS.MOD.2                 150.00    0.00     0.00     0.00  125.00   20.86   145.83    0.30
PO35728   1998    BR BAHIAWTR RESOURCES            51.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00     14.06   14.06    -2.37
PO42565   1998    BR PARAIBA R.POVERTY            60.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00     17.42   17.42    0.00
Po06532   1997    FED HWY DECENTR                 300.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00   125.90   125.90    72.88
PO06562   1997    BAHIA MUN.DV                    100.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00     16.99   16.99    16.99
Po34578   1997    BR RGS HighwayMGT               70.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    46.77    46.77    46.77
Po43873   1997    BR AG TECHDEV.                  60.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00     19.28   19.28    19.28
PO43868   1997    BR RGS LAND MGTPOVERTY          100.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    31.68    31.68    31.68
PO06210   1996    GEFBR-NATLBIODIVERSITY           0.00     0.00     0.00    10.00   0.00     2.38     3.24     0.00
Po06554   1996    -BR-HEALTHSECTORREFORM         300.00     0.00     0.00     0.00   21.12   33.15    54.27     0.00
                   REFORSUS
Po37828   1996    BR (PR)R.POVERTY                175.00    0.00     0.00     0.00   0.00    57.52    57.52    57.52
PO06436   1995    FearaUrbanDevelopment& Water    140.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    3.00    5.83     8.83     8.83
                  Resource
PO38882   1995    BR RECIFEM.TSP                  102.00    0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    9.23     9.23     0.00
Po06564   1995    BEL0 H M.TSP                    99.00     0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00    12.70   12.70     0.00

                                         Total: 4,658.90    0.00     0.00    33.00  282.41 2,505.49 1,663.49  374.04




                                                        BRAZIL
                                               STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                            Held andDisbursedPortfolio
                                               InMillions of US Dollars


                                                        Committed                              Disbursed
                                                       IFC                                   IFC
FY Approval    Company                    Loan        Equity    Quasi    Partic.  Loan     Equity     Quasi   Partic.

2001           AG Concession              0.00         15.00    15.00     0.00      0.00      4.29      0.00    0.00
1996197        Algar Telecom              0.00          8.17     0.00     0.00      0.00      8.17      0.00    0.00
2002           Anwgi                      30.00         0.00    0.00      0.00     30.00      0.00      0.00    0.00
2002           Andrade G. SA              40.00         0.00    0.00     20.00     22.50      0.00      0.00   15.00
2001           Apolo                      8.00          0.00    0.00      0.00      5.50      0.00      0.00    0.00
1998           Arteb                      20.00         7.00     0.00     18.33    20.00      7.00      0.00   18.33
1999           AutoBAn                    27.60         0.00    0.00     23.72     27.60      0.00      0.00   23.72
1993194196     BACELL                     0.00          0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00
1998          BSC                         7.41          0.00    0.00      3.97      7.41      0.00      0.00    3.97
1993196       BUNGWCEVAL                  0.00          8.06    0.00      0.00      0.00      8.06      0.00    0.00
1990/91192    BahiaSUI                    0.00          0.00    0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00    0.00
1996103       BancoBradesco               10.00         0.00    0.00     60.00     10.00      0.00      0.00   60.00
1988103       Banco Itau                  25.00         0.00    0.00     175.00    25.00      0.00      0.00  175.00
1997           Bompreco                   10.42         0.00    5.00      0.00     10.42      0.00      5.00    0.00




                                                            79

0              Bradesco-Hering     7.50    0.00   0.00    0.00   7.50    0.00   0.00    0.00
0              Bradesco-Petrofl    7.50    0.00   0.00    0.00   7.50    0.00   0.00    0.00
1994196        CHAPECO             17.85   0.00   0.00    5.26   17.85   0.00   0.00    5.26
2002           CN Odebrecht        51.78   0.00   20.00  113.57  51.78   0.00   20.00  113.57
1973178183     CODEMJN             0.00    0.40   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.40    0.00   0.00
2003           CPFLEnergia         40.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00
1992           CRP-Caden           0.00    0.5 1   0.00   0.00    0.00   0.51    0.00   0.00
1995           CambuhyIMC          1.88    0.00    0.00   0.00    1.88   0.00    0.00   0.00
               Copesul             0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1997
0197100        Coteminas           0.00    0.53    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.53    0.00   0.00
1980192193     DENPASA             0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
199.5196198102 DistelHolding       0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00
1998           Dixie Toga          0.00    15.00   0.00   0.00    0.00   15.00   0.00   0.00
1987196197     Duratex             8.33    0.00   0.00   25.67    8.33   0.00    0.00  25.67
1999           Eliane              25.60   0.00   13.00   0.00   25.60   0.00   13.00   0.00
1998           Empesca             5.00    0.00   10.00   0.00    5.oo   0.00   10.00    0.00
2001102        Escola              0.00    0.28    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.25    0.00    0.00
2000           Fleury              7.71    0.00    6.00   0.00    7.71   0.00    6.00    0.00
1998           Fosfertil           7.58    0.00    0.00   35.34   7.58   0.00    0.00   35.34
1998           Fras-le             8.00    0.00   10.00   0.00    8.00   0.00    6.70    0.00
1994           GAVEA               3.75    0.00    5.50    0.00   3.75   0.00    5.50    0.00
0              GP Cptl Rstrctd     0.00    9.67    0.00   0.00    0.00   9.48    0.00    0.00
2001           GPC                 9.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    9.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1997198        Guilman-Amorim      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1998           IcatuEquity         0.00    19.60   0.00    0.00   0.00   12.48   0.00    0.00
1999           InnovaSA            16.25   5.00    0.00   45.00  16.25    5.00   0.00   45.00
               Ipiranga            0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1980187197
1999           Itaberaba           0.00    5.34    0.00    0.00   0.00    5.34   0.00    0.00
               Itau-BBA            40.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  20.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
0100102
1999           JOSAPAR             7.57    0.00    7.00    0.00   2.57    0.00   7.00    0.00
1995           hjas Americana      8.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   8.00    0.00   5.00    0.00
198719Y96199   MBR                 20.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  20.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
2002           Macae               75.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  75.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
0              MacedoNordeste      1.58    0.00    5.00    0.00   1.58    0.00   5.00    0.00
2002           Microinvest         0.00     1.25   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
0102           Net Servicos        0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    4.65   0.00    0.00
1975196        OxitenoNE           2.50    5.00    0.00    0.00   2.50    0.00   0.00    0.00
1994           ParaPigmentos       15.05   0.00    9.00    0.00  1.5.05   0.00   9.00    0.00
1987196        Perdigao            8.75    0.00    0.00    0.00   8.75    0.00   0.00    0.00
1989195        PolitenoInd.        1.46    0.00    0.00    0.00   1.46    0.00   0.00    0.00
1994100102     Portobello          0.00     1.15   0.00    0.00   0.00    1.15   0.00    0.00
2000           Puras               3.73    0.00    0.00    0.00   3.73    0.00   0.00    0.00
2003           Queiroz Galvao      40.00   0.00    0.00    0.00  10.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1998           Randon              5.13    0.00    3.00    0.00   5.13    0.00   3.00    0.00
1990           Ripasa              0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    5.00   0.00    0.00
               Rodovia             0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
1997



                                                80

1987/97/03  SP Alpargatas               30.00           0.00        0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00      0.00   0.00
1994195197  Sadia                       8.50            0.00        5.33   92.83      8.50    0.00      5.33   92.83
1997        Samarco                     9.00           0.00         0.00    2.67      9.00    0.00      0.00    2.67
1998        Saraiva                     6.92            3.00        0.00    0.00      6.92    3.00      0.00    0.00
2003        Satipel                     25.00          0.00         0.00    0.00     25.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
0           Seara Alimentos             0.00            3.88        0.00    0.00      0.00    3.88      0.00    0.00
2000        Sepetiba                    27.00          0.00         5.00    8.00     12.00    0.00      5.00    8.OO
1997        suconico                    3.00           0.00         0.00    0.00      3.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999        Sudamerica                  0.00        15.00           0.00    0.00      0.00   15.00      0.00    0.00
0           Suzano                      0.00             1.27       0.00    0.00      0.00    1.27      0.00    0.00
2001        Synteko                     18.00          0.00         0.00    0.00     18.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1996        TIGRE                       7.69           0.00         5.00    0.00      7.69    0.00      5.00    0.00
0192        TRIKEM                      0.00           0.00         0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1998        Tecon Rio Grande            5.76           0.00         5.50    11.13     5.76    0.00      5.50   11.13
2001103     Tecon Salvador              0.00        0.56            0.00    0.00      0.00    0.55      0.00    0.00
2002        UP Offshore                 11.60       10.00           0.00   30.00      0.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
0/88/02/03  Unibanco                    25.00       0.00            0.00  275.00     25.00    0.00      0.00  275.00
1999        Vulcabras                   11.67       0.00            0.00    0.00     11.67    0.00      0.00    0.00
1999        Wiest                       0.00        0.00            8.00    0.00      0.00    0.00      8.00    0.00

                       Total portfilio: 814.07     145.67         142.33  945.49    647.47   111.01    124.03 910.49




                                                  ~    ~~~~~~~


                                                                      Approvals PendingCommitment

            FY Approval    Company                                 Loan     Equity     Quasi     Partic

            2003           Amazonas Water                       0.02         0.00       0.00      0.00
            2002           Andrade                              0.00         0.00       0.00      0.10
            2000           BBA                                  0.01         0.00       0.00      0.00
            2002           BancoItau-BBA                        0.00         0.00       0.00      0.10
            2001           BrazilCGFund                         0.00         0.02       0.00      0.00
            1999           Cibrasec                             0.00         0.01       0.00      0.00
            2003           Duratex Tv                           0.00         0.00       0.00      0.01
            2002           Macae                                0.00         0.00       0.00      0.28
            2002           Net Servicos2                        0.05         0.00       0.00      0.00
            2004           QGP Swap                             0.00         0.00       0.00      0.00
            2002           Suape ICT                            0.01         0.00       0.00      0.00
            2004           TermoFortaleza                       0.06         0.00       0.01      0.11
            2002           Unibanco-CL                          0.00         0.00       0.00      0.15

                               Total pendingcommittment:           0.15      0.03       0.01      0.75




                                                               81

POVERTY and SOCIAL                                     America  middle-
                                                 ~     ~ Carib.
                                                           ~ income l
                                                                ~       i   Development diamond'
2002
Population,mid-year(millions)                      n 45    527     2,411                Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapda (Atlasmethod,US$)                     2,830   3280     1,390
GNI(Atlasmethod, US$ billions)                    4945    1,727   3,352

Average annual growth, 1996-02
Population(%)                                        13      15      10
Laborforce (%)                                       17     22       12     GNI                               Gross

Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1996-02)                       per                               primary
                                                                            capita                          nrollment
Poverty(%ofpopulationbelownatonalpovertyline)        22
Urbanpopulation(%of totalpopulation)                 82      76      49
Lifeexpectancyat birth(years)                        69      71      69
hfant mortality(per 1OOOhvebrrths)                   30      27      30
Childmalnutntion&of childrenunder5)                   6       9       n          Access to improvedwatersource
Access to animprovedwatersource (%ofpopulation)      87      68      61
Uliteracy(%ofpopulationage                           e        n       U
Grosspnmatyenrollment (%ofschoobag8population)      162     t30      m        -8ranl
  Male                                              166      t31     m              Lowr-middle-incomegroup
  Female                                            159     e8       1n  .




                                       1982-92 1992-02   2o01     2o02      Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averageannualgrowth)
Agriculture                                  25     35      57       58     2o
Industry                                      16    23     -07       15
 Manufactunng                                                               x)
                                             0 5     18      14      14
Services                                     32     28       19      15

Pnvateconsumption                            07     39      08       04    -H)
                                                                         -
Generalgovernment consumption                 71    09       10      10    -20
Grossdomesticinvestment                       41     21     -11    -52
Importsof goodsandservices                   39     76       12    - 2 8            -Exports        -Impofis
                                                                                                                   d




                                                              82

                                                                                                                    Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNM ENT FINANCE
                                          1982    1992   2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                              Inflation (%)                               1
(xchange)
Consumer prices                           100.5   9516      7.7     7.7
ImplicitGDP deflator                      104.8   968.5     7.5     8.5

Government finance
(%of GDP,includescurrentgrants)
Current revenue                                            22.7    24.1
Current budget balance                                      3.0     3.1
Overallsurplusldeficit                                      3.8            1         -GDPdetlator        -CPI            I

                                                                        ~1
TRADE
                                         1982    1992    2001    2002
(US$ mMions)                                                                  Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Totaleworts (fob)                               35,793   58223   60,362
 Coffee                                          2,534   2,932   3,049
 Soybeans                                        2,696   2,726    2,89
 Manufactures                                   23,787   32,901  33,001     50 000

Total imports (cif)                             20,554   55,572  4728
 Food                                              850    1-69    1,085     25000
 Fuelandenergy                                    3,069  6276     6281                                                   I
 Capitalgoods                                     6,335  14,808  n593            0

Exportpriceindex(t395=WO)                    73      92      94     95               96  97    98    99    00

Importpriceindex(895=WO)                     65     63       M      115                      Exports         Imports O2
                                                                                                                O'
Terms of trade (895=WO)                     1P      147      82     82

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1982    1992    2001    2002      1
(US$millions)                                                                Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exportsof goods andservices              22967  38,999   87,545 69,966
Importsof goods andservices              24,761  25,7V   72,653  61,863
Resourcebalance                          -2,794  0282    -5,108   8,x)5

Net income                              -0,510   -9,382 -8,743   -?3,81
Net currenttransfers                         2   2243     1,638  2,390

Current account balance                 -8,302    6,143 -2320    -7,696

Financingitems (net)                      11101  8,926   8,795   -3,570
Changes innet reserves                    5201  -15,069   3,418  n266

Memo:
Reservesincludinggoid (US$ millions)     3,994  23,754   35,866 37,823
Conversion rate (DEC,IocaNUS$)         6.52E-11 1.64E-3     2.4     2.9

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1982    1992    2001    2002                                           .___

(US$ millions)                                                                :omposition of 2002 debt (US$ mill.
Total debt outstanding anddisbursed     93,932  P9,060  245,844 232,075
  IBRD                                   2,694   7238    7,963    7,7m
 IDA                                         0       0        0      0

Total debt service                       8215    8,647   54,322  51,638
 iBRD                                       411   19u     1,362   1,518
 IDA                                         0       0       0       0

Compositionof net resourceflows
 Officialgrants                             24      36       81      0
 Officialcreditors                         966    -936   2,742      916
 Privatecreditors                        7,580   5,888   -1,781  -9,541
 Foreigndirect investment                 2,910   2,061 22,636       0
 Portfolioequity                             0    1,704  2,482       0                   F
World Bank program                                                                     152,327
 Commitments                              1,090   1,344   1,624   1,276    i A IBRD      -
                                                                                ~                            E- Bilateral
 Disbursements                             623     581    1,639   1,384      B IDA
                                                                               -        D Othermultilateral  F-Private
 Principalrepayments                       215    1266     828    1,063    ~ G - I M F                       G Short-tern
                                                                                                              -




                                                             83


MAP SECTION


