Page  1
 
 
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB171 
Project Name 
Sustainable and Equitable Growth Technical Assistance Program 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
General industry and trade sector (65%);General transportation sector (35%) 
Project ID 
P083533 
Borrower(s) 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
Implementing Agency 
Ministry of Finance 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco P, 70048-900, Brasília, DF, Brasil, Tel 55-61-
412-2321, fax 55-61-225-0443, contact Mr. Marcos de Barros Lisboa, Secretary 
of Economic Policy 
Environment Category 
[ ] A   [ ] B   [X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[ ] S
1
   [ ] S
2
  [X] S
3
   [ ] S
F
   [ ] TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
April 19, 2004 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 13, 2004 
Date of Board Approval 
June 15, 2004 
 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
With deep macroeconomic reforms but low and erratic growth, Brazil has proved that 
stabilization is not enough on its own to guarantee growth.
 In the past decade Brazil has 
transformed itself economically and laid the institutional foundations for solid macroeconomic 
management. Chronic inflation has been eradicated and the trio of adept inflation targeting, fiscal 
balance, and a floating exchange rate have created a stable macroeconomic base. Efforts have 
begun to make public spending more effective in attacking poverty. Health and education 
indicators have been transformed using per-capita transfers to states and municipalities. 
Programs such as the rural pension and conditional cash transfers (like the new “Bolsa Família”) 
show a heightened preoccupation with making sure that resources reach society’s poorest. 
Economic growth has so far been the missing ingredient to rendering social progress 
resilient and enduring.
 By the 1990s, many Latin American economies had bounced back from 
the “lost decade” of the eighties but for Brazil, still undergoing stabilization, the nineties 
represented a second lost decade for growth. While Latin American per-capita income grew at an 
average rate of about 2 percent, slightly above the world rate, Brazil managed only about half 
that . In the absence of strong financial flows to emerging markets, and with the market 
uncertainty of 2002, Brazil’s growth has remained disappointing, and unemployment has reached 
record levels of around 13 percent nationally. 
The incompleteness of some “first-generation” reforms may be one explanation for 
sluggish growth.
  
Fiscal reforms did not increase budget flexibility enough to allow for public 
investments in infrastructure or innovation. Continuing high public sector borrowing has well 
known crowding-out effects on private credit and investments. Trade volume is still low 
compared with other large economies such as the US, Australia, Mexico, Indonesia, China and 
India. Partial privatization in electricity (where 78 percent of generation is controlled by the 
public enterprise Eletrobrás), roads, and water and sanitation may also have attenuated both 
capital accumulation and productivity gains. Repeated changes in taxation on the entry of 
financial capital may have induced frictions on financial liberalization. And the estimated impact 
Page  2
 
 
of FDI on productivity has been limited, possibly due to the high share of investment in non-
tradable sectors. 
But further first-generation reforms may not be sufficient in the absence of other 
microeconomic and institutional reforms
.  Trade liberalization actually occurred almost twice as 
fast as in the Korean Republic, but against a background of labor market rigidities, capital 
market imperfections, poor infrastructure services, and low external financing. Privatization in 
transport and electricity failed to generate sufficient competition or service expansion because it 
preceded the establishment of appropriate legal and institutional framework for regulation. It has 
been this regulatory incompleteness and instability – not the incompleteness of privatization – 
that has curtailed private infrastructure investment. Poor enforcement hampers competition law 
and policy; burdensome licensing procedures lead to firm informality; and the bankruptcy law 
until recently provided few incentives for financial turnaround. High financial spreads are caused 
by taxation, mandatory credit lines at administered interest rates, and lack of creditor’s rights. 
The Government has embarked on an ambitious growth program based on the 
implementation of a series of microeconomic and institutional reforms, and achievements to date 
clearly signal the commitment to the agenda’s undertaking
. With the approval of a reform plan, 
the Government has started to modernize customs clearance, a historical bottleneck. A recent 
White Paper clarifies and strengthens infrastructure regulation and reinforces the role of the new 
transport agencies. The new Bankruptcy Law – approved by the Lower House – provides a key 
mechanism for the turnaround of potentially viable firms, while the tax reform further simplifies 
tax collection for SMEs. Approval of the Amendment to Article 192 of the Constitution is an 
essential step in approving fundamental legislation to improve the financial sector soundness. 
With the Innovation Law before Congress, the Government has a chance to improve linkages 
between public research institutes and the private sector, increasing the countries capacity to 
transform knowledge into productivity gains.   
The elaboration and implementation of a sub-set of the Government’s growth program is supported by the recently-
approved First Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Growth (Loan 7218–BR) and the proposed 
companion technical assistance program.
  The actions supported by the Loan fit into the four following 
components: (i) reducing logistics costs, encompassing customs, ports, roads, and multi-modal transport; (ii) 
improving the business environment, including infrastructure regulation, competition policy, barriers to entry, and 
the framework for corporate insolvency and creditor rights; (iii) enhancing financial system efficiency and depth 
(including long-term credit, insurance, and venture capital), and (iv) improving Brazil’s capacity to transform 
knowledge into productivity gains (through the innovation system).  The proposed technical assistance program (see 
description in section B) will support various government entities to implement such actions, using the Adaptable 
Program Lending (APL) instrument.  Annex 1 provides a short background for a first set of issues the resolution of 
which will be supported by the Program.  More details are available in the Programmatic Loan’s Program Document 
(Report 27507-BR). 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Objectives 
The overall objective of the technical assistance program is to assist the Government in 
implementing its economic growth program, 
as described in the Minister’s of Finance 
development policy letter dated January 20, 2004 and enclosed in the Program Document for the 
Page  3
 
 
First Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Growth (Report n. 27507-BR).   The 
technical assistance of the Bank to the Government in implementing Brazil’s growth program 
was conceived as a program, using the Adaptable Program Lending (APL) instrument given: (i) 
the high demand on the side of the various Government entities involved in the implementation 
of the growth program; (ii) the limited fiscal space to accommodate at this point a larger 
technical assistance loan; and (iii) the agreement reached between the Government and the Bank 
on the relevance of developing a long-term partnership in resolving some of the key issues 
constraining growth in Brazil. 
Specifically, the technical assistance program will help key Government entities undertake 
already approved micro-economic policy and institutional reforms, and prepare for the 
implementation of the next phase of the growth program, to achieve the following sub-
objectives: 
(i) 
reduce logistics costs in order to raise productivity and facilitate trade, by increasing 
the effectiveness of customs, reducing port costs and delays, reducing road transport 
costs, and promoting efficient multimodal transport options;  
(ii) 
improve the business environment, by strengthening the regulatory framework for 
infrastructure, anti-trust enforcement, corporate insolvency resolution, and by reducing 
administrative costs to businesses;  
(iii) 
enhance the efficiency and depth of the financial system, by increasing competition in 
the banking sector, fostering mobilization of long-term capital through strengthened 
markets for risk and stronger institutional investors in the insurance sector, and 
improving access to financial services; 
(iv) 
increase Brazil’s technological innovation capacity to transform knowledge into 
productivity gains, by increasing the effectiveness of public research and development 
(R&D), improving the incentive regime for private R&D, and developing market 
structures for carbon credit trading; and 
(v) 
support the preparation/implementation of reforms and other institutional measures to 
achieve other objectives of the Government’s growth program, such as deepening trade 
integration, reducing tax distortions, and strengthening labor markets. 
 
Since the phasing and, to some extent, the scope of the reforms included in the growth program will depend 
on many
 
factors including some of a political nature, and the timing of the activities under the technical assistance 
program will be constrained by other factors, including the rigidity of Brazil’s budgets and the possibly uneven 
performance of the various entities benefiting from the program, flexibility has been built into the design of the 
technical assistance program and its first phase, the proposed project.  In particular, the above list of program’s sub-
objectives, as well as the list of project’s activities and intermediate results (sections B.3 and B.4 hereafter) may 
have to be adjusted, to effectively contribute to the actual growth program.  For the purpose of these adjustments, 
the Government, through SPE, and the Bank will carry out annual joint reviews of implementation progress and 
progress toward the achievement of intermediate results, supported by an effective program monitoring and 
evaluation system (section C.5).   
Page  4
 
 
 
The technical assistance program consists of two phases, the first of which is the project, to be implemented 
using the Adaptable Program Lending instrument.  The indicative program cost is estimated at about US$24 million, 
with a project cost of US$14.40 million (see indicative program cost and financing table below).  The program cost 
has been estimated through a screening of the initial demand expressed by the various Government entities involved 
in the implementation of the Government growth program, screening which selected those activities to which the 
participation of the Bank would add value, taking into account knowledge and experience that can be made available 
through the Bank’s participation.  The program’s duration is expected to be between 6 and 8 years, depending on 
progress in the implementation of the project and the Government’s growth program.   
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
The main objective of the new Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), approved by the Board of 
Directors on December 9, 2003, is to provide support towards a more equitable, sustainable, and competitive 
Brazil, built on a foundation of good governance and macroeconomic stability.
 In particular, the CAS emphasizes 
that, in the Bank’s program of support, growth has now gained equal priority with social equity and fiscal balance, 
and identifies the Programmatic Loan Series for Sustainable and Equitable Growth as the flagship vehicle to support 
Government efforts toward higher productivity and investment.  The recently-approved First Programmatic Loan for 
Sustainable and Equitable Growth (Loan n. 7218-BR) constitutes the first loan within the above-mentioned series.  
The objective of the Government’s growth program supported by the first loan, and the proposed companion 
technical assistance program, is to support the establishment of the microeconomic foundations of sustainable and 
equitable economic growth in Brazil.
 The growth program pursues a more competitive Brazil initially through 
reduced logistics and financial costs, increased investment through better regulation, competition, business and 
financial services, and increased productivity through innovation.
 
The growth program also lends secondary support to the sustainability and equity 
pillars of the CAS.
 It strengthens natural-resource management through improved environmental 
licensing services, and through innovative market development initiatives such as the Clean 
Development Mechanism under the Kyoto protocol. It also pursues more equitable growth 
through measures to ensure access of the poor to financial services. And it is expected to 
contribute to a pro-poor pattern of growth, owing to the structural changes in the Brazilian 
economy since the Real Plan, the improved social policies, and the specific measures contained 
in the program such as increased access to infrastructure services. 
The proposed two operations will complement each other in helping build consensus on the growth 
program.  
The series of programmatic loans will provide financial support for observed progress along the 
implementation of the growth program. The proposed technical assistance program will, thro
ugh the provision of 
essential technical advice, training and equipment, support Government entities in the implementation of the agreed 
reforms and in the development of the next series of reforms which could eventually be supported by follow-up 
programmatic adjustment loans.  
 
4. Description 
The objective of the project is to assist the Government in preparing and implementing 
the next phase of its growth program. 
 Within the first four sub-objectives of the technical 
assistance program, the project will assist several Government entities in achieving the following 
intermediate results: 
 
(i) reducing logistics costs:
  
\01\02
strategic plan defined for Customs’ modernization, clearance procedures 
reengineered (with time release measurement in place), automation of Customs’ 
systems improved, and port/cargo security enhancement plan approved;  
\01\02
port reform and dock companies restructuring plans prepared and approved; and 
ANTAQ regulatory accounting and performance monitoring systems established; 
Page  5
 
 
\01\02
highway strategic plan and management reform program prepared and approved; 
\01\02
public-private partnership capacity and program monitoring and evaluation 
system established in the Ministry of Transport; and ANTT concession evaluation 
models operational. 
 
(ii) improving the business environment:
  
\01\02
anti-trust system capacity strengthened through improved processes, systems, and 
training;  
\01\02
corporate insolvency law implemented through appropriate regulations and 
training of judges and court personnel; and  
\01\02
performance assessment of judicial system in resolving economic disputes in 
public and private sectors completed. 
 
(iii) enhancing efficiency and depth of the financial system:
  
\01\02
Ministry of Finance prepares diagnostic studies and action plans for reducing the 
cost of credit and reducing financial spreads through studies on financial system 
competition,  
\01\02
Ministries of Finance and Justice put in place the infrastructure and training 
needed to judges and courts to implement the new bankruptcy legislation,  
\01\02
The Ministry of Finance undertakes studies on financial access for the poor 
which includes an evaluation of recent measures adopted 
\01\02
The Insurance Regulator, SUSEP, develops an Action Plan for strengthening 
insurance regulations and supervision.  
 
(iv) increasing technological innovation capacity:  
\01\02
Ministry of Science and Technology’s sector funds monitoring and evaluation 
system established and reform plan approved; 
 
\01\02
capacity for appraising and certifying Clean Development Mechanism projects in 
place; 
 
\01\02
pilot internet technology/social inclusion project completed and evaluated; and
 
\01\02
Ministry of Science and Technology’s strategy to foster nanotechnology industry 
growth approved.
 
 
 
5. Financing 
Source: 
($m.) 
BORROWER 
2.28 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
12.12 
 
Total 14.40 
 
6. Implementation 
 
The Borrower for the Bank loan will be the Federative Republic of Brazil.  The project will be under the 
overall coordination of the Secretaria de Política Econômica (SPE) of the Ministry of Finance.  SPE will be basically 
responsible for: (i) the conduction of the policy dialogue with the Bank on the implementation of the Government’s 
growth program; and (ii) the overall evaluation and monitoring of project implementation, including the 
consolidation of information on project implementation progress, on a quarterly and yearly basis. 
 
The project will initially benefit various entities within the Ministries of Finance, Justice, Transport, and 
Science and Technology.  Each of these ministries (with the exception of the Ministry of Justice) is already 
Page  6
 
 
responsible for the implementation of Bank and IDB projects.  The project will be implemented using staff and 
systems of existing Project Coordination Units (PCUs) in charge of the implementation of those Bank and IDB 
projects, in order to limit the administrative burden of project implementation on the Government, taking into 
account the: (i) the small aggregate value of activities to be implemented by each entity, and (ii) the relatively strong 
project implementation capacity of the Brazilian Government. 
 
In an effort to further reduce administrative burden of project implementation, it was agreed that:  
 
\01\02
the existing information systems of the PCUs could be used, with minor adaptations, to produce the 
required procurement and financial management reports; 
\01\02
the PCU in the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the administrative aspects (mainly procurement, 
financial management and overall project reporting) for those activities to be implemented by entities of the 
Ministries of Finance and Justice;  
\01\02
the structure of the PCUs in the Ministry of Transport could be reduced to a single person in each PCU (the 
project coordinator, or PC), given the small aggregate value of activities to be implemented, combined with 
the relatively strong implementation capacity of the Ministry’s entities, and the fact that these entities 
would have to focus only on the implementation of activities within the Ministry.   
 
The project will be initially implemented through two PCUs (one in the Ministry of Finance under SPE and 
another in the Ministry of Science and Technology, under the Executive Secretariat) and three PCs (located in the 
National Department for Transport Infrastructure, the National Agency for Land Transport, and the National Agency 
for Waterborne Transport), which are basically responsible for the administrative aspects of project implementation 
(procurement, financial management and project reporting).  Each entity will be responsible (through task team 
leaders appointed to draw the terms of reference or specifications for the activities to be undertaken within the 
entity, to directly supervise contracts’ execution, and to report on implementation progress).   
 
7. Sustainability 
Sustainability of project benefits is assured as (i) there is a strong Government’s ownership of the growth 
program supported by the First Programmatic Loan for Equitable and Sustainable Growth and the proposed 
technical assistance program.  This implies that the Government has the right incentives to use project outputs to 
reach its own policy objectives in the area of growth; and (ii) activities under the project support the implementation 
of reforms and other institutional measures under the microeconomic growth agenda, taking into account the fact 
that the achievement of a critical mass of such reforms and measures would allow the preparation of a follow-up 
programmatic loan. 
 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
Decentralization of implementation arrangements
: experience in Brazil and elsewhere has demonstrated 
that decentralization of implementation arrangements is key to ensure satisfactory implementation performance 
under projects where several government entities are involved.  Centralization of such arrangements has often 
caused tensions between the government entity responsible for implementation and the other entities, with lower 
accountability among the entities not responsible, lower commitment from the entity responsible to ensure adequate 
implementation of the other entities’ activities, and difficulties in allocating appropriate budgets in a timely fashion.  
As such, the project has been designed so that each of the ministries and agencies involved under the project are 
responsible for the implementation of their activities, with the exception of the Ministry of Justice, for which 
activities will be implemented by the Ministry of Finance, to keep implementation arrangements from becoming too 
complex. 
 
Flexibility of design
: a key to a successful implementation of a technical assistance loan is a flexible design 
adapted to project beneficiaries’ needs as they evolve over the period of implementation.  As such, while the overall 
envelop of resources to be made available and the scope of activities to be funded for each of the project’s 
beneficiary have been clearly identified, only those activities to be funded during the first year or so of project 
implementation have a scope precisely defined.  The scope of the other activities to be funded would be detailed 
during the implementation period as part of the continuous dialogue between the Government and the Bank on the 
implementation of Brazil’s growth program.  Progress in the implementation of already agreed upon activities and in 
the definition of the detailed scope for other activities will be evaluated as part of the annual joint reviews of project 
implementation progress and progress toward the achievement of intermediate results.  In addition, the financing 
Page  7
 
 
structure of the project includes a relatively large unallocated amount, to, 
inter alia
, accommodate additional needs 
which may arise as implementation proceeds. 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
None of the following safeguard policies will be triggered by the project, given its nature (a technical assistance 
operation), and the scope of the activities to be supported by the project (see description in annex 4).  As mentioned 
in section B.4 above, other activities could be included under the project, depending on the evolution of the dialogue 
between the Bank and the Government on the implementation of Brazil’s microeconomic growth agenda.  To be 
included under the project, such activities would need to be evaluated by the Bank as not triggering any of the 
following safeguard policies.  Such evaluation will be conducted by the Bank project team, early on during the 
discussions (between the staff of the Secretariat for Economic Policy of the Ministry of Finance and the Bank), on 
the contribution of the proposed activities to a successful implementation of the growth program (see details in 
paragraph 2, annex 1). 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
 (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 4.01) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
 4.04) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
) [ 
] 
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
, being revised as OP 4.11) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
 4.12) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
, being revised as OP 4.10) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
 4.36) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
 4.37) 
[ ] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.60)
*
 [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
 7.50) 
[ ] 
[X] 
 
10.  List of Factual Technical Documents 
\01\02
Program Document for a First Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Growth, World 
Bank, January 21, 2004 
\01\02
Brazil – Equitable, Competitive and Sustainable – Overview and Contributions for Debate, World 
Bank, November 2002 
\01\02
Operational Manual, April 2004 
 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Aymeric-Albin Meyer 
Title: Sr.Transport. Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-7101 
Fax: (202) 676-9594 
Email: Ameyer1@worldbank.org 
 
12.  For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
                                                          
 
*
 
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the
 
disputed areas
 
 
