Other financing amounts byfgu               d s : naSDS
Project: Sustainable and Equitable Growth     TTL: Aymeric-Albin Meyer
LTechnical Assistance Program      L
Total project cost (b u cOmDOnent) US$14.40 (million
Appraisal Date: February 16, 2004             Loan/Credit amount($m):
IBRD: US$12.12 million
Board Date: May 6, 2004
Other financing amounts by source: n.a.
Managing Unit: LCSFR                          Sector: General industry and trade sector
(65%);General transportation sector (35%)
Lending Instruments: Adaptable Program Lending 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency recovery?  Yes? m  p     No?   [Xn
Environmental Category: C                     Safeguard Classoficathon: S3
A.2. Project Objectives
The overall objective of the technical assistance program is to assist the Government in implementing
Brazil's growth program, as discussed with the Bank and supported by the recently-approved First
Programmatic Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Growth. Specifically, the technical assistance program
will help key Government entities undertake already approved nmicro-economic policy and institutional
reforrns, and prepare for the implementation of the next phase of the growth program. The proposed
technical assistance program will support the Government in achieving the following sub-objectives:
(i)    reduce logistics costs in order to raise productivity and facilitate trade, by increasing the
effectiveness of customs, reducing port costs and delays, reducing road transport costs, and
promoting efficient multimodal transport options;
(ii)   improve the business environment, by strengthening the regulatory framework for
infrastructure, anti-trust enforcement, corporate insolvency resolution, and by reducing
administrative costs to businesses;
(iii)  enhance the efficiency and depth of the financial system, by increasing competition in the
banking sector, fostering mobilization of long-term capital through strengthened markets for risk
and stronger institutional investors in the insurance sector, and improving access to financial
services;
(iv)   increase Brazil's technological innovation capacity to transform knowledge into productivity
gains, by increasing the effectiveness of public research and development (R&D), improving the
incentive regime for private R&D, and developing market structures for carbon credit trading; and
(v)    support the preparation/implementation of reforms and other institutional measures to achieve
other objectives of the Government's growth program, such as deepening trade integration,
reducing tax distortions, and strengthening labor markets.
A.3. Project Description
Within the first four sub-objectives of the technical assistance program, the project will assist several
Government entities in achieving the following intermediate results:



(i) reducing logistics costs:
*   strategic plan defined for Customs' modernization, clearance procedures reengineered,
automation of Customs' systems improved, and port security enhancement plan
approved;
*   port reform and dock companies restructuring plans prepared and approved; and ANTAQ
regulatory accounting and performance monitoring systems established;
*   highway strategic plan and management reform program prepared and approved;
*   public-private partnership capacity and program monitoring and evaluation system
established in the Ministry of Transport; and ANTT concession evaluation models
operational.
(ii) improving the business environment:
*   anti-trust system capacity strengthened through improved processes, systems, and
training;
*   corporate insolvency law implemented through appropriate regulations and training of
judges and court personnel; and
*   performance assessment of judicial system in resolving economic disputes in public and
private sectors completed.
(iii) enhancing efficiency and depth of the financial system: action plans approved for:
*   promotion of competition in the banking sector,
*   facilitation of access to credit, and
*   development of capital and risk markets
(iv) increasing technological innovation capacity:
*   Ministry of Science and Technology's sector funds monitoring and evaluation system
established and reform plan approved;
*   capacity for appraising and certifying Clean Development Mechanism projects in place;
* pilot internet technology/social inclusion project completed and evaluated; and
*   Ministry of Science and Technology's strategy to foster nanotechnology industry growth
approved.
Since the phasing and, to some extent, the scope of the reforms included in the growth program
will depend on many factors including some of a political nature, and the timing of the activities under the
technical assistance program will be constrained by other factors, including the rigidity of Brazil's budgets
and the possibly uneven performance of the various entities benefiting from the program, flexibility had to
be built into the design of the technical assistance program and the project. In particular, the above list of
program's sub-objectives, as well as the list of project's activities and intermediate results may have to be
adjusted, to effectively contribute to the actual growth program. For the purpose of these adjustments, the
Government and the Bank will carry out annual joint reviews of implementation progress and progress
toward the achievement of intermediate results, supported by an effective program monitoring and
evaluation system.
Other activities may be included in the project in the course of implementation, either for funding under the
contingency allocations of the loan, or in substitution of activities which would be postponed or no longer
needed as a result of modifications in the growth program, or which would be funded from other sources as
a result of budget uncertainties, as explained above. The inclusion of new activities will be subject to: (i)
support from the line ministry to an entity's request to include new intermediate results; (ii) the proposed
intermediate results evaluated as supporting priority reforms or institutional measures (following evaluation
by SPE and the Bank) being part of the Government's growth program, as described in the Program
Document for the First Programmatic Adjustment Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Economic Growth.
Such evaluation will be conducted in partnership between the Ministry of Finance's Secretariat for
Economic Policy, the line ministry, the entity and the Bank; (iii) availability of funds under the unallocated
part of the loan proceeds, as determined during the annual evaluations of implementation performance; (iv)
the activities to achieve the proposed intermediate results not triggering any of the Bank's safeguard



policies; and (v) the entity responsible for the implementation of such activities demonstrating to the Bank
that it has implementation arrangements in place which satisfy the Bank's fiduciary requirements.
A.4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard analysis:
There is no specific project location. The project will only support the preparation and implementation of
key institutional reforms.
B. Check Environmental Category A [ ], B [ ], C [XI, FI [ I
Comments: For purpose of OP4.01, the project has been given an environmental rating "C", meaning that
the project is likely to have minimal or no adverse environmental impact. As such no specific
environmental assessment or environmental management plan need to be prepared.
As this project provides technical assistance (through provision of consulting services and office
equipment), it does not finance investments and therefore its implementation would not generate direct
negative environmental impacts. The activities to be financed under the loan would not have significant
indirect negative environmental impacts, as activities aim at the institutional strengthening of the project
beneficiaries, and the strengthening of legal and regulatory frameworks, which will done taking into
account the requirements of the Brazilian legislation on environment. On the other hand, the project will
include activities which will have a positive impact on the environment, such as the establishment of a
market for carbon credit trading, and the enforcement of environmental requirements in port operations.
Theses activities will be complemented by a set of measures being defined under an environmental SAL
currently under preparation, to, at the same time: (i) improve conditions for economic growth, through the
streamlining of environmental requirements for licensing of activities which would not generate significant
adverse impacts; and (ii) mitigate the potential of economic growth to generate adverse impacts, through
the review of procedures to review environmental screening and impact evaluation procedures in sectors
which typically generate large negative environmental impacts. The review would have as objective to
improve the efficiency of such procedures and ensuring that environmental assessments are carried as early
as possible in the project preparation cycle, to ensure that environmental concerns can be better taken into
account durinn the project design bhase.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
None of the following safeguard policies will be triggered by the project, given its nature (a technical
assistance operation), and the scope of the activities to be supported by the project. As described above,
other activities could be included under the project, depending on the evolution of the dialogue between the
Bank and the Government on the implementation of Brazil's microeconomic growth agenda. To be
included under the project, such activities would need to be evaluated by the Bank as not triggering any of
the following safeguard policies. Such evaluation will be conducted by the Bank project team, early on
during the discussions (between the staff of the Secretariat for Economic Policy of the Ministry of Finance
and the Bank), on the contribution of the proposed activities to a successful implementation of the growth
program.
Yes                No
Environmental Assessment (_PIBP/GP 4.01)      [_]_[X]
Natural Habitats (OP/_P 4.04)                         [ ]                [XI
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                             [ ]                [XI
Cultural Property (draft OP 4.11 - OPN 11.03-)        [][XI
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                 [                  [XI
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                          [][XI



Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)       |         []                  [X]
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        []                  [X]I
Section 11 - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues.
D. 1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and describe
any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
n.a.
D.2 Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the
project area.
n.a.
D.3. Describe the treatment of alternatives (if relevant)
n.a.
D.4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard issues. Provide an assessment of
borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described.
n.a.
D.5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
n.a.
E. Safeguards Classification (select one). Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis
of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
[ ] S,. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks in
management of one or more safeguard areas
[I] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[X] S3. - No safeguard issues
[I] SF - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard
issues.
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties'
claims on the disputed areas



F. Disclosure Requirements   Date 02/24/2004
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other:
Date of receipt by the Bank                 .../1... Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure             .../1... Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop              ...1.. .1... Not Applicable
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors
... .1...... Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process:
Date of receipt by the Bank                 . . ./.../... Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure              ... ... Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop               ... ... Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:
Date of receipt by the Bank                   ... ... Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure              ... ... Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop               ... ... Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                   ... ... Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure              ... ... Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop               ... ... Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:
Date of receipt by the Bank                 . . ./.../.. Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure             ... ...  Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop               ... ... Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Section III- Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level
(To be filled in when the ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting)
OP/BP 4.01 - Environment Assessment:.                                      Yes     No
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report?
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit review and approve the EA report?
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the credit/loan?
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats:                                            Yes      No
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of critical
natural habitats?
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other (non-
critical) natural habitats, does the project include rnitigation measures acceptable to the
Bank?
OP 4.09 - Pest Management:.                                                Yes     No
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues?
Is a separate PMP required?
If yes, are PMP requirements included in project design?
Draft OP 4.11 (OPN 11.03) - Cultural Property:                             Yes     No
Does the EA include adequate measures?
Does the credit/loan incorporate mechanisms to mitigate the potential adverse impacts
on physical cultural resources?
OD 4.20 - Indigenous Peoples:                                              Yes     No
Has a separate indigenous people development plan been prepared in consultation with
the Indigenous People?
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan?
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed and
approved by the Regional Social Development Unit?



OPIBP 4.12 - Involuntary Resettlement:                                      Yes      No
Has a resettlement action plan, policy framework or policy process been prepared?
If yes, then did the Regional Social Development Unit review and approve the plan /
policy framework / policy process?
OP/BP 4.36- Forests:                                                         Yes     No
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints been
carried out?
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these constraints?
Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it include provisions
for certification system?
OP/BP 4.37 - Safety of Dams:                                                 Yes     No
Have dam safety plans been prepared?
Have the TORs as well as composition for the independent Panel of Experts (POE)
been reviewed and approved by the Bank?
Has an Emergency Preparedness Plan (EPP) been prepared and arrangements been
made for public awareness and training?
OP 7.50 - Projects on International Waterways:                               Yes     No
Have the other riparians been notified of the project?
If the project falls under one of the exceptions to the notification requirement, then has
this been cleared with the Legal Department, and the memo to the RVP prepared and
sent?
What are the reasons for the exception?
Please explain:
Has the RVP approved such an exception?
OP 7.60 - Projects in Disputed Areas:                                       Yes      No
Has the memo conveying all pertinent information on the international aspects of the
project, including the procedures to be followed, and the recommendations for dealing
with the issue, been prepared, cleared with the Legal Department and sent to the RVP?
Does the PAD/MOP include the standard disclaimer referred to in the OP?
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure:                                                Yes     No
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's Infoshop?
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a form and
language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected groups and local
NGOs?
All Safeguard Policies:                                                      Yes      No
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities been
prepared for the implementation of the safeguard measures?
Have safeguard measures costs been included in project cost?
Will the safeguard measures costs be funded as part of project implementation?
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the monitoring of
safeguard impacts and measures?
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the borrower and the
same been adequately reflected in the project legal documents?
Signed and submitted by:                          Name                           Date
Task Team Leader:               Aymeric-Albin Meyer %                          5-I*-OS
Project Safeguards Specialist 1:
Project Safeguards Specialist 2:
Project Safeguards Specialist 3:
Approved by:                                      Name                           Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:  Juan Quinteiro                            3   -q _1  (4
Comments:                   ,b
Sector Manager:                 Susan Goldmark
Comments:



