                                                                           46754
                                                      Proposal to Restructure
                           PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET




Growth Technical Assistance


-
Borrower:FederativeRepublic o Brazil
Responsibleagency: MinistryofFinance                           - -
Revisedestimateddisbursements(Bank FY/US$m)                                     A




FY             I     08       I     09        I    -       I   -      I




Boardapproved          -
                       X
RVPapproved            -

Doesthe restructuredprojectrequireany exceptionsto Bankpolicies?     -Yes SNo
Havethese beenapprovedby Bankmanagement?                             -Yes ZNo
I s approval for any policy exception sought fromthe Board?          -Yes XNo




Doesthe restructuredprojecttrigger any new safeguardpolicies?No
                             RevisedFinancingPlan(US$m.)
                   Source                        Local      Foreign     Total
Borrower                                             2.28        0.00       2.28
IBRD                                                 9.72        2.40      12.12
Others                                                   -          -          -
Total                                                12.00       2.40      14.40


                                                  BRAZIL
 SUSTAINABLEAND EQUITABLEGROWTHTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
                              RESTRUCTURINGAND EXTENSION

                                            PROJECTPAPER




1. IntroductoryStatement

1. This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to restructure the Brazil
Sustainable and Equitable Growth Technical Assistance Project (Loan No.7253) (the Project)
and proceed with the amendment o f the Loan Agreement entered into between the Federative
Republic o f Brazil (the Borrower) and the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development (the Bank) dated October 4, 2005. The proposed restructuring i s aimed at adjusting
Project objectives and activities with the current priorities of the Borrower. Changes are also
proposed to strengthen Project implementation arrangements and facilitate timely disbursement
of Loanproceeds.

2. The proposed restructuring changes including the following: (i)the inclusion of a new
component on fiscal and public resource management; (ii) strengthening of the financial
                                                                          the
component, through the inclusion of new activities to be developed by Comissa"o de Valores
Mobilibrios (CVM); (iii)a reassignment o f Project implementation duties to a different
secretariat within the Borrower's Ministry o f Finance; (iv) eliminating a component on
innovation and technology; and (v) a reallocation o f Loan proceeds among disbursement
Categories, including the assignment of Unallocated funds to specific activities.

3. In order to effectively implement the Project, in line with the proposed restructuring, the
Borrower has requested a one-year extension o f the Closing Date from December 31, 2008 until
December 31,2009.

4. It is expected that the above-detailed changes will strengthenProject designand greatly assist
the Borrower with the achievement of satisfactory outcomes in line with critically urgent
Government priorities.


2. BackgroundandReasonsfor Restructuring

5. The Project i s funded through a US$12.12 Loan approved on July 8,2004 and effective since
October 31,2005. The original Development Objectives (DOs) were to assist the Borrower with
the carrying out o f the first phase of its economic growth program (the Program), through an
Adaptable Program Loan (APL). More specifically, the Project aimed to support the Borrower's
efforts aimed at: (a) reducing logistics costs, (b) improving the business environment, (c)


1Budgetary issues prevented the Borrower to request a 2 year extension. It i s likely that another one-year extension
will be requestedin2009.


                                                        1

enhancing the efficiency and depth o f the financial system, and (d) increasing the capacity for
innovation.

6. The Project was originally designed taking into consideration: (a) the high demand from
several agencies o f the Borrower involved inthe execution o f the Program; (b) the limited fiscal
space to accommodate a larger loan for technical assistance; (c) an agreement reached between
the Bank and Brazil inrelationto the importance of a long term partnership aimed at addressing
key issues affecting Brazil's growth. Therefore, the Project aimed at benefittingfour ministries
(Finance, Justice, Science and Technology, and Transport) as well as sixteen agencies including
ministerial secretariats, independentagencies and other regulatory bodies.

7. Three years after Effectiveness, the amount o f Loan proceeds disbursedremains low at 23%.
Implementationprogress i s rated as "moderately unsatisfactory". There are three issues that have
negatively impacted Project implementation and would be resolved through the proposed
restructuring:

8. The first issue i s the poor performance by the originally established coordination unit (PCU),
as documented in several Implementation Status and Results (ISR) Reports. Through extensive
discussions with the Borrower, a decision was taken to relocate such function to a different
secretariat within the Ministryo f Finance (from Economic Policy Secretariat (SPE) to Secretariat
o f the Treasury) based on its greater experience in, and knowledge o f Bank procedures. The new
implementation team i s clearly qualified for this task and has shown great commitment to the
Project.

9. The second issue i s the lack o f interest in further benefitting from the Project expressed by
the Ministryof Science and Technology (MCT), one ofthe original Project executing entities. In
October 2007, the Bank received a letter from M C T communicating their decision to exclude
themselves from the Project, arguing internal difficulties to follow Bank competitive
procurement procedures. The amount originally allocated for the M C T was US$2.5 million,
which i s now reallocated to finance the strengthening of public resources management.

10. The third issue i s the different focus provided by the Borrower to its Program, aimed at
addressing other key government bottlenecks to growth, especially issues related to weak fiscal
and public resource management.

11. In spite of important changes that have been carried out by the Borrower starting July 2007
and a reasonable performance in disbursement in recent months, the Project requires major
changes in order to retrofit the Project and address urgent Government priorities while attaining
its DOs.

12. With significant Government support, the Project restructuring will address the new priority
needs of the Borrower, facilitate the implementation o f the Program, while expediting Loan
disbursements. Based on all of the above considerations, we also expect that overall Project
implementationperformance will considerably improve.




                                                 2

3. ProposedChanges

 13. The Bank has extensively worked with the Borrower to define an updated set of activities
that, while remaining within the original intent and scope o f the Project, would improve
disbursement and better meet the current needs o f the Government. Based on the Government's
request and the evolving growth agenda in Brazil, the intermediate DO and outcomes related to
the science and technology component are dropped. Instead, a new intermediate DO is included
for the support o fthe Borrower's efforts to strengthen its public resource management.

 14. The restructuring proposes to allocate Loanproceeds as follows:

i)StrengtheningtheregulationoftheCornissiiode VuZoresMobiZihios(CVM)throughan
allocation o f US$l.O million in order to support strategic planning, risk-based supervision,
institutional performance evaluations and strengthened management systems. These resources
are now included under Ministry o f Finance in Table 1, in addition to resources assigned to
financial sector strengthening inthe original Project design. Support to C V M clearly contributes
to the intermediate DO o f enhancing the efficiency and deptho f the Borrower's financial system.

ii)StrengtheningdebtmanagementandpublicresourcemanagementintheMinistryof
Finance (MF) through further development of the public debt information system, buildingthe
Ministry's capacity to forecast and analyze growth as well as to support capacity building in
budget execution and public expenditure management through training. This new component
would apply US$2 million, thus contributing, directly to the strengthening of the Borrower's
public resource management, and indirectly to improving o f the business environment.

iii)SupportingtheMinistryofPlanning, BudgetingandManagement(MPOG) initseffortto
strengthen its use of financial and human resources. An allocation of US$ 0.7 million would
support: assessments o f the Government's human resources management systems, the
functioning o f the indirect administration, and the Government's efforts at budget reform. The
new activity will contribute directly to better use of public resources and indirectly to an
improvement inthe business climate.

iv) Redistributionof resources within the Ministry of Finance's activities to support the
customs sub-component. One ofthe most successful Project components has beenthe provision
o f support for the modernization strategy o f customs, carried out by Secretaria da Receita
Federal do Brasil. The resources will fund implementation o f phase IV o f the HARPIA system,
with likely strong impacts in terms of a reduction in the time and costs to clear customs.
Resources to be re-allocated within Finance would be US$1.7 million. These new activities
would clearly contribute to the intermediate goals of reducing logistics costs and improving the
business environment, as well as strengtheningpublic resource management.

15, Table 1 below summarizes the overall reallocations and contributions to intermediate
objectives. Table 2 represents the proposed reallocation interms of categories of expenditures -
Schedule 1.




                                                 3

                              Table 1 Revised program structure and objectives
                                     -




Category                       Amount of the Original RevisedAmount of the %of Expendituresto be Financed
                               Loan Allocated         LoanAllocated
                               (Expressed inDollars) (Expressed inDollars)
(1) Goods                            1,000,000              1,100,000      100%of foreign expenditures, 100% of
                                                                           local expenditures (ex-factory cost and
                                                                           85% of local expenditures for other
                                                                           goods procuredlocally
(2) Consultants'services             8,600,000              9,259,800      Original -84%
                                                                           Proposedfor restructuring-90%
(3) Training                              0                 1.700,OOO      100%
(4) Unallocated                      2,398,800                  0
(5) Front-endfee                       121,200               60,200        Amount due pursuantto Section2.04 of
                                                                           this Agreement
(6) Premiafor InterestRate                0                     0          Amount due under Section2.09 (c) of
Caps and Interest Rate Collars                                             this Agreement
            TOTAL                    12,120,000            12,120,000


16. In order to effectively implement the Project within the extended Closing Date and meet its
new DO, Project implementation duties are now assigned to a new PCU in the Ministry of
Finance.


4. Analysis

17. While the overall objective assisting the Borrower with the implementation o f the Program,
changes are introduced in one o f its four sub-objectives, through the elimination of the
innovation and technology component and the inclusion o f a fiscal and public resource
management component.


                                                        4

18. Other complementary changes already mentioned are the change o f the Central Project
Coordination Unit from the Secretariat of Economic Policy to the Secretariat of Treasury, both
withinthe Ministryof Finance; andthe extension ofthe closing date to December 2009.

19. The proposed changes do not have a major effect on the original economic, financial,
technical, institutional, or social aspects of the Project as appraised.

20. The proposed changes do not change the Project's environmental classification (Category C)
nor trigger the applicationo f any new, or exceptions to any Bank safeguard policies.


5. ExpectedOutcomes New indicatorswill be addedand monitoredfocusingon:
                           -
21. the development by the Ministry o f Planning o f a taxonomy of the existing models o f public
institutions including, inter alia, their funding, financial and administrative internal controls,
accountability, labor regimes;

22. preparation of an Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) peer
reviewon humanresource issues inBrazil;

23. operationalization by the National Treasury Secretariat (STN) o f specific processes (risk
assessment, planning, strategies, auctions, budgetary and financial programming) for public debt
management completed.


6. Benefitsand Risks

24. Since its inception, it was clear that the high number o f Project beneficiaries and the diversity
o f sectors involved increase substantially the complexity o f project implementation. This risk i s
still substantial in this restructuring, despite the reduction in the number o f agencies involved.
This risk is mitigated by the choice of small number of selected activities to be financed and by
reinforcing the coordination structure now in the National Treasury. In addition, a joint
coordination mechanism has been established so that during project implementation, an in-depth
evaluation o f implementation progress will be carried out, as well as a review o f the time
schedule for remainingactivities.




                                                   5

