Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23168
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-26670; PPFI-P8760; COFN-03560)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 29.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
FOR AN
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
11/26/2001
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 1, 2001)
Currency Unit = dramns
1 dram = US 0.0018
US$ 1 = 550
FISCAL YEAR
January  -   December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASP           IFAD-financed Agricultural Services Project
CAS           World Bank Country Assistance Strategy
DSP           IDA-financed Dam Safety Project
FSU           Former Soviet Union
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
GOA           Government of Annenia
IDA           International Development Association
IDP           IDA-financed Irrigation Development Project
IFAD          International Fund for Agriculture Development
IRP           IDA-financed Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
MOA           Ministry of Agriculture
NWASP         IFAD-financed Northwest Agricultural Services Project
O&M           Operations and Maintenance
OME           Operation and Maintenance Enterprise of the Irrigation System
PIM           Participatory Irrigation Management
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
RCM           IRP Re-configuration Mission
SAR          World Bank Staff Appraisal Report
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
WUCC          Water Users Consumer Cooperative
WUG           Water User Group
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Director:   Judy O'Connor
Sector Manager:   Joseph Goldberg
Task Team Leader:    Mark Lundell



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARMENIA
IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    7
6. Sustainability                                                                         8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          9
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      11
9. Partner Comments                                                                     11
10. Additional Information                                                              15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    1 7
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    29
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    31
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       32
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   33
Annex 8 - Summary Report of Irrigation Rehabilitation Project Implementation Unit       34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perforrnance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P008277                                      Project Name: IRRIGATION REHABILITATION
PROJECT
Team Leader: Mark R. Lundell                             TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type. Core ICR                                       Report Date: November 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: IRRIGATION REHABILITATION PROJECT             L/C/TFNumber: IDA-26670;
PPFI-P8760;
COFN-03560
Country/Departnent: ARMENIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Al - Irrigation & Drainage
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  04/14/1993                              Effective. 03/01/1995         02/23/1995
Appraisal:  10/08/1993                               MTR: 04/30/1997            05/04/1998
Approval:  12/08/1994                              Closing: 06/30/1999         05/31/2001
Borrower/Implementing Agency:  GOVERNMENT OF ARMENIA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Other Partners: INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes Linn                              Wilfred Thalwitz
Country Manager:    Judy O'Connor                              Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:      Joseph R. Goldberg                        Geoffrey Fox
Team Leader at ICR:   Mark Lundell                             Ezriel Brook
ICR Primary Author:   Mark R. Lundell; Giuseppe
Fantozzi
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
Background:
The agriculture sector in Armenia is heavily dependent on irrigation because of low precipitation in the
main production area of the Ararat Valley. The entire country has roughly 420,000 hectares of cultivable



area distributed among 320,000 private farms. In the mid-1980's, about 285,000 hectares were irrigated.
Due to the deterioration of pumping and conveyance schemes, the served area fell to roughly 140,000
hectares by 1993. The IRP targeted irrigation schemes encompassing about 165,000 hectares and, by the
end of the Project, stabilized the served irrigation area at roughly 147,000 hectares covered by these
irrigation schemes. Currently, approximately 190,000 hectares throughout the entire country are still
irrigated. The value of agricultural GDP (excluding the livestock sector) is about US$ 300 million
annually, with the share of irrigated fan-ning about 80%. The total value of the main assets of the country's
irrigation schemes is roughly US$ 1.5 billion. Thus, total project expenditures ofjust over US$ 50 million
amounted to about 3% of the system's value and about 17% of the annual GDP of irrigated agriculture.
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
To assist Armenia in maintaining the level of irrigated agricultural production, and to improve the country's
water resources management.
3.2 Revised Objective:
To assist Armenia in maintaining the level of irrigated agricultural production, improve the country's water
resources management, and accelerate the development of water distribution institutions and support
facilities needed for a market-based privatized agriculture.
3.3 Original Components:
The project consisted of four main components: (a) rehabilitation of 12 irrigation schemes and the Ararat
Valley groundwater network; (b) establishment of pilot projects for water distribution and new Water Users
Associations; (c) financing for incremental operations and maintenance (O&M) costs of the irrigation
infrastructure; and (d) technical assistance, including the establishment of a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), assistance to update the Water Master Plan, training, and assistance to improve irrigated crop
production.
3.4 Revised Components:
In the course of the first year of project implementation in 1995-96, it became evident to the PIU and the
Bank's supervision missions that the originally planned total project cost of US$ 57.2 million had been
significantly underestimated. The additional costs reflected the difficulties during project preparation of
estimating the extent of the irrigation system's deterioration and unit costs for canal rehabilitation, as well
as forecasting the future real appreciation of the exchange rate.
In view of budgetary constraints, the Government of Armenia (GOA) was unable to fund the full cost of the
as project as originally envisaged. As a result of discussions with the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) on
project reconfiguration altematives prepared by the PIU, the Ministry and the Bank staff jointly
recommended concentrating investments on interventions that would achieve the greatest improvements of
efficiency in the conveyance systems. After classifying the individual works originally envisaged for the
main and secondary canals, pump stations, and dams in the project area into 9 categories of priority, a
cut-off point was imposed at level 5 of priority. This amounted to postponing to a second phase many
lower priority works and additional improvements needed to address further deterioration of the system.
This point also coincided with planned expenditures of US$ 24.3 million on main and secondary canal
rehabilitation, and US$ 7.6 million on pilot projects to improve water management (and rehabilitate tertiary
canals), and left US$ 25.25 million to be spent on the remaining project components.
As the full revised cost of rehabilitating all the main, secondary, and tertiary canals envisaged in the SAR
-2 -



totaled roughly US$ 66 million, the main proposed reductions in project scope were for the works executed
on rehabilitating these main, secondary, and tertiary canals. These are the components of the project where
the greatest underestimates of the project costs were made in the SAR. In sum, the project investments of
US$ 51.9 million have been basically sufficient to rehabilitate the irrigation system in the most critical
project area's and forestall system deterioration for approximately 7 years (through 2005) on an irrigation
command area of 145,000 hectares.
Project Costs By Component, Million US$         SAR       Revised Full  Revised Project Actual Final  Percentage
Estimates   Cost of SAR    at MTR (to fit  Expenditures   of MTR
Estimates   original budget)               Revised
Project
Rehabilitation of Main and Secondary Canals in 8  14.72      36.00          24.32          26.68        109.7%
Conveyance Schemes (including Water Meters)
Rehabilitation of 4 Pumping Stations            9.46         12.20           3.50          1.69           48.4%
Rehabilitation of Tubewells                     6.94         10.39           3.60          4.50          125.1%
Rehabilitation of 4 Dams                        1.31         3.50           2.00           0.93           46.6%
Pilot Projects to Improve Water Management     6.22*         30.37           7.62          7.80         102.3%
and Rehabilitation of Tertiary Canals
Incremental O&M costs                           5.00         5.00           5.00           5.87          117.4%
Technical  Assistance  (incl.  Design   and     1.10         6.60           4.18           3.46           82.8%
Supervision)
Project Implementation Unit                     1.46         3.30            1.46          0.92           62.7%
Total Base Cost                                46.21        107.36         51.69          51.86          100.3%
Physical contingencies                          8.06         5.37           2.58
Price contingencies                             2.88         6.69            2.88
Grand Total                                    57.15        119.42          57.15          51.86        90.7%       I
includes US$ 2.7 million for Pilot Water Management Projects and US$ 3.75 for Tertiary Canal Rehabilitaton
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The IRP responded to Armenia's need to stem the rapid collapse of the irrigation system and was an
integral part of the GOA's rural strategy to stabilize employment in a blockaded economy. It meshed well
with the CAS objective of improving the environment for the private sector by alleviating key infrastructure
bottlenecks and has played a strong role in forestalling the fall into poverty of a substantial share of the
rural population. The project also contained an effective mix of physical rehabilitation and institutional
development components in the irrigation sector. However, shortcomings include the cost underestimation
discussed above as well as overly ambitious projection of cost recovery in the irrigation sector (100% cost
recovery was targeted for a five year period). On balance, the strengths of the IRP's focus and structure
outweigh the shortcomings in the areas of project costing and cost recovery, and Quality at Entry is deemed
to be satisfactory.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The IRP is considered to have had satisfactory achievement of its intended objectives. It has increased and
stabilized the area receiving irrigation water and had a significant impact on water resources management
by establishing Water User Groups (WUGs) and assisting them to assume responsibility for operation and
maintenance for the tertiary and on-farm levels of the irrigation system. Thus the project impact and
output indicators targeted current and leading indicators of progress on both physical rehabilitation and
institutional development. These included: i) increasing the efficiency of water delivery and area served by
rehabilitated infrastructure; ii) boosting the overall expenditure on operation and maintenance; and iii)
- 3-



expanding the areas served by Water User Groups (WUGs). By 2001, an efficiency rate for water delivery
of 72.6% was achieved (compared to a project goal of 70%/0), and 146,800 hectares were receiving
irrigation water (as compared to a project goal of 148,000, 99% achievement rate). On the water
management side, 106 WUGs were formed with coverage of 27,800 hectares (compared to a goal of 100
WUGs covering 25,000 hectares). Under the IRP, Armenia has made more progress in decentralized water
resource management than virtually any other country of the former Soviet Union (FSU). The project also
made an important contribution to the financial sustainability of the irrigation system by equipping the
entire system with water metering devices, a key step, but one that was not envisaged in the SAR. The
major deficiency of the IRP was in achieving coverage of O&M costs by the Operation and Maintenance
Enterprise's receipts, which reached only 35% by the end of the project, compared to a project goal (albeit
unrealistically set) of 100%.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Across ten marzes, the following investments on main and secondary canals and systems (serving
approximately 105,600 hectares) and other supporting investments in civil works and goods were made
(see Annex 2):
Component 1
Main & secondary canals with aqueducts and siphons - 261 km at a cost of US$ 21.89 million
Water measuring devices - 2,145 units at a cost of US$ 3.54 million
Drainage - 310 km at a cost of US$ 1.26 million
Component 2 - Pumping Stations - 11 units at a cost of US$ 1.69 million
Component 3 - Tubewells - 238 units at a cost of US$ 4.27 million
Component 4 - Dams - 4 at a cost of US$ 0.93 million
Component 5 - Pilot Projects and Tertiary Canal Rehabilitation, covering 26,568 hectares in four marzes:
Pilot Project for Improved Water Management - 106 Water User Groups at a cost of US$ 1.14
million
Tertiary canal rehabilitation - 384 km at a cost of US$ 6.66 million
- 4 -



These achievements are presented in perspective below, in comparison to the targets that were set
at the time the project was reconfigured in 1996. The table below also shows works under the Project
additional to those which were planned:
Works                Works provided    Additional works    Total implemented
under the Project                          works
1                       2                 4                     5
Rehabilitation of main and           140 km            120 km               260 km
secondary canals                                                         74 aqueducts,
52 siphons
Construction of water measuring                         2145                 2145
posts
Purchase and installation of flow                       1545                 1545
meters
Cleaning and rehabilitation of                         310 km               310 km
drainage system
Rehabilitation of pumping stations     4                                      4
Reconstruction of pumping stations     -                 7                    7
in deepened collectors
Rehabilitation of old tubewells and   160                78                  238
construction of new ones
Rehabilitation of dams                 4                                      4
Rehabilitation of on-farm networks,  10,000 Ha        16,500 Ha           26,500 Ha
establishment of WUAs               100 WJUA           5 WUA               105 WUA
Purchase and installation of                            672                  672
two-tariff electric meters
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate oj return:
In 1996, during the project's re-configuration mission (referred to hereafter at RCM), a revised
economic analysis was conducted, given the original SAR calculations' underestimates of the total
project cost and the reduced coverage and intensity of investments that the RCM decided on with
the GOA. Since the RCM chose those investments with highest priority (and highest expected
economic benefits), the ERR that was re-estimated at the RCM was still 35%, compared to the
SAR estimate of over 50 percent. This analysis assumed that there would not be quick recovery
of Armenia's export and processing sectors (referred to in Annex 3 as the "Blockade Scenario").
The IRP achieved an ERR of 29%, with the difference owing to the following factors. Over the
past three years, the import parity prices for grains have been about 20% below those projected at
the RCM, while the export parity prices for fruits and vegetables have been roughly at or above
the projected levels. The strength of fruit and vegetable prices export parity prices has been due
to the recovery of a substantial share of the fruit and vegetable processing sector, which has
occurred despite the blockade, as import substitution of juices and other processed agricultural
products, as well as improved exports in the brandy and wine sub-sectors have developed.
4.4 Financial rate of return;
Aside from updating the ERR, the RCM also examined the returns to farmers under existing
conditions in the area, and once the rehabilitation works are completed. This analysis showed that
- 5 -



even with the lower then projected yields and farm-gate prices (compared to those of the SAR),
farmers in the area still enjoy financial returns from farming activities comparable to the average
wage in the urban sector. Crop budget analysis shows financial returns per hectare (excluding the
cost of labor, water charges, and taxes) of about US$ 800 from the cultivation of fruits and
vegetables and US$ 180 from grains. Only the production of forage crops (with financial returns
of under US$ 40 per hectare) is uneconomical. On the other hand, the small size of holdings and
the absence of sufficient rural finance for middle-income and poor farmers to purchase off-farm
inputs and services, are major constraints on the profitability of farming operations.
4.5 Institutional development inmpact:
The IRP achieved substantial institutional development impact. The piloting of the development
of Water Users Consumers Cooperatives' (WUCCs) in the context of the IRP demonstrated the
potential for water users to successfully operate and maintain the tertiary level of the irrigation
system and even to manage upper levels of the irrigation system (three unions of WUCCs have
been formed as a result of a completely voluntary process). The introduction of the concept,
almost revolutionary for a country of the FSU, of participatory management of irrigation
infrastructure and its partial realization through formation of WUCCs covering almost 20% of
irrigated agriculture across the country, can be considered the main impact of the project on the
institutional side. Given that the Government adopted a program of WUCC formation outside of
the areas covered by the IRP, the catalyzing effect of the IRP had a large potential. However, this
potential was diminished by lack of sufficient training of WUCCs' staffs in these "non-IRP"
WUCCs. In addition, excessive intervention by village administrations (government) into WUCC
operations and finance meant that WUCCs' sense of responsibility for irrigation management did
not grow as much as might have been the case. Additional training and a strengthened legal
framework, aimed at clarifying roles and responsibilities of the WUCCs, is included in the
Irrigation Development Project (IDP), which is a follow-on to the IRP.
As a result of the implementation of the WUCCs component, the Government of Armenia has
realized the importance of Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) and requested that it be a
major emphasis (30%) of the follow-on IDP, compared to 15% of the resources invested in this
area under the IRP.
Another aspect of institutional development, not intended under project design, has been the
emergence over the past five years of over twenty medium to large private Armenian construction
firms with extensive experience in rehabilitation of irrigation structures. This strong development
of private construction firms has reduced the costs of works under the IRP, as well as the other
IFAD-financed and Bank-financed projects, and made it feasible that in two or three years
federations of WUGs will be able to contract out to such firms for both intensive maintenance and
rehabilitation works. In this way Government, will have been removed from both operation as
well as maintenance and rehabilitation works at the secondary and tertiary levels of the irrigation
system in Armenia.
I
Water User Consumer Cooperatives is the generic termn used for Water User Groups and/or associations and federations
thereof
-6 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
In the early project implementation period (1995-97), the major "outside" factor which affected project
implementation was the general underdevelopment of the private construction sector. In the first 18 months
of contracting, the lowest bids received for many types of construction work were 50-100% higher than
expected by engineer's estimates. This was largely because private medium to large size construction firms
were either non-existent or simply not participating in the tenders for civil works. In any case, the larger
than expected contract values were factors that led the Bank and the GOA to freeze project implementation
until an early RCM could be executed. This considerably slowed project implementation. (After the RCM,
the Bank actively encouraged the Government to seek participation by private sector construction firms in
the IRP's tenders.)
In the latter years of the project, the main extemal factor affecting the IRP's outcome was recurrent
drought. In 1999 and 2000, drought was widespread and progressively more severe in impact. In 2000, as
much as 15% of farm families lost virtually all their crops (mainly in high and middle elevation areas) and
many more suffered significant crop and livestock losses. This reduced agricultural income significantly
and led to major shortfalls in the payment of water tariffs, and a fall in overall cost recovery in the
irrigation sector to a 15-20% level in 2000.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Main actions that were subject to Government control that had a negative impact on irrigation cost
recovery levels included: insufficient attention to institutional reform of the Operation and Maintenance
Enterprise of the Irrigation System (OME or "Vorogum"); delayed MOA action to mandate installation of
water meters throughout the irrigation system; and back-tracking on water tariffs during the Presidential
elections of 1998.
When planning the expenditure of O&M funds, MOA might have devised a program for institutional
reform of OME with cost cutting measures and improved decentralization with more genuine involvement
of Water User Groups as partners in operation of the irrigation system. Instead, the MOA focused on
accelerated access to the IRP's loan funds earmarked for incremental operation and maintenance
expenditures. The benefits of these funds were decidedly short-term in nature as they were not used in a
prioritized manner. They simply covered whatever additional canal cleaning and localized repairs that
OME deemed necessary across the system. The MOA should have required a business plan for OME
before allocating such funds for incremental operation and maintenance expenditures. In fact, starting in
1998, OME was requested by the Bank to produce such business plans (with outside technical assistance),
but at that point most of the incremental operational and maintenance funds had been spent.
On water meters, the Bank and MOA should have realized earlier that WUGs and other water users would
not take their obligation to pay for received water until it was possible to objectively show them, with
volumetric measurements, the amount of water they were receiving. This was recognized in 1999, and
fortunately the MOA did take a decision to use most of the project's unallocated funds to fully equip the
irrigation system with over 1,650 water measuring devices (at most junctures of water intakes with main
canals, of main canals with secondary canals, and of secondary canals with inlets to the systems of
WUGs).
5.3 Factors generally sulbject to implementing agency control:
There were two main (and inter-related) factors which negatively affected project implementation that were
subject to the control of the PIU. First, there was the underestimation of unit costs for various goods and
- 7 -



construction works during the project preparation period. Too much emphasis was given to prices which
were observed in the period just prior to independence, and insufficient account was taken of the way in
which stock-piled goods would be sold at market prices (even though they may have been acquired at
relatively much cheaper prices earlier). Bank consultants tried to insist on higher unit costs for project
costing (which reflected world market levels), but the MOA preparation team would not agree.
The second factor which compounded the underestimation of project costs was the fact that clear
specification of the list of construction sites was never made during project preparation. General, long
stretches of canal were targeted for rehabilitation, but inadequate measurement of their degree of
deterioration was made, with the general result being an underestimation of the amount of physical
rehabilitation work that had to be done. This was eventually remedied during the RCM, when a complete
inventory was made by the PIU of the main and secondary canals in the systems covered by the project, and
priority levels assigned to the various specific canal stretches deemed to be most deteriorated. The delays
that this involved were on the order of one and a half construction seasons, and eventually the project had
to be extended to be able to be completed.
5.4 Costs and financing.
The original SAR estimate of project cost was USS 57.15 million, while the final expenditures comprised
US$ 51.86 million. The difference is accounted for by: a loss of roughly US$ 2.41 million in IDA credit
funds owing to the depreciation of the SDR; a reduction of IFAD financing of US$ 0.20 million (also
owing to the SDR depreciation); a reduction in GOA financing of US$ 0.72 million; and under-funding of
co-financing by project beneficiaries of US$ 1.96 million. Details on adjustments to the expenditure levels
of particular components are presented in Annex 2. The IRP closed nearly two years after the originally
expected Closing Date mainly because of delays in the procurement process described above.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is assessed as highly likely. The investments and reforms undertaken by the IRP are the first
stage of a program that is being continued under the Dam Safety Project (DSP, approved by the Board in
June 1999) and the Irrigation Development Project (IDP, approved by the World Bank Board of Directors
in August 2001). Sustainability of this program is evidenced also by the approval of the Government's
Irrigation Sector Program (April 2001), which demonstrates Government ownership of the aim of full cost
recovery in the irrigation and drainage sector by 2006, based on decentralization of the system, reduced
costs through improved efficiency, and steady water tariff increases over the next five years. Recent
achievements in these directions include: (i) an average annual increase of over 30% in the wholesale water
tariff in 1998-2001; (ii) equipping the whole system (for the first time ever) with electronic water metering
devices at most main, secondary, and tertiary junctures; (iii) an expanded coverage of irrigated areas by
WUGs under a second IFAD-financed project (the Northwest Agricultural Services Project - NWASP);
and (iv) approval of further decentralization of authority for operation and maintenance under a third
IFAD-financed project (the Agricultural Services Project - ASP), as well as under the IDP.
With the investments in WUGs and federations of WUGs under the IRP, NWASP, ASP, and IDP, more
than 50% of the country's irrigated areas will be covered by WUGs which have received training in water
scheduling and management, rehabilitation investments for their tertiary systems, as well as responsibility
(and equipment) for operation and maintenance. This represents greater progress in decentralized water
management than virtually any other FSU country.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
- 8 -



The GOA has fully understood the results of Participatory Irrigation Management (PIM) under the IRP and
is generalizing PIM under the Irrigation Sector Program which it approved in April 2001. This strategy
envisages the possibility of increasing the responsibility of WUCCs to cover higher levels of the system
(secondary and primary canals). The GOA is, under the follow-on IDP, executing technical assistance for
improvement of the legal framework for setting the roles and responsibilities of the various institutional
actors in a more decentralized PIM-based system. The GOA is also aiming to improve the financial
viability of WUCCs by promoting an increase in their size and making funds available to them for investing
in their maintenance equipment. Both of these steps are crucial to their attaining a minimum scale and
scope of operations.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance in preparation was satisfactory. Preparation and appraisal of the IRP was done during a
period of hyperinflation and extreme exchange rate fluctuation, and as a result it was impossible to use
current prices of that period. The Bank and consultants tried to argue for a pricing of materials and unit
construction rates at border price levels (Iran, Turkey, etc.) but the GOA preferred to use Soviet-period
unit rates updated by a multiplier constructed (and published monthly) by the Ministry of Urban
Development. The use of these outdated unit rates and inaccurate (vis-a-vis market prices) multipliers
partly caused the under-estimation situation which the IRP faced in 1995-96, shortly after the start of the
project. The Bank should have insisted on using border price rates, as this could have avoided the almost
one year freeze on project implementation that eventually ensued.
The Bank should also have been much less ambitious in its estimates of the ability of farmers to pay tariffs
embodying full cost recovery of operation and maintenance of the irrigation system within a five-year
period, which was the IRP goal. This failed to take into account the slow pace at which grass-roots
organizations would be established, and the necessity of having such cooperative, locally active
organizations in place in order to foster a sense of responsibility towards the irrigation system. Without
such responsibility and the water metering system necessary to arbitrate disputes over the volumes of water
being supplied to the field level, it is unrealistic to expect that farmers will feel that the water use fees being
charged to them are reasonable. When compounded by the large income losses suffered by the farming
sector as a result of the fragmentation of the FSU market and of the collapse of marketing, credit, and
processing institutions, both willingness and ability to pay were severely diminished. Given the Bank's
worldwide experience with this phenomenon, it is hard to explain why such an ambitious target of 100%
cost recovery in five years of project implementation was set.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance in supervision was highly satisfactory. When the underestimation of project costs
became clear in early 1996, the Bank initiated the RCM process immediately, resulting in improvements in
project implementation that have been noted earlier. The re-starting of the project after the RCM was
quick, each component was kept under close scrutiny (in some cases jointly with IFAD), and savings that
appeared in 1998-99 were quickly re-programmed to respond to droughts, to support the GOA in
intensified institutional reform steps, and to plan and execute to pilot schemes for conversion from pumped
sources of irrigation water to gravity-fed methods. In 1997-98, the Bank provided technical assistance to
OME in producing a multi-year business plan for phasing in financial self-sufficiency in the irrigation
sector (which included both energy use reduction and tariff increase measures). This business plan was the
basis on which the Government adopted a policy of differentiating irrigation water tariffs by zones in
relation to the supply cost of irrigation water in the different zones. Over the last five years of project
-9-



implementation, the members of the core supervision team of agricultural economist (Task Team Leader),
agronomist, irrigation engineer, and irrigation institutions specialist remained the same. This enabled a
strong mentoring process to take place between the Bank team and the PIU, OME, and other MOA
counterparts. This resulted, for example, in the procedure agreed by the Bank and the PIU for every
subsequent investment to undergo a rigorous economic analysis. The end result of the mentoring was that
over the course of 1997-98 the PIU became fully competent to execute the preparation of the DSP and IDP.
For these projects, the PIU was able to systematically prioritize potential investments in the irrigation
system, and fully examine potential trade-offs between proposed components.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, Bank performance was satisfactory, with the strengths exhibited during supervision outweighing
some earlier deficiencies. Jointly, the Bank team and the Government were able to overcome the project's
early problems and produce a satisfactory project outcome. In addition, the Bank's high responsiveness to
the client's needs built up a strong relationship that enabled the preparation of two follow-on projects (the
DSP and IDP) during the course of IRP implementation.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The client's focus on the most important aspects of rehabilitation of the irrigation system was clear from the
beginning. The MOA preparation team quickly absorbed the bank's techniques and requirements during
this first rural sector project in Annenia. This team's continuity was largely maintained during project
implementation and grew stronger. However, a weakness of the project preparation effort was the
insistence on what proved to be very optimistic cost estimates of the costs of goods and civil works.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance was strong and usually resolute on operational issues. The refocusing of the
project after the RCM was agreed on and processed relatively quickly and then implemented with full
knowledge and guidance of the Minister of Agriculture, in his capacity as Chairman of the Project
Management Board. In a wider sense, the Government's perfornnance could have been much better had it
not back-tracked on the progressive improvement of cost recovery in the irrigation sector by instituting an
ill-advised and politically motivated reduction in the wholesale price of water from 2.95 drams per cubic
meter to 1.9 in 1998. At most, an increase could have been foregone in 1998, but in no way was a
reduction in the rate justifiable. In the end, this has led to a lengthening of the period required to achieve
full cost recovery in the irrigation sector in the future by about 7 years (now envisioned for 2006).
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the PIU was excellent. After two years of technical assistance for improved technical
design and construction supervision of sub-projects, the PIU learned to more accurately cost project
interventions using periodically updated market prices for different types of civil works and goods. It also
made contractors increase their responsibility for adequate quality of works, as in 1996-97, a number of
works by contractors were rejected until the re-done works met the standards imposed by the PIU (at
virtually an international level of quality). Moreover, during the RCM re-programming exercise, the PIU
became fully acquainted with discounted cost-benefit analysis and applied this methodology with increased
expertise to all new sub-projects that had been provisionally included in the project's work program after
the RCM. This methodology was so well practiced that the PIU went on to do the bulk of the field
investigation and costing in the preparation work for the DSP and IDP. In short, the PIU staff managed to
progress along a steep learning curve throughout the entire project implementation period.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Borrower performance was satisfactory because the MOA and the PIU demonstrated increased ownership
- 10 -



of Participatory Irrigation Management principles and managed to acquire and apply improved analytic,
design, and procurement skills during the course of 1997-99. This enabled them to mount a very efficient
project implementation effort during and subsequent to the RCM, which compensated for the deficiencies
of project preparation. It also enabled them to actively promote and execute the institutional measures
needed to attain the IRP's objectives and to formulate follow-on projects which were more carefully
prepared and which focus on widening the geographic area in which the IRP's objectives continue to be
pursued.
8. Lessons Learned
In broad terms, the main lessons learned during the implementation of the IRP were:
1) Using local prices for project costing when project preparation takes place in a highly inflationary
environment (with concomitant exchange rate instability) should be avoided. All attempts should be
made to use unit prices from regionally located economies with more or less low inflation and stable
exchange rates.
2) If clients are to be able to respond efficiently to the evolving conditions, their financial management
personnel must have close contact with the design personnel as well as with the procurement group, for
two main reasons. First, costing of contracts must use the most recently available results of tenders to be
able to recognize trends in unit rates and revise expected costs accordingly. Secondly, during the last two
years of project implementation, these three groups must be able to constantly update their full project costs
to the end of the project and know whether large overruns or underruns are expected to occur, so as to
advise PIU Directors, who in turn can advise Project Management Boards on corrective actions. This is
especially true in IDA-financed projects, as over five years of implementation the value of the SDR can
change substantially. In the IRP's case, the SDR lost roughly 5% of its value, trimming US $2.1 million
off available funds in US dollars. Still, proactive performance by the PIU foresaw this, avoided cost
overruns, and managed to use all available savings to finance 1600 water meters in the last year of the
project.
3) In the institutional area, the main lesson learned relates to the importance that must be given to
institutional development as a prerequisite for achieving efficiency and sustainability in the
development and management of irrigation and drainage systems. On the one side, weak public sector
agencies with overlapping allocation of responsibilities, limited authority, and inadequate resources, failed
to reduce operational losses of water in the system and to increase the share of resources spent over the
medium-term for system maintenance. On the other side, water users with no capability and legal authority
to influence the actions of public agencies, too often resign themselves to accepting whatever public
agencies manage to deliver, in an atmosphere of mistrust and guarded cooperation. The experience of the
latter half of the IRP, and of the follow-on IFAD-financed and IDA-financed projects, demonstrates that
improved national institutional arrangements are key to generalizing the Participatory Irrigation
Management (PIM) approach and enhancing the efficiency and sustainability of irrigation systems in
Armenia.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
During the ICR mission, a wide range of project participants and beneficiaries was interviewed on
questions regarding the scope, success, lessons learned, etc. of the IRP. All individuals interviewed
asserted that the rehabilitation of critical structures (siphons, aqueducts, etc.) and the rehabilitation works
of emergency type carried out on the most deteriorated sections of main and secondary canals in the eight
most important schemes of the country were crucial. The first group of interventions guaranteed the system
- 11 -



to continue to operate while the second group increased the system's effectiveness by heavily reducing
water losses. As an example, in the Artashat scheme alone, besides ensuring that the scheme's irrigation
infrastructure would not collapse, the interventions made under the project saved an estimated 30 million
cubic meters of water from being lost at the secondary and tertiary level.
Rehabilitation of critical structures, main and secondary canals. There was virtual unanimity that the
decision to focus on emergency rehabilitation works on structures and main and secondary canals was the
right one to take at the time the project was designed. This focus was maintained over the project's life and
strengthened during the second year of the project when interventions to be financed were redefined. The
redefinition directed resources towards more critical interventions previously omitted or given less
emphasis. Again, all interviewees affirmed that if those emergency works had not been carried out, the
irrigation system would have now collapsed and today there would be almost no irrigated agriculture in
Armenia. This is particularly important considering that 80% of the current agricultural production in the
country comes from irrigated agriculture, and therefore many persons interviewed underlined how the
project helped avoid a notable increase in the incidence of rural poverty.
Institutional changes at community level and rehabilitation of tertiary canals. The introduction under
the project of a first important phase of institutional reform in the irrigation sector, the Water Users
Consumers Cooperatives (WUCCs), is generally considered very positive. On this aspect some differences
among interviewees's judgments and degrees of satisfaction could be noted. The introduction of WUCCs
has been generally considered a first step towards a more effective management of the irrigation system,
but many noted how these WUCCs are still very weak to perform effectively and surely not ready to take
over responsibility for O&M of larger parts of the system. The need for additional and continuous support
especially in establishing internal democratic processes and in improving their accountability was
emphasized frequently. It was noted that the success of WUCCs is linked to the future investment in new
institutional patterns and that to stop strengthening WUCCs would mean losing much of the effectiveness
of the amounts already invested for this purpose. The request to continue to promote the establishment of
WUCCs, together with IFAD, was supported by the evidence that properly strengthened and organized
WUCCs significantly reduced the loss of water at on-farm level, as did the investments on the tertiary level
financed by IFAD within the project.
Institutional support at agency level. Opinions among the interviewees varied largely when discussing
the institutional support provided under the project to the Operation and Maintenance Enterprise (OME).
In general, some form of support to OME was considered to be necessary, given its incapacity to provide
basic operation and maintenance of the system. Still, there is strong disagreement among the interviewees
on how this support could have best been provided and on the extent of its effectiveness. On the one hand,
some individuals interviewed claimed the support to have been insufficient (therefore the continuing poor
performance of this agency), while on the other hand critics underlined how it would have been better to use
those funds for improving OME's capabilities instead of financing some of its current activities. The critics
mainly expressed the concept that it would have been better to start a proper reorganization and
strengthening program for all O&M agencies instead of providing funds to OME for some current
activities, some of which were not probably effectively performed (i.e. cleaning of canals), or conflicted
with the general Government strategy (i.e. rehabilitation of tubewells, which increased energy usage in the
sector). All interviewees agreed that the best investment made for institutional support purposes was the
procurement of water meters, since a clear accountability of the water amounts delivered represents the
basis for a performing system and will lower the level of conflict among different institutional actors and
with the ultimate customers, the farners.
Tariff policy and cost- recovery. This issue was not discussed in depth will all the interviewees given the
- 12 -



scarce involvement of many of them in the decision-making process and their lack of knowledge of the real
trend of the figures. Nevertheless, some aspects emerge clearly from the discussions with decision-makers
and other individuals: (i) the cost recovery level has been heavily influenced in specific periods by political
decision to reduce the water fee (i.e., in 1998 when the wholesale irrigation water fee dropped to 1.9 drams
per cubic meter compared to a level of 2.95 drams per cubic meter in 1995; (ii) the heavy influence of the
energy expenses on the deficit of OME has been modestly reduced and it is of primary importance for the
creation of any sustainable O&M agency or users association; (iii) the government should not intervene
further, as happened in the past, in deciding or regulating the level of the retail mark-up that WUCCs add
to the wholesale water fee and should limit its role to regulatory decisions; and (iv) a final settlement of the
OME budget loans received for covering energy expenses of past years should be developed.
Future perspectives for the program and irrigation sector strategy. It has been generally noted that the
rehabilitation interventions already carried out have improved remarkably the system's effectiveness.
Therefore, despite the fact that the system is still not in optimal shape, the time is right for passing from an
emergency phase into a new phase where a more systematic strategy for developing and ensuring
sustainability of the irrigation system in Armenia is the new top priority. Indeed, this is the strategy now
adopted under the IDP. This does not exclude that a continuous monitoring of the technical state of the
system's infrastructure should take place nor that interventions should be made wherever critical
rehabilitation works are considered necessary.
(b) Cofinanciers:
lFAD's collaboration with the World Bank in the context of the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project fits into
the institution's overall strategy of developing expertise in sectors and drawing lessons from working with
beneficiary groups in transitional economies, as well as working with other multilateral donors to leverage
resources and influence policy. In this particular case, IFAD was able to partner with the World Bank in a
country where IFAD was investing for the first time, complementing the World Bank's emphasis on
primary and secondary level rehabilitation, with support for tertiary schemes and the development of
WUCCs.
The overall goal of IFAD support to the IRP was to improve the household food security and incomes of
some 100,000 extremely poor small private farm families (nearly 400,000 people) in 5 districts. The
project objectives were to: (a) increase food production capacity and farm income of the target group
farmers through improved water delivery and on-farm water management; and (b) to organize farmers into
formal associations with a proper legal framework and the responsibility and accountability to operate,
maintain, and manage the tertiary systems and to collect water charges.
The goals and objectives as stated were to be achieved through financing of two components: (i)
rehabilitation of tertiary canals; and (ii) water management, which comprised the sub-components of pilot
water management projects and institutional support.
Given the findings of the World Bank Implementation Completion Report and IFAD Project Completion
Report, there can be little doubt that the project has met its objective to increase food production capacity.
With regard to increased farm income, experience has shown that this is primarily an issue of marketing of
agricultural products. While farm family subsistence might have been assured by project support, incomes
remain highly vulnerable to the problems of selling fresh food and continuing constraints in the
agro-processing sector. Nevertheless, it is clear that the rehabilitation of irrigation schemes prevented what
would have been a notable increase in the incidence of rural poverty had the networks been allowed to
continue to deteriorate.
- 13 -



Despite difficulties in implementation, the IRP should be judged as having been very successful in terms of
its overall achievements: critical elements of the national irrigation system have been rehabilitated;
efficiency of irrigation water use has been greatly improved; a participatory irrigation management
structure has been established; and major increases in rural poverty have been avoided.
The performance of IDA, as the project initiator, main financier and IFAD Co-operating Institution (CI)
has been highly satisfactory with respect to supervision, implementation support and financial management.
It is to the particular credit of the CI, Government, PIU and IFAD that it has proved possible to
successfully establish the basic principles and procedures of participatory irrigation management in the
context of a project in which this objective was not originally envisaged. Supervision missions have been
regular, and their composition and recommendations relevant to project needs. There has been timely
identification of emerging problems and appropriate remedies suggested.
Implementation records also show that the objective of improving water delivery appears to have been
achieved, with a majority of the WMS WUCC beneficiaries receiving water on a regular basis, in a similar
area and number of water deliveries per year.
With regard to the objective to 'organize farmers into formal associations...' the project has effected
radical change.  While there are many issues to be resolved in relation to clarifying rights and
responsibilities, fully articulating the legal and regulatory environment, and improving farmer training and
WUCC sustainability, the institutional landscape in Armenia has been radically changed, with increased
participation, beneficiary capacity building, decentralization and institutional innovation.  Moreover,
farmer attitudes and behavior have been fundamentally altered in that farmers no longer function or see
themselves as agricultural labor for the state, but rather as commercial smallholders both needing and
entitled to negotiate competitive prices for agricultural service provision in the context of a market
economy.
There are, however, a number of further recommendations that need to be taken into consideration with a
view to building upon the project's accomplishments. During the course of the project, there have been
substantial water charges and this has contributed to a general uncertainty over irrigation planning and
costs. A study of the real cost of water should be undertaken to identify cost-reduction opportunities,
reduce cost fluctuations, and examine the case for differential tariffs.
As part of the pursuit of greater irrigation cost-effectiveness it is recommended that: (i) an updated
technical design manual for tertiary and quatemary levels be produced; (ii) crop-specific irrigation
schedules be tested and disseminated; (iii) further options for low-energy irrigation be explored; and (iv) at
least a pilot privatization of water delivery services be tested.
Finally, options should be explored for alleviating market constraints, since these in turn impact adversely
upon the collection of water charges and subsequent operation and maintenance of irrigation systems.
The lessons learned in the implementation of IRP have been incorporated in the two subsequent
IFAD-financed interventions in Armenia, with the IRP approach being used in the implementation of
irrigation rehabilitation and WUA development in the North-West Agricultural Services Project and the
recently approved Agricultural Services Project.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 14 -



10. Additional Information
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Outcome indicators were not defined at
project appraisal. The development objective
was reformulated in April 1995, to be more
concise and measurable. To maintain the
level of irrigated agricultural production,
improve the country's water resources
management, and accelerate the
development of water distributon institutions
and support facilities needed for a
market-based privatzed agriculture, as
defined by:
Numberof hectares receiving irrigaion water 148,000 hectares (93% of all irrigable  146,800 hectares (92.3% of all irrigable
in the project area (and as expressed as  acreage in 2000)                     acreage in 2001)
share of all irrigable acreage in the project
area).
Average farm income per family in project   $1,600                             Not available yet for 2001
area (induding farm producton consumed).
Coverage of O&M costs by OME as        33.6% (2000)                            34.7% (as of February, 2001)
measured by cost recovered rate multiplied
by collection rate.
Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                   Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of Water Users Groups b whom    100 WUGs, 25,000 hectares               106 WUGs, 27,800 hectares
management of O&M for tertiary canals has
been successfully transferred from OME
(and area covered by these transferred
tertiary canals).
Share of irrigabon water in main canals  70%                                   72.6%
reaching farm level
End of project
- 16-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs By Component, Million $US      SAR    Revised Full Revised Project at Actual Final  Percentage
Estimates  Cost of SAR    MTR (to fit   Expenditures    of MTR
Estimates    original budget)            Revised Project
Rehabilitation of Main and Secondary Canals in 8    14.72  36.00        24.32          26.68         109.7%
Conveyance Schemes (including Water Meters)
Rehabilitation of 4 Punmping Stations        9.46        12.20          3.50            1.69            48.4%
Rehabilitation of Tubewells                  6.94        10.39          3.60           4.50            125.1%
Rehabilitation of 4 Dams                     1.31        3.50           2.00            0.93            46.6%
Pilot Projects to Improve Water Management   6.22*       30.37          7.62           7.80          102.3%
and Rehabilitation of Tertiary Canals
Incremental O&M costs                        5.00        5.00           5.00            5.87           117.4%
Technical  Assistance  (incl.  Design   and    1.10      6.60           4.18            3.46            82.8%
Supervision)
Project Implementation Unit                  1.46        3.30            1.46           0.92            62.7%
Total Base Cost                             46.21       107.36         51.69           51.86           100.3%
Physical contingencies                       8.06        5.37           2.58
Price contingencies                          2.88        6.69           2.88
Grand Total                                  57.15      119.42          57.15          51.86         90.7%  -
- 17-



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (SAR Estimate)
(in mln US$)
Procurement Method
N Expenditure Category                                                  Total
ICB         NCB         Other        Cost
I Works                           0.850        12.100       0.130       13.080
(0.680)     (9.680)      (0.100)     (10.460)
2 Goods                           21.710       10.740       2.220       34.670
2 Goods                          (19.770)      (8.540)     (1.900)    (30.210)
3.60        3.60
3 Consultancies                                             (3.60)      (3.60)
4 Other                                                     5.800       5.800
(5.000)     (5.000)
22.560    22.840         11.750      57.150
Trotal             (20.450)     (18.220)     (10.600)    (4927)
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA and IFAD
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual)
(in mln US$)
Procurement Method
N Expenditure Category                                                  Total
ICB         NCB         Other        Cost
I Works                            7.34        30.47                    37.8
______ ______ ______ ______ (6.61)  (27.85)                  (34.46)
2 Goods                  ~~~~~1.59     0.54         0.54        2.67
2 Goods                           (1.57)       (0.50)       (0.49)      (2.56)
_                                            ~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~5.52  5.52
3 Consultancies                                              5872        51)
____________ (5.51)     (5.51)
4 Other                                                     (5.87)      (5.87)
_ g g Total 0       0-0; j                               0(X)8.92  31.91  11.93  51.86
Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IDA and IFAD
- 18 -



Project Financing by Component - US$ milion equivalent
Appraisal Estimate    Revised Project at  .    .         % of Revised Project at
Apprlsa EshateMTR                 I;ml sIat                4R
Project Costs by Components                              MTR____
IDA/IFAD    GoA   IDA/IFAD    GoA   IDA/IFAD    GoA   IDAtIFAD    GoA
Rehabilitation of 8 Conveyance Schemes  12.51     2.21      20.67     3.65     24.11     2.57     116.6%    70.4%
Rehabilitation of 4 Pumping Stations    8.04       1.42     2.98      0.53      1.48      0.21     49.9%/o   40.00/o
Rehabilitation of Tubewells             5.90       1.04     3.06      0.54      3.93      0.58    128.4%    106.7/o
Rehabilitation of 4 Dams                 1.29     0.02      1.70      0.30      0.83     0.10      48.90/o    33.3%
Pilot Projects and Tertiary Rehabiltation  5.72   0.50      6.97      0.65      7.76      0.04    111.2%     6.7%
hicremental O&M costs                   5.00      0.00      5.00      0.00      5.87     0.00     117.4%0o
Technical Assistance                     1.10     0.00      4.18      0.00      3.45     0.01      82.6%0o
Project Implementation Unit             1.46      0.00      1.46      0.00      0.92      0.00     62.70/a
Physical Contigencies                   7.36      0.71      2.36      0.23      0.00     0.00      0.0%      0.00/s
Price Contigencies                      2.62      0.26      2.62      0.26     0.00      0.00      0.00/0    0.00/a
Total                                   51.00     6.15      51.00     6.15     4835      3.51     94.8%     57.0%
* Works performed by water users - 0 04 million under Pilot Projects
- 19 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Tables containing Economic Cost/Benefit Analysis of the Project:
* Actual Scenario Used: With Blockade
* Major Assumptions for Economic Cost and Benefit Analysis
* Economic Crop Budgets: Irrigated Wheat per hectare basis
* Economic Crop Budgets: Irrigated Vegetables per hectare basis
* Economic Crop Budgets: Irrigated Forage Crops per hectare basis
* Economic Crop Budgets: Irrigated Fruit per hectare basis
* Economic Crop Budgets: Irrigated Vineyard (grapes) per hectare basis
- 20 -



I :
Republic of Armenia
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Economic Cost Benefit Analysis of the Project
Scenario: with Blockade
(economic values expressed in 1995 constant USD terms)
yrl       yr2         yr3       yr4       yrS       yr6       yr7       yr8       yr9       yrlO
1995      1996        1997      1998      1999      2000      2001      2002      2003       2004
Crop Pattern
Cropping Pattern (with Blockade Scenario   1995      2000
Wheat      23%        60%       23%       30%         38%        45%       53%       60%       60%       60%       60%       60%
Vegetables     21%        12%       21%       19%         17%       16%        14%       12%       12%       12%       12%       12%
Forage      20%        5%       20%        17%         14%       11%        8%        5%        5%        5%         5%        5%
Fruit     19%       13%       19%       18%          17%       15%       14%       13%       13%       13%        13%       13%
Grapes      17%        10%       17%       16%         14%       13%       11%       10%        10%       10%       10%       10%
100%      100%      100%      100%        100%       100%      100%      100%      100%      100%      100%       100%
Without Project
Projected Irrigated Area                    ha             113.834   109,316      104,798   100,280    95,762    91,244    86,726    82,208    77,690    73,172
Projected production-wheat                 ton              65,455    83,080      99,034   113,316   125.927   136,866   130,089   123,312   116.535   109,758
Projected production - vegetables          ton             286,862   251,864     218,818   187,724   158,582   131,391   124,885   118,380   111.874   105.368
Projected production-forage/hay            ton             182,134   148.670     117,374    88,246    61,288    36,498    34.690    32,883    31,076    29,269
Projected production - fruit               ton             151,399   136,208     121,775   108,102    95,187    83,032    78,921    74,809    70,698    66,587
Projected production-grapes                ton             116,111   102,320      89,288    77,015    65,501    54,746    52,036    49,325    46,614    43,903
Expected gross benefits               USD 000               58,157    53,363      48,775    44,392    40,214    36,242    34,448    32,653    30,859    29,064
Operations & maintenance costs per ha  USD/ha                  100        91          82        73        64        56        47         38        29        20
Operations and maintenance costs      USD 000               11,383     9,960       8,617      7,354     6,171     5,069     4,047     3,106      2,244     1.463
ExpectedbenefitslessOSMcosts          USD000                46,774    43,403      40,158    37,038    34,043    31,173    30,401    29,548    28,614    27,601
With Proiect
Projected Irrigated Area                    ha             113,834   120,053      126,272   132.490   138,709   139,755   135,563   131,496   127,551   123,724
CropYield improvementfactorperhectare (1995=1.000)           1.000     1.000        1.015     1.030     1.046     1.061     1.077     1.093      1.110     1.126
Projected production-wheat                 ton              65,455    91,240      121,116   154,239   190,734   222,497   219,059   215,675   212,343   209,062
Projected production - vegetables          ton             286,862   276,602     267,610   255,518   240,195   213,597   210,297   207,048   203,849   200,700
Projected production - forage/hay          ton             182,134   163,272     143,545   120,115    92,829    59,333    58,416    57,513    56.625    55,750
Projected production - fruit               ton             151,399   149,586     148,928   147,141   144,175   134,981   132,896   130,843   128,821   126,831
Projected production-grapes                ton             116,111   112,369     109,197   104,828    99,211    88,999    87,624    86,270    84,937    83,625
Expected benefits (no yield increase)  USD000               58,157    58,604      58,769    58,651    58,250    55,511    53,846    52,230    50,664    49,144
Additional benefits (improved yields)  USD 000                   0         0        1,778     3,639     5,566     7,274     8,887    10,423    11,885    13,275
Operattons and maintenance costs      USD000                11,383    12,005       12,627    13,249    13,871    13,976    13,556    13,150    12,755    12,372
Expected benefits less O&M costs      USD000                46,774    46,599      47,920    49,040    49,944    48,810    49,177    49,504    49,793    50,047
Incremental Benefits
Incremental area irrigated                  ha                   0    10,737      21,474    32,210    42,947    48,511    48,837    49.288    49,861    50,552
Total Incremental benefits            USD 000                   0      3,196       7,762    12,002    15,901    17,637    18,776    19,956    21,179    22,446
Project Investment Costs                USD000    52,150       9.744     8,098      17,152    17,156         0         0         0         0          0         0
Net Benefits                            USD 000               (9,744)   (4,902)     (9,390)   (5,154)   15,901    17,637    18,776    19,956    21,179    22,446
NPV at 10%                              USD 000              76,800
Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                                  35.3%
- 21 -



yrll      yrl2       yrl3       yrl4       yr15      yrl6       yrl7       yr18      yr19       yr20
2005      2006       2007       2008       2009      2010       2011       2012      2013       2014
60%       60%        60%        60%        60%       60%        60%        60%       60%        60%
12%       12%        12%        12%        12%       12%        12%        12%       12%        12%
5%        5%         5%         5%         5%        5%         5%         5%        5%         5%
13%       13%        13%        13%        13%       13%        13%        13%       13%        13%
10%       10%        10%        10%        10%       10%        10%        10%       10%        10%
100%      100%       100%       100%       100%      100%       100%       100%       100%      100%
68,654    64,136     59,618     55,100     50,582    46,064    41,546      37,028     32,510    30,120
102,981    96,204     89,427     82,650     75,873    69,096    62,319      55,542    48,765    45.180
98.862    92,356     85,850     79,344     72,838    66,332    59,826      53.320    46,814    43,373
27,462    25,654    23,847      22,040    20,233     18,426     16.618     14,811    13,004    12,048
62,475    58.364    54,252      50,141     46,030    41,918     37,807     33,695    29,584    27,409
41.192    38,482    35,771      33,060    30,349     27,638     24,928     22,217     19,506    18,072
27.270    25,475    23,680      21,886    20,091     18,297     16,502     14,708     12,913    11,964
20        20         20         20        20         20         20         20        20         20
1,373     1,283      1,192      1,102     1,012        921       831        741        650       602
25,896    24,192    22,488      20,784     19,080    17,375     15,671     13,967     12,263    11,361
120.013    116,412    112,920    109,532    106,246   103,059    99,967     96,968    94,059    91,237
1.126     1.126      1.126      1.126      1.126     1.126      1.126      1.126     1.126      1.126
202,790    196,706   190,805    185,081    179,529   174,143    168,919    163.851    158,935   154,167
194,679   188,838   183,173    177,678   172,348   167,177    162,162    157,297    152,578   148,001
54,077    52,455    50,881      49,355    47,874    46,438      45,045    43,694     42,383    41,111
123,026    119,335    115,755    112,283    108,914   105,647    102,477    99,403    96,421     93,528
81,116    78,683    76,322      74,032     71,811    69,657     67,567     65,540    63,574    61,667
47,669    46,239    44,852      43,507    42,201     40,935    39,707      38,516     37,361    36.240
12.877    12,491     12,116     11,753     11,400    11,058     10,726     10,404     10,092     9,790
18,002    17,462     16,938     16,430     15,937    15,459     14,995     14,545    14,109    13,686
42,544    41,268    40,030      38,829     37,664    36,534     35,438     34,375    33,344    32,344
51,359    52,276    53,302      54,432    55,664    56,995      58.421     59,940    61,549    61,117
16,648    17,076    17,542      18,045    18.585     19,159     19.767     20,408    21.081     20,982
16,648    17,076     17,542     18,045    18,585     19,159     19,767     20,408    21,081     20.982
- 22 -



Republic of Armenia
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Major Assumptions for Economic Cost and Benefit Analysis
Gross benefits factor                        100%
Investment cost factor                       100%
Yield Improvement with project (yr3 to 10)/yr  1.5%
Cropping Pattern: see assumption boxes in the economic cost benefit analysis of the project.
Gross
Margin  farmgate       Base
crop budgets   price     Yield
USD   USD/ton    ton/ha
Wheat       180        225        2.5
Vegetables       846        125       12.0
Forage        37         45        8.0
Fruit    1,012       225         7.0
Grapes       542        180        6.0
Without project (irrigated area):
Land balance (ha)                                    150,600
presently irrigated 1995 (ha)                        113,834
deterioration rate/year of the land balance (ha)          3%
residual area of the land balance (ha)                   20%
yrl    from yr 10
operations and maintenance costs (USD/ha)      100         20
With project (irrigated area):
potential additional area irrigated by yr 5           24,875
potential additional area irrigated by yr 10           5,232
yrl toyr1O  fromyr11
operations and maintenance costs (USD/ha)      1001       150|
Total potential irrigated                  143,941
Salinity problem area (ha)                   3,253
forest & bushes (ha)                         1,956
pastures (ha)                                1,450
Check land balance (ha)                    150,600
- 23 -



Republic of Armenia
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Economic Crop Budgets
(expressed in Drams and in 1995 terms)
Irrigated Wheat per hectare basis
Total
INCOME                                   quantitv     price              Drams
Expected yield (kg/ha)                   2,500
Economic Import Parity Farmgate price/kg              90
Income (Dram/ha)                                                      225,000
EXPENDITURES
Inputs
Seed (kg/ha x price/kg)                  200        125               25,000
Equiv. of-Urea,KCL,TSP(kg/ha x price/kg)  175       142              24,850
Pesticides (kg/ha x price/kg)              2      3,500                7,000
Mechanized Work (rental basis)
Ploughing                                                             15,000
Cultivation                                                            7,500
Levelling                                                              7,000
Ridging                                                                7,000
Combining                                                             15,000
Fuel costs (0.15 L/hp/hr x 82hp x l0hrs)  1231      200               24,600
On-farm transport and Miscellaneous                               F  20,000
Total Expenditures                                             68%   152,950
GROSS MARGIN (excluding labor, cost of water & taxes)            32%    72,050
USD equiv.      180
- 24 -



I. ..
Republic of Armenia
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Economic Crop Budgets
(expressed in Drams and in 1995 terms)
Irrigated Vegetables per hectare basis
Total
INCOME                                  quantity     price              Drams
Expected yield (kg/ha)                 12,000
Estimated Average Farmgate price/kg                  50
Income (Dram/ha)                                                     600,000
EXPENDITURES
Inputs
Seed (kg/ha x price/kg)                   1      5,000               5,000
Equiv. of-Urea,KCL,TSP(kg/ha x price/kg)  30      142               42,600
Pesticides (kg/ha x price/kg)             7      3,500              24,500
Mechanized Work
Ploughing (rental)                                              F  15,000
Cultivation (rental)
Fuel costs (0.15 L/hp/hr x 82hp x 7hrs)   861      200              17,200
On-farm Misc. (spraying, transport etc)                            150,000
Total Expenditures                                            44%   261,800
GROSS MARGIN (excluding labor, cost of water & taxes)           56%   338,200
USD equiv.     846
- 25 -



I. .
Republic of Armenia
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Economic Crop Budgets
(expressed in Drams and in 1995 terms)
Irrigated Forage Crops per hectare basis
Total
INCOME                                   quantity     price              Drams
Expected yield - hay equivalent (kg/ha)  8,000
Estimated Average Farmgate price/kg                   18
Income (Dram/ha)                                                      144,000
EXPENDITURES
Inputs
Seed (kg/ha x price/kg)            ZI7   35 2I     0 2                 7,000
Equiv. of-Urea,KCL,TSP(kg/ha x price/kg)  100       142               14,200
Mechanized Work
Mowing and Raking                                                     18,000
Baling                                                                35,000
Baling Twine                                                          10,000
On-farm transport                                                     45,000
Total Expenditures                                              90%   129,200
GROSS MARGIN (excluding labor, cost of water & taxes)            10%    14,800
USD equiv.       37
- 26 -



I::
Republic of Armenia
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Economic Crop Budgets
(expressed in Drams and in 1995 terms)
Irrigated Fruit per hectare basis
Total
INCOME                                   quantity     price               Drams
Expected yield (kg/ha)                   7,000
Estimated Average Farmgate price/kg                   90
Income (Dram/ha)                                                      630,000
EXPENDITURES
Inputs
Planting materials (replanting)                                        3,000|
Equiv. of-Urea,KCL,TSP(kg/ha x price/kg)    X00 |      142            42,600
Pesticides (kg/ha x price/kg)      [              3,500               24,500
Mechanized Work
Spraying                                                              75,000
On-farm transport and Miscellaneous                               [80,000 |
Total Expenditures                                             36%   225,100
GROSS MARGIN (excluding labor, cost of water & taxes)            64%   404,900
USD equiv.    1,012
- 27 -



I::
Republic of Armenia
Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Economic Crop Budgets
(expressed in Drams and in 1995 terms)
Irrigated Vineyard (grapes) per hectare basis
Total
INCOME                                  quantity     price               Drams
Expected yield (kg/ha)                   6,000
Estimated Average Farmgate price/kg                   72
Income (Dram/ha)                                                     432,000
EXPENDITURES
Inputs
Planting materials                                                      i 3,000
Equiv. of-Urea,KCL,TSP(kg/ha x price/kg)  300|     142               42,600
Pesticides (kg/ha x price/kg)      L     j7    |   ,       0         24,500
Mechanized Work
Spraying                                                             75,000
On-farm transport and Miscellaneous                              |70.000
Total Expenditures                                             50%   215,100
GROSS MARGIN (excluding labor, cost of water & taxes)           50%   216,900
USD equiv.      542
- 28 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
March 11-24,                 4   Task Team Leader/Economist,
1993                              Land and Water Development
Specialist, Economist,
Agronomist
Appraisal/Negotiation
October 8-28,                6   Task Team
1993                             Leader/Economist, Water
Resources and Irrigation
Engineer, Agriculturist,
Economist, Sociologist,
Water Management
Specialist
PIU Establishment            2   Task Team Leader/Economist,
and Procurement                   Procurement Specialist
April 15-29, 1994
Supervision
January 10-21,               3   Task Team                           HS            HS
1995                              Leader/Economist, Irrigation
Engineer, Business Specialist
July 17-31, 1995             5   Task Team Leader/Economist,          U            HS
Economist, Water Development
Specialist, Water Resources
Engineer, Irrigation Engineer
October 25 -                 3   Division Chief, Irrigation           U             S
November 2, 1995                  Specialist, Irrigation Engineer
February 19 -                6   Task Team Leader/Agricultural        S             S
March 3, 1996                     Economist, Agricultural
Economist, Agricultural Survey
Specialist, Irrigation Specialist,
Irrigation Engineer, Water User
Association Specialist
June 23 - July 4,            5   Task Team Leader/Agricultural        S             S
1996                             Economist, Division Chief,
Irrigation Specialist, Irrigation
Engineer, Agricultural Survey
Specialist
December 2-13,               2   Task Team Leader/Agricultural        S             S
1996                             Economist, Irrigation Specialist
June 1-14, 1997              3   Task Team Leader/Agricultural        S             S
Economist, Irrigation Specialist,
Financial Analyst
October 11-21,               3   Task Team Leader/Agricultural        S             S
1997                             Economist, Economist, Irrigation
Specialist
- 29 -



April 22 - May 4,            7  Task Team Leader/Agricultural        S             S
1998                             Economist, Sector Manager,
Agriculturist, Irrigation
Engineer, Dam Engineer, two
Agricultural Economists
January 25 -                 5   Task Team Leader/Agricultural       S             S
February 6, 1999                 Economist, Agricultural
Economist, Natural Resources
Economist, Land and Water
Development Engineer, Financial
Analyst
September 20 -               4   Task Team Leader/Agricultural       S             S
October 1, 1999                  Economist, Ag Economist,
Economist, Financial Analyst
March 21-31, 2000            4   Task Team Leader/Agricultural       S             S
Economist, Economist, Land and
Water Development Engineer,
Financial Analyst
October 18-30,               4   Task Team Leader/Agricultural       S             S
2000                             Economist, Economist,
Procurement Specialist, Financial
Analyst
ICR
July 15-25, 2001             3    Task Team                          S             S
Leader/Agricultural
Economist, Economist,
Financial Analyst
October 24-30,              2    Task Team Leader/Agricultural       S             S
2001                              Economist, ICR Specialist
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle  [                Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                      82                         328
Supervision                               130                         610
ICR                                         5                          25
Total
- 30 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(Hi=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA-Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                          O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
0 Sector Policies                          O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                 * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
L Financial                                O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
O Institutional Development                O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
OI Environmental                           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
F3 Poverty Reduction                O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
E Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
El Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Private sector development               0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Public sector management                0 H  O SU * M  0 N  0 NA
3 Other (Please specify)                   0 H  0 SU 0 M  0 N  * NA
- 31 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                  Rating
I7 Lending                                           O HS *s O U O HU
I Supervision                                        OHS OS   O u  Q HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
3 Preparation                                        O HS O S  O  U  O HU
3 Government implementation performance              C HS * s  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                  0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
3 Overall                                            OHS * S O U O HU
- 32 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. MOA/IRP PIU, Water Management Section. Inception Report, " Technical Assistance to the Project
Management Board". January 1996.
2. WB Official Memorandum. "Armenia: Irrigation Rehabilitation Loan (IRP) - Amendment to Credit
Agreement". May 2, 1997.
3. WB/MOA Report: "Operation and Maintenance Enterprise Business Plan". November 10, 1997.
4. Revised Economic Analysis of the IRP from FAO/CP. May 5, 1998.
5. Mid-Term Review Working Paper from FAO/CP. May 29, 1998.
6. WB/MOA Report: "Operation and Maintenance Enterprise Revised Business Plan". November 1998.
7. ECSSD Working Paper No. 17. "Armenia's Private Agriculture: 1998 Survey of Family Farms".
September 1, 1999
- 33 -



Additional Annex 8. S ummary Report of Irrigation Rehabilitation Project Implementation
Unit
Introduction
The agriculture sector is heavily dependent on irrigation because of low precipitation in the main
production area of the Ararat Valley. The share of irrigated farming in agricultural production of the
Republic of Armenia is about 80%. Therefore hydraulic engineering has always been of prior importance in
Armenia. 80 reservoirs, 3200 km of main and secondary canals, 17900 km of on-farm network, 403
pumping stations, 2221 tubewells and artesian wells, 1609 km of collector-drainage system, 3000 km of
pasturelands watering network were constructed in Armenia before 1990. Total cost of the main assets of
irrigation schemes is above USS 1.5 billion.
The above-mentioned schemes provide irrigation water to about 320 thousand farms on the area of 283,0
thousand Ha. Before transfer to charged use of water the system was operated and maintained by the
Government, for which significant allocations were made from the budget. Back in 1995 on the basis of
international experience improvement projects were initiated with the aim to prevent further deterioration of
the system and decentralize irrigation water management. In order to achieve the objectives stated above,
rehabilitation and development of water sector are required with involvement of private investors.
All water supply systems have complicated engineering structures (hydraulic units of dams, pumping
stations, siphons, aqueducts, tunnels, storm run-offs etc.), which require daily care and proper operation.
Before 1992 annual allocation from the state budget for O&M of irrigation schemes was about 60 million
Rubles, as to hydraulic engineering works, annual allocation amounted to 150 million Rubles.
After privatization of land in Armenia free use of water became charged. This transfer was intended to
provide O&M of the system at the account of collected water charges. However, lack of sufficient
collection of required charges did not allow for adequate operation and maintenance, which led to rapid
decrease of technical state of the system and to its deterioration.
In 1993-1994 on the initiative of RA Government, the World Bank experts began preparation works on the
first project of irrigation schemes rehabilitation. After assessment of the situation Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project was designed.
Irri2ation Rehabilitation Proiect
The major objectives of the Project:
Prevent further deterioration of irrigation system.
Provide water supply of eight major irrigation schemes of the country.
Improve water resources management in the country.
Prepare second stage of the Project - Irrigation Development Project.
In order to achieve the above-mentioned objectives the Project provided for implementation of the
following:
Rehabilitation of main and secondary canals, including aqueducts, siphons, and other hydraulic
structures, as well as the most critical sections of Arzni-Shamiram, Artashat, Armavir, Talin, Low
- 34 -



Hrazdan, Shirak, Kotaik, and Getik Irrigation Schemes.
*     Rehabilitation of hydro-mechanical and electric equipment and critical sections of Mckchian I and
II Stages, Arevshat, and Marmarashen Pumping Stations.
-     Rehabilitation of irrigation spillways, tunnels, and towers of Mantash, Karnout, Aparan, and
Sarnaghbiur Reservoirs.
Rehabilitation of 160 tubewells in Armavir, Ararat, and Kotaik Regions (Marzes).
Establishment of pilot Water Users Associations and rehabilitation of their on-farm network over
10.0 thousand Ha of lands under command of Arzni-Shamirarn, Artashat, Armavir, and Talin Irrigation
Schemes.
Support to OME ("Vorogum" SCJSC) in O&M of the system.
The rehabilitation Project cost amounted to US$ 55.15 million, out of which:
IDA credit- 29.4 million SDR (US$ 43.0 million)
*     IFAD credit - 5.4 million SDR (US$ 8.0 million)
*     RA Government counterpart funding - US$ 4.15 million
The Project was implemented on the basis of Credit Agreements between the Republic of Armenia,
Intemational Development Association (IDA), and International Fund of Agricultural Development
(IFAD).
IDA Credit Agreement N2667 - AM, signed on 12.16.94, approved on 01.17.95.
IFAD Credit Agreement N380 - AM, signed on 06.14.95 approved on 09.26.95.
Project Implementation
The Project implementation started in December of 1994. In 1995-96 in the process of the Project
implementation it became obvious that the Project had been underestimated (there were significant overruns
of unit rates in the signed contracts for civil works). RA Ministry of Agriculture and IDA agreed to review
and re-estimate the Project.
With this objective inspection of main, secondary, tertiary canals and their structures, tubewells, and
pumping stations was performed, in the result of which the Project was completely re-estimated. While
compiling the list of targeted works, the requirements of O&M Agencies were taken into consideration.
Starting from 1996 when the Project was being reviewed, no new contract was concluded. Designing, bid
opening, and contracts awarding restarted in September 1996 after completion of the Project review.
Review and re-estimation of the Project caused its delay by about 9 months. Besides, review of the Project
led to significant changes in the Project implementation policy. Actually the Project comprised civil works
contracts mainly under Local Competitive Bidding procedures, while the share of procurement of
equipment and materials provided under International Competitive Bidding was small. This was an
important factor, since the procurement of equipment and materials according to the World Bank
procedures takes 6 months, while for design and civil works - it takes at least one year. So, changes in
categories of expenditures resulted in delay of the Project by another 6 months. Thus, the delay in use of
the project proceeds can be justified with the factors, mentioned above. This delay was reported on in the
documents submitted to the WB in March 1997. The WB Directors Board having reviewed the documnents
approved the Project review according to the proposals of RA Ministry of Finance and Economy and WB
team.
- 35 -



Since 1997 after implementation of the Project review the numnber of local companies participating in
construction tenders have increased, and starting from 1998 international firms also began to participate in
the Bidding. Due to the facts stated above the prices of unit rates decreased. This resulted in generation of
saved amounts from the means provided for planned quantities (about US$ 11.0 million). Use of these
savings was determined by the Project Management Board and World Bank, which initiated solution of the
major issues of the sector, i.e. registration of the water and energy used, conversion from pumping
irrigation to gravity, improvement of irrigated lands reclamation state, provision of "Vorogum" SCJSC
with communication means, O&M of irrigation schemes.
Additional Works Included in the Project at the Account of Savings
Rehabilitation of main and secondary canals 33 km long, including emergency works in Sjunik,
which became urgent in the result of 1997 flood, as well as critical sections of Spandarian Main Canal.
Construction of canals and pressure pipelines 87 km long for conversion of pumping irrigation to
gravity.
Rehabilitation and construction of 78 tubewells (59 old, 19 new) aiming at mitigation of drought
and water shortage impact, which ensured reliable irrigation of 4,0 thousand Ha of irrigable lands.
Under the conditions of charged water use rehabilitation and construction of 2145 water
measuring posts country-wide, as well as purchase and installation of 1545 flow meters on open sections of
the canals and underground pipelines aiming at accurate registration of water.
Drainage system: implementation of cleaning and deepening activities over 310 km of water
catchments area (about 260 units) and Hrazdan-Araks collector, which led to draw down of ground water
horizon by 0. -1.0 m over 2.5 thousand Ha of waterlogged lands in Ararat Valley.
Provision of reliable water supply over 4,3 thousand Ha of lands due to reconstruction of 7
pumping stations on the collectors. These are Zartonk, Khor Virap, Nojakert, Avshar-Ajgevan, Left
Branch, Arevik and Ararat.
Considering that the share of energy in water tariff is about 70%, 672 two-tariff meters were
purchased and installed at pumping stations, which facilitated registration of energy consumed by
"Vorogum" SCJSC. Besides, difference of day and night energy rates enabled to save from the annual
operating costs, required for "Vorogum", about US$ 1,0 million
Rehabilitation of on-farm networks over 16.5 thousand Ha of lands under commnand of
Arzni-Shairam, Artashat, Armavir, and Talin Irrigation Schemes.
RA Irrigation Rehabilitation Project was completed on May 31, 2001. Total Project cost due to increase of
US Dollar rate (with regard to SDR), amounted to US$ 51,86 million, out of which according to financing
source:
IDA - 29,4 million SDR (US$ 40.59 million)
IFAD - 5,4 million SDR (US$ 7,80 million)
RA Govemnment counterpart - US$ 3,47 million
The table below shows works provided under the Project and additional ones:
Works               Works provided    Additional works     Total implemented
under the Project                           works
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _  _2                          4                    5
Rehabilitation of main and          140 km             120 km               260 km
secondary canals                                                         74 aqueducts,
- 36 -



52 siphons
Rehabilitation of pumping stations      4                                      4
Rehabilitation of dams                  4                 -                    4
Rehabilitation of old tubewells and    160                78                  238
construction of new ones
Construction of water measuring         -                2145                 2145
posts
Cleaning and rehabilitation of                          310 km               310 km
drainage system
Reconstruction of pumping stations                        7                     7
in deepened collectors
Rehabilitation of on-farm networks,  10,0 thousand Ha   16,5 thousand Ha  26,5 thousand Ha
establishment of WUAs                                  5 WUA                105 WUA
100 WUA
Purchase and installation of                             672                  672
two-tariff electric meters
Purchase and installation of flow                        1545                 1545
meters
In the process of the Project implementation the following contracts were signed: 272 for civil works, 122 -
for design, 15 - for purchase of equipment, and 13 - for O&M of irrigation schemes. Works under RA IRP
were implemented in 10 regions of the country and Yerevan.
Implementation of the Project enabled to do the following:
* Prevent deterioration of RA irrigation schemes and ensure reliable irrigation over 105,6 thousand Ha of
irrigable lands.
* Control intake from 4 reservoirs and prevent water losses from irrigation outlets. This protected the
reservoirs from further failure.
Convert pumping irrigation into gravity over 7.0 thousand Ha of lands thus completely eliminating 24
pumping stations and partially stopping operation of 4 pumping stations, which annually consumed about
25.0 million KWh of energy.
Through water measuring control management and use of supplied irrigation water.
Improve reclamation state of about 7.0 thousand Ha of lands and prevent spreading of malaria cases in
40 residential areas of Ararat Valley.
Save annually about US$ 1.0 million through installation of two-tariff energy meters.
Establish pilot WUCCs, who took over the responsibility for O&M of on-farm irrigation network, receipt
of water from water suppliers and its distribution as well as collection of water charges. Rehabilitate
on-farm irrigation network on the area of the WUCCs and increase efficiency of irrigation water use.
Save annually about 150 million cubic meters of water by reducing leakage and mechanical losses in
rehabilitated main, secondary, and tertiary canals.
Preparation of Irrigation Rehabilitation Project second stage - Irrigation Development Project, the main
objectives of which are: increase of water provision of irrigable lands, increase of reliance (safety) of
irrigation schemes structures, reduction of leakage and mechanical losses of water, control of ground water
level in Ararat Valley, reduction of area dependent on irrigation by pumping, provision of dams safety,
reduction of operating costs, provision of reliable yield, through establishment and strengthening of
WUCCs and Federations create conditions for decentralization of O&M of irrigation schemes, through
- 37 -



institutional improvements enhance efficient management of the schemes, provide transparency of tariff
policy and achieve cost recovery of the sector in 5-7 years. It is planned to implement the Project in two
stages. Implementation of the first stage is provided to start in December 2001.
Rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure provided under the Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, as well as
implementation of additional works prevented irrigation sector of the country from both technical and
economic break, which would put irrigable farming in a very severe situation, and it is considered to be of
crucial importance, since about 80% of Armenia's agriculture production is produced by irrigated farming.
The Irrigation Rehabilitation Project helped arrest the ongoing decline in agricultural production and
improve the efficiency of water used.
Pictures of the infrastructure facilities rehabilitated under the Project are attached.
Project Manager                                                          A. Ghazaryan
- 38 -



Attachment to Annex 8 - Photographs of before/after rehabilitation of infrastructure
- 39 -



ICB/CW/98/005/ARM-1
Rehabilitation of Artashat Main Canal
Before rehabilitation
After rehabilitation
40 -



ICB/CW/98/005/ARM-1
Rehabilitation of Artashat Main Canal
Before rehabilitation
After rehabilitation
41 



AIRP 95/013
Arzni-Shamiram Irrigation Scheme
Main Canal, Zoravan Subsidiary Canal
Before rehabilitation
-42-



CW199/02
Arzni-Shamiram Main Canal
. Ot. .
Before rehabilitation
24:
After rehabilitation
- 43 -



CW/99/02
Rehabilitation of Arzni-Shamiram Main Canal Siphon
Before rehabilitation
After rehabilitation
44 -



CW-9)7/0i 1,1
Vorotan Irrigation ii
*tj-
|~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~              ..l..........
Before rehabilitation
After rehabiltation
*||g!Ff~~



CW-97,10 GEm
Rehabilitation of Nalband Main Canal
Before rehabilitation
After rehabilitation
46 -



Rehabilitation of on-farri X .ewvork
Before rehabilitation
Afterrehabilitati7 -



RehYat)lifYita2tio 0:i tYbewells
1 1 1 iii jjj jjjjjjjjjjj j 0: 2 00 , b | ( t' ' "E; 'M~I [ ;5I8 X.',;  ;;; } j
0     W   000000VSUUS000000000000;RI0,g2N},*               S                  ''0tttt"0"t'"'""(s0'404U''Sd4fj'M H
Befor                     r2,'_x e habilitat00        ;io i        y      j       ,6       '                      0    000'';'"''Y
aSyyQ  ,y  2}xYpg0Yl_$t-M.  ...................... 4:;}:CCi ....... X 0jisS,, _eS:  tiSP;S'SSR  '.S
R   2Y iYp  .2ii.00t.2_2  yl  t; 405Nffitt-' ;;         .  ;t.;.fj2.?             _    X05                                       ,   "itS.x    ''
After22j! reaii    ;ta                             00tion9l||tt  !|



IRP/ICB/CW-98/OO1 A-SHm-1
Rehabilitation of Arzni-Shamiram Main Canal
Before rehabilitation
After rehabilitation
9-     - -



IRP/ICB/CW-98/001 A-SHm-1
Rehabilitation of Arzni-Shamiram Main Canal
Before rehabilitation
After rehabilitation
- 50 -



CW-97/O09 TAm
Rehabilitation of Talin Main Canal
I-~<o.
Before rehabilitation
After rehabilitation
51s    '



CW-98/004 Can
Rehabilitation of Pressure Pipeline of Mckchian Pumping Station, I Stage
N 11                            -      
M I  1_ 
Before rehabilitation
After rehabilitation
- 52 -



