                                 Documentof
                                The World Bank




                                                  ReportNo.: 28847




             PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                  ARMENIA


        IRRIGATIONREHABILITATIONPROJECT (CREDIT 2667-AM)




                                  May 5,2004




Sector and ThematicEvaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit =Drams (AMD)
1994(Nov)        US$l.oo
                 US$l.OO         -      AMD 385         (Irrigation Rehabilitation Approved)
2001 (Nov)                       -
                                 -      AMD 550         (Irrigation Rehabilitation Completed)

ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS
CAS              Country Assistance Strategy
CAE              Country Assistance Evaluation (by OED)
DIMAs            Drainage andIrrigation Maintenance Agencies
DME              DamMaintenance Enterprise
DWSI             Department ofWater Supply and Irrigation
ERR              Economic Rate of Return
EU               EuropeanUnion
FAOICP           FoodandAgriculture OrganizatiodWorldBank Coop.
IBRD             International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment
IDA              International Development Association
IFC              International Finance Corporation
IFAD             International Fundfor Agricultural Development
IMS              IrrigationManagement System
MOA              Ministry of Agriculture
M&E              Monitoring and Evaluation
MIS              ManagementInformation System
OME              Operation andMaintenance Enterprise
O&M              Operation and Maintenance
PPAR             Project PerformanceAssessment Report
PIU              Project Implementation Unit
SAR              StaffAppraisal Report
SCWM             State Committee for Water Management
swc              State Water Committee
TA               Technical Assistance
UNDP             UnitedNations Development Program
USAID            United States Agency for International Development
WSA              Water Service Agency
WUA              Water User Association
                 Water User federation (composed o f severalWUAs)
wucc
WUF
                 Water User Consumer Cooperative


FISCALYEAR
Government:              January 1-December 31




Director-General,Operations Evaluation                   : Mr.GregoryK.Ingram
Director, OperationsEvaluationDepartment                 : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector and Thematic Evaluation                  : Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             : Mr.GeorgeT. KeithPitman

                                                             1




  OED Mission:Enhancing developmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independencein evaluation.


Aboutthis Report
     The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programsand activities of theWorld Bank for two
purposes:first, to ensurethe integrity of the Banks self-evaluationprocess andto verify that the Banks work is
producingthe expected results, and second,to help develop improveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
the dissemination of lessons drawn from experience.As partof this work, OED annually assessesabout 25 percentof
the Bank's lending operations. Inselecting operationsfor assessment,preference is given to those that are
innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
ExecutiveDirectors or Bank management have requestedassessments;and thosethat are likely to generate
important lessons. The projects, topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessment support larger evaluation
studies.
     A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other doiuments, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
OED studies.
      Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally,the
PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the OED RatingSystem
     The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic methodto arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extentto which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy:The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sustainabilify:The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
     lnstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements andlor (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintendedeffects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance:The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance:The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                                  ...
                                                                                  111



Contents
Principal Ratingsand Key Staff Responsible                                                .................................................................    v

Preface..............................................................................................................................vu                         ..

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................                       ix

1 Background
 .                       ..................................................................................................................                     1

2 The Irrigation RehabilitationProject
  .                                                                              ........................................................................       2

         Objectives................................................................................................................                             2
         Implementation Arrangements ................................................................................                                           2
        Implementation ....................................................................................................... - 3
3 Evaluation
  .                  .....................................................................................................................                      4

         Outcome..................................................................................................................                             - 4
        Relevance.................................................................................................................                              4
        EfJicacy ....................................................................................................................                           6
        EfJiciency ............................................................................................................... 11
        Institutional Development......................................................................................                                        11
        Bank Performance .................................................................................................                                     16
        Borrower Performance .......................................................................................... 17
4 Findings and Lessons
 .                                           .................................................................................................                 17

        Findings.................................................................................................................                              18
        Lessons...................................................................................................................                             20
Annex A BasicData Sheet
           .                                     ..............................................................................................               21

Annex B Tables
           .              ...............................................................................................................                      25

Annex C Project Costs and Financing(US$ million)
           .                                                                                               ..................................................  29

Map




This report was prepared by George T. KeithPitman. who assessedthe project in September2003 The
report was edited by William Hurlbut. and Soon-WonPak providedadministrativesupport                                                             .           .


                                                   V



PrincipalRatings and Key Staff Responsible

ARMENIA: IRRIGATIONREHABILITATIONPROJECT (CREDIT 2667-AM)

                               /CR*                      ICR Review*               PPAR

Outcome                        Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Sustainability                 Highly Likely             Likely                     Likely
Institutional Development      Substantial               Substantial                Substantial
Impact
Bank Performance               Satisfactory              satisfactory               Highly Satisfactory
Borrower Performance           Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Review is an intermediate OED product that seeks to independently verify the findings of
the ICR.


Project                      Task Manager                Division Chief/              Country
                                                         Sector Manager               Director
Appraisal (1994)             Ezriel Brooks               Geoffrey Fox                 Basil Kavalsky
Completion (2001)            Mark Lundell                Joseph Goldberg              Judy O'Connor


                                             vii


Preface

         This is the Project Performance AssessmentReport (PPAR) prepared bythe
Operations Evaluation Department(OED) for the Armenia IrrigationRehabilitation
Project. The projectwas approved inDecember 1994for an IDA Credit o fUS$43 million
andanIFADcredit ofUS$8 million. The project closedtwo years behindschedule inMay
2001 when US$1.5 million o fthe creditwas cancelled. Total project costs at completion
were US$51.8 million.

         This report is basedon the ImplementationCompletionReport(ICR) prepared by
the European and Central Asia Region (No. 23168 datedNovember, 2001), the
Memoranda and Recommendations o f the President, Staff Appraisal Reports,loan
documents, project files, and discussions with Bank staff. An OED missionvisited
Armenia inSeptember 2003 and met stakeholders to discuss the effectiveness o fthe
Bank's assistancewith development and financing partners, project implementing
agencies, private sector agencies, and beneficiaries. The cooperation and assistance o f
central government and regional officials and staff, nongovernmental stakeholders,
cofinanciers, and other interested parties are gratefully acknowledged.

         Armenia was a new Bank client and an evaluation o f this project was requiredto
support OED's Country Assistance Evaluation (CAE). Additionally, at completion the
ICR raised issues o f sustainability because o f challenging socio-economic and national
budget conditions, reliance on subsidies, and institutional restructuring neededto
facilitate divestiture to farmer management and/or ownership.

         Following standard OED procedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the borrower for
comment before it was finalized. N o comments were received.


                                               i x


Summary

        The Armenia IrrigationRehabilitationProject, approved in 1994, addressedthree
major problems. First, following independence from the former Soviet Union and the
macroeconomic crisis 1991-94, there was a markedreductioninthe ability o fthe state to
operate, manage and maintainirrigation infrastructure. The secondwas that inferior
constructionstandards, materials and buildingquality during Soviet times made public-
sector infrastructure liable to premature ageing and failure, a problem exacerbated by
deferred maintenance. And thirdthere was a highreliance on cheap energy for pumping.
The project's primary objective was to assist inmaintainingthe level ofirrigated
agricultural production over 164,700 ha or 60 percent of Armenia's irrigatedlands. The
secondary objective was to improve the country's water resources planning, paying
particular attentionto dam safety, hydropower and environmental concerns.

        The outcome ofthe project is rated as satisfactory. The project substantially
achieved most o f its objectives, with few shortcomings. Following restructuringinits
second year (when lower priority works were postponed to a second phase project),
revisedtargets for irrigatedarea and physical rehabilitationwere fully achieved. Primary
and secondary canals and four dams were rehabilitated. Irrigationfacilities neededfor
market-based privatized agriculture were completed satisfactorily. Operating costs were
cut back primarily through reductiono f energy consumption and water leakage. Flow
measuring facilities were installed so that water volumes could be measured, accounted
for and then sold. The InternationalFundfor Agricultural Development's cofinancing
(US$8 million) successfully reconstructed tertiary level and on-farm irrigation
infrastructure on over a fifth o fthe total project area. And within this 27,000 ha, over 380
kmo ftertiary and quaternary-level irrigationcanals, designedfor large 500+ ha
collective farms, were realigned, rehabilitated and downsized as neededto efficiently
serve the area covered by newly created water user groups.

        Institutional development is rated as substantial. Technical assistance facilitated
sound procurement and contract administrationprocedures, established a viable private
sector contractingcapability, built government's capacity to undertake financial and
economic analysis o f projects, and helpeddevelop a rationalbasis for prioritizing projects
for investment.This was a marked improvement over the ad hoc approach based on
Soviet practice usedbefore 1996.

        The formation ofpilot water user consumer cooperatives was initially successful
but subsequentlythey were found to be too small to be effective. Evenso, government
expanded them nationally in 1998 long before the lessons from the pilots could be
utilizedto improve their design. Buildingon studies fundedby the project and lessons
learned from the Bank's global experience, in2002 water user groups were enabledto
form voluntary water user associations shortly after the project closure. The new
associations merged dozens o f cooperatives into viable management units o f 3,000 to
6,000 ha that benefitedfrom economies o f scale and are adopting commercially-oriented
financial management and cost recovery. Because this reorganization has not yet matured
and government failed to revitalize its irrigation operation and management agency, only
a quarter o f the plannedfull recovery o f operation and maintenance costs was achieved.

                                                X



However, after project closure, and inresponse to conditions for further Bank lending,
the government completely reorganized Armenia's water management into water supply
and water service agencies -but it is too early to judge their performance. A thoroughly
modernized State Water Law was approved in2002.

         Sustainability is rated likely. There is greater clarity about the real costs and
institutionalreforms neededto make irrigation viable. The new WUAs are adopting a
pragmatic approach to reducing costs, as i s the government with its strategy to convert
pumped irrigationto gravity supply where economically feasible. Improving cost
recovery is highon the agenda.

        Bank performance i s rated as highly satisfactory, Rapidly changing market
conditions and Bank experience o f Armenia's realities ledto project restructuringinthe
second year. Supervision was exceedingly thorough, and policy advice was o f very high
quality, appropriate and effective inmoving an agreed reform agenda forward. The pace
and extent o f reform inthe irrigation sector is remarkable consideringthe chronic
situation in 1994. Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

The project experience offers four lessons:

    0   Rehabilitationi s only a partial solution for most irrigationprojects because it i s
        generally a symptom o f inadequate management and insufficient maintenance
        funding. This project clearly demonstratesthat rehabilitationshould be
        supplementedby measuresto foster creation o f efficient institutions with the
        ability, inter alia, to measure and manage water and accurately cost operation and
        maintenance.

    0   Some o f the most effective and simple investments leading to higher levels o f
        efficiency inirrigationprojects are the installation o f a large number o f water and
        electricity flow measuring devices and consultation with stakeholders to agree on
        operating rules.

    0   It is essential that adequate attention is givenduringappraisal to linking
        investmentsinagricultural technology with the measures to improve production
        and marketingo f outputs. The absence o f such complementary investmentmay
        jeopardize the ability o f projectbeneficiaries to cover operation and maintenance
        costs and thus threaten sustainability.

   0    Social assessment and interventions are needed particularly when there i s a high
        level o f rural poverty. Such assessmentwill help to ensure that infrastructure
        investment give adequate attention to beneficiary ownership and their ability to
        contribute towards maintenance o f facilities created. Inthe project, such an
        approach could have created smallholders' cooperatives or micro-credit groups
        that could have moved landowners beyond subsistence agriculture.



                                                                         Gregory K. Ingram
                                                                         Director-General

                                                                     I   Operations Evaluation

                                                       1


1. Background

1.           Armenia is a small, mountainous landlockedcountry inthe Caucasus with an area
o f 29,800 square kilometers and a populationof about 3 million. A third o fthe population
live inYerevan, which is located inthe wide and fertile Ararat valley that forms the
breadbasket o f Armenia and the southwestern border with Turkey. Under the former
centralized economic system o f the Soviet Union, Armenia experienced relatively robust
economic development, unparalleled among other former Soviet republics, which created a
diversified industrial infrastructure, a flourishing agriculture and a moderntransport network.
As a producer of industrial, intermediate and finishedgoods, most trade was with Russia and
surrounding republics - Georgia to the north and Azerbaijan to the east.

2.           The Economy.Followingindependence in 1991,the loss of Soviet support,
markets and highly-subsidizedenergy ledto a rapid decline inindustrial output and high
unemployment. By 1993, GDP had fallen by almost two-thirds. Closure o f gas and nuclear
power (accounting for almost 80 percent o f Armenia's energy consumption) was crippling to
the economy.' The earthquake ofDecember 1998 causedextensivedamage to infrastructure
and housing stock, destroying 40 percent o f the country's manufacturingcapacity, killing
about 30,000 people and leaving 530,000 homeless. Inresponse to all these adverse effects
on the economy, the budgetdeficit reached 55 percent o f GDP in 1993 and inflation hit 5,000
percent. Because o f increasing poverty, high unemployment and rapidly falling living
standards, an estimated 800,000 people emigrated to find better prospects.*

3.           Despite these setbacks, government initiated some reforms prior to membership in
the internationalfinancial institutions(IFIs). Before 1993, most commodity prices, with the
exceptiono f bread, were freed. The government broke upthe collective farms andtransferred
property and land to rural residents, and liberalized retail and producer prices for agricultural
goods. Early steps were taken to privatize most housing. These efforts received an impetus in
1994, following the lifting o f the blockade after the Nagorny-Karabakh ceasefire, from a
comprehensive reform program supported by the internationalcommunity - its primary aim
was fiscal stabilization, overhaul o f the tax system and substantial expenditure cuts. The
Irrigation RehabilitationProjectwas included inthe second round o f Bank credits (FY95-
97), the first round having addressedmacroeconomic reform and earthquake reconstruction.

4.           Agriculture. Landreforms had little effect on agricultural productivity because o f
the lack o f competitive markets, delay inrestructuringandprivatizingagricultural industries
and slow reform o f institutions inheritedfrom the Soviet period. A contraction o f the
economy increased the importance o f agriculture whose contributionrose threefold to 37
percent o f GDP, and its share o ftotal employment rose from 18 percent to over 25 percent by
1993. Evenso, agricultural productiondeclined to 1994 and didnot recover until after 1998.
Overall, agriculture grew by only 13.7% inthe decade 1990-2000, compared to industrial

1. Armenia's Medzamor nuclear power plant (of the same design as Chernobyl) closedbecauseof safety
concernsin 1988, only reopeningin 1995.The economic embargo severely cut imported gas supplies.
2. The incidenceofpovertyroseto 55 percent by 1997. The Gini coefficientrose from 0.30 in 1990 to 0.57 in
1998/99 (the Gini coefficientwould be zero for perfect income equalityand one for total inequality). OED,
CountryAssistance Evaluation, 2003.

                                                2


output which declined by 69% inthe same period. As a result, in2003 agriculture accounted
for almost a quarter o f GDP and remains an important sector o fthe economy. Irrigation
accounts for about 80 percent of total crop production and its sustainability is key to
agricultural performance and rural employment - a majorjustification for this project.

2. The Irrigation RehabilitationProject

5.          Three problems were addressed. The first was a marked reduction inthe ability o f
the state to operate, manage andmaintainirrigation infrastructure. Second, there was ahigh
reliance on cheap energy for pumping. The third was that inferior construction standards,
materials and building quality during Soviet times made public sector infrastructure liable to
premature ageing and failure, a problem exacerbated by deferral o f most maintenance after
1991.

OBJECTIVES

6.          The IrrigationRehabilitationProject's (IRP) primary objective was to assist in
maintainingthe level o f irrigated agricultural production over 164,700 ha (or 60 percent) o f
Armenia's irrigated lands. The secondary objective was to improve the country's water
resources planning, paying particular attention to dam safety and hydropower. Lake Sevan
was beingminedand it was feared that another potential Aral Sea environmental problem
could develop. There was also concern that failure o f wells inthe Ararat valley would leadto
waterlogging Armenia's most productive land. Details o fproject components to achieve
these objectives and their costs, are given inTable 1. The US$57.2 million total cost o f the
IRP was fbnded through an IDA credit o f US$43 millionand US$8 million cofinanced by
IFAD.

7.          At mid-termreviewthe projects objectives were increased to includetwo sub-
objectives covering (a) facilities need for market-based privatized agriculture and (b)
accelerated development o f water distribution institutions. This modification only made
explicit the focus o fthe original components and did not change either the scope or nature o f
the two mainoverall objectives.

IMPLEMENTATION       ARRANGEMENTS

8.          The Ministryo fAgriculture (MOA)was responsible for the project, whose day-to-
day management, administrationand coordinationwas exercised through a Project
ImplementationUnit(PIU). Soon after independence, the Department o f Water Supply and
Irrigation (DWSI), was transferred to the MOA.DWSIhad 11,000 permanent and 3,000
temporary staff, and was primarily an engineeringandtechnical organization with little
experience o fproject management, procurement, and economic and financial appraisal. The
MOAestablished aProjectBoardo fManagement, chaired by a DeputyMinister to make
policy decisions and provide general guidance to project implementation staff, Other
membersofthe boardare the Director ofDWSI, Director ofthe Operation and Maintenance
Enterprise (OME), Director ofthe Economic Department inthe MOA,a second Deputy
Minister,andarepresentative from the MinistryofEconomy.

                                                        3


9.               Day-to-day management of the project involved cooperation among five main line
agencies that were directly or indirectly responsible for irrigation water management. The
Dam Maintenance Enterprise (DME) suppliedwater to the OME that had prime
responsibility for regulating and managing irrigationwater supplies as well as maintaining
the systems. The Drainage Enterpriseoperateddrainage wells and systemsprimarily inthe
Ararat Valley. The ArvaiLake Sevan TunnelAgency regulated outflows from Sevan Lake.
The Water Supply MonitoringAgency collected operational information.

 10.             Inearly 2001,just before project completion, MOA'Sresponsibility for water
resources management was taken over by the newly-formed State Commission for Water
Management as government separatedwater resources management from water resources
use.

Table 1: ProjectObjectives, Components and Costs

           Objectives                               Components                              Costs (US$,million)
                                                                                            Appraisal Actual
 1. Assist in maintaining the level
    of irrigated agricultural
    production                      0  Rehabilitation ofmain, secondary canals in eight      14.72      26.68

  (a) support facilities needed for    projects

 market-basedprivatized             0  Rehabilitation of four pumping stations               9.46        1.69
  agriculture (added after MTR)     0  Rehabilitation of 650 tubewells and electro-
                                       mechanicalequipment                                   6.94        4.50

                                    0  Rehabilitation of four dams (safeguardissue)          1.31        0.93
                                    o  Pilot projectto improve water managementat village    6.22        7.80

 (b) acceleratedevelopmentof           level and reorientthe OperationalMaintenance

 water distribution institutions       Enterprise                                            5.00        5.87
 (addedafter MTR)                   0  IncrementalO&M costs
                                    0  Designand supervision, TA and PIU                     2.06       4.38

2. Improve the country's water      0  Introduceeconomic and financial considerationsinto
   resourcesmanagement                 draft water master plan                               0.50        a/


                                                             Price and Physicalcontingencies 10.94

                                                                                  Total Cost 57.15     51.86


a/ water resourcesmanagementactivitieswere includedwithin PIU expenditures

IMPLEMENTATION

 11.             Ninemonths into implementationseveral problems arose. Firstthere was no
prioritized list o fproject works and tender document preparation was ad hoc as a result.
Second, consultants did little field inspection, reliedtoo much on local engineering judgment
that embodied Soviet practice, and many o f the initial `emergency' works could neither be
justified technically nor financially. Andthird, the first roundofbids (usingmainly local

                                                       4


competitive bidding) was 50-100 percent higherthan the appraisal e~timate.~Fourth, the
Ministry o f Agriculture had not released its 15 percent funding for advance payment on
contracts or paid its support for the PIU. These problems causedthe project to be halted.
After more careful consideration and usingupdated costs, it was estimated inNovember
1995 that the works specified inthe SAR would cost about US$120 million to complete
instead o f the US$57 million agreed. To monitor project reformulation, supervisionintensity
was increased to every four months (instead of six) over the year from July 1995.

12.          InJune1996 the projectwas downsizedto fit withinthe budget. Lower priority
works were postponed to a second phase project (recently approved). Benefitedarea fell from
165,000 to 148,000 ha andthe economic rate of returnwas reviseddownward from 53 to 35
percent. The idea of differential water chargesto reflect the wide variation o f operating
conditions and eliminate cross-subsidies was introduced, as was marginal cost pricing to
eliminate uneconomic subprojects. Inaddition the IFADtertiary level development and pilot
water user groups was redesignedto cover a larger area. The Development Credit Agreement
was formally amended inMay 1997.

3.        Evaluation

OUTCOME

13.          The outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory.The basis for this rating is
shown inTable 2 Bothmajor objectives were o f equal importance. The basis for these
                      .
ratings i s elaborated inthe following sections.

RELEVANCE

14.          Overall relevanceis rated as high. The project predated the first Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Armenia (1995), but was highly relevant to the major issues
identifiedinthe 1993 Country Economic Memorandum. The 1995 Armenia Agriculture and
Food Sector Review highlightedthe importance o f making irrigation sustainable. The 1997
CAS reaffirmedthe project's relevance to country development priorities through three of its
four objectives (poverty alleviation and support for better social protection; infrastructure
rehabilitation; reforms to complete the transition to a market economy; and promote private
sector development).

15.          Irrigationis important for rural poverty alleviation. The overall relevance o f
project's objectives to poverty alleviation i s high because agriculture i s the primary safety net
for almost 400,000 rural households, most of whom are subsistence farmers, andhalf are
below the poverty line. In 1999 agriculture provided employment for 43 percent o f
Armenia's labor force.



3. The Armenian cost of living index rose by 1,860 percent in 1994, the unit cost ofmaterialby 200-300
percent.Some ofthese increaseswere not offset by the exchangerate. The first three LCB contracts were not
sent to the Bank for prior reviewas required, competitionwas minimal, contractors were only given 10 days to
submit bids, and most bidderswere associated with the Ministry ofAgriculture.

                                                       5


16.           Land reform had made operation of the irrigation systems exceedingly
difficult. Originally designed as centrally-managed schemes distributing water to 860 large
collective and state farms (50 to 400+ ha), land privatizationand redistribution had turned
these farms into a patchwork o f 300,000 smallholdings. New landholdings were a mismatch
to existing irrigation systems. The majority o f new owners had not been farmers and ranged
from clerks, policemenand accountants to mechanics andmanagers. Average land holdings
were about 1.4ha, and eventhat was split into 3 or 4 plots, eachowner having an equal
share o f good and poor land. To access water, low efficiency ditches were dugto the nearest
outlet or people broke into canals and pipes. Consequently, those near outlets hadplenty o f
water, while those at the tail-ends o fthe system had little. Water supply became increasingly
unreliable due to unregulated use and poor maintenance.

Table 2: Ratingsfor Achievement ofProjectObjectives

                  Objectives                  Relevance  Efficacy    Efficiency    OUTCOME

 1. Assist in maintaining the levelof
 irrigated agricultural production
 Physical
   Rehabilitation of main, secondary canals                                          Highly
   ineight projects, pumping stations,         High     Substantial  Substantial   Satisfactory
   tubewells ,and four dams (safeguard
   issue)
   Support [irrigation] facilities neededfor                                         Highly
   market-basedprivatized agriculture          High       High          High       Satisfactory

 Institutional
   Accelerate developmentof water              High     Substantial  Substantial   Satisfactory
   distribution organizations

 2. Improve the country's water
 resources management
 Institutional                                                                     Moderately
   Introduce economic and financial
   considerationsinto water master plan        High      Modest     Not applicable Satisfactory

                              Overallratings   High     Substantial Substantial    Satisfactory



17.           The project's emphasison rehabilitationwas timely. Restoringthe system
managers' ability to deliver water on demand was important. Itwould also reduce water loses
and thus potentidrevenue for water sales. Poor constructionand inadequate maintenance
expenditures were primarily responsible for the failing state o f the irrigation infrastructure
and inability to deliver when needed. Originally, all irrigation canals were lined, but
landslides, erosion, and deterioration of poor quality concrete caused excessive water losses
andreduced conveyance efficiency. Steel pipelineswere heavily corroded. Leaking
aqueducts threatened system continuity, and many storage dams neededurgent repair.
Recognizing the hazard poorly-maintained dams posed, expert surveys o f the 24 most at risk
were made during appraisal, and designs to ensure upgrading o f seven dams were completed
intime to beincludedinthe project. The survey ofthe remainingdams was completed and

                                                     6


remedialworks were implementedthrough the Bank's Dam Safety Project approved inMay
 1999.

 18.          New arrangements to collectwater fees for maintenancewere needed.
Despite chaotic farming arrangements, government authorized the OME in 1992 to levy an
irrigation fee on farmers. As OME could not manage the 260,000 agreements needed, only
26 percent o f billings were collected. Initially, village councils supervised up to four
watermasters (suppliedby OME) each, paying them 7-10 percent o f the fees collected.
Subsequently, cost recovery declined Mher as many village councils felt they could not put
further financial burdensonwhat was mainly subsistence farming. This put OME into an
almost impossible situation. They could not collect sufficient fees to slow declining O&M
performance and cen.tra1government subsidies were generally too small and too late to make
a difference.

 19.          The project's focus on improvingoperationand maintenanceof irrigation
through water distribution organizationswas highly relevant. OME was caught ina
failure chain because farmers were unwillingto pay fees for declining systemreliability. The
project addressedthis problem through payment of O&M costs, estimated at US$5 million,
for five years. Inreturn, OME was expected to increase its cost recovery to 100percent and
utilize technical assistance to build its technical and managerial capacity, turning it from an
administrative to a service organization, and also improve its performance. Additionally,
IFADcofinanced US$8 millionfor irrigationsystemimprovements at the farmer interface,
piloting water user associations to improve water management, system maintenance, and
implementusers' water fee collection. Withthese measuresinplace itwas expected that
farmers would contribute the equivalent o f US$2 million inlabor and materials.

20.          Reduction of power costs was highly relevant for market-based, privatized
agriculture. Almost two-thirds o f irrigation's operational costs were for energy and this
were paidthrough preferentialpricing andhiddensubsidiesas informer Soviet times. Since
the post-1991 energy crisis, less than halfthe power needs o f irrigation could be suppliedand
an increasing share o f these costs hadto be paid by users.4Consequently, the policy focus to
make energy costs and subsidies transparent and bring them into the structure of water fees
was appropriate, as was physical rehabilitation o f gravity systems and improvement o f
energy efficiency inpumpedschemes.

EFFICACY

21.            Overall efficacy is rated substantial, The project substantially achieved most
o f its objectives with few shortcomings. Although revisedagriculturalproduction and
physical rehabilitationtargets were fully achieved, this was not so for institutional objectives.
Generally, institutional targets were too ambitious giventhe time needed for adjustment to a
market-driven economy, changing entrenched attitudes, and buildingnational and local
capacity for cost-effective management o f irrigationand water distribution.


4. Over 40 percento fArmenia's irrigationdependedon electric pumpsto lift water either from groundwater in
the Ararat valley or from riversto higher levelcommandareas. While groundwater lifts were relativelysmall
(5-20 m), pumpingfrom rivers involvedhigh lifts rangingfrom 10to over 400 m.

Objective1: The levelof irrigatedagriculturalproductionwas maintained

22.           Counterfactual.Inthe absence ofthe project itwas estimatedthat agricultural
production dependent on irrigation would decline because o f failing irrigation systems. The
SAR projectedthat, without rehabilitation, assuredirrigationwater supplies would shrink by
5 percent a year, stabilizingat 20 percent of pre-project levels by 2010 when 30 percent o f
farmers would be without irrigation water. Similarly, it was projected that dams supplying35
percent o f irrigated area, mainly located inthe mediumto highelevation lands, would cease
to function. With the project, it was estimated that pre-project (pre-1994) agricultural
production levels would be reached by 1999.

23.           Outcome. The gross national value o fnationalagricultural production, of which
about 80 percent was dependenton irrigation, stabilized for the period 1994-1998 before
bottoming out in 1999 (Figure 1).6Thereafter it appears to have made a sustained recovery
and in2003 it was almost ten percent above 1994 levels. Thus, the project met its production
objective, albeit with some delay.

24.           The project halted the
overall decline inthe area actually                                 Figure 1: Armenia -Value of Agricultural
                                                                                 Production 1993-2003
irrigated. From1990 Armenia's
irrigatedarea declined from 320,124                     j    120%,                                                                    I

ha to a low o f 172,578 ha in 1995, a
contraction o f 9 percent/year. The PIU
states that the area actually irrigated in
1995 was only 108,000 ha.' After the                       0

project started in 1995 this trendwas                      a
                                                           > 70% ....................................................................

reversed and actual irrigatedarea grew                       60% 1                                                                    1
                                                                1992       1994        1996       1998        ZOO0        2002       2004
by 5,077 hdyear to reach 150,000 ha                     I
in2003. Eventhoughirrigatedarea                       Data sources: IMF World Economic Outlook Database2003, CAS 1998,
increased, it did not translate into                  2002, and EIU. Using GDP at constant prices.

marked increases inagricultural value-added because the crop mix significantly changed and
yields of most crops stagnated-the exceptions beinggrapes and melons. This reflected the
predominantly subsistence nature o f agriculture that had become established by the mid-
1990s inresponse to sub-economic landholdings, low farming skills, lack o f rural credit,
deteriorating rural roads, poor markets, and highlevels o fpoverty (paras 15-16). Thus, for
example, the area andproductiono f grapes and fruit declined because o fpoor husbandry and
limited markets, particularly for export, while staples such as wheat increased, Figure2.
These changes are also a rational response to more expensive water. Yield o f fruit increases



5. About 60 percent o f the total value o f agricultural production is derived from the crop subsector, the balance
from livestock. Butmost ofthe livestock subsector depends on fodder and feed produced under irrigation.
6. The value o f agricultural production was derived from time series o f GDP at constant prices and proportion
o f GDP attributed to agriculture - see Annex B for details. Between 1987 and 1998 the cropped irrigated area
fell from 314,000 ha to 188,000 ha, thus the project covering 146,800 ha rehabilitated almost 80 percent.
7. PIUPersonal communication March 2, 2004.

                                                        8


by 30 percent with irrigation, but vegetable yields increaseby 70 percent, hay by 65 percent
andwheat by 60 percent.8

Physicalrehabilitation was successful

25.           The substantialprogramto repairdams, rehabilitate canals, pumpingstations and
tubewells ensuredwater supply to 146,800 ha ofirrigatedland, only slightly less thanthe
revisedtarget of 148,000 haa9

26.           Integrityofwater suppliesfrom dams was assured. About 40 percent of water
usedfor irrigationis suppliedfrom 24 dams, ofwhich 15 were consideredinneedofmajor
repairs, andsome evenrequiredurgent attentionto avoid dam failures ifoperatedat full
capacity." Repairsandupgradesto four dams bythe projectinitiateda programto meetthe
Bank's Dam Safety safeguardrequirements." The importance ofthis component was
emphasized bythe collapse ofthe 15-year
oldArtik earthfill dam in 1994because of
progressive failure ofthe upstream slope                          Figure 2:Armenia's IrrigatedCrop Production

and overtopping.Initial improvements                          600
                                                            L
includedmodificationto spillways,                          s2
                                                           0
tunnels andtowers. Strengtheningand                        8i w
                                                              4    -...
                                                                     .
modificationswere basedonmicro-                            .-0
seismic studies (to determine precise                      U0
                                                           Ua
seismic risks at the dam sites) anddam                        200  -....

break analyses. Evenso, investigation                      -E
                                                           P
                                                            m
carriedout underthe project indicatedthat
significantly morework was requiredto
fully meetdam safety requirements.These                          1988    1990   1992     1994   1996   1998   2000

requirements haverecently been
completed, financedbythe Bank's                         Data Source: EIU

ongoingDam Safety Projectthat allocated
more thanUS$2.2 millionfor increasingspillway capacities andother works, including
instrumentation.I2Projectworks reducedthe risk ofdam failure that could affect about


8. The data are from a 1998 survey o f family farms undertakenas part o fthe integratedwater resources
managementstudies by the project's water resources managementteam.
9. Irrigation RehabilitationProject: Emergencyrepair and rehabilitationofthe Arzni-Shamiram, Shirak, Lower
Hrazdan, Artashat, Talin, Armavir, Kotayk,Nalband irrigationschemes.
10. There are 83 dams inArmenia. 24 dams account for 67 percent o f reservoir storage and are used for
agriculture, 5 store an additional 11 percent for municipaland industrialuse. The remaining54 are mostlysmall
and are used for various purposes, accounting for 22 percent ofnationalreservoir capacity.
11. The four embankment-typedams andwere: Aperan, Karnout, Mantashand Sarnskhpiur. Spillway redesign
took a fixed 1:10,000 year flood event ratherthan a Probable MaximumFloodapproach becausethe maximum
runoffis due to snowmelt rather than storm events.Althoughthe seismic safety o fthe dams was initially
designedusinga pseudo-staticloadingthat is no longer internationallyaccepted, more refineddynamic loading
analyses undertaken in 1999 indicatedthat the Armeniannorms providedadequate factors o f safety.
12. The DamSafety Project (Cr.3260 ) signed inMay 1999,providedrehabilitationfor 20 major dams
classifiedinthe highestat risk category becauseofpoor maintenanceand/or design flaws. It also provided

                                                       9


219,000 people living inthe downstream areas, propertyvalued at $3.1 million in 1991,
water supplies for 25,000 people and 19,300 ha o f irrigation.

27.           Rehabilitationof canals and pumpingstations maintainedthe integrity of the
irrigationsystem but only for the medium-term.After the projectwas reconfigured,
                       -
project management refinedthe criteria for identifyingcritically-at-risk sections o f canals
and pipelinesto cover more works from project funds. Evenso, significantly more
rehabilitationwork was completed than planned due to lower than anticipated costs and very
careful monitoring of them by the PIU (Annex B).

28.           Three approachesto the rehabilitation of 260 km o f main and secondary canals
were adopted. Some used a systematic approach working downstream from the headworks -
for example, the Getik irrigation scheme (located near the epicenter o fthe 1988 earthquake)
rebuiltthe upper 10kmofthe heavily damagedmaincanal: irrigationover 1,600 ha is now
assured, leaving 1,800 for future rehabilitation. Inthe Talin scheme, for example, there was
4.6 km o f new canal and only 1.4 kmo f rehabilitation. Conversely, the general approach
adopted elsewhere was to patchand mendthroughout the system. Inconsequence, the three
rehabilitatedsystems inthe Ararat valley and environs inspected by the OED assessment
missionhave sections o f moderate to good quality repairs to canal lining interspersedwith
unrepaired non-critical deteriorated sections, where concrete lining slabs are missingor
crumbling away. However, most pressure pipelines, siphons, aqueducts and their foundations
have been repaired to a generally high standard. As a result of these improvements, overall
water losses inthe main and secondary canals covered by the project fell from 59 percent in
1995 to 27 percent in2002 -beating the target o f 30 percent. An important issue is that the
emergency system improvements only solve part of the problem -the unrepaired canal
sections continue to deteriorate so that, inthe longer-term, transmission efficiency i s likely to
decline again.

29.           Inthe Ararat valley, installationofnewtubewells andrehabilitation ofexisting
tubewells, includingreplacement of electromechanical equipment, ensuredwater supplies
and augmented drainage to about 12,200 ha. Additionally, about 310 km o f drainage
collectors were cleaned and deepened. This improved drainage under 2,500 ha o f the central
Ararat valley that is affected by water-logging and local salinization, and u n c o n h e d
government reports state that it also reduced health-related hazards such as malaria.

ImprovedirrigationfaciIitiessupportmarket-basedprivatizedagriculfure

30.           This sub-objective was fully achieved and efficacy is ratedas high.Operating
costs were cut back primarily through reductiono f energy consumptionand water leakage.
Flow measuring facilities were installed so that water volumes could be measured, accounted
for and sold.

31.           Operationswere improved-but only latterly. At the primary and secondary
canal level, most o f the improvements were the result o fphysical remediationthat ensured


significant institutionalsupport to enhance in-countrycapacityto manage and maintainArmenia's stock of
dams, dam safety plansand early warning systems.

                                                      10


the continuity ofthe systems andreducedwater losses by about 150millioncubic meters a
year. A major contributionaffecting7,000 hawas the eliminationof 24 unreliableand
expensivepumpingstations andtheir replacementwith gravity supplies, and improvements
to 4 pumpingstations. While system-widesupplies were effectivelyaugmentedand
transmissiontimes improved, suppliesto individualwater user consumer cooperatives
(WUCC) remainedunreliableuntil 1998 because oftotally inadequatemonitoringof
regulationof canal flows - some WUCCs got far morethenthey needed, others far 1e~s.l~
And this uncertaintyand lack of accurate measurementincreasedfarmers' dissatisfaction
with OME's service, contributedto a low willingnessto pay, and causeda shortfall in
expectedrevenues from WUCCs to maintainthe system.

32.           Substantialenergysavings were achieved.Evenso, energy remainsthe largest
cost element inthe O&M of Armenia's irrigationand averagedUS$52/hain2002, costs
mostly coveredby an 80 percent government subsidy. Energy consumptionincreasedas the
rehabilitationincreasedthe area irrigatedandreacheda peak in 1999.Thereafter, elimination
of, or improvementto pumpingstations reducedconsumptionby 30 percent from 324 to 227
GWhby 2003.

33.          Billingmechanismsimproved.The ability to monitorandbill water sales was
improvedfrom 1999whenprojectsavings were usedto purchaseandinstall2,145 water
measuringpostsand 1,545 water meters inopen sections ofcanals andpipelines(Annex B).
Simultaneously, OME improvedits hydrometriccommunicationsystem andwater
managementusingspecially designed software andcomputer equipmentsuppliedunder the
Bank's Structural AdjustmentTechnicalAssistance I1Project. The project also introduced
two-tariff electricitymetersso that differential day andnighttariffs couldbe introduced.In
the four irrigationschemesinspectedbythe OEDassessmentmission, water measuring
devices were foundto be inexcellent working order, andall water users expressedtheir
satisfaction with the meteringandbilling proceduresthat were now seen as objectiveand fair
-measurementsatthepointofsaletowaterusergroupsbeingjointlycarriedoutandagreed
by the water user group andthe successors of OME.

34.          Tertiary irrigationsystem and on-farmwater managementalso improved.
The IFAD cofinancingwas successfullydirectedat rehabilitationoftertiary levelandon-
farm irrigationinfrastructure over a fifth ofthe total projectarea.I4Interventionsrangedfrom
fully pipedburiedsystems, as observedby OED at Getik inthe mountains,to raisedpre-cast
concrete canals observed inthe Ararat valley.

Objective2: Armenia's s water resourcesmanagementwas reformed

35.          The objective was substantially achievedbut with some shortcomings.DWSI's
1993 preliminarywater master planfor Armenia was updatedandthe PIUused its findings,
adding economic andfinancial criteria, to identify the next roundofwater sector investments

13. For example, in 1999 some regionsreceived 70 percent morethan planned, others 50 to 55 percent less.
14. Within this 27,000 ha, over 380 km o ftertiaryand quaternary-levelirrigationcanals, designedfor large
500+ ha collective farms, was realigned,rehabilitatedanddownsizedas neededto efficiently serve the area,
averaging250 ha, coveredby a water user groupthat typically had 180 or more individualfarmers.

                                                 11


and prepare projects for rehabilitation of additional dams and further investments in
irrigation. The Integrated Water ResourcesManagement Planning Study also undertook
extensive institutional analysis and consultation with all national stakeholders for the first
time at the Tsahkadzor Seminar heldin 1999 and at the final seminar inYerevan in2001.
Institutionalrecommendations have beenacted on and Armenia's water resources and
irrigation subsector management has beensuccessfully reorganized. These changes accord
with internationalbest practice. However, it is too early tojudge the efficacy of the
improvements.

36.          While the studiesdelivered the results the Bank wanted, the government
consultants' final report notes that attempts to involve government economists were
unsuccessful.'s This may explain why the final report i s primrily concerned with Armenia's
water balance, allocating water and exploring engineering alternatives with almost no
attention to water resources economics or cost-recovery. Thus the sub-objective to also
mainstream economic and financial management into Armenia's water planning was only
partially achieved.

EFFICIENCY

37.          Efficiencyis ratedsubstantial.Despitethe initial setbacksbecause o f inadequate
planning informationand evolving post-Soviet institutions, the project successfully usedthe
funding available to make marked improvements to Armenia's irrigation infrastructure and
institutions. Although the economic rate o f return (ERR) was revised downward during
restructuring from 53 percent to 35 percent, the ICR projected an ERR o f 29 percent -
primarily because o f yield increase, the large sunk costs and low investmentcosts per ha.
Average cost was $283/ha compared with the appraisal estimate o f $230/ha. The ICR's ERR
may, however, be applicable only to the more commercializedirrigation inthe Ararat Valley.
Outside the Ararat Valley, productionlevels are low, yields have not risenvery much, and
subsistence farming i s practiced. If,however, the social benefits o f irrigation could be
captured, they would be substantial, particularly inthese marginal areas. Overall, OED
believes it is probablk that economic returns exceed the acceptable threshold level o f 12
percent.

38.          The ERRwas not recalculated because data are unavailable. OME didnot
maintain systematic records o f irrigated crops and irrigated area duringthe period 1992-
2002. The WUCCs generally did not keep statistically valid agricultural records either.The
newW A Shave only partial records for 2003.

INSTITUTIONAL      DEVELOPMENT

39.         Overallinstitutionaldevelopmentis rated substantial.Irrigationplanning and
constructionorganizations were substantially reformed and have made a successful transition
from command-and-control to a market-sensitive and competitive environment.
Government's irrigationoperation and management organizations are now more accountable


15 .Government of Armenia. IntegratedWater ResourcesManagementPlanning.Final Stage I1Report.May
2001. Section 1.5, page 14.

                                                     12


buthave not yet demonstrated efficiency improvements. Water user organization were
reorganized and made voluntary, their water and accounting practices were thoroughly
modernized. Water resources management was streamlined but has yet to give adequate
attention to financial and economic criteria inthe national water planning effort -omissions
made good inthe short term by the PIU.

Rehabilitationis now effectivelymanaged

40.          Initially, micro-management by the Ministryo f Agriculture precluded
introductiono f best design practice, contract management and costing practices.I6 Inaddition,
the former state hydraulic construction agencies, recently `privatized', effectively formed
cartels to exclude genuine private sector contractors. After the Bank raised these issues with
government in 1996, a new Chair o f the Project Supervisory Board and a new Director o f
OME were appointed and a fully independent and enlarged PIU staff was established. When
project works were rebid from 1997, government promotedgreater involvement o f private
sector companies and international firms and the number o f biddersincreased. As a result,
tenderedunitrates decreasedand allowed a slight expansion of project components. During
contract supervision, govemment fully supported the PIU inimposing high construction
standards, and exercising remedies allowed under contract markedly improved the standard
and timeliness o f construction. The PIU's procurement practice -having prepared and let
173 contracts at US$24.7 million was found satisfactory following an independent Bank
                                        -
reviewin2000-2001.

41.          Technical assistance for the first two years enhancedthe capacity o f the PIUto
undertake sound financial and economic analysis o f projects and develop a rational basis for
prioritizing projects. Compared with the ad hoc approach usedbefore 1996, this was a
marked improvement. Indeed, most o fthe economic appraisal of the follow-on Irrigation
Development Project (IDP) was undertaken by PIU staff. During the OED assessment
mission, PIU convincingly demonstrated applicationo f sound and economically-based
project appraisal and screening processes. The PIU also procured and effectively utilized
expatriate and local consultants to assist Armenian working groups inpreparing a 2002 State
Water Law and bylaws for the establishment o f water user cooperatives.

Butmanagementof major canals is still a problem

42.          Poor management and lack o f resources undermined OME's performance in
operation o f primary and secondary water distribution systemsand their maintenance. The
US$5 million allocated under the Bank credit to cover incremental operation and
maintenance costs and ensure adequate routine maintenance was spent inthe first three years
primarily on ad hoc physicalremediation and maintenance without any economic rationale."

16. For example, state-owneddesign institutes alloweddesign costs to be 10 percentofcontact value.
Internationalbest practice was 3 percentor less. Inaddition, the government preferred Soviet-periodunit rates
updatedby a multiplier constructedbythe Ministry of UrbanDevelopment, andthese unit rates markedly
departedfrom market pricesafter 1991.
17. Annual O&M costs were estimated to be US$5to US$6 million a year. Ofthis $3 million was provided
throughthe government budget, leavingthe balanceto be raisedby increasedwater user fees. It was expected
that water chargesto be collected would cover 40% ofthe O&M costs by the endof 1995,60% by 1996, 70%

                                                         13


Very little was spent, as intended,to reorient OME using technical assistanceto build
capacity inorder to reach higher levels of efficiency and service. Additionally, OME never
sold more than 40 percent o f the 2,400 million cubic meters o f water available thus losing
valuable revenue, Figure3.I8Inconsequence, OME never covered its operating expenses
(Figure 4).

43.           These reformsreducedOME's administrative burdenthroughoutthe 1990s.
The 1993 order making some 1,000 Village Councils responsible for managing tertiary-level
water distribution instead o f 260,000 individual farmers cut the number o f clients and made
water management feasible. Further reform in 1998reducedthe number o f clients to 470
Water User Consumer Cooperatives (WUCCs) o f which 160 were formed under the project.
                                                            -
HoweJer, minimal training o f the 310 formed outside the IFAD support program contributed
to their non-functionality and officials interviewedby OED referred to them as "paper"
wuccs.

44.           Mechanismsfor fee collectionimprovedbut had problems.Village councils
                                                                       1
were billedby OME and paidafter fees were
collected from farmers - an onerous task. In 1999
village Post Offices agreedto open an OME                                     Figure 3: Water Sold by OME 1994-2002
                                                                                1250  1-1
account to take farmers' payments for a small fee (5
percent). This arrangement worked well for OME
but not always for the WUCCs as it broke the fee
paying link to the tertiary level service manager.
Therewas also political interference. Itwas
reported to the OED assessmentteam that Marz
governors pressurized WUCCs not to take their
share so that OME's fee collectiQnhad a better
chance o f reaching collectiontargets specified in                                   1994 1996 1998 2000 2002 2004

the SAC I11conditionalitie~'~an approachthat
                                    -                                 Source: PIU 2003
not only missedthe target but further undermined
the effectiveness o f WUCCs.

45.           Government's willingness to subsidize OME's operations while holding down
water tariffs, emphasized their parastatal status and gave little incentive to becoming
financially self-sufficient. Already low water charges were reduced prior to the election in
early 1998, government coveringthe shortfall inrevenue.For these reasons, fee collection
and adequate financing for OME's activities remainedproblems to the end o f the project.
Evenso, the Bank was able to persuade government and OME to adopt geographically

by 1997, and 100%by the end o f2000. The shortfall in maintenancefunds onthis scheduledwas estimatedto
be about US $5 millionover the four-year project period.
18. These datashow water sales to WUCCs from the turnouts of the secondary irrigation system.Despitethe
improvements by the projectto about a quarter of all tertiary levelsdistributionsystems, it is highly unlikely
that improvedwater use efficiencyalone could account for the decline in sales after 1998.
19.The SAC I11conditionalityincluded: reachinga36% cost recovery levelon O&M in 1998 and48% in
2000, institutingsubstantial differentiationo fthe tariff rate across groupings of 14 irrigation schemes, and
committingOME to reach 65% of contracted deliverycharges in 1999 andto collect paymentssolely incash.

                                                             14


differentiatedwater tariffs that shadowedthe true supply costs.'O To cover some of OME's
costs the Ministry of FinanceandEconomy assumedresponsibilityfor OME's backlogof
energy debt which was more thenhalfo fthe total debt.'' This 1998 arrangementmade
explicit that energy subsidieswere beingusedto benefit irrigationandthe employment it
generated.And at the same time, government's general subsidy paymentto OMEwas made
transparent (Figure4 andAnnex B).


                                  Figure 4: OME Cash Flows 1995-2002
            20.0


            16.0    ~




       -.o.-
        v)
        C   12.0
        E
             8.0
       v)
       3
             4.0
                                   -
             0.0
               1994        1995    1996       1997        1998   1999         2000     2001      2002     2003


            V o t     a l Expenses     Total Income -Water      Fees Collected +State    Subsidies -World    Bank

  Source: PIU2003


46.            Evenwith these subsidies, farmers (via WUCCs) only paidhalfthe water billed,
not all as expectedbythe Bank. The subsistence nature of farming andhighlevels o fpoverty
meant that many farmers couldnot pay (paragraphs 15-16), an issue that highlightsthe
absence of a thorough social assessment at appraisal. Inconsequence, the governmentand
the Bank agreedon a long-term strategy to reducecosts of agriculturalinputs andenhance
farmers' productivity-and four complementary Bank-fundedprojectswere approved
startingin 1996.'' The strategy aims to convert muchofthe irrigationsystem to gravity
supplies, reorganizeOME, empower water user groups throughenlargementandtrainingto
become better managers, and improveagricultural inputand outputmarkets.A critical issue
not yet resolvedis that the levelof fundingbudgetedfor irrigationsystem maintenance
(excludingpumping) is not relatedinany meaningfulway to what is needed.




20. Irrigation was allocatedto one four tariff zones that took into account the proportion of energy costs in the
O&M costs ofthe scheme. Thus high lift irrigation schemes were allowed to charge more for water.
21. Total operatingcostswere 4.289 billion Drams in 1997. Energyaccounted for 55 percent ofthese total costs
and VAT (levied at 20 percent) was 17percent. A major problemwas that many farmers could not pay incash
and more than half o fthe paymentsto 1997were made in kind.
22. EnterpriseDevelopmentProject, Credit NO06 of December 1996; Agriculture Reform Support Project,
Credit 3035 of January 1998; Title RegistrationProject Credit 3568 of October 1998; and the Irrigation
DevelopmentProject, Cr.3568 of August 2001.

                                                 15


47.         Shortly after project completion, December 2001,and inresponse to conditions
for further Bank lending, the government completely reorganized Armenia's water
management. The four agencies responsible for water were reorganized into two: the Water
Supply Agency responsible for infrastructure that captured and stored water, andthe
temporary Drainage and IrrigationManagement Agency (DIMA) responsible for O&M o f
primary and secondary canals and drainage.

48.          The OME was split into a central management unitthat became the Water Supply
Agency and 13 regional DIMAsorganizations that report to the State Committee for Water
Management. The long-term objective is that the responsibility for infrastructure managed by
the DIMAswill betaken over by federations ofwater user groups who would carry out
O&M activities or contract them out -ineffect the DIMAswill b: privatized. To build
sufficient financial capacity for this task, government plans that farmers will pay the full cost
o f water by 2007. Full cost includes O&M for the irrigation system under users'
management, and the costs o f the O&M of the primary supply infrastructure.

Water user groupswere amalgamated to gain economies of scale

49.         Most o f the WUCCs hadtoo small an area to generate sufficient income to pay
for O&M and cover overhead costs, and insufficient training to manage tertiary-level
irrigation systems effectively. Inmid-2002, Parliament approved a new law authorizing
formation o f large-scale voluntary Water User Associations (WUAs) to take over O&M o f
tertiary-level irrigation from existing WUCCS. The law also authorized Water User
Federations (WUFs), comprised o f several WUAs, to take over the O&M o f the primary and
secondary irrigation systems from DIMAs. O fthe 12 WUAs established inearly 2003, five
were randomly selected andvisitedby OED.23

50.          The new elected WUAs are taking their responsibilities seriously and are anxious
to gain financial sustainability. Caution is warranted, however, because at the time of OED's
assessment the new organizations had only beenfunctioning for six months. All the WUAs
visitedhaddetailed annual budgets, were able to justify proposed expenditureswith detailed
back-up and had adequate professional staffto manage day-to-day activities. There were
some notable efficiency improvements compared with the former setup.For example, the
Vedi WUA now employs one ditch master to manage water distribution, billing and fee
collection for each 100 ha; formerly three were requiredfor the same task. There is a
heightenedawareness that water leakage from the distribution system is lost revenue-the
Ararat WUA which currently serves 6,300 ha, estimate that they lose about $200/day due to
inefficient pumpingplant and inability to serve the potential command area o f about 9,000
ha.

51.         Concerns cross-cutting all WUAs interviewedwere increasing energy costs, the
needfor consolidationofvery small-scale farming operations to improve on-farm resource
management and increase water use efficiency, and the needfor improvedrural credit and
marketing. Unevenavailability o f heavy equipment for maintenance tasks was also an issue.



23. The WUAs interviewedwere: Vedi (Artashat), Ararat, Kassakh(Arzni-Shamirna),Getik and Aygezoz

                                                        16


A bigproblemis that not all farmers are membersofthe WUA and 1,300 ha free-rideonthe
WUAs efforts.

 New transparency and accountability highlight managementissues

52.            Installationofnewwater measuringdevices andmultipletariff electricity meters
supplementedby the introductionofupdatedandtransparentaccountingsystems for DIMAs
andWUAs pavedthe way for better water managementandfinancial accountability.This is
now focusingattentionofways to reducecosts andincrease efficiency andtheir efficacy is
ratedhigh.

53.            OME's former staff are havingdifficulty inadjustingto their newDIMA mandate
-somearedoingwell,othersarestruggling.Thecommonproblemsareinadequatebudgets
for O&M, energy costs, staffingandmorale as illustratedby two examples, Box 1.

Box 1: DIMAs are copingwith the reformsin different ways - not always successfully

The Arzni-Shamiran Nairi Division DIMA has a budget of 90 million drams in 2002. Staff costs are 28
million drams and O&M costs 27 million. Energy costs are 28 milliondrams but are subsidizedat 80 percent by
central government and cost the DIMA only 5.5 million drams. Income from water sales was 63 million leaving
a deficit o f 27 million. In consequence almost nothingwas spent on O&M - the only discretionary item on the
budget - and OED's inspection of the main canals found a growing problem of deferred maintenance. The
Courts have authorized the DIMA to collect 69 million drams from defaulting farmers but 229 million drams
are still in dispute. The main problem is that there is strong civic pressure not to pursue defaultingsubsistence
farmers who havealmost no assets, an issuecomplicatedby unreliable crop yields due to the vagaries of climate
in this elevated area (1500 m). The future situation for this DIMA looks grim as government plans to
significantlyreducefuture energy subsidies while effectivelycappingthe water tariffs DIMAs can charge.
The Artashat DIMA was the biggest and strongest part of OME in Armenia until 2002. Even though 90
WUCCs were formed, the OME continued O&M of the whole system as the WUCCs were totaIly ineffective.
This changed in 2002 when the DIMA was set-up to manage only 35 km o f the original 420 km of irrigation
canals. Six voluntary WUAs were established and took over about a third o f the former OME staff. The total
number of people managing the system is now much lower, as OED found when visiting WUAs. The DIMA
manager was optimistic about the future primarily because the new water and financial accounting practices
introduced via the PIU have given him a tool to identify management priorities and highlight the main
operational and budget problems. His major concerns for the future were cutting energy costs and ensuring
adequate water tariffs. Unlike the Nairi Division DIMA, the Artashat DIMA in the Ararat valley has some of
the most productiveland in Armenia and farmers are ableto potentiallycover water costs.




BANKPERFORMANCE

54.            Bank performance is rated as highly satisfactory. The difficulties at appraisal
reflectedthe difficulties ofmovingfrom Soviet-eradesignand contractingapproaches and
the gradualestablishmentofa free marketfor tradedbuildingmaterials(para 11). Prompt
attentionto the emergingproblems anddecisivemanagementledto the projectrestructuring
in 1996-97.Subsequentsupervisionwas exceedinglythorough, policyadvice was ofvery
highquality, appropriate andeffective inmovingthe reformagendaforward. Supervision
reportswere complete, accurate andconsistent with interimratings, particularlydevelopment
effectiveness.Utilizing the Bank's advice, boththe paceandscope of irrigation sector reform

                                                         17


were remarkable considering the dire situation in 1994. Attention to monitoring and
evaluation o f water and cash flows, althoughlate inthe project, produced results that can be
rankedbest technical practice compared with similar projects across the Bank. Inaddition,
the Bank's agriculture sector team movedquickly to stimulate agricultural marketing,
establish a land cadastre, and improve rural credit through parallel operations (see paragraphs
62-64). As a result, the Bank enjoys a fruitful and positive partnership with the government
and IFAD, and the reform program continues. Andmost of this reform can be attributable to
leverage o f the Bank's global experience to Armenia's problems -the unrealistic target of
 100percent cost recovery over five years beingthe exception. It appearedthat the Bank took
a strong policy position on fiscal rectitude and full cost recovery as conditions o f engagement
inArmenia; similar conditions were expected inother projects approved around the same
time andihey also failed to deliver onunrealistic targets.

BORROWER      PERFORMANCE

55.         Borrower performance is rated satisfactory with some shortcomings. The
shortcomings were that government did not maintain a consistent and progressive policy on
water user fees, replicatedthe WUCCs prematurely and did not provide adequate and timely
counterpart funds. Evenso, on other institutionalissues, including wide-scale reform o f
water resources management and irrigationmanagement, government's actions were timely.
Ownershipwas highand the PIU was giventhe autonomy itneededafter restructuring.
Thereafter procurement and management o f implementationwas excellent. The PIUhas
steadily built its professional capacity but is still an enclave o fthe new approach to irrigation
management, and financial and economic appraisal, within the State Committee for Water
Managment. One point o f concern is that the financial audit o f OME, completed in2002, was
heavily qualified and revealed scant attention to fiduciary responsibilities. Giventhat the core
group o f OME is now the Water SupplyAgency, and other parts o f OME became the DIMAs
charged with improving the cost-efficiency of the upper parts o f the irrigation systems, this i s
cause for concern.

4. Findingsand Lessons

56.         Armenia has made good progress inits transition from a centrally plannedeconomy
to a marketeconomy and GDP growth is now among the highest inthe former Soviet Union
countries. Although reformprogress slowed after 1997, it accelerated again from 2000 with a
focus on improvingthe business environment and implementingbankruptcy and liquidation
proceedings. The growth o f small andmedium-sized firms, which inmany transition
economies make a major contributionto employment growth, is hindered by less attention to
restructuring large firms, enforcement o f contracts, availability o f adequate financing for
private firms, and development o f adequate government capacity to support a market economy.

57.         However, despite this improvement, Armenia continues to have the highest
income inequality among the countries o f the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) Region.24The


24. World Bank, "Armenia Poverty Profile in2001,"p. 24. The Ginicoefficient o f earnings went from 0.296 in
1991to 0.486 in2000; the latter figure, while high, is only slightly aboveother CIS-7 republics (Falkingham, p. 8).

                                                   18


incidence o f poverty was estimated at 55 percent in 1996 and 1998.25Recent 2001 data
indicate that poverty has declined by seven percentage points -but still remains high at 48
percent; extremepoverty has fallen from 27 percent to 20 percent. Confronting poverty and                      .
improving social indicators remain key challenges. Fiscal austerity will continue to limit the
resources available for social sector expenditures,althoughrecent efforts at improving
targeting have helpedease the plight o f the poor.

FINDINGS

58.         The Irrigation RehabilitationProjectreversedthe physicaldeclinein
Armenia's irrigatedarea. However, it only provides a medium-termfix to the effects of
deferredmaintenance becauserehabilitationwas partial. Untilthe residual problems are fixed
and brought up to the same good standard, there i s a risk that the steady expansion o f
irrigated service area may halt inthe longer-term. Currently, the level o f funding for
maintenance is inadequate. It i s not well-founded on system needs and detailed diagnosis.
Improved monitoring and evaluation i s requiredto develop realistic budgets for maintenance.
The on-going Bank-financed IrrigationDevelopmentProject is addressing these issues.

59.         I t is clear, however,that the irrigationsector cannot survivewithout
continuedsubsidiesin the mediumterm and morepragmaticattentionto maintaining
only the core irrigationinfrastructurethat is economicallyviable. Robustgrowth ofthe
economy (GNP growth greater then 10percent) inthe recent past enhances government's
stated intention to continue to subsidize irrigation and its energy costs until 2007 -a policy
drivenprimarily by social safety-net considerations.

60.         The proposalto transfer the liabilityfor financingoperationof the irrigation
systemto farmersby 2007 is an ambitioustarget. A target made more difficult to achieve
because the major part o f the budget is for energy, the costs o f which will rise dramatically as
government policy is to pass on full costs of generation to consumers. Although urgent
attention is being given to minimizing energy use inirrigationthrough gravity conversion,
the OED assessment found that the levelof attention is too low, notwithstandingthe Bank's
IDPproject. Many irrigation systems managers interviewed-including WUA chairmen -
see expansion o f the irrigationto near historic levels as part o f their mandate, an objective
that is neither feasible or economically realistic. Accordingly, more attention needs to be
givento the political economy of irrigationandtailoring aspirations to the completely
different agricultural marketingopportunities and constraints andthat emergedover the last
five years. Most importantly, cost-benefit analysis have not yet beenmainstreamed withinthe
irrigationand agricultural community.

61.         The successful rescueof the irrigationsector is out of phasewith the rest of
Armenia's rural economy.Effectively, the Bank has supported development of a high-tech
systemto serve a smallholder subsistence agriculture. Specifically, the project's success
highlightsthe needfor more attention to better farm management, revitalized extension
services, incentives for land consolidation, credit, crop insurance and other rural institutions


25. Comparisonof 1996 povertydata with that collected later inthe decade is difficult due to differences in the
definitionsandmeasuresused.

                                                  19


and infrastructure to support agricultural productivity and marketing. An important first step
should be rural roads that are invery poor condition and inhibit efficient input supply and
output markets.

62,         Farmers will only be able to pay the full cost of O&M ifthey are able to adjust
their small andfragmented landholdings into more economically viable and productiveunits
-only 12percentoffarmsarelargerthantwohectares.Thismajorchallengeisbeing
addressedthrough the Bank's ongoing LandTitling Project that has, to date, secured about
600,000 titles to land, benefitingprivate farmers, small and medium-size enterprises as well
as urban property owners. In rural areas, it is expected that landtitling will promote land
consolidation, reducethe cost o f property transactions and thereby increasing the potential
for agriculturalproductivity growth.

63.         Pervasive rural poverty inthe 1990shas shiftedcultivation to crops for self-
consumption (cereals, potatoes) at the expense o f fodder crops, fruit trees, vineyards and
industrial crops.26Yields are low because agricultural inputs are o f poor quality (even when
affordable), and most `farmers' have little technical knowledge and skills having enteredthe
sector via landprivatization as a survival strategy to cope with the collapse o f employment in
other sectors o fthe economy. Extension services are notable by their absence. Most tillage
equipmentfrom former state farms is defunct and of sizes inappropriate for current
landholdings, and agro-processing equipment, except for the active private sector covering
tomatoes and grapes, i s moribund.

64.         Policy-makers inArmenia are giving growing attention to mitigatingthese
problems and the Bank, IFAD and USAID inparticular are active inbuilding farmers'
capacity, supporting rural institutions such a farmers' unions, and promoting export-led
horticultural development. The Bank's Agricultural Reform Support Project, effective in
1998, has provided loans for working capital and investments to small, rural farms and
businesses and a US$l5 million revolving fund established. Shortage o f essential fertilizers
requiredemergency use of funds for imports. Restructuring ofthe agribusiness development
center, and research and extension, are not going as smoothly as planned. The insolvency o f
four rural credit banks created unforeseenproblems. To date, the better-off citrus, fruit and
grape farmers have been the main beneficiaries. To mitigate some o f these problems, IFC has
recently established with the Agricultural Cooperative Bank o f Armenia a new "ACBA
Leasing" joint stock company aimed, for example, at mobilizing rural finance for production
and harnessing remittance funding.

65.         More generally, the Bank's CAS (2001-04) is focused on developingthe private
sector as the engine for job creation and poverty reduction, reducing corruptionthrough
improved public sector management and accountability, and investinginbetter education to
expanding the country's skill base. Thus as the economy enlarges, it is likely that many
smallholders will seek non-agricultural employment, thus facilitating land consolidationand
commercialization o f the sector -helpedby the high quality o f Armenia's human capacity.




26. IFAD. 2003. Country Strategic OpportunitiesPaper (Draft). 11 September, 2003

                                             20


LESSONS

66.      The project experience offers four lessons:

   0 Rehabilitationi s only a partial solution for most irrigationprojects because it is
     generally a symptom o f inadequate management and insufficient maintenance
     funding. This project clearly demonstrates that rehabilitationshouldbe supplemented
     by measuresto foster creation o fefficient institutions withthe ability, inter alia, to
     measure and manage water and accurately cost operation and maintenance.
     Some o f the most effective and simple investments leadingto higher levels of
     efficiency inirrigationprojects are the installation o f a large number o f water and
     electricity flow measuring devices and consultation with stakeholders to agree on
     operating rules.
     Itis essential that adequateattention is givenduringappraisal to linkinginvestments
     inagricultural technology withthe measuresto improve productionandmarketingof
     outputs. The absence o f such complementary investmentmayjeopardize the ability of
     project beneficiaries to cover operation and maintenance costs and thus threaten
     sustainability.
     Social assessment and interventions are neededparticularly when there is a high level
     of rural poverty. Such assessment will help to ensure that infrastructure investment
     give adequate attention to beneficiary ownership and their ability to contribute
     towards maintenance o f facilities created. Inthe project, such an approach could
     have created smallholders' cooperatives or micro-credit groups that could have
     moved landowners beyond subsistence agriculture.

                                                         21                                          Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

ARMENIA IRRIGATIONREHABILITATIONPROJECT (CREDIT 2667-ARM)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                                    Appraisal           Actual or            Actual as % of
                                                     estimate        current estimate       appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                   57.15               51.86                      91     '

Loan amount                                           43.0'               40.90*                     95
Cofinancing                                           8.00                 7.80                      97
Cancellation                                                               1.5*                       3
*The amount cancelled is less than the difference between appraisal and actual disbursement due to fluctuations in
the value of the loan designated in SDR.


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                             FY95       FY96       FY97      FY98       FY99        FYOO      FY07         FY02
Appraisal estimate            0.0        4.0       15.0      31.0        43.0        43.0     43.0          43.0
(USSM)
Actual (USSM)                 4.1       10.9       15.3      18.5        27.1        35.1     39.8          40.9
Actual as % of amraisal                 272         102       60          63          81        93           95
Date of final disbursement:   December 3, 2001


ProjectDates
                                                           Original                           Actual
PCD                                                           n.a.                           4/14/93
Appraisal                                                     n.a.                            10/8/93
Board approval                                                n.a.                            12/8/94
Signing                                                       n.a.                           12116/94
Effectiveness                                               3/1/95                            2/23/95
Closing date                                                6/30/99                           5131IO1


Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                                     ActuaVLatest Estimate
                                         No. of Staff Weeks                    US$ ('000)

AppraisaVNegotiation                              82                               328
Supervision                                      130                               610
Completion                                        -5                               -
                                                                                   25
Total                                            217                               963

                                                    22                                      Annex A


Mission Data
                                                                                  Performance rating
                    Date       No. of     Specializations represented         Implementation Development
               (month/year)   persons                                           progress       objective
Identification/ 03/1993          4    1Task Team Leader/Economist,
Preparation                           1Land andWater Development
                                      1Specialist, Economist,l Agronomist
Appraisal       1011993          6    1Task Team Leader/Economist,
                                      1Water Resourcesand Irrigation
                                      Engineer, 1Agriculturist, 1
                                      Economist,
                                      1Sociologist,
                PIU                   1Water ManagementSpecialist
                Establishment    2
                and                   Task Team Leader/Economist
                Procurement           Procurement Specialist
                041199'4

Supervision        0111994      3     Task Team LeadedEconomist,                   HS             HS
                                      Irrigation Engineer, Business
                                      Specialist
                   07/1995      5
                                      Task Team Leader/Economist,                  U              HS
                                      Economist,Water Development
                                      Specialist, Water Resources
                                      Engineer, Irrigation Engineer
                  10-11/1995    3                                                  U              S
                                      Division Chief, Irrigation Specialist,
                                      Irrigation Engineer
                  02-03/1996    6                                                  S              S
                                      Task Team Leader/Agricultural
                                      Economist,Agricultural Economist,
                                      Agricultural Survey Specialist,
                                      Irrigation Specialist, Irrigation
                                      Engineer,Water UserAssociation
                  06-07/1996    5     Specialist                                   S              S

                                      Task Team Leader/Agricultural
                                      Economist, Division Chief, Irrigation
                                      Specialist, Irrigation Engineer,
                   1211996      2     Agricultural Survey Specialist               S              S

                                      Task Team Leader/Agricultural
                    06/1997     3     Economist, Irrigation Specialist
                                                                                   S               S
                                      Task Team LeaderlAgricuItural

                    1011997     3     Economist, Irrigation Specialist,
                                      Financial Analyst                            S               S

                                      Task Team Leader/Agricultural
                                      Economist, Economist, Irrigation
                  04-05/1998    7     Specialist                                   S               S

                                      Task Team Leader/Agricultural
                                      Economist, Sector Manager,
                                      Agriculturist, Irrigation Engineer, Dam
                  01-02/1999    5     Engineer, two Agricultural Economists        S               S
                                      Task Team Leader/Agricultural
                                      Economist, Agricultural Economist,
                                      Natural Resources Economist, Land
                                      and Water Development Engineer,
                  09-10/1999                                                                       S
                                4     Financial Analyst                            S

                                      Task Team LeaderlAgricultural
                                      Economist, Ag Economist, Economist,
                                      FinancialAnalyst

                                                    23                                  Annex A




                     03l2000       4  Task Team LeaderIAgricultural               S           S
                                      Economist, Economist, Land and
                                      Water Development Engineer,
                                      Financial Analyst

                     1012000       4  Task Team LeaderlAgricultural               S           S
                                      Economist, Economist, Procurement
                                      Specialist, Financial Analyst


Completion           0712001       3  Task Team LeaderIAgricultural
                                      Economist, Economist, Financial             S           S
                                      Analyst

                     10/2001          Task Team LeaderIAgricultural
                                      Economist, ICR Specialist                   S           S



Other Project Data
BorrowerIExecuting Agency:
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                           Credit no.        Amount         Board date
                                                                    (US$ million)

Enterprise Development Project                      Cr. NO06           16.7          12/24/1996
Agriculture Reform Support Project                  Cr. 3035           14.5          01/27/1998
Title Registration Project                          Cr. 3135             8.0         1011311998
Irrigation Dam Safety Project                       Cr. 3260           26.6          06/24/1999
Irrigation Development Project                      Cr. 3568           24.9          08/30/2001


                                                 25                                    Annex B


Annex B. Tables

Table B1:Key PerformanceIndicators

Outcome/ ImpactIndicators:               Specified inthe SAR                Actual/LatestEstimate
Indicatorhiatrix                                                                 (January 2004)
Outcome:                                 Outcome indicators were not    The PPAR used the
1. To maintainthe level o f irrigated    definedat projectappraisal.    aggregate agricultural
agriculturalproduction                   The developmentobjective was productionstatistics. These
                                         reformulated inApril 1997, to  show that agricultural
2. Improvethe country's water            be moreconcise and             production- 80% dependent
resourcesmaragement                      measurable.To maintainthe      on irrigation- increasedafter
                                         levelof irrigatedagricultural  the project.
                                         production, improvethe
                                         country's water resources      There are no national
                                         management,and accelerate the indicators for improved
                                         developmentofwater             water resourcesmanagement.
                                         distributioninstitutionsand    Project specific indicators are
                                         support facilitiesneeded for a listed inthe mainreport.
                                         market-basedprivatized
                                         agriculture.


Number of hectaresreceivingirrigation    164,700 ha in SAR but revised  146,800 hectares(92.3% of
water inthe projectarea (and as          down to 148,800 ha in 1997     all irrigableacreage in 2001)
expressedas share ofall irrigable
acreage inthe projectarea).

Average farm income per family in        $1,600                         Not available
projectarea (includingfarm production
consumed).

Coverageo fO&M costs by OME as           Originally loo%, revised       25% (as ofDecember2002)
measuredby cost recoveredrate            downwardsto 33.6% by 2000
multiplied by collectionrate.
Outout Indicators:
Number ofWater Users Groups to           100 WUGs, 25,000 hectares      106WUGs, 27,800 hectares
whom managementofO&M for tertiary
canals has beensuccessfully transferred
from OME (andarea coveredby these
transferred tertiary canals).

Share o f irrigationwater in main canals
reachingfarm level.                      70%                            73%

                                                     26                               Annex B


Table B2: PhysicalWorks Constructedhtehabilitated

                                              ~


Works                         Works Planned After      Additional Works     Total Implemented
                                  Restructuring
Rehabilitationof main         140 km, 74 aquaducts          120 km        260 km, 74 aquaductsand
and secondarycanals               amd 52 siphons                                52 siphons
Rehabilitationof pumping               4                                             4
stations
Rehabilitationof dams                  4                                             4
New and rehabilitated                  160                    78                    238
tubewells
Constructionof water                                         2,150                 2,150
measuring posts
Cleaningand                                                 310 km                310 km
rehabilitationof drains
Reconstructionof pumps                                         7                     7
indeepenedcollector
drains
Rehabilitationofon-farm             10,000 ha              16,500 ha              26,500
irrigation networks
Establishmentof W A S                  100                     5                    105
Supplyand installation of                                    672                    672
two-tariffelectricity
meters
Supply and installation of                                   1,545                 1,545
flow meters




Table B3: OME's Budget 1995-2002

                                       1995     1996   1997      1998   1999   2000      2001    2002
Total Expenses                          11.4     13.4    9.0      14.9  15.4    12.6      13.6    12.9
                         Electricity     5.3      7.7    6.2      11.6  11.5      9.7      9.6     7.7
                             Labor       0.0      0.0    0.0       0.0   1.1      1.1      1.4     2.0
Total Income                             6.1      5.7    4.0       2.8  13.8    11.0      10.5    10.6
              Water Fees Collected       3.7      3.5    3.3      2.5    2.0      2.0      2.8     3.2
                     State Subsidies     0.0      0.0    0.1       0.3  11.8      9.0      7.7     7.4
                        World Bank       2.4      2.1    0.5         0   0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
%ofTotalO&MCostsCollected              32%      27%    37%        17%   13%     16%      21%     25%
Water Fee Dramdm3                        5.0      5.5    2.7       1.9   2.3      3.3      3.9     5.0
Drams/US$                               450      480     500      510    520     530      540      560
Water fee US$/m3                      0.011     0.012  0.005    0.004  0.004   0.006    0.007    0.009

Source: PIU October 2003

                                                    27                             Annex B



     Table B4: Flow Measurement Devices Installed

     Branch of Irrigation   Number of Water  Points Installed by  Open Channel   PipelineFlow
     System                  Metering Points    the Project       Measurement    Measurement
     Aparan-Aragats                52                17                9               8
     Arzni-Shamiran               285                300             290               10
     Armavir                      214                143              136              7
     Artashat                     346                352             332              20
     Arpa                          94                86                29             57
     Gavar-Sevan                   65                23                1 1             12
-    Goris                         28                22                5               17
     Yerevan                       48                10                8               2
     Talin                        250                260             254               6
     Toumanyan                     67                45                40              5
     Ijevan                        60                29                13              16
     Kapan-Meghri                  37                38                               38
     Katayk                       166                89               38              51
     Hrazdan                       10                18                16              2
     Martouni                      75                43                24              19
     Noyemberyan                  115                77                51             26
     Shirak                       262                273             273
     Jrvezh-Dzaraghjour                              16                                16
     Sisain                        65                24                12              12
     Spitak-Gougark                74                63               63
     Stepanavan-Tashir             70                49               49
     St. Hrazden                  205                115              113              2
     Vendenis-Chambarak            50                32               30               2
     Tavoush                      -35                -
                                                     26               -13             -13
                   TOTAL         2,703             2.150             1,809           341

     Source: PIU October 2003

                                               28                               Annex B


Table B5: Armenia's Productionof Key Crops, 000 tons

          1990 1991     1992  1993  1994  1995   1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001   2002

 Wheat     271   303    309.6 315.7 229.2 262.7 328.5 258.2 325.8 301.1 224.8 367.3 415.5
Potatoes   213   267    322.4 414.1 417  427.7  423  359.8  439  414.1 290.3 363.8 374.3
Vegetables 378   425    497.5  417  424.3 450.9 444.5 369  394.3 449.1 375.7  466  466.1
 Grapes    170   211    142.1 134.9 212.4 154.9 158.5 107.7 106   114.8 115.8 116.5 104



Source:EconomistIntelligenceUnit

                                               29                                    Annex C




Annex C.ProjectC sts and Financing(US$milli


                                           SAR       Revised    RevisedProject      Actual     Percentage
Project Costs By Component                Estimates Full Cost of    at MTR           Final     of MTR
                                                       SAR       (to fit original Expenditures Revised
                                                    Estimates       budget)                     Project
Rehabilitation
Main and Secondary Canals                  14.72      36.00          24.32          26.68      109.7%
Rehabilitation of 4 PumpingStations        9.46       12.20           3.50           1.69          48.4%
Rehabilitation o fTubeM$!Is                6.94       10.39           3.60           4.50         125.1Yo
Rehabilitation of 4 Dams                    1.31       3.50           2.00           0.93          46.6%
Pilot Projectsto improve water     .
managemenvrehabilitationoftertiary canals  6.22       30.37           7.62           7.80         102.3%
IncrementalO&M costs                        5.00       5.00           5.00           5.87         117.4%
Technical Assistance                        1.10       6.60           4.18           3.46          82.8%
Project ImplementationUnit                 - - 1.46
                                            1.46       3.30                          0.92          62.7%
 TotalBase Cost                            46.21     207.36          51.69          51.86          100.3%
Physicalcontingencies     -                8.06        5.37           2.58
Price contingencies                                    - 2.88
                                           _.
                                           2.88        6.69
Grand Total                                57.15     119.42           57.15         51.86          90.7%


