CREDIT NUMBER 2667 AM
Development Credit Agreement
(Irzigation Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DatedJWWPM 8W 16 , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2667 AM
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       ,) A48 M        1          , 1994,
between REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B)   the Borrower intends to contract from the International
Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in
an amount equivalent to $8,000,000 to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the
IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
IFAD; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January
1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "DWSI" means Department of Water Supply and Irrigation
within the MOA.
(b)   "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
(c)   "OME"  means  Operation  and  Maintenance  Enterprise
operating under DWSI.


﻿-2-
(d)   "Project  Preparation  Advance"   means  the   project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated March 8, 1994 and April 5,
1994 between the Borrower and the Association.
(e)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
(f)   "Water Master Plan" means a plan for development of the
water resources of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to twenty-nine million four hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 29,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in US dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as  the   Association  shall  reasonably   request;  (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing March 1, 2005 and ending September 1, 2029. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2014 shall be one and one quarter percent (1.25%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two and one half
percent (2.5%) of such principal amount.


﻿-4-
(b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through the
MOA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial and technical practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in


﻿-5-
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project;
(b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
(c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices, taking into
account the Association's comments thereon.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;


﻿-6-
(ii)   furnish  to   the  Association,   as  soon   as
available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish   to   the   Association   such   other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,   in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives     to
examine such records; and
(iv)    ensure that   such  records and   accounts are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures,
including but not limited to improvement of water management and
distribution systems, to ensure that collected water charges shall
cover not less than 40 percent of the operational and maintenance
costs of the Borrower's irrigation infrastructure (hereinafter
referred to as "operational costs" for the purposes of this Section)
by December 31, 1995; not less than 60 percent of the operational
costs by December 31, 1996; not less than 70 percent of the
operational costs by December 31 1997; and not less than 100 percent
by December 31, 1998.
Section 4.03. No later than October 31 of each year during
execution of the Project, the Borrower shall submit to the
Association for its approval the OME's annual financing plan for the
next fiscal year which shall include, inter alia: (a) budget
allocations for operational and maintenance costs to be incurred by
the OME in connection with expansion of operation and maintenance
works; and (b) aggregate amount of operational and maintenance
costs, as defined in paragraph (a) of this Section, to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional evenz. is specified, namely
that:
(a)   The IFAD Loan Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by July 30, 1995, or such later date as the Association
may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph
shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that adequate funds for the Project are available to
the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement;
(b)   (1)    Subject to paragraph (b)(2) of this Section:
(i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the IFAD Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms
thereof, or


﻿-8-
(ii)    the IFAD Loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity
thereof.
(2)    Paragraph (b)(1) of this Section shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under the IFAD Loan; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions,
namely that the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been duly
established with adequate number of suitably qualified staff.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿-9-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
1, Government House
Republic Square
Yerevan 375010
Republic of Armenia
Telex:
243331 LADA SU
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ARMENIA
By I'CI       R~OU16W       ~    4
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Id            $APC       OI4cy
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Equipment,               16,000,000       100% of foreign
materials and                             expenditures,
supplies                                  100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 85%
of local expen-
ditures for
other items
procured locally
(2)   Civil works               6,470,000       100% of foreign
expenditures
85% of local
expenditures
(3)   Technical                   680,000       100%
assistance
(4)   Operational               3,400,000       100%
and maintenance
costs


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(5) Refunding of              1,030,000        Amount due
Project                                   pursuant to
Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
Advance                                   of this Agreement
(6) Unallocated               1,820,000
TOTAL                   29,400,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency
of the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
of which the goods and services are supplied, expenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(c)   the term "operational and maintenance costs" means
incremental expenditures as agreed by the Borrower and the Bank
according to Section 4.03 of this Agreement.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b) expenditures under Category (4), unless the annual financing
program referred to in Section 4.03 of this Agreement submitted for
the fiscal year during which such expenditures have been incurred,
has been approved by the Association.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
maintaining the level of irrigated agriculture production and to
improve the Borrower's water resource management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     The Irrigation Rehabilitation Program
(1)   Rehabilitation of eight major conveyance systems, including
canals, aqueducts, siphons and hydraulic structures in eight major
irrigation schemes: Shirak, Talin, Abovian (Kotaik), Arzni Shamiram,
Lower Razdan, Octemberian, Artashat, and Getik.
(2)   Replacement of pumps and pressure pipelines in Vorotan,
Azizbekov I and II, Mkchian I and II and Arevshat I and II.
(3)   Rehabilitation/replacement of about 650 tubewells pumps in the
Ararat valley.
(4)   Rehabilitation of four storage schemes (reservoirs) inAparan,
Mantash, Sarnakhpiur and Shirak.
Part B:     Pilot Projects to Improve Water Management
(1)   Designing and construction of secondary and tertiary channels
and outlets to serve Water Users Associations (WUAs) of about 50
farmers.
(2)   The provision of technical assistance for:
(a)   institutional reorientation of the OHE and village
councils to service the WUAs;
(b)   carrying out of 3 or 4 WUA pilot schemes designed to
test different participatory methods and approaches;
(c)   development and start-up of implementation of a program
to establish active WUAs throughout the Republic of Armenia, based
on insights gained from pilot schemes; and


﻿- 14 -
(d)   development and implementation of a program to achieve
full operations and maintenance cost recovery, in conjunction with
WUA organizing methods.
Part C:     Operations and Maintenance System
Financing of incremental operating and maintenance costs
required for operation and maintenance of the Borrower's irrigation
infrastructure.
Part D:     Technical Assistance
The provision of consulting services, training and necessary
equipment for:
(1)   establishment and maintaining the PIU;
(2)   assistance in updating the Water Master Plan;
(3)   preparation of the next irrigation project; and
(4)   assistance to improve irrigated crop production.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1998.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
(1)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to and in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the Guidelines,
by the minimum amount of time required to complete the evaluation,
obtain necessary approv ls and clearances and award the contract.
The bid validity period may be extended a second time only if the
bidding documents or the request for extension shall provide for
appropriate adjustment of the bid price to reflect changes in the
cost of inputs for the contract over the period of extension. Such
an increase in the bid price shall not be taken into account in the
bid evaluation. With respect to each contract made subject to the
Association's prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part
E.1 (a) of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for (i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the
period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
(2)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with
this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto as the
Association shall have agreed to be necessary for the purposes of
the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based
on other internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
(3)   Bidders for the works included in Part A and B of the
Project shall be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the
Guidelines.


﻿- 16 -
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in the Republic of
Armenia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$9,700,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.    Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $100,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison
of price quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to
the Association.
3.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $8,500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
4.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated *to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $1,700,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 17 -
5.    Contracts for goods which the Association agrees: (a) are of
proprietary nature; (b) the timely supply thereof is critical for
efficient Project execution; or (c) need to be compatible with other
installment equipment, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to
$200,000, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to all contracts for civil works and
contracts for goods: (i) awarded in accordance with procedures under
Part A; (ii) the first three contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures under Parts D (1) and (3); and (iii) estimated to cost
the equivalent of $200,000 or more per contract for civil works and
the equivalent of $300,000 or more per contract for goods, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 2 to the Guidelines.


﻿- 18 -
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ      consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the
Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, the
Borrower shall employ such consultants under contracts using the
standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been
issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard forms
agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts
shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b)
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior Bank
review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for such
contracts; (b) single source selection of consulting firms; (c) to
assignments of a critical nature as reasonably determined by the
Bank; (d) to amendments of contracts for employment of consulting
firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or
(e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.    For the purpose of administration of the activities to be
carried out under the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the
Project Board of Management which shall make policy decisions
relating to the Project implementation and guide the Project
implementation staff.
2.    The Borrower shall maintain PIU referred to in Section 6.01 of
this Agreement which, at all times, shall be suitably staffed and
shall operate in accordance with the implementation arrangements
agreed between the Borrower and the Association and designed to
achieve the objectives of the Project.
3.    Not later than December 31, 1995, the Borrower shall establish
a Monitoring and Evaluation Section (MES) within the PIU which shall
report directly to the Project Board of Management. The MES shall be
responsible for collecting and analyzing information on Project
implementation and its evaluation, in accordance with the monitoring
and evaluation procedures agreed with the Association.
4.    Not later than April 30, 1997, the Association shall review
with the Borrower the progress made in the implementation of the
Project. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to execute
the actions identified and agreed upon between the Association and
the Borrower during such review.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2), (3) and (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an
amount equivalent to $1,500,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to
or exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.


﻿- 21 -
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph      3 of   this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement;
(b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be


﻿- 22 -
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant
to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.


﻿- 23 -
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
SOc eCRETARY
FOR SECRETARY


