Report No. 912-SO                                                        FILE  COPY
Appraisal of the Northwest Region
Agricultural Development Project Somalia
May 7, 1976
Eastern Africa Projects Department
General Agriculture Projects Division
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                            Somali Shilling (So.Sh.)
So.Sh. 1.00                       =     US$ 0.16
US$ 1.00                          =      So.Sh. 6.23
So.Sh. 1,000                      =     US$ 160
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha)                   =       10,000 m = 2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)                  -       2.20 pounds (lb)
1 Quintal (ql)                   =       100 kg = 0.1 ton
1 Ton (metric)                   =       1,000 kg (2,205 lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
ADC                              =       Agricultural Development Corporation
ONAT                             =       National Tractor Hiring Agency
(Organizzazione Nazionale Agricoltura
Trattore)
PIU                              =       Project Implementation Unit
PMC                              =       Project Ministerial Committee
SDB                              =      Somali Development Bank
WDA                              =       Water Development Authority
Government Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ........*................   i-iii
I.   INTRODUCTION ...................................        1
II. BACKGROUND.                                               1
A. General.                                             1
B. The Agricultural Sector.                             2
C.   Government Services .......................        3
III.   THE PROJECT AREA ....................                   4
A.   General ..........     .........................   4
B.   Agricultural Potential .....      ...............  5
IV. THE PROJECT ....                                          7
A.   General.....%            ....                      7 ..............  7
B. Detailed Features .                .                 8
C. Project Costs   .                .11
D.  Financing ............    ................        13
E. Procurement  . .13
F. Disbursements   .                .14
G. Accounts and Audit   .             .14
V. ORGANIZATION AND MAiAGEMENT .15
VI.  PRODUCTION, PRICES, FARMERS' BEi'EFITS AND RECOVERY
OF PROJECT COSTS .18
A. Production and Yields .18
B.   Markets and Prices ........................    19
C.   Farmers' Benefits .........................    20
D.   Recovery of Project Costs .21
VII.   ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .22
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .24
thi ofica du_s _t cotnsmyntohrieb_icoe  ihu  ol  akatoiain
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1.    Somali Development Bank
2.    Agriculture in the North ,'est Region
Table 1 - Rainfall
Table 2 - Existing Small-scale Irrigated Horticultural Gardens
3.    Field Bunding for Soil and Water Conservation in the North Wqest Region
4.    Project Consultancy Services
5.    Project Costs
Table 1  - Summary of Development Costs
Table 2  - Construction of Field Bunding and Water Points: Capital Costs
Table 3 - Construction of Field Bundilug and Water Points: Operating Costs
Table 4 - Small-scale Irrigation Development: Capital Costs
Table 5 - Extension and Training: Capital Costs
Table 6 - Extension and Training: Operating Costs
Table 7 - Dry-land Crop Trials: Capital Costs
Table 8 - Dry-land Crop Trials: Operating Costs
Table 9 - Geed Deeble 11orticultural Station: Capital Costs
Table 10 - Geed Deeble Hlorticultural Station: Operating Costs
Table 11 - Feasibility Studies: Capital Costs
Table 12 - Feasibility Studies: Operating Costs
6.    List of Equipment, Velhicles and Buildings to be Financed
7.    Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
8.    Draft Terms of Reference, Duties, Responsibilities and Qualifications
for the Project Manager
9.    Farmers, Bunding and Sorghum Production
10.  Mlarkets and Prices
Table 1 - Agricultural Developrnent Corporation Organization Chart
Table 2 - Sorghuni Import Parity Price
Table 3 - Fruit and Vegetable tarketing Costs and Margins
11.   Farmn.Budgets
Table 1 - MIodel Farm Budget: Dry-land Farms
Table 2 - One lIectare Irrigated Farm Production Development
Table 3 - One Hectare Irrigated Farm Cash Flow Projections



ANNEXES (Cont'd)
12. Analysis of Recovery of Project Costs
13. Economic Evaluation
Table 1 - Costs in the Economic Analysis
Table 2 - Benefits in the Economic Analysis
Table 3 - Internal Rate of Return
14. Foreign Exchange and Government Budgetary Implications
Table 1 - Foreign Exchange Implications
Table 2 - Government Cash Flow
CHART
Chart 1 - Implementation Schedule (World Bank 9467)
Chart 2 - Organization of Ministry of Agriculture (World Bank 8931)
Chart 3 - Organization of North West Region Agricultural Development
Project (World Bank 8971 (3R))
MAPS
North West Region Agricultural Development Project (IBRD 11190)
Location of Feasibility Studies Areas (IBRD 11307)






SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Somalia's agricultural development strategy emphasizes self-suffi-
ciency in food grains which has become an increasingly urgent objective
since the drought of 1975, and aims at remedying the uneven economic develop-
ment between the northern and southern regions of the country. The main
elements in the Government's program to achieve these goals are increased
sorghum and maize production, control of the country's severe soil erosion
(which unless checked could eventually destroy the most productive lands,
specially in the North West Region), water conservation, irrigation, and
various types of assistance to peasant farmers aimed at encouraging a gradual
transition from nomadism to settled farming. As part of this program, the
Project would aid the redevelopment of the North West Region through water
conservation, erosion control measures and irrigation designed to increase
production of the major food crops. The Project would also support the
current trend toward settled agriculture and create the technical basis for
future agricultural development projects in this area, including the training
of Somali personnel to execute future projects.
ii.       The Project would include provision for the construction of field
bunds for soil and water conservation on 25,000 ha, repair of existing bunds
on a further 2,000 ha, and a small experimental gulley erosion control
program. The bunding component is based on valuable experience acquired
over a 30 year period during which time bunds have made a significant con-
tribution towards the control of environmental deterioration and raising
the productivity of land. Fifty small irrigated farms of about 1 ha each
would elsewhere be established which would produce citrus and other fruit
trees, and some vegetables. A nucleus agricultural service for the region
would be established by rehabilitating and expanding the existing extension
service for dry-land farmers and providing additional facilities for the train-
ing of extension agents at the Aburin experimental and demonstration farm. A
small horticultural extension service would also be created to provide advice
to farmers on the production of fruits and vegetables. Under the Project,
provision would also be made for the improvement of the dry-land crop trials
program at the Aburin farm and for the extension of the Geed Deeble irrigated
horticultural station. The latter would carry out fruit crop trials, estab-
lish a nursery for production of grafted seedlings, and set up a sorghum
seed multiplication program. The Project would in addition provide 100 water
points for human consumption and 50 water points for livestock. Finally the
Project would provide technical services to assist the implementation of the
Project and to undertake the preparation of feasibility studies for two future
agricultural projects within Somalia.
iii.      The Project would be under the overall direction of a Project
Ministerial Committee comprising(the Secretaries of State for Finance, Agri-
culture and the President of the Somalia Development Bank. The Project would
be implemented by a Project Implementation Unit (PITT) attached to the Ministry



- ii 
of Agriculture and headed by a Somali Project Manager, who would be assisted
by a management team to be provided by a consultant firm. This team, which
would be an integral part of PIU, would comprise a management team leader,
a soil conservation officer, an extension and training officer, a horticultural
officer and a chief mechanic.
iv.       An IDA credit of US$10 million is proposed which would cover about
72% of total Project costs of So.Sh. 86.78 million (US$13.93 million). The
foreign exchange requirements of the Project are estimated at US$10.2 million.
Government's contribution would be So.Sh. 24.3 million (ITS$3.91 million); this
owould be offset to some degree by taxes (USS0.7 million) derived from import
duties on fuel and from income taxes over the six-year development period.
Farmers' downpayment contribution would be limited to participants in the
irrigated farm component, which at 35% of sub-project cost reflects their
relative affluence and ability to contribute. The remaining 65% of the capital
costs or about US$41,000 would be channeled by the Government to the Somali
Development Bank which would in turn onlend to farmers at 5 1/2% per annum -
the prevailing rate for loans of this type in Somalia. Procurement of tractors,
equipment and vehicles (US$3 million) in orders exceeding US$50,000 would be
by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines.
Field bunds and water points would be executed by force account.   Contracts
for buildings, water tanks, dug wells, and installation of irrigation
equipment (US$519,000> would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally. Pumps and other small items (US$99,000) would be
procured locally; supplies are adequate and competition among firms is
satisfactory.
V.        From year 8 the total annual incremental production of sorghum in
the Project area would be 4,000 tons; this would represent an 80% increase
over pre-Project production levels. Incremental annual production of fruits
and vegetables would total 400 tons and 100 tons respectively from Year 13.
In addition, the Project would make a major contribution in arresting soil
erosion which represents a major threat to the economic life of the North West
Region. The water retention measures and the overall soil improvement would
eventually enable farmers to diversify their cropping patterns and thus raise
the levels of production and farm incomes in the Region.
vi.       The Project would directly benefit about 2,500 farm families.  The
estimated annual family cash income on a dry-land farm would increase on
avetage by about 170% from So.Sh. 640 (US$103) to So.Sh. 1,730 (US$278). The
annual net cash income from the sale of fruits and vegetables from the small
irrigated farms would average So.Sh 4,900 (US$790) at full development. The
construdtion of the field bunding would employ 500 persons over a five year
period.
vii.      The internal economic rate of return of the Project would be 11%
over a twenty-five year period. The estimated rate of return does not take
into account important non-quantifiable benefits such as the prevention of
the continued decrease in cultivable area which would have occurred without



- iii -
the Project and the continued erosion of the very basis of livelihood of the
population. The major risks facing the Project would be a failure to achieve
the projected increase in sorghum yields and a delay in delivery of machinery
and equipment for bund construction. The yields used in the economic analysis
are relatively conservative; they take into account the possibility of partial
crop failures, and have been achieved by farmers now located in the Project
area. The estimated delivery period of machinery and bund construction is
realistic. Sensitivity tests have shown that the economic rate of return is
relatively insensitive to changes in costs and benefits within reasonable
ranges. The rate of return resulting from the bunding component alone
would be 10%.
viii.     This would be the Bank Group's second Project for Somalia's agri-
cultural sector. Since 1965 IDA has extended eight credits to Somalia
totalling US$53 million. Three of these credits were for highways, two for
education, two for port development and one for agriculture (the Trans-Juba
Livestock Project which became effective in October, 1974). Some of the
projects encountered initial delays in implementation, but overall performance
has generally been good.
ix.       Subject to the required assurances and conditions, the Project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$10 million to the Government of
Somalia.






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      An important element of Somalia's development strategy is the
increased emphasis on self-sufficiency in food grains which has become an
increasingly urgent objective since the drought of 1975. Although self-
sufficiency is considered in the light of the country's requirement as a
wbole, there are important reasons why food grain production in northern
Somalia should be considered within the context also of regional self-
sufficiency. The principal reasons are the geographical isolation of
northern Somalia, the considerable distances that separate it from the more
productive areas of the country, the weak transport links between the two
parts of the country and the consequent high transport costs. The Government
attaches much importance to the development of northern Somalia which has
hitherto remained largely poor and undeveloped by comparison with the southern
part of Somalia which is relatively better off owing to a favourable physical
environment, particularly rainfall and perennial rivers. Emphasis is being
placed on increased production of sorghum and maize, control of the country's
severe soil erosion (which unless checked could eventually destroy the most
productive lands especially in the North West Region), the improvement of
living standards for the rural population, and the encouragement of a transi-
tion from nomadism to settled farming.
1.02      This would be the third Bank Group project for Somalia's agricul-
tural sector. The first, the Trans-Juba Livestock Project (for US$10 million),
was declared effective in October 1974; after some initial delay, the project
is now beginning satisfactorily. The second, the Drought Rehabilitation
Project (US$8 million), was approved in April 1976 but has not been declared
effective. Since 1965 IDA has extended seven other credits totalling about
US$43 million to Somalia. Three of these credits were for highways, two for
education and two for port development. Performance under these projects
has been generally good, although there have been some initial delays in
project start-up.
1.03      This Project was prepared by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program with
the collaboration of the IBRD Regional Mission in Eastern Africa (RMEA). This
report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission in May/June 1974
comprising Messrs. E. M. Sicely, H. R. Malik and W. Stolber (IDA) and Mr. R.
Benham (Agricultural Development Service).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Somalia is located in the eastern corner of Africa and has a total
area of about 637,000 km2. Rainfall is low and uncertain, ranging from
200-600 mm, and the country is generally arid to semi-arid. The population
is estimated at about three million, and is growing at a rate of 2.5% per
annum. About 90% of the total population Is located in rural areas.



- 2 -
2.02      In 1971 GNP was about US$200 million with a per capita income of
about US$70. Although there are no national accounts, it is believed that
between 1960 and 1970 the per capita income remained static. Total value
of imports rose from US$58 million in 1969 to USS115 million in 1973. Im-
ports of food ranked second only to those of manufactured goods. Cereals
and cereal products accounted for about 8% of the value of total imports
(US$9 million) in 1973 and sugar, tobacco, vegetable oils and fats (US$11.5
million) accounted for about another 10%. Total export earnings did not show
any significant increase in the sixties, but improved in early seventies, and
in 1973 they totalled about US$55 million. Livestock and livestock products
including hides and skins contributed about 68% of the total value of exports
(US$37 million), and fruits and vegetables accounted for another 20% (US$11
million). The droughts which occurred in late 1974 and 1975 have since
seriously disrupted this pattern of 1"puts and outputs.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Somalia is heavily dependent on the agricultural sector for its
economic development. However, with the exception of commercially produced
bananas and sugarcane, production is mainly for subsistence. About 70% of
the population are pastoralists, some of whom engage in subsistence culti-
vation; an additional 15% are engaged in settled agriculture, fishing and
forestry. Of the total land area, 32% is too arid for any form of agricul-
ture, 55% is suitable for grazing and 13% for settled agriculture. There is,
however, a significant potential for settled agricultural development, since
only about 650,000 ha out of a total of about 8 million ha of potentially
arable land are now cropped. All land belongs to the State, and is largely
used by nomadic herdsmen. All natural and Government-constructed stock
watering facilities are for common usage and are mostly free of charge.
2.04      Sorghum and maize are the main food crops.  Estimates of maize area
range from 70,000 to 120,000 ha and for sorghum upto 1 million ha in two
seasons. Fluctuations in yield and production are extreme due to variability
in the weather. Yields in a normal year are estimated to average 7 quintals
per ha countrywide for both crops and have not shown any noticeable increase
over the past decades; some estimates suggest even a decrease. Bananas,
sugarcane, rice, vegetables and frlits (mainly citrus) are grown under irri-
gation.. Some groundnuts, sesame, cotton and pulses are also cultivated.
Agricultural research facilities in Somalia are generally inadequate although
some research on major cash crops has started. There are a number of con-
straints which have severely limited the development of rainfed agriculture.
These include: poor cultural practices, inadequate extension services, poor
seed quality, severe soil erosion, lack of agricultural credit, and inadequate
and uneven distribution of water facilities for both human and livestock con-
sumption.



-3-
National Agricultural Policy
2.05      The Government has placed the highest priority on agricultural
development. During the 1971-73 Development Plan period, Government introduced
a comprehensive agricultural development program including a guaranteed price
scheme for grains and bananas, as well as the development of large-scale
irrigation schemes in the south. Helped in part by extremely favorable
weather in 1972 the country produced sufficient sorghum and maize to make it
self-sufficient in these crops that year. Another good harvest in 1972-73
crop season maintained self-sufficiency in 1973. However drought has since
seriously affected crop and livestock production. The Five-Year Plan 1974-78
emphasises: (i) self-sufficiency in basic food and cash crops (oilseeds,
cotton, vegetables and fruits); (ii) the production of crops hitherto im-
ported (rice, wheat and dates); (iii) development of export crops; (iv) the
development of irrigation; (v) soil and water conservation in less developed
areas such as the northern regions: and (vi) improvement of livestock. As
part of this overall plan, Government has decided to initiate a first phase
development project in the North West Region.
C. Government Services
2.06      The Government provides a wide range of services to the agricul-
tural sector through (among other institutions) the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range, the Agricultural Development
Corporation, the Water Development Agency and the Somali Development Bank.
The Ministry of Agriculture (Chart 2) suffers generally from a lack of funds,
a shortage of trained staff, and insufficient transport facilities. The
Mlinistry has a total staff of 670, of whom 160 are extension staff with some
training in their field, but the quality of training is variable. In the
North West Region in 1974 there were only 4 agricultural staff; these were
all at the sub-professional level. The overall situation is expected to
improve, however, as agricultural graduates from the University of Somalia
and diplomates from the Vocational Agricultural Secondary School become
available from 1976/77, and as additional agricultural extension agents are
trained under the Project.
2.07      The Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), an autonomous agency
of the Ministry of Agriculture, was set up in 1971 with monopoly powers for
the purchase of all marketable surpluses of sorghum, maize, oilseeds and cotton
from farmers, procurement of sorghum and maize from abroad (when necessary),
and the-'sale of this grain to the regional government authorities and muni-
cipalities at prices fixed by Government. The regional government authorities
and municipalities in turn sell these grains at a Government-fixed price
which covers their costs of handling and operations. The ADC has replaced
the National Grain Marketing Agency and numerous private grain traders.  The
National Tractor Hiring Agency (ONAT) which was operated by ADC until 1972,
provides tractor hire services for farm operations, using mainly Russian equip-
ment. ONAT's operations are limited by a lack of trained staff, its operations



-4 -
are dispersed over a wide area and its management is not experienced in handling
large-scale operations. The Water Development Agency (WDA) is an autonomous
agency within the Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources which designs and
undertakes the siting, drilling and equipping of boreholes for municipal and
rural water supply and the excavation and maintenance of artificial reservoirs
for livestock. It has some 25 drill rigs and other auxiliary equipment and
its staff includes four qualified hydrologists.
2.08       The Somali Development Bank (SDB), a Government banking institution
with an authorized share capital of So.Sh. 100 million (US$16 million) provides
medium and long-term loans to both industry and agriculture (Annex 1). In
1972 SDB extended loans of So.Sh. 10 million (US$1.6 million) for industrial
development and So.Sh. 5 million (US$0.8 million) for agriculture - mainly
to large-scale and commercial enterprises. Loans to the northern regions
accounted for only a tenth of total agricultural lending and were primarily
for purchase of tractors, pumps and irrigation equipment. A branch of the
Bank was opened in Hargeisa in January 1976 to facilitate future lending
operations in the North. Lack of loan capital and a high proportion of non-
recoverable loans hamper the Bank's operations generally.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
A. General
3.01       The Project area would cover some 200,000 ha in the southwestern
part of the North West Region in the Hargeisa, Gebile and Borama districts.
The districts are administered by District Commissioners aided by a small
number of supplementary staff.  The main towns in the area are Hargeisa
(regional capital) Gebile, Borama and Tug Wajale, and in addition there are
about 113 settlements comprising less than a dozen families. Gravel-earth
roads connect the main towns and provide access to the major ports nearby;
plans are underway to upgrade some of these roads and to link the regional
capital with Mogadishu. There is an airport at Hargeisa and landing strips
at Gebile and Borama. The region is relatively well served with health and
education facilities, having about 17% of the country's medical and para-
medical staff, and about 20% of the total enrolment of school pupils.
3.02       The North West Region has a settled population of 160,000 persons,
about 120,000 of whom reside in Hargeisa, Gebile and Borama districts.
Although the great majority of the people are nomadic herdsmen, an increasing
number are gradually adopting settled agriculture as a means of supplementing
their low incomes. Over the last 20 years arable areas have been progressive-
ly cleared of bush and brought into cultivation. Of about 160,000 ha of po-
tential arable land, it is estimated that at this time about 126,000 ha are
under cultivation by about 12,000 farmers.



-5-
3.03       There is now a uniform system of land tenure in Somalia established
under Law No. L 73 1975.  The Secretary of Agriculture grants concessions on
land for agricultural purposes to individual farmers as well as cooperative
societies, state farms, autonomous agencies and local governments. For a
family only one concession may be issued, valid for 10 years and renewable
for the same period. Land holding ceilings have been set for private farmers
at 30 hectares of irrigated land and 60 hectares of dry land (excluding land
used for plantations). Concessions for plantations have been limited to an
area of 100 hectares. Only in the case of physical disability may the owner
of a concession sublet it to another, with prior authorization of the Secre-
tary. Otherwise transfer, sale, mortgage or lease are not permitted. In the
case of death of the land user, the concession is transferable to legal heirs.
If however in these circumstances a concession should be revoked and the land
pass to a new user, the latter would be required to compensate the heirs for
any investments made by the testator. As under this Law all land in the
Republic whether occupied or unoccupied belongs to the State it no longer
provides commercial security for lending by banks which in future would lend
against the value of development improvements and the increased income generated
thereby.
B. Agricultural Potential (Annex 2)
3.04       The Project area lies at an altitude of about 1,500 meters.  Two
rainy seasons (April-early June and end June-September) yield an annual rain-
fall averaging between 400 and 500 mm (Annex 2, Table 1). There are no per-
manent rivers, but normally dry streams (tugs) become torrents for a few hours
after rain. Surface water reservoirs (ballehs) are the main water sources
for both the nomadic and settled population. Water collects at a shallow depth
below the bed of many of the large tugs, and hand-dug wells beside the banks
are used to irrigate small horticultural holdings. No comprehensive attempt
has as yet been made to assess the total water resource potential.  Soils
are mainly fine-grained reddish sandy clay of alluvial origin, and seem to
be fairly fertile; they appear, however, to have slow infiltration capacity,
as during the rains the heavy run-off results in considerable soil erosion.
Soil erosion has already denuded a substantial area and, if allowed to conti-
nues unchecked, would pose a serious threat both to the cultivated areas and
to the overall environment. The effects of this erosion are further ag-
gravated by over-grazing and deforestation.
Rainfed Farming
3.05       Soil and climatic conditions normally allow seasonal dry-land
cultivation of food crops, and this now accounts for about 80% of the cropped
area. Sorghum is by far the most important crop, although some maize and
pulses are also grown. In years of low or poorly-distributed rainfall, crops
often wither before reaching maturity, except in the limited areas where
field bunds have been constructed. These bunds utilize rainfall to the
maximum extent and control erosion by limiting run-off. They consist of
crescent shaped earth banks averaging about 120 m long and 75-85 cm high,



-6-
1 to 2 bunds per ha. About 20,000 ha were bunded between 1954 and 1964,
all of which are located in the Project area.  About 90% of the bunds have
been maintained in excellent condition. It is reported that no instance of
complete crop failure has yet occurred on bunded land. At present bund
construction is the only method used for controlling soil erosion. It has
the added advantage of increasing moisture retention behind the bunds which
facilitates crop production in areas which are devoid of water during most of
the year. There is a significant difference in yields between bunded and
non-bunded land. There is no technically viable alternative to bund construc-
tion which could provide a secure basis for crop production with a reasonable
yield.
3.06       Annual rainfed farm income is low, averaging about So.Sh. 640
(US$103), not including subsistence consumption valued at about So.Sh. 800
(US$128).  lIoldings of arable land -verage about 10 ha, and one-third of
this is traditionally fallow. Sorghum yields in the non-bunded area average
about 3 quintals of grain per ha, and in the bunded areas about 6 quintals
per ha. These low yields are attributable to limited rainfall, inadequate
seed-bed preparation and weeding, broadcast sowing and poor seed.
3.07       Available data on individual herd size are not reliable, but indi-
cations are that an average settled farming family owns about 10 head of
cattle, 2 to 4 camels, and 20 to 40 sheep and goats. Natural rangelands
provide the main food supply and the settled farmers supplement this feed
with sorghum stover. An alarming rate of degradation is reported in range-
lands due to over-grazing, aggravated by the inadequate number of water
points. Foot and mouth disease and various tick-borne diseases are present,
but the main cause of economic losses are parasites and caprine pleuro-
pneumonia.  Rinderpest, which was the chief disease affecting cattle, has been
controlled by vaccination.
Small-Scale Irrigated Horticultural Farming
3.08       Some 600 small horticultural gardens of between 2 to 10 ha, covering
a total area of about 2,700 ha (Annex 2, Table 2), are scattered through the
region beside tugs or springs. Irrigation is usually carried out by small,
diesel-operated, centrifugal pumps. The main crops are citrus (oranges, grape-
fruit, lemons), watermelons, guavas, mangoes, coffee and qat 1/; some vege-
tables (onions, cabbages, tomatoes) are also grown. Most of these farms are
individually owned and operated; a few are grouped into cooperatives. In spite
of poor water management and lack of experience with intensive crop produc-
tion, the financial returns on these farms appear to be good. There is a
strong demand for horticultural produce within the region, and fruit and
vegetables are also exported to the expanding markets of Aden and Djibouti.
There appear to be possibilities for further development of such farms, but
any such development should proceed cautiously until more is known about
surface and ground-water resources.
1/    Catha edulis, a mild stimulant commonly used in Ethiopia and Somalia.



-7-
Extension and Research
3.09       Agricultural extension services are rudimentary:  there are only 4
extension workers in the Region, all of whom are at sub-professional level.
There are also 2 plant-protection workers and a few veterinary staff. There
are, however, no separate extension workers for the horticultural farms. Some
crop trials are being conducted at Aburin Demonstration and Experimental farm
on sorghum, pulses and fodder crops. At Geed Deeble a 10 ha horticultural
trials and multiplication farm is carrying out limited work on citrus. The
farms, supervised by non-resident agricultural officers at the sub-professional
level, suffer from inadequate facilities, funds, equipment, housing, transport
and management.
IV. nTE PROJECT
A. General
4.01       The Project would over a six-year period aid in the redevelopment
of the North West Region through water conservation, control of soil erosion
and other measures (Chart 1) designed substantially to increase agricultural
production. The Project would establish some basic agricultural services for
the first time and strengthen others which have been allowed to rundown during
the past years. It would, however, take advantage of some valuable experience
built up over the years, particularly in the construction and maintenance of
bunds. It would assist the current trend toward settled agriculture, and
xwould pioneer the technical basis for future production increases in both the
North West and the Bay Regions including training of Somali personnel aimed
to create the capacity to execute future projects of this type exclusively
with Somali manpower. The Project would include:
(a) construction of field bunds on 25,000 ha, repair of existing
bunds on about 2,000 ha and experimental gully erosion control
works;
(b) development of 50 small irrigated farms;
(c) improvement of crop trials and training facilities at tile
Aburin dry-land demonstration and experimental farm;
(d) extension of the Geed Deeble irrigated horticultural station
for fruit crop trials, nursery production and sorghum seed
multiplication;
(e) rehabilitation of the extension service to dry-land farmers
and establishment of a new extension section serving
irrigated farms;



- 8 -
(f) construction of 100 water points for human consumption and
50 water points for livestock; and
(g) technical services, training and feasibility studies.
The Project would be implemented by a Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
attached to the Ministry of Agriculture. Overall responsibility would be
vested, however, in a Project Ministerial Committee (PMC) comprising the
Secretaries of State for Finance, Agriculture, and the President of Somali
Development Bank.
B. Detailed Features
Field Bunding, Gully Erosion Conlrol and Water Points (Annex 3)
4.02       Earth bunds would be constructed on about 25,000 ha in priority
areas to be selected by the PIU in Hargeisa, Gebile and Borama districts
(Map IBRD 11190). Old bunds would be repaired on a further 2,000 ha, i.e.
about 10% of the area bunded between 1950 and 1964. The bunds would be
triangular in section, 1 m high and 2 m wide at their base; lengths of indi-
vidual bunds and spacings between bunds would vary according to topography.
The slope of the land to be bunded ranges from 1% on the watershed boundaries
to 5% and 6% along the main water courses; the average slope is about 2%.
Bunds would be built by bulldozers. This continues the practice adopted in
the 1950s after difficulties had been experienced in using animals in bund
construction (Annex 3). Soil would be obtained from the downhill side only
in order to preserve as great a depth of undisturbed topsoil as possible
immediately above the bund where most water would be impounded. In general,
the layout of the bunds would follow the pattern proved by previous experi-
ence, but greater attention would be paid to siting and spacing than in the
past in order to improve longevity, minimize maintenance and control erosion
more effectively. In the light of experience already available in the area,
about 300 m of bunds per ha will be needed. Some costs of bund construction
would be recovered from project farmers (para 6.08), who would also be
responsible for bund maintenance. Bund construction has been interrupted
during the past decade owing to a lack of expertise and finance. Failure
to resume bund construction at thls time would exacerbate soil erosion which
would be far more difficult and expensive to resolve in the longer run.
4.03      FJperimental gully erosion control measures would be implemented
on 200 ha in an area to be selected where gully formation is already in an
advanced stage.   This experiment would help to establish the technical feasi-
bility and cost of controlling gully formation in arable areas, and its results
would be taken into account in the design of future projects in this area. The
work would be done in the course of construction of the field bunds using the
field bunding equipment.



-9-
4.04       Water Points.  One hundred underground concrete water tanks of about
120 m each with handpumps, silt settling tanks and catchment ditches would be
constructed for the human population in the existing and newly bunded areas.
These would supplement the present inadequate water supply by providing about
1i litres of water per person to about 50% of the farming families during the
driest period of the year (about 120 days). Also, 50 earth water reservoirs
of 6,000 m3 each with catchment ditches would be constructed by mechanical
excavation for the livestock owned by the farmers in the bunded areas. These
would supply about 30 litres of water per day to each animal unit during the
driest period.
Small-Scale Irrigation Development
4.05       Fifty new small irrigated farms averaging 1 ha would be established
(in addition to the existing 600 farms) alongside tugs or springs in scattered
places throughout the Project area where underground water resources exist.
These resources are known to be limited in many areas and the number of farms
to be developed has been restricted in the Project to avoid over exploitation.
It is expected that the feasibility studies under the Project would identify
possibilities for further expansion, which could be undertaken under a future
Project. It is estimated that each irrigation unit would consist of a hand-
dug shallow well (about 7 m deep) equipped with a 2.5 hp pump, pipes and a
watertank. Land clearing and levelling would be undertaken. The main crops
to be grown on the farms would be citrus and other fruit trees and some vege-
tables.
Dry-land Crop Trials
4.06       The crop trial program being carried out at Aburin experimental and
demonstration farm would be improved through the introduction of. improved
varieties, crop husbandry techniques, pest control, rotations and alternative
crops including fodder crops. Investigations would also be carried out to
select improved ox-drawn implements suitable for the small local oxen, par-
ticularly for sowing sorghum in rows and for inter-row weeding.
Extension of Gedeblede Horticultural Station
4.07       The existing 10 ha citrus farm and nursery at Geed Deeble would be
expanded to a total area of 30 ha under irrigation. About one-third of this
area would be utilized for variety trials of citrus, peaches, plums and other
fruits (10 ha); a nursery for production of grafted seedlings of citrus and
other fruits for sale to farmers (5 ha); and for a date nursery (5 ha). The
remaining 10 ha would be used for multiplication of selected sorghum seed.
This improved seed would be used by the extension service in demonstrations
carried out on farmers' fields and would also be available for sale to farmers.
At present the quality of farmers' seed is poor; farmers are not aware of the
value of improved seeds and there is no seed industry. The production, demon-
stration and distribution of better quality seed grown under irrigation under
the Project would be a first step in the introduction of a seed multiplication



- 10 -
program for the northern regions. Under the Project provision would be made
for staff salaries, equipment for cultivation and pest control, transport,
housing and storage.
4.08       Irrigation water would be supplied by a deep tubewell, fed by the
underground flow of a tug which iS also drawn upon for hargeisa's water supply.
It is expected that electric power for the new installation would be available
from the nearby thermal generating station supplying the city water supply
installation. The consultants carrying out the feasibility studies (para 4.11)
would at the same time provide assistance to the PIU with the design and super-
vision of construction of the irrigation system, with particular attention
being given to the availability of sufficient water supplies for the horticul-
tural station from the existing city water supply installation. In the event
that sufficient water were not available for the proposed development, the
horticultural station would be relocated to a new site on Tug Arapsio or else-
where where water supplies are adequate. In this case the costs would be
similar to those at Geed Deeble.
Extension Services and Training Facilities
4.09       A nucleus agricultural service for the North West Region would be
established by rehabilitating, strengthening, and expanding the existing
extension service for dryland farming to a total of 23 extension agents.
Initially, there would be one extension agent per 200 farms; at full develop-
ment this would be reduced to 1:600. The potential for improvement in
farming methods and techniques is limited under the low rainfall environment,
except in those areas where bunding is carried out; extension would therefore
be directed mainly towards (but not restricted to) farmers on bunded lands.
It would concentrate on simple concepts - including timeliness of cultivation
and planting, improved seed, row-sowing, weeding, the use of improved implements
and plant protection - and would utilize demonstration plots on farmers'
land (para 6.06). Farmers would also be advised on the maintenance of bunds
and the control of gully erosion. A small horticultural extension service
(3 professionals) would also be created to provide advice to farmers on the
production of fruit and vegetables under irrigation. The service would cover
advice on irrigation equipment, irrigation layouts, varieties, irrigation,
fertilizers, cultural and plant protection practices, marketing, etc. Most
of these activities would be concentrated in the latter part of the Project
implementation period on the fifty small irrigated farms to be developed
under the Project. Costs of the extension service would include provision for
staff salaries, vehicles, equipment, and housing.
4.10    .. Additional facilities for the training of extension agents would
also be provided at Aburin. Housing, a dormitory and a lecture hall would
be constructed and water supply would be installed. About 28 middle-school
graduates would be trained in an eigiht-months' course as extension agents; it
is assumed that about 80% of the trainees would complete the course success-
fully. The facilities would also be used for farmer training in short courses.



Consultancy Services and Feasibility Studies (Annex 4)
4.11       A range of technical and other services would be provided by
consultants employed under the Project (para 5.05). These services would
include:
(a)  Project Management Team.  The consultants would provide a
project management team (para 5.03) to assist the Project
Manager with the execution, coordination and supervision
of the Project; in addition they would devise a training
program for all Somali staff (para 5.11).
(b) Feasibility Studies. Provision would be made for the con-
sultants to undertake two feasibility studies for the eval-
uation of a prospective second phase project in the North
West Region and an integrated rural development project in
the Bay Region.
(c'  Technical Assistance.  The consultants who would undertake
feasibility studies would also provide technical assistance
to the PIU both during the course of the feasibility studies
and on their completion. The former would include assistance
with the design and construction of an irrigation system at
the Geed Deeble Horticultural Station and water resources studies
in both the liorth West and Bay Regions. The Water Development
Agency (WDA) would assist in carrying out the test drilling and
pumping for the water resource studies. In view of the importance
to the Project of the input from the Water Development Agency the
Government, pursuant to informal assurances, has undertaken to
ensure that it will be both adequate and timely. Upon completion
of the feasibility studies, the consultants would provide technical
advice to the PIU with regard to the development of the 50 small
irrigated farms to be established under the Project (para 4.05).
C. Project Costs (Annex 5)
4.12       Total Project costs are estimated at So.Sh. 86.78 million (US$13.93
million) of which US$10.2 million or about 73% represents foreign exchange
requirements. The estimated costs are summarized below:



- 12Z -
--So.Sh. '000------   -----US$ '000-----       Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Exchange
Construction of Field
Bunds and Water
Points                9,142   24,093   33,235  1,468   3,867    5,335    72
Small-scale Irrigation
Development             165       230       395     26       37       63    59
Dry-land Crop Trials       430      271       701     69       43       112    38
Geed Deeble Horticultural
Station                 839    1,278    2,117    135        205      340 1  60
Extension and Training 2,069    6,954    9,023    332   1,117    1,449 !  76
Feasibility Studies
and Technical Assist-
ance                  2,064    7,904    9,968    331   1,269    1,600 '4  79
Base Cost         14,709   40,730   55,439  2,361   6,538    8,899    73
Contingencies
Physical              1,014    2,869    3,883    163        460      623    74
Price                 7,715   19,748   27,463  1,238   3,169    4,408    72
Total Project Cost    23,438   63,347   86,785  3,762  10,168   13,930    73
Project costs are based on prices actual or estimated to be prevailing as
of June 1975. Physical contingencies of 5% on bunds and 10% on all other
costs have been included.  Price contingencies for equipment, civil works
and other items reflect the latest estimates of possible cost increases
to cover the period from June 1975 to the expected start of implementation in
mid 1976 and thereafter during the Project period. Over the Project period
price contingencies amount to about 50% of the base costs. Cost estimates
include taxes totalling about US$0.7 million derived from import duties on
fuel and from income taxes over the! six-year development period.



- 13 -
D. Financing
4.13      The financing of Project Costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions:
US$ '000          X
IDA                                   10,000          72
Government                             3,908)
)        28
Farmers                                   22)
13,930        100
The proposed IDA Credit of US$10 million would be on standard terms to Govern-
ment. The Government's contribution would be US$3.91 million equivalent to
about 28% of the total cost. This would be offset, however, to the extent of
US$0.7 million which is attributable to taxes included in Project costs. In
order to ensure the smooth implementation of the Project, it is important that
the PIU should have prompt access to the requisite funds, particularly since
the Project activities are all located at a considerable distance away from
Mogadishu, the country's capital. It was agreed that the Government would,
from time to time, provide the PIIJ with adequate funds and in a manner
acceptable to the Association to enable the PIU to function efficiently.
The contribution of farmers would be significant, although small, for the
50 one ha. irrigated farm component. Farmers downpayment contributions
would be limited to participants in the irrigated farm component and which
at 35% of sub-project cost reflect their relative affluence and ability to
contribute. IDA would finance the rest of the canital costs which would
be channelled bv the Government to the farmers through the Somalia
Development Bank at 5-1/2% interest a year, the prevailing rate for
loans of this type in Somalia.
E. Procurement
4.14      Procurement of tractors, equipment for the field bunding works and
the Geed Deeble farm, and vehicles (USS3 million) in orders exceeding US$50,000
would be by international competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA
guidelines; orders would be bulked whenever possible. The consultants would
be appointed in accordance with Bank/IDA policies and procedures.   Field
bunds and water points would be unsuitable for construction by contractors
either because the design cannot be standardized or due to the widely dispersed
location of small works. They would be constructed by force account (mainly
by the PIU) using equipment procured under the Project. Contracts for the



- 14 -
construction of buildings, concrete water reservoirs and fencing (US$469,000)
which by reason of their dispersed location and small size would not attract
international bidding would be alwarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally and in accordance with local procedures, which are satis-
factory to IDA. Draft tender documents for all items exceeding US$50,000
would be submitted to IDA for approval before issue of invitations. Construc-
tion of dug wells, supply of pipes and installation of irrigation equipment
(US$50,000) for small scale irrigation development would be by local contrac-
tors. Pumps for these farms (US$13,000) would be procured locally, and farmers
would be free to purchase from existing commercial channels. Single units of
tractors and cultivation equipment, furniture, office equipment and other small
items (US$86,000) would be procured locally; supplies of the items for local
procurement are adequate and competition between firms is satisfactory. A
list of Project equipment, vehicles and buildings is at Annex 6. PIU would be
responsible for the preparation of all contract documents, evaluation of tenders
and award of contracts.
4.15      The IDA credit would finance (a) 100% of the C.I.F. cost of imported
equipment, Somali port of entry, and 70% of imported equipment procured locally;
(b) 100% of the fees and expenses for management team, (c) 100% of the foreign
exchange cost for feasibility studies and technical assistance, and (d) about
45% of operating cost for bunding, water points, extension and training. Dis-
bursement for expenditures in respect of items procured through international
or locally advertised competitive bidding and feasibility studies would be
subject to IDA standard disbursement procedures requiring full documentation.
In the case of PIU's operating costs, expenditures would be approved by the
Project Manager, and disbursed against a certified statement, the documenta-
tion for which would not be submitted for review but would be retained by the
Borrower and available for inspection by IDA during the course of a Project
supervision mission. Any funds remaining in the Credit account upon comple-
tion of the Project would be available for reallocation for financing of
supplementary expenditures at the discretion of IDA. The estimated quarterly
schedule of disbursements is shownL in Annex 7.
G. Accounts and Audit
4.16      The Project Manager would be responsible for the design and imple-
mentation of an accounting system and financial controls for all Project -
related activities. The accounts of all Government agencies in Somalia are
audited by the Magistrate of Accounts, and it is expected that they would
also be responsible for the auditing of Project accounts. The Government
agreed that the Project would be constituted as a separate accounting unit
and accounts adequate to reflect all Project expenditures and cost recovery



- 15 -
would be maintained, that Project accounts would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and that these audited accounts, together with
the auditor's report, would be forwarded to IDA within six months of the end
of each fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
5.01      A Project Ministerial Committee (PMC) comprising the Secretaries of
State for Finance, Agriculture and the President of the Somali Development
Bank would have the overall responsibility for the Project. The Committee
would delegate responsibility for Project implementation to a Project Imple-
mentation Unit, attached to the Ministry of Agriculture (Chart 2) for admini-
strative purposes.
Project Implementation Unit
5.02      The Project Implementation Unit (PIU) would be responsible to the
PMC and would directly oversee the implementation of all parts of the Project.
Its proposed organization is shown in Chart 3. Upon the completion of the
Project the purposes for which the PIU was set up would have been accomplished
and its continuing responsibilities would be taken over by the Ministry of
Agriculture.
5.03      The PIU would be located in Hargeisa and would be responsible for
Project execution, coordination and supervision. It would be headed by a
Somali Project Manager who would be assisted by an expatriate project manage-
ment team of four senior officers and a senior technician. The team would
comprise its leader, a soil conservation officer, an extension and training
officer, a horticultural officer and a chief mechanic (who would be under the
direct supervision of the soil conservation officer). Draft terms of reference
outlining the responsibilities and qualifications of the Project Manager are
given in Annex 8; a similar outline for each member of the management team is
given in Annex 4. It would be a condition of credit effectiveness that the
Government had appointed a Project Manager in consultation with the Association.
In view of the lack of suitably trained and experienced local staff, the
Project management team would be provided by a firm of consultants (para 5.05).
However, all expatriate staff would have local deputies, who would receive
training both in-service and outside Somalia. By the end of the Project,
they would be fully qualified to assume responsibility for future development
work in these fields. It was agreed that the Government would appoint suitably
qualified candidates to the positions-of horticulturalist (Geed Deeble) and
farm manager (Aburin). Pursuant to informal assurances, the Government would
not transfer Project local staff trained under the Project from the PIU to
other Government employment during the implementation period without prior
consultation with the Association.



- 16 -
5.04      During the Project implementation period, PIV would be responsible
for the extension and training services, the operation and maintenance of the
water points, the gully erosion pilot area, Aburin Farm and the Geed Deeble
Horticultural Station, together vlth the seed multiplication activities.
As so recorded that on completion of the Project these responsibilities
would be assumed and adequately continued by the Government. Maintenance
of the field bunds would be the responsibility of the farmers on whose lands
they were constructed.
Consultancy Services
5.05      Consultants acceptable to the Association would be employed to
provide the Project management team, to undertake the two feasibility studies
(para 4.11), and to nrovide technical assistance for the construction of the
irrigation systems for the small--scale farms and the Geed Deeble Horticultural
Station (para 4.11). These services would best be provided by an agricultural
consultant firm acting in association with a firm of irrigation engineering
consultants, the one supplying the agricultural management team and the other
carrying out the feasibility studies and nroviding the technical assistance
for the irrigation development. It would be a condition of credit effective-
ness that the Government had appciinted these consultants under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA.
Aerial Photographs and Maps
5.06      Aerial photographs and up-to-date maps would be essential for the
implementation of the Project. An aerial survey of the North West Region
was carried out'in 1958 and in 1973 the whole country was covered by new
aerial photography done under bilateral assistance. Using these t*o photo-
graphic coverages the PIU could make an accurate comparative determination
of the location and rate of soil erosion and derive other essential informa-
tion. However, all aerial photographs and maps are now in military custody
in Somalia, and unless special arrangements are made PIU's access to them
may be limited. Furthermore, the new aerial photographs had not arrived in
Somalia at the time of Project appraisal. In order to ensure that all nec-
essary photographs would be availLable in a timely manner for the Project,
it has been a condition of Board presentation that both the 1958 and the
1973 air photographs of the Project area should have been made available
to the Project Ministerial Committee for the use of the PTIU. It was
agreed that the Government would expedite the completion and handing
over to the PMC of the topographical maps being made from the 1973
photographs.
Construction by Force Account
5.07      The construction of field bunds and water points and the extension
of the Geed Deeble Horticultural Station would be executed by the PIU's own
forces employing about 140 staff, including surveying staff, bulldozer opera-
tors, tractor and vehicle drivers, mechanics and laborers. As so recorded,
the PIU would operate entirely independently of the National Tractor
Organization (ONAT para 2.07).



- 17 -
Water Law
5.08      It is important for the orderly development of water resources
tqat a satisfactory water law had been enacted. Government consideration
of a draft law is at an advanced stage. It was agreed that the Government
would take all necessary action to safeguard existing users of surface and
underground waters against possible loss of water supply through unregulated
over-development.
Allocation of Irrigated Farms
5.09      The District Commissioner concerned would invite applications from
candidates for the 50 new irrigated farms. A committee consisting of the
concerned District Commissioner, the Project Manager and the Horticultural
Extension Officer would allocate the farms on criteria and procedures for
settlement to be agreed between the government and the Association during
negotiations.
Project Allowance
5.10      In the past, development projects in Somalia have generally been
implemented by autonomous government agencies. These agencies have been able
to attract staff because they have offered higher remuneration than Government
departments. In some respects the PIU would be autonomous, but unless special
arrangements are made the Government's pay and allowances scales would apply
to it. The Ministry's staff position in the North West Region has deterio-
rated seriously in recent years to the extent that only a few junior staff
now remain. The original staff, having retired from Government service, or
having been transferred to other posts within the Government or found other
employment, are no longer available and there is no suitable manpower to draw
on except by competing in the marketplace. The Project works would be in
remote locations with harsh physical conditions. In order to obtain the
necessary staff the PIU would have to offer an inducement allowance to supple-
ment the Government pay scale. The cost estimates therefore include provision
for this allowance for all local PIU staff at the rate of 30% of basic pay,
roughly equivalent to the remuneration differential between autonomous agencies
and Government departments.
Training
5.11      Local staff would be trained under the Project.  The Project would
be of a pioneering nature because it would create the capacity to execute
future projects of this type exclusively with Somali manpower. Senior staff
would be trained in landuse planning, arid zone agriculture, soil and water
conservation, and management. For the junior staff the training would con-
centrate on vocational and job-related skills. Provision would be made for
formal courses within and outside Somalia and on-the-job training. Government
would submit to the Association a training program to be prepared by consult-
ants for the Association's comments within six months of the appointment.



- 18 -
Project Evaluation
5.12       The. Project Manager would be responsible for Project evaluation,
both during and at the end of the Project period. The progress of the Project
would be monitored to evaluate the rate of completion of Project works as well
as the achievement of yield increases, benefits due to extension services,
crop production targets and farm income.
VI. PRODUCTION, PRICES, FARMER'S BENEFITS
AND RECOVERY OF PROJECT COSTS
A. Production and Yields
Dry-land Farms
6.01       Under the standard cropping pattern on an average 10 ha holding in
the North West Region, sorghum is grown on two-thirds of the area and the
remainder is left fallow. The fallow is used as grazing for oxen and other
farm animals.  Sorghum is a dual purpose crop, supplying grain for human
consumption and stover as fodder for the livestock. Under the Project 10%
of the farm area would be occupied by bunds, but the decrease in arable area
would be more than offset by increased production due to impounded rain water.
The cropping pattern would not change with the Project. Estimated sorghum
yields and sales surplus to subsistence requirement are given below for
improved farm areas both with and without the Project (Annex 11, Table 1).
The estimate of improved yields due to water conservation by bund construction
takes into account the possibility of partial crop failures caused by erratic
and poorly distributed rainfall, and assumes a three-year transition to full
development after bunding to take account of the time needed to restore soil
fertility.
------ Grain Yield  -------             Grain Sales ---------
(quintals/ha)              (guintals/l10 ha farm)
Without Project  With Project  Without Project   With Project
Sorghum             3.0              6.0             10.1           26.0
Yields are based on trials conducted in the Gebile agricultural demonstration
farm under similar ecological condiLtions and conservatively assessed yield
observations by farmers in bunded and non-bunded fields in the Project area
over the past 20 years. The total annual sorghum yield from the Project area
would increase due to bunding from 5,000 tons to 9,000 tons, or by 4,000 tons
over a period of six years (Annex 9).



- 19 -
Small Irrigated Farms
6.02       Citrus fruit (mainly oranges), would be grown on 0.8 ha on the
50 one-ha small irrigated farms; the trees would start bearing marketable
fruits in the fifth year after planting. Vegetables would be grown on 0.1
ha, with two crops a year giving a total of 0.2 ha of vegetables each year.
Alfalfa would be planted on the remaining 0,1 ha.  During the first five years
peanuts would be intercropped between citrus trees, after which time their
cultivation would be discontinued.  This cropping pattern is based on the
experience gained with the existing small-scale irrigated farms.  Citrus trees
would be fully mature by the seventh year after planting, and maximum produc-
tion would be achieved from year 8 onward; vegetables and alfalfa would reach
full production by year 3 (Annex 11, Table 2). Yields per ha and total quan-
tities available for sale ex farm at full maturity:
Crop                 Yield                Crop Sales
(tons/ha)                (tons)
Citrus               10.0                     8.0
Vegetables           10.0                     2.0
Alfalfa (hay)         8.0                     0.8
Yields aare based on trials conducted in Geed Deeble horticultural farm and
existing small irrigated farms under similar ecological conditions. At full
development the total production of all farms, would be about 400 tons for
citrus, 100 tons of vegetables and 40 tons of alfalfa hay.
B. Markets and Prices (Annex 10)
6.03       At full development in year 13, the Project would result in an annual
incremental production of 4,000 tons of sorghum, 400 tons of fruits, 100 tons
of vegetables and smaller amounts of alfalfa hay. In order to encourage agri-
cultural production and maintain consumer prices, Government plays a major
role in the marketing of basic food crops (mainly sorghum and maize) and in
the supply of basic farm inputs. Project output of sorghum would therefore
be marketed through the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), a Govern-
ment- agency established for this purpose. There is no central marketing agency
for fruit and vegetables, however, and these commodities would be sold by
farmers themselves or through merchants or market agents. As the North West
Region is presently a net importer of sorghum, Project production would be
consumed locally. About 50% of the fruits and a somewhat smaller percentage
of the vegetables would be exported to markets in neighboring countries; the
remainder of the incremental output would be marketed locally. Future market-
ing prospects in the neighboring countries seem to be good and the effect of
the opening of the Suez Canal on prices has yet to be seen.



- 20 -
6.04       ADC, the successor of the defunct Agricultural Development Agency
and the National Grain Marketing and Price Stabilization Agency, has been
in existence for only about three years, but its impact oi the economy of
Somalia is alteady considerable. In its second year of operation, grain
s4ies through Government channels increased by some 80% over the previous
years, and it is expected that the proportion of grain traded through this
agency will continue to increase steadily. Regional deficits necessitate
large transfers of grain from one part of the country to another at a large
cost to the economy. In addition, there is aniactive trade in basic food
crops with Ethiopia in the North West. The Cor\poration has therefore outlined
a number of targets to guide its operations over the next several years.
These include: (i) self-sufficiency in sorghum and maize production; (ii)
build up of a reserve stock; and (iii) production of a surplus for export.
ADC employs a total of 400 persons, 30 of whom are located in the North
West Region. It also has a total of eight buying centers in the North West
with a storage capacity of 10,000 tons (overground and underground), and
operates a flour mill with a milling capacity of 6,000 tons per year. These
would be sufficient to handle additional capacity derived from the Project.
6.05       At the beginning of ADC's operations, producer prices for sorghum
and maize were stabilized at a fairly high level in order to provide produc-
tion incentives. These grain prices are fixed annually by ADC's Board of
Directors. In 1973/74 ADC's domestic farmgate price for E1mi Jama sorghum
was So.Sh.          uintal.  ADC's sale price to municipalities was So.Sh. 104
per quintal, while the-sale price to consumers was So.Sh. 107 per quintal.
Sorghum produced in the Southi and shipped from Mogadishu is sold by ADC at
So.Sh. 102/ql to municipalities, which in turn sell to the consumer at So.Sh.
105/ql. The price of sorghum used in the economic analysis was estimated
by applying the 1977-84 (akithmetic average) wtorld market price and the 1985
long-term wotld market price in constant terms adjusted to farmgate price.
This price was calculated at So.Sh. 835 per metric ton - a price which corres-
ponds closely to the current domestic farmgate price. Prices of fruits and
vegetables are not controlled. In the economic analysis, prices of citrus
and vegetables were calculated on the basis of import or export parity price
(whether or not these goods are actually imported or exported). In calculating
farm budgets actual market prices have been applied. Actual domestic farmgate
prices were used for alfalfa and peanut hay.
C. Farmers' Benefits
6.06       Dry-land Farms.  The farm budget for a dry-land farm is based on
an average farm size of 10 ha, one-third of which is traditionally left fallow.
The annual net cash income from thie sale of sorghum would rise from present
levels of about So.Sh. 640 (US$103) to about So.Sh. 1,730 (US$278) over a
period of three years after the completion of bund construction (Annex 11,
Table 1). This income would be in addition to subsistence consumption valued
at So.Sh. 800 (US$128). The cash income takes into account cost of seed,



- 21 -
equipment and payment for land tax and Project charges (estimated at 15% of
the value of incremental production less seed and farm equipment costs and
land tax). Increased stover yield would be consumed on the farm and would
increase animal stamina and draft power. The increased production estimated
in the farm budget would be due to bunding only, and no account has been taken
of the possible effect of extension services, as the extent to which farmers
would benefit from these services is yet to be determined. Experiments carried
out at the Gebile agricultural demonstration farm indicate that with the use
of clean and better seeds, timely ploughing and simple improved cultural
practices including row sowing, sorghum yields may go as high as 14 quintals
per ha. In the event that (i) farmers adopted improved cultural practices
and used better seeds, and (ii) suitable alternate crops including fodder
were developed as a result of the crop trials program, farmer incomes would
increase above the projected levels.
6.07       Small Irrigated Farms.  The projected crop development and financial
returns on the one ha small irrigated farms (Annex 11, Tables 2 and 3) are
based on experience gained from existing small irrigated farms. Annual net
cash income from sales of fruits and vegetables would be about So.Sh. 4,900
(US$790) per farm from year 12 when the loans (mainly for irrigation equipment)
would have been fully repaid. This income would accrue to new farmers presently
engaged in dry-land farming,
D. Recovery of Project Costs (Annex 12)
6.08       In the past charges have not been levied to recover the cost of
the bunding operations.  Considering the low farm incomes in the Project area,
only a relatively modest levy could be applied without jeopardizing farmers'
incentives.  However, as the incremental income accruing to those farmers
directly affected by the bunding operations would be substantial, the Govern-
ment is of the view that these farmers should make some contribution to the
cost of the Project. However, farmers' capacity to repay is limited and it
would not be possible to recover more than a small proportion of the Project
costs. One method whereby a part of the costs of the bunding operation could
be recovered would be to increase the land tax applicable to bunded lands.
Such a suplementary tax could be administered with the minimum difficulty and
would be the most equitable type of levy; it would also provide an additional
incentive to farmers to maintain the bunds. It has been estimated that a flat
Project charge of 15% on the estimated additional income generated by the Proj-
ect (para. 6.06) would recover about 10% of the total bunding costs at an
interest rate of 5.5% (the current rate of interest) by 1990, assuming a two-
year grace period. It is believed that a levy at this rate would not jeopardize
farmers' incentives to any significant extent. The Government agreed to submit
to the Association by August 31, 1980 for its aDproval a detailed proposal on
the quantum and method of cost recovery of the bunding operations from the
beneficiary Project farmers. As so recorded the Consultants who will assist
the Government in formulating the detailed proposal would be instructed to
base their study on a level of recovery of at least 15% of farmers' incremental
income.



- 22 -
VII. ECONOMIC BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION (Annex 13)
7.01      The major quantifiable benefits arising from the Project would be
increased production of sorghum, fruits and vegetables. At full development
(year 13), the net annual incremental benefit attributable to the Project
would be about So.Sh. 4.7 million (US$7_55Q0Q0)   The Project would require
only a one-time investment spread over a six year period; with the exception
of the irrigation development, neither a follow-up investment nor replacements
would be required over the life of the Project (25 years). Sorghum would be
consumed within the region whilst: about 35-50% of fruit and vegetable produc-
tion would be exported.
7.02      The internal economic rate of return of the Project is estimated
at about 11% over twenty-five years ,'Annex 13, Table 3). In this calculation
foreign exchange has not been shadow priced as the official rate is considered
to reflect the value to the country. Wages and salaries are priced at their
market rate and family labor has not been shadow priced because of its re-
lative insignificance. The economic benefits from internationally traded
items (sorghum, citrus, vegetables and peanuts) were calculated on the import
or export parity price. The actual domestic farmgate prices were used for
alfalfa and peanut hay. The world market price of sorghum for the years
1977-84 (arithmatic average) and the 1985 long-term world market prices in
constant terms, were used for purposes this analysis. The yields used are
relatively conservative as they take into account the possibility of partial
crop failures and have been achieved by farmers now located in the Project
area. The rate of return resulting from the bunding component alone would
be 10%. Sensitivity tests have shown that the economic rate of return is
relatively insensitive to changes in costs and benefits within probable
ranges. One year delay in benefits would reduce the rate of return to
about 10%. Likewise a 10% increase in costs is estimated to yield a rate
of return of 10%. Delays in the delivery of equipment and machinery for
bund construction are other major foreseeable risks facing the Project. How-
ever,these are not likely to happen as the estimated delivery period is con-
sidered realistic.
7.03      The Project would help to narrow the income disparities between the
northern and southern regions of the country. Other unquantified benefits
not included in the internal rate calculation would be the arresting of soil
erosion (which is a major threat to economic life in the region) and improve-
ments in groundwater supplies due to increased percolation of rainwater. The
Project would encourage a gradual transition to settled agriculture, and at
a later stage might enable farmers to diversify their cropping pattern.
Finally, there would be unquantified benefits stemming from the training of
local staff and from the research into improved methods of both dry-land and
irrigated farming.



- 23 -
Employment and Distributive Effects
7.04      The Project would result in additional employment for an estimated
500 persons in the construction of the field bunding, and it would also help
to reduce under-utilization of family labor on participating farms. The
Project would result in a substantial increase in the cash incomes of approxi-
mately 2,500 families, almost all of whom are now living at subsistence levels
(para 6.06 and 6.07). Per capita annual net income would be raised from
approximately So.Sh 290 (US$46) without the Project, to about So.Sh. 500
(US$80) with the Project. This compares to an estimated annual G.N.P. per
capita income of about US$80. Furthermore, it appears that a sizeable number
of nomadic people would use some of the facilities created by the Project
particularly the water points for livestock.
Environmental Effect
7.05      The Project would have an extremely beneficial effect on the ecology
of the Project area. The bunding operations would help to arrest the massive
soil erosion now prevalent throughout the region. The experimental gully
erosion control program would be designed to develop methods of control over
gully formation which could be utilized in future projects within the agri-
cultural sector. The bunding and other soil improvement measures would permit
retention of water not only for crop production, but also to augment the
underground aquifers supplying local springs and wells. Without these addi-
tional water supplies, much of the area in question would be nothing but a
waterless desert. Finally, the erosion control program would reduce the volume
and destructive force of seasonal torrents flowing uselessly to the sea.
Foreign Exchange and Government Budget Implications (Annex 14)
7.06      The foreign exchange impact of all Project components has been
projected over fifteen years. This presentation includes elements which have
been excluded from the economic calculation. The foreign exchange costs
will peak in 1978 at about US$4 million (So.Sh. 25.3 million) and drop rapidly
thereafter to US$1.3 million (So.Sh. 8.0 million) in 1981. Based on the
assumption that about 50% of the incremental citrus crop and about 35% of
the vegetables produced under the Project would be exported, the Project's
foreign exchange deficit is expected to fluctuate between US$30,000 and
US$310,000 per year during the 1980s. Details are given in Annex 14,
Table 1. The effect of the Project on the Somali Government's budget has
been projected over 20 years. Recurrent Government expenditures for the
Project are relatively small since the bunds, which account for a major
proportion of the investment (about 60%), will not require any substan-
tial repair or maintenance during the Project life. Government's net annual
expenditures related to the Project would be fairly evenly distributed over
the twenty-year period and would average about So.Sh. 3.5 million (US$0.5
million) per year (Annex 14, Table 2). The strain on the government resources
stemming from the Project, however, is expected to be less severe than presented



as, (a) the implementation of a cost recovery scheme would reduce the govern-
ment deficit, (b) the government would proceed with the establishment of
extension services, dry-land crop trials and extension of Geed Deeble Horticul-
tural Station even without the Project, and would have incurred expenditure
fpr these in any event, and (c) without the Project, the government would
have to incur considerable expenditure for the transportation of sorghum
from the south to the north-west region.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following principal
points:
(a)  on the completion of the Project, the Government would assume
responsibility for the continued operation and maintenance of
the water points, the gully erosion pilot area, Aburin Farm
and the Geed Deeble Horticultural Station, and the seed multi-
plication activities (para 5.04); and
(b)  the Government would by August 31, 1980, submit to the Asso-
ciation for its approval a detailed proposal on the quantum
and method of cost recovery of the bunding operation from
beneficiary Project farmers (para 6.08).
8.02      Conditions of effectiveness of the credit would be:
(a) a Project Manager had been appointed in consultation with
the Association (para 5.03); and
(b) consultants acceptable to the Association had been appointed
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association
(para 5.05);
8.03      Subject to the required assurances and conditions, the Project
would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$10 million to the Government of
Somalia.
April 1976
W.\



ANNEX 1
Page 1
SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Somali Development Bank
1.        Somalia's banking system consists of a Central Bank - the Somali
National Bank (SNB) - two commercial banks and the Somali Development Bank.
The two commercial banks, the Somali Commercial Bank and Somali Savings and
Credit Bank, were created in 1970 following the nationalization of the four
foreign-owned commercial banks operating in the country. Each of these has
a capital of So.Sh. 2.5 million (US$400,000), equally subscribed by the SNB
and Government. The commercial banks extend short-term loans to the small
private trading sector at an interest rate of 9%; these account for 71% of
their total credit outstanding, while agricultural credit amounts only to 5%.
However, certain Government agencies receive preferential interest rates to
encourage development in particular sectors e.g. 7-1/2% to the National
Banana Agency, 6% to LDA, and 5% to the Agriculture Development Corporation
(ADC). ADC is a Government Agency which supplies farmers with agricultural
inputs, and extension and marketing services on a small scale.
2.        The Somali Development Bank (SDB) was established by Government in
1968 to provide medium (up to six years) and long term loans (up to 20 years)
to both the public and private sectors. Total assets at the end of 1972
totalled about So.Sh. 33 million; these included: cash and deposits,
So.Sh. 9 million; loans and investment, So.Sh. 21 million; and other assets,
So.Sh. 3 million. The Bank's liquidity position is satisfactory, as some
27% of its assets are in the form of cash and deposits. SDB receives annual
budget allocations of So.Sh. 23 million, and under certain circumstances SDB
can also obtain refinancing with the Somali Commercial Bank and the Somali
National Bank. Its long-term liabilities (about So.Sh. 9 million) among
others comprise US$64,000 utilized under a USAID Loan of US$2 million - the
balance of which has been cancelled by the US Government - and an eight-year
loan of US$1.3 iillion equivalent obtained by the Somali Democratic Republic
from the Republic of Iraq which was channeled through SDB for utilization in
development projects.
3.        SDB's lending operations have increased from about So.Sh. 1.3 million
in 1970 to So.Sh. 7 million in 1971 and So.Sh. 16 million in 1972. Details
by seetor are given below:



AN'NEX 1
Page 2
1969             1970             1971           1972
Sector                No.   Amount    No.   Amount   No.  Amount    No.   Amount
(So.Sh.)         (So.Sh.)        (So.Sh.)         (So.Sh.)
Agriculture           4    1,075,350  15    302,227  32  2,093,890  86    5,474,891
Industry              3      755,277   1       47,200   4    568,000   7   10,244,369
Livestock             -          -      -        -       1      43,500   -          _
Transport             7    5,120,484   1       27,355   2    187,969   -
Water Development   -            -       1    168,396   1  2,000,000   -             -
Fisheries             -          -      -        -       2    129,306   6        234,251
Construction &
Housing            -           -      1    800,000   1  2,000,000   -             -
(14)   6,951,111 (19) 1,345,178 (43) 7,022,655 (99)  15,953,511
This increase is attributed primarily to an improved business climate in the
private sector. Loans disbursed : 1972 totalled about So.Sh. 14 million. At
the time of Project appraisal outstanding loans amounted to So.Sh. 49.9 mil-
lion. Thus far loans of So.Sh. 18 million have been committed for 1974, and the
Bank is now over-committed for that year. The current SDB interest rates are
5.5% for medium-term and 6%' for long-term loans.  Loans for cultivation equip-
ment have to be repaid within five years, and those for water pumps within 3-4
years; normally a six month grace period is granted. Over the last four years
small surpluses have been generated. Lack of loan caDital, a relatively high
proportion of non-recoverable loans made by its predecessor (the Development
Loan Section of Credito Somali) and lack of experienced personnel hamper the
Bank's operations.
4.         SDB's activities in the North West Region have been rather limited.
It major activity has been the provision of a loan of So.Sh. 1.5 million for
agricultural machinery on two large irrigated horticultural farms established
by the Eil Berdale religious corwiunity. Thus far SDB has not yet extended
any long-term loans in the region. Several reasons have been given for its
reluctance to be more active in the North TVest: (i) the scarcity of water
which results in greater risks being associated with dry-land farming than
is the case in southern Somalia where water is more plentiful; (ii) the
proximity of the area to borders *,ith other countries which would perhaps
permit debtors to leave the country in order to escape their liabilities;
(iii) the fact that people are not as commercially oriented in the North
West as elsewhere in Somalia; and (iv) the poor communications in the area.
5.         It is important that some form of agricultural credit be made avail-
able in the North TWest, as this is an essential prerequisite of the future
development of the region, and as Government has indicated that measures de-
signed to facilitate the economic integration of the country should be given
a high priority. SDB management Is aware that the North West has a certain
development potential, although there are differences of opinion as to its
extent and as to the profitability of lending in the area. Credit is also



ANNEX 1
Page 3
required by the 600 established small liorticultural Rardens for improvement
and replacement of equipments. In the light of these factors, the ST)B opened
a branch in the North-West Region in January 1976.



AN'NEX 2
Page 1
SOMAL A
NORTII WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPIENT PROJECT
Agriculture in the North West Region
1.        The North West Region extends from sea-level (Gulf of Aden) to an
altitude of 1,500 meters and covers a total area of about 4 million ha, only
5% of which is cultivatable. The climate is semi-arid. Most of the cultiv-
able area is situated on a plateau at an altitude of about 1,500 m. Some
rain may fall in most months, but the heaviest rainfall occurs in two periods
during the southwest monsoon season--the "gu" rains (April-early June) and
the "karen" rains (end June-September). Annual rainfall averages between
200 and 300 mm in the coastal area and from 400 to 500 mm in the plateau area
(Table 1).  The temperature reaches about 43C in the coastal area during
summer, and in the plateau the mrean temperature seldom exceeds 33C. The
ecology varies from highland seri-arid areas to coastal sand dunes.
2.        The agricultural sector provides employment for some 85% of the
total population in the region. Rain-fed sorghum is the principal crop and
some rain-fed maize, pulses and wvheat are also grown. All grains produced
are consumed locally. About 630 small irrigated horticultural gardens cover-
ing some 2,700 ha grow citrus (500 ha) watermelons, guavas, mangoes, coffee,
vegetables and qat 1/. Most of the horticultural produce is consumed locally
and only a small quantity is exported to F.T.A.I. and adjacent Arab countries
where a good export market exist:s. Livestock are an important part of the
agricultural sector, and livestock exports from this region in 1972 accounted
for about 54% of the value of Somalia's livestock exports.
Soils
3.        The coastal plain and rnost of the lowlands along the Gulf of Aden
are fringed by dunes and raised beaches. Inland, the plain is covered by
sandy clay, sand and gravel alluvial pans deposited by the main water courses
draining the plateau. The soil cover in the plateau belt consists of fine-
grained reddish sandy clay soil, mainly of alluvial origin. Little informa-
tion on soils is available. Soil, profiles appear fairly uniform and often are
more than 3 meters deep. Sorghumr yields in wet seasons would appear to indicate
that soils are fertile. Soils are being actively eroded by the intensive
irregular rainfall and wind erosion, the effects of which are increased by
overgrazing and deforestation.
1/   Catha edulis - a mild stimulant commonly used in Somalia and Ethiopia.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Water Resources
4.        There are no truly permanent rivers in the region except the main
stream (tug), the Dur Dur, which has running water all the year round over a
short distance. In most of the large tugs, water occurs at shallow depths
below the surface, and this potential supply represents one of the country's
most valuable water resources. At present some hand-dug open holes alongside
he riverbanks are used to irrigate small horticultural farms by lift pumps.
Hand-dug wells along the coast yield mostly brackish water and are used mainly
by nomads.
5.        On the plateau, surface rain water reservoirs (ballehs) are the main
water sources for both the nomadic and settled population. The largest of
these may impound as much as 30,000 m3 of water. Though some water resources
studies have been carried out in the northern regions, no comprehensive study
has been made to assess the overall water resource potential including ground-
water.
Population
6.        The population in the region is almost entirely rural and is composed
mostly of homogeneous Somali of Hamitic stock with a common religion and culture.
About 65% of the people are engaged in nomadic herding, moving from district to
district and between Ethiopia and Somalia, following the seasonal grazing. In
recent years, however, there has been a marked trend towards settled farming.
The settled population now totals about 160,000 and most of these are located
in Hargeisa-Gebile-Borama districts (high plateau/Project area) where the best
arable land is found. The exact number of farmers is not known, but on the
basis of the reported average holding size of 10 ha of land per family, 12,000
farmers (or about 60,000 people) appear to have settled in these three dis-
tricts. Due to serious shortage of drinking water for both people and live-
stock, settlements are concentrated in the valleys near shallow wells dug
along the river-beds or open rain water reservoirs (ballehs); for this reason
farmers do not generally live on the land which they cultivate.
A. Dry-land Farming
7.        Soil and climatic conditions allow dry-land cultivation of food
crops (mainly sorghum) on the plateau lands. While 20 years ago this land
was full of thorn trees and bushes, a high proportion of the arable land is
now cleared and under cultivation in most of the water-sheds. However, in
the absence of soil conservation measures, soil erosion is a serious menace
to the continued productivity of the land. About 20,000 ha have been bunded
for soil and water conservation in the past 20 years, and this program has
been very successful in reducing erosion and raising crop yields.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
8.        The present areas of cultivated land in the major crop growing areas
can be summarized as follows:
Croped4 and Fallow Area_by District (ha)
Hargeisa        Gebile          Borama          Total
Cropped                4,000         60,000           20,000          84,000
Fallow                  2200         30,000           10,000          42,000
6,000         90,000          30,000         126,000
9.        Sorghum, the main crop, is grown on about 80% of the cropped area.
Grain yields vary with rainfall, averaging about 3 quintals of grain per
ha in non bunded fields and 6 quintals of grain per ha in bunded fields.
Stover yield is about four times that of grain. Sorghum is a dual purpose
crop, supplying grain for human consumption and stover for livestock. Maize
is grown in the remaining area with some pulses such as cowpeas and mung beans.
As maize is less resistent to drought, yields are below those of sorghum except
in years of abundant rainfall. Maize is for the most part grown in small
quantities to provide variation :Ln the subsistence diet.
Cultural Practices
10.       Farmers broadcast seed on land uncultivated in the previous season
and bury the seed by rudimentary wooden ploughs which only disturb the top
soil. A local white sorghum (Elmii Jama) is the predominant variety, and no
seed-dressing is used.  Limited rainfall makes the use of fertilizers uneco-
nomical. Such weeding as is done is carried out by hand; animal-drawn
implements cannot be used because crops are not grown in rows.
Production
11.       Total production in the Hargeisa, Gebile and Borama districts is
approximately 20,000 tons of grain, most of which is consumed on the farm.
Any marketable surplus of grain is purchased by the Agricultural Development
Corporation at buying centers in major localities during the harvest season;
farmers bring their grain to these centers on camels and donkeys.
DevelilEpent Potential
12.       Crop development potential on rainfed land is limited by the
cl'I-Ilrttc cnnditions. The most important element of any program to improve
ag; >r.l prod&ction must be the conservation of the limited rainfall and



ANNEX 2
Page 4
its retention in the soil to support crop growth. The Droposed bunding
program must therefore be given first nriority before other ways of in-
creasing production are considered. At a later staRe farmers may be able
to diversify crops by growing pulses and some fodder crops.
13.       After field hiinding is undertaken, improved agricultural practices
can be introduced: these might include deep oloughing Prior to sowing (which
destroys weeds and allows increased percolation of rainfall into the soil),
improved seeds, seed dressing, sowing croos in rows, growing fodder legumes in
rotation with sorghum, and disease control. Experiments carried out in Gebile
Government agricultural farm indicate that with bunds and under controlled
conditions, sorghum yields may go up as high as 14 quintals of grain per ha
in years of favorable rainfall. About 20,000 ha have been bunded during the
past 20 years, and about 2,000 ha now need some repairs. The total area
suitable for bunding is reported to be 100,000 ha.
Production Constraints
14.       MIajor constraints to crop production are summarized below:
(a)  limited arable land (5i, of the total land area) and
limited rainfall (400 mm to 500 mm);
(b) lack of water conservation facilities and soil erosion;
(c) poor quantity of seeds and draft animals and inefficient
cultural practices;
(d) lack of adequate extension services;
(e)  inadequate and unevenlv distributed water facilities both
for human and livestock consumption; and
(f) lack of agricultural credit.
B. Small-scale Irrigated Horticultural Farming
15.       There are about 630 small irrigated horticultural gardens between
one and 10 ha (Table 2) covering a total area of 2,700 ha in the Nlorth West
Region, These irrigated gardens were established onlv in recent years, and
the 'majority of them are located in small alluvial vallevs, in the head waters
of the main tugs in Hargeisa, Gebile and Borama districts. A 10 ha Govern-
ment horticultural experimental farm is located at Geed Deeble in Harqeisa
district. All of the farms are sited beside stream banks or springs. Water
is lifted bv small diesel-operated pumps from hand-dug wells or from springs.
A typical well consists of a large excavation, up to 10 m in diameter. Water



ANNEX 2
Page 5
usually is conveyed to the farm plots by unlined irrigation channels. The
main crops are citrus (oranges, grape fruits, lemons) watermelons, guava,
mangoes, coffee and qat. Some vegetables (onions, cabbage, tomatoes) are
also grown.
16.       These farms are usuallv oterated by individual families worklng
Independently and procuring equipment usually through private loans.  A
small number of fruit tree seedlings are distrihuted free bv Government
from its Geed Deeble horticultural station. Some of the independent units
have constituted themselves into cooperative groups, primarily to obtain
credit facilities for the procurement of irrigation equipment and in some
cases for marketing. Two large communal irrigated horticultural farms of
about 200 ha each were established by the Eil Berdaleh religious community
of about 3,000 people.
Present Irrigation
17.       Horohadley and Geed Deeble (Hargeisa district).  Hand-dug wells
are 4 m to 5 m deep with dian'eters varying from 3 m to 6 m. As the water
yields from these wells are poor, most farms have two pumps in two sepa-
rate wells, which are pumped alternatively. Each well is pumped twice a
day for 4 to 5 hours. All farms are near the confluence of two tugs. The
Geed Deeble farm and adjoining farms also obtain irrigation water from the
tug bed by means of pumps.
18.       Arapsio (Gebile district).  Most of the hand dug wells in this area
are square in section, with sides from 1.50 m to 3.00 m in diameter with
depths varying from 4 m to 9 m. rhe top of each well is protected by a rim
constructed of excavated soil and a small staircase normally connects the
surface with a landing, where a pump is installed. The lower sections of the
wells are lined with masonry.  Most of the wells are in red sandv clay alluvial
deposits which grade into coarse sands with gravel towards the bottom. Other
wells situated 400 m to 500 m from river beds are dug in the alluvial deposits
covering Nubian sandstones. Well yields vary from place to olace. Most
common water pumps are of 2 to 2.5 hp.
19.       Eil Berdaleh (Gebile district).  The Eil Berdaleh farm is irrigated
with perennial water from a minor tug. Water is led to a small pool where a
low capacity pump is installed. Small hand-dug open wells in the tug bed are
also used for irrigation with small pumps.
20.       Amoud (Borama district).  Most of the wells in this area are unlined,
5 m to 6 m deep, and often need to be cleaned after heavy rains. They aire
excavated in sand, gravel and boulders with a high permeability. Only a small
drawdown occurs while pumping. In one of the farms two water-holes are equin-
ped with large pumps with a 4" suction pipe and 6.5 hp motor. They are re-
ported never to dry out despite prolonged pumping and being only 1n m apart.
Ground water potential in the Amoud area appears to be good.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
21.       Debrawein (Borama district).  The Debrawein spring, reported to
yield 700 liter/sec in the dry season and 1,500 liters in the wet season,
is at present only partly used for irrigation. Water is diverted from the
tug by a canal; pumps lift water from a lower to a higher channel.
Development Potential
22.       At present, these small irrigated farms are developing spontaneously
beside the most important tugs. There is little assistance from the Goverment
except by way of seedlings. The financial returns are attractive, in spite of
some deficiencies arising from poor utilization of the available resources
and poor water management. There is an expanding local demand due to a change
in dietary habits and there are also export possibilities, especially for
citrus, to adjacent F.T.A.I. (Djibouti) and neighboring Arab countries. The
potential for additional horticultural development therefore exists in the
area. However, large-scale development of such farms should not be considered
until investigations have established the quantum of the surface and ground
water resources and government controls have been set up to protect the exist-
ing users from the risk that uncontrolled development will dry up the existing
wells.
Constraints to Irrigated Horticultural Farm Development
23.       Major constraints to the further development of irrigated horti-
cultural gardens are summarized below:
(a) lack of reliable information on surface and groundwater
resources;
(b) lack of water law under which development of the water
resources can be controlled within limits adequate to
protect existing users from losing their water supplies
through over-exploitation;
(c) lack of technical assistance in the design and operation
of irrigation systems;
(d) lack of credit facilities for the procurement of irrigation
equipment; and
(e) inadequate supply of improved seedlings and lack of extension
services, especially for pest and disease control.
C. Livestock Sub-sector
24.       The Northern Regions support about 500,000 cattle, 1.5 million
camels and 11 million sheep and goats of which about 80% cattle would be in
the North West Region. No separate figures are available for this region.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Most of these are owned by the nomads. Settled farmers in the Nlorth lTest
Region also maintain cattle, camels, sheep and goats.  Available data on
individual. herd size of the North West Region is not reliable, but indica-
tions are that on an average a settled farmer owns about 10 head of cattle,
2 to 4 camels and 20 to 40 sheep and goats. In the past, the chief disease
affecting cattle was rinderpest, but this has been controlled to some extent
by vaccination. Foot-and-mouth disease does not seriously affect indigenous
cattle, but is a constraint to the export of livestock and meat. Various
tick-borne diseases are present, and caprine pleuropnetumonia causes loss in
goat herds. The main economic losses are caused by parasites.
25.       Natural rangelands provide practically the sole food supply for
the livestock. Livestock of settled farmers receive a supplemental feed of
cereal straw. An alarming rate of rangeland degradation has occurred due to
over-stocking. This is aggravated by inadequate water points, improved
animal health facilities, the clearing of bush to make charcoal, poor market-
ing practices and the flow of stoc'. from the south and from Ethiopia grazing
their way to the northern export markets.
D.  Training, Extension Services and Research
Training
26.       A limited farmers' traiining facility exists at present at Aburin
Demonstration and Experimental Farm. About 20 farmers annually attend a
one-month course. There are no courses for training extension agents.
Extension Services
27.       Agricultural extension services are at present almost non-existent
in the region. Although in 1961 there were 31 agricultural extension workers,
the number has dwindled to 4 in 1974, all of whom are at the sub-professional
level. No separate staff exists for horticultural extension and there is
onlv a verv small nlant protection service of 2 sub-professionals. Some
vaccination and disease control services are provided by a few technical
veterinary staff.
Research
28.   -   Some crop trials (mainly on sorghum, pulses and fodder crops) are
conducted at Aburin Demonstration and Experimental Farm. There is no qualified
agronomist in the region to conduct the experiments, facilities are limited
and the-farm is supervised by_a sub-professional extension worker in addition
to his other region-wide duties. A 10 ha horticultural experimental farm is
located at Geed Deeble. Grafted seedlings of citrus (orange, grape fruits,
lemons) are produced under the occasional supervision of a sub-professional
extension worker. A section is utilized as a date-palm nursery. The farm
is poorly equipped and lacks trained staff.



ANNEX 2
'Table 1
SMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rainfall
Years    Hargeisa    Gebile    Boraa         Years    Hargeisa    Gebile    Borama
_______ --  - ___ __ ---mm ------   --------~~ ~~-------~- ma----------~~
1929      433.5         N.A       417.0      1952      336.0        N.A.      392.5
1930      525.0         N.A.      573.0       1953     343.0        N.A.       585.5
1931      644.0         N.A.      514.0       1954     444.0        N.A.       537.0
1932      388.0         N.A.      660.0      1955      236.5        N.A.      364.5
1933      315.5         N.A.      404.0       1956     384.5        424.2      317.0
1934      386.0         N.A.      466.5       1957     439.0        466.6      525.o
1935      464.0         N.A.      660.0      1958      317.5        371.6     N.A.
1936      468.5         N.A.      387.5      1959      329.5        N.A.      311.0
1937      453.0         N.A.      641.5      1960      508.o        N.A.       713.0
1938      308.0         N.A.      347.0      1961      531.0        429.5      864.o
1939      599.5         N.A.      442.0      1962      N.A.         N.A       N.A.
1940      N.A.          N.A.      N.A.       1963      464.o        N.A.      N.A.
1941      N.A.          N.A.      N.A.       1964      384.5        N.A.      NLA.
1942      N.A.          N.A.      N.A.       1965      156.5        N.A.       N.A.
1943      N.A.          N.A.      N.A.       1966      308.0        NoA.      N.A.
1944      316.0         N.A.      501.5      1967      580.0        421.6      641.o
1945      N.A.          N.A.      N.A.        1968     510.5        N.A.       578.5
1946      N.A.          N.A.      N.A.       1969      409.0        N.A.      481.0
1947      542.0         N.A.      575.5      1970      311.0        454.1     412.5
1948      396.0         N.A.      404.0      1971      399.5        N.A.       609.0
1949      280.0         N.A.      348.o      1972      341.5        N.A.       505.5
1950      408.0         N.A       436.5       -
1951      660.0         N. A.     389.0      Mean      414.0                   500.0



ANNEX 2
Table 2
S aIALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTTURAL IhVELOPMENT PROJECT
Existing Snall-Scalie Irregated Horticultural Gardens
Total
No. of         Area        Citrus
District           Localita          Gardens        (ha)        Area(ha)
Hargeisa           Dararwein           50            150            25
Humbawein          20              50           15
Horohadley         70             200           30
Muluqta            25              50           15
Hargeisa           60            120            20
Haraf      140                     80           10
Geed Deeble-        1              10           10
Garbodere          30             15o           n.a.-
Gebile             Arapsio            100            300            80
Huluq              25              75           30  4/
Agabar             152/           150           n.a.-
Eli Berdaleh        1             230          140
Algenees           20             40             5
Borama             Debrawein           20-/          200            10
Durduraat          252/            80            5
Amnoud             20              60           10
Lughaya            Qabri Bahar         21            400            100
Seil               2O '           100           na.-
Zeila              Daldiq              229/           50            n.a.
Berbera            Biogure             16             80            n.a.
Rihendule          30             150           10
Total             631          2,725           515
1/ Government horticultural station.
2/ Organized into cooperatives.
3/  Rit available.
b/ New farms in 1973/74.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Field Bunding for Soil and Water Conservation in the
North West Region
introduction
1.        The Project would construct and repair bunds and carry out an
initial deep cultivation on the bunded lands to prepare them for the first
crop following the bunding operation. The word bund as used in the region
means a bank or dike constructed of earth for soil and water conservation.
Bunds of various types have been constructed in the past in the North West
Region.
Background
2.        Rainfall.  The Project area lies in the main watershed of northern
Somalia and has an annual rainfall of between 400 and 500 um. Some rain may
fall in most months, but the heaviest rainfalls occur in two periods during
the south-west monsoon season--the "gu" rains (April-early June) and the
"karen" rains (end June-September). These rains are characterized by intense
irregular local storms, occurring sporadically often after long periods without
rain. The high intensity and irregularity of this rainfall, particularly in
the north east monsoon which occurs in the hot season when the soil is baked
dry and hard, often lead to massive soil erosion.
3.        Soils and Soil Erosion.  Most of the soils in the area are of cal-
careous sandy clay which is only slowly permeable. When moisture is evaporated
by the hot sun, the surface of the soil is cemented into an almost impermeable
crust, from which rainfall run-off is very high. As most of the upland arable
areas are heavily over-grazed, the sparse vegetation is insufficient either to
protect the soil surface from the damaging kinetic force of the downpours in
heavy storms, or to hold the water on the land for long enough to allow the
moisture to penetrate into the soil. The run-off is diverted into streams
whose velocity quickly reaches a level sufficient to erode a soil structure
damaged by the force of the rainfall and insufficiently protected with organic
matter. The eventual consequence is severe and widespread soil erosion.
4.        In these conditions the slow permeability of the soils has a parti-
cularly adverse effect on crop production. Except in seasons of particularly
frequent and favorable rainfall, the amount of moisture which percolates into
the rooting zone of plants is often insufficient to mature a crop. Crop fail-
ures are therefore common, in spite of annual total rainfalls which in other
conditions would be adequate to support crops such as sorghum which can with-
stand intermittent periods of drought between rains.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
5.        The rate of soil erosion is accelerating from year to year as the
ground cover'becomes more denuded by grazing and arable cropping increases as
nomadic families take up settled farming. Once the steeper catchments are
denuded, even slopes of 1% start to sheetwash, developing into gullies over a
period of 10 years or so; after this process complete deterioration sets in,
and deep gullies destroy the land. In one instance observed by the appraisal
mission on a family group farming area near Arapsio, some 500 hectares have
been completely lost since 1965. Up to the present time there has been no
attempt to quantify the soil loss. Ilowever, such a quantification could be
attempted by comparing the 1958 air photographs with those taken in 1973.
Ilistory of Investigations
6.        The Agricultural Depart>,nt of the colonial government commenced
investigations into ways of retaining rainfall on the land for crop produc-
tion and the control of soil ercsion in the late 1940s. Two agricultural
officers, Messrs. A. Seager 1/ and R.N. Green, conducted a series of trials
in the Borama, Hargeisa and Gebile districts respectively in which they in-
vestigated the effectiveness of a wide range of conservation practices used
in other countries.
7.        The development of bunding is traced in a report 2/ from which the
following excerpts are taken:
In the late 1940s a number of so-called Yemeni farms
were built for the Department by Yemeni Arabs. Such a farm col-
lected water from a small wadi or gully into a fairly level field
completely boxed in with strong earth banks. In later versions,
overflows were made to work without attention. The system could
not be adopted generally for many reasons; water from even the
smallest wadi is difficult to control without masonry. Flood
risks are considerable; and the water carried much suspended
matter resulting in high mai'ntenance costs.
During the years after the Second World War up to 1953,
many techniques developed in other countries were tried. These
included grass strips, broad-based terraces, lines of stones or
contour stone walls and a simple basin lister drawn by a pair of
oxen.  These systems, in the main, held the soil, but they did not
hold enough water to make an,y appreciable difference to the yield.
They were not popular, and there were technical weaknesses in each.
1/   Now an IBRD staff member.
2/   "A Technique of using earth banks for soil and water conservation in
the Northern Region in the Somali Republic" by R.N. Green, Agricultural
Officer.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Even in the lightest rain some runoff took place, and much water,
was lost. In this country it is necessary to hold as much as
possible of available water.
A system had to be devised which was not dependent upon
wadis and gullies, but which was calculated to prevent their growth
and to make maximum use of available water. The good results obtained
with Yeneni farms indicated that some form of earth bank would be re-
quired. These farms were an important stage in development.
The practice which has been developed and which consists
essentially of a series of low earth banks is designed to collect
and hold as much water as possible, while allowing large storms
to pass by with least possible damage. Banks may be up to 120 yards
long, and there are usually 3-4 banks to a 5 acre farm.
The essential part of the system is an earth bank built
on the contour to a height of 3 feet before settling. So that much
water as possible is held, each bank is turned uphill at its end for
a vertical distance of 0.75 feet above the basal contour, this means
that the arms are carried to within about 10 yards of the contour of
the next higher bank, and there is no complete boxing-up effect."
8.        In 1954, with many small farns being established in areas where
erosion was a problem, a bunding hire service was set up with 20 pairs of
oxen. This service constructed bunds with scraper boards. In the following
year the effectiveness of the scheme was strongly enhanced when Government
offered bunding teams free of charge providing they were matched by a similar
number of teams operated by the farmer. Scraper boards to be drawn by oxen
were produced by the Government and sold at cost. The scheme proved very
popular and some farmers took great pride in their work.
9.        Difficulties were encountered in carrying out a large bunding pro-
gram. Firstly, the local oxen are small and under nourished. Consequently
they have a very low capacity for sustained hard work of the kind required for
the construction of btnds and were left too exhausted by the bunding to under-
take their crop cultivation work. Secondly, the oxen could not work in areas
more than ten miles distant from a well. Thirdly, it was found to be impos-
sible to assemble a work force of oxen sufficient to undertake a program of
constrvuction commensurate with the size of the conservation problem. In par-
ticular the grazing is insufficient to support any concentration of work
animals, of the size needed. When a new bund construction program was under-
taken by USAID in 1963 in the Gebile district, it was therefore decided to
carry out the worls using tractors in place of the traditional ox power.
10.       The USAID project was designed to demonstrate the effectiveness
of soil and water conservation measures when applied on a watershed basis.
Bunds were built at the rate of about 300 m per day by 75 hp crawler tractors



ANNEX 3
Page 4
equipped with hydraulically operated bulldozers. Since the ox-drawn scraper
boards erected only 20 m of bund a day, their use was abandoned. The project
bunded 3,500 ha and this area was increased to 5,000 ha after termination of
the USAID program.
Proposed New Field Bunding Program
11.       Design of Conservation Works.  The appraisal mission reviewed the
results of all the previous soil and water conservation work.  The outstanding
feature that the mission observed was the good state of preservation of almost
all the field bunds after the passage of twenty years. In marked contrast to
them, the other types of conservation works constructed in the late 1940s and
early 1950s have been almost obliterated by soil erosion and livestock trampling.
The mission's review showed that the design adopted in the 1950s is sound and
well adapted to local conditions.  A few instances were found where bunds had
failed due to unsatisfactory siting or inadequate maintenance.  These defects
would be avoided for the Project works by close supervision of field layout
and the provision of technical assistance to farmers on maintenance.
12.       The Method of Construct:ion.  The method of construction proposed
for the Project is similar to that carried out by the USAID project in 1963.
However, the bunds would be constructed with 125 hp instead of 75 hp crawler
tractors as 125 hp tractors are faster in operation, have a lower cost per
horsepower and a lower requiremerLt of trained staff for operation, maintenance
and overall supervision per unit output. Wheeled bulldozers might be more
mobile and it is intended that the Project Manager should have latitude to
specify them should his investigations disclose that they would be more suit-
able for the works than crawler tractors. The construction method proposed
is summarized as follows:
(a) a wheeled tractor draws a bund trace on the contour
line with a disc ridger;
(b)  125 hp bulldozers then construct the bund by pushing
earth from below onto the line of the trace. The bund
is completed to a height of 1 m;
(c) the inter-bund area is roughly levelled by the same
bulldozers and the land cultivated with heavy scal-
loped-disc harrows.
13.       The bunds would be laid out on a level line, except that both ends
would be elevated 30 cm above the contour. Water would thus be trapped to a
depth of 30 cm, and any surplus could flow out from both ends. Space between
the bunds would be determined by vertical intervals and not by horizontal
measurements.  Each bund would be set up 60 cm higher than the bund below.
The slope of the fields where bunding can be established varies from 1% to



ANNEX 3
Page 5
5% and 6% along the main water courses. The major portion of the land to be
bunded has an average slope of around 2%. On such slopes the bunds would be,
on average, 30 m apart. Thus, there would be approximately 300 m of bunds
per ha.
14.       Organization of Work.  The field staff and the equipment would be
divided into 3 teams each consisting of of 5 bulldozers and 2 wheeled tractors.
Each team would include:
(a) an Assistant Soil Conservation Officer as a team
leader, who would be responsible for topographical
surveying, locating, tracing and building the bunds;
(b) 2 levellers, each with 3 assistanps; and
(c) 7 drivers.
Fuel and water would be distributed by 4 tanker trailers pulled by wheeled
tractors.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRITULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Consultancy Services
1.        Consultants would be employed to
(a) provide the Project management team, and devise a training
program for local staff:
(b)  undertake two feasibility studies with regard to two
specific future agricultural projects within Somalia; and
(c) provide technical assistance for the construction of the
irrigation systems for the small-scale farms and the
Geed Deeble Horticultural Station.
2.        This annex contains:
I.   A draft invitation to consultants to submit proposals for
the provision of consulting services.
II.   A description of the Project management team to be provided
by the consultants includinR an outline of the duties,
responsibilities and qualification of each member of the
team.
III.   A description of the areas in which the two future projects
would be undertaken.
IV.   An outline of the objectives of the two projects to be
developed upon completion of the feasibility studies.
V.   A preliminary description of the basic components of the
two projects.
VI.   A description of the technical assistance to be provided by
the consultants.
VII.   Terms of reference for the consultants.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
I. DRAFT INVAITATION TO CONSULTANTS TO SIUBMIT PROPOSALS FOR TTHE
PROVISION OF CONSU7LTING SERVICES
The Government of Somalia invites
to submit a proposal for the provision of consulting services under the North
West Region Agricultural Development Project for which a Development Credit
(No.     ) has been obtained from the International Development Association.
The services to be provided include:
(a)  the provision of a project management team of five agricul-
tural specialists to assist the Project Manager of the
North West Region Agriculture Development Project;
(b)  the carrying out of two feasibility studies, and the
preparation of reports 1/ on them which would be the basis
for Covernment applications for financing of future
development by international financing agencies in the
following areas:
Mi)  the North West Region.  The study would be for an
integrated rural development project which would
represent Stage II of the development proposed to be
carried out under the North West Region Agricultural
Development Project; and
(ii) the Bay (formerly Upper Juba) Region in southern
Somalia: and
(c)  the provision of technical assistance 1! to the North West
Region Agricultural Development Project's Implementation
Unit and the Water Development Agency in water resource
investigations for, and in the planning and construction of:
(i)  an extension of the irrigated area of the
Geed Deeble Horticultural Station; and
(ii)  fifty small one-ha irrigated farms in areas
to be determined by investigations to be
carried out during the State IT feasibility
study.
1/   In carrying out the feasibility studies and the technical assistance
components, the consultants would be responsible for providing them-
selves with necessary vehicles and equipments, the costs of which would
be borne by PIU.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
The selection 1/ of consultants to carry out the required services
will be done by the Government of Somalia on the basis of the proposals re-
ceived and after consultation with the International Development Association.
It is anticipated that, given the broad scope of the services to be supplied,
they would be provided most satisfactorily by two firms in association, a
firm of agricultural consultants providing the management team and a firm
of engineering consultants providing the other services.
On receipt of this inviLtation you are requested to:
(a) acknowledge receipt ancd confirm your interest;
(b) promptly conduct a review in Somalia of the work to
be undertaken and consult with the Project Manager
and the Government agencies concerned with project
implementation; and
(c) prepare and submit a detailed proposal for the consultancy
services, in accordance with the following terms of re-
ference. The proposal should give full details of the man-
months of services to be provided and curricula vitae of
the personnel proposed to be assigned to them. The proposal
should not include a quotation for the cost of the services.
Your proposal should be submitted to:
The Project Manager,
Project Implementation Unit,
North West Region Agricultural
Development Project
P.O. Box
Hargeisa, Somalia
The closing date for submission ofE the proposal is
1/   The selection will be done in accordance with the policies and procedures
of the World Bank Group as detailed in their publication "Uses of Con-
sultants by the World Bank and Its Borrowers", April 1974. Proposals will
be evaluated on the basis of the firms' capabilities and the qualifications
of their staffs and financial matters will not be discussed until one firm
has been selected for negotiation of an agreement.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
II. PROJECT MANAGEMENT TEAM
1.        The consultants will provide a team of five agricultural specialists,
-including an experienced management team leader, who will be responsible to
the Project Manager for the execution of the physical works and training
under the Project in accordance with its implementation schedule. 1/ A
total of about 310 man-months of services will be required.
2.        The management team will be required to pay particular attention
to the training of local Somali staff in all aspects of project execution
and management. This will include arrangements for formal courses of instruc-
,tion in educational establishments both within and outside the country and
for in-service training. The consultants will be required to present to the
Project Manager, not later than nine months after their appointment, a train-
ing program suitable for submission to the International Development Associa-
tion. The team will also be required to assist the Project Manager in internal
Project evaluation, both during and at the end of the Project period.
3.        The duties and responsibilities and qualifications desired for the
members of the management team are as follows:
A. Management Team Leader
4.        The management team leader would be directly under and responsible
to the Project Manager for the implementation of the Project works.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) Deputize for the Project Manager at his request in his
official responsibilities towards the Government
including liaison work with all connected ministries/
agencies at national level;
(b) Assist the Project Manager with such of his duties as he
may delegate;
(c) Act as Project Manager in the event of his absence on
leave or for long periods on duty; and
(d) Provide the technical direction and sunervision necesary
to ensure timely and successful start-up and completion
of each Project component.
1/   A copy of the Project Implementation Schedule should be attached to the
invitation when issued.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Qualifications
5.        The management team leader should have the following minimum
qualifications:
(a) A university degree or its equivalent in agriculture,
engineering, or a related science;
(b) Additional qualification or experience in land use planning;
(c) Broad professional experience of at least 10 years in
agriculture and related activities; and especially in land
use planning in countries with similar ecological condition
to Somalia; and
(d) A proven ability and experience in organization, management,
supervision and evaluation and some experience in accounts,
preferably gained in a. sizeable agricultural development
organization.
B. Soil Conservation Officer
6.        The soil conservation officer would be directly under the management
team leader and would be respons:ible for the field bunding division.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) In consultation with the management team leader, to select
priority areas for fieLd bunding, experimental gully control
works and the location of water points and draw up a construc-
tion schedule for the works in accordance with the Project
implementation schedule;
(b) Design and supervise the construction of the works to be
undertaken by his division;
(c) Establish and operate operation and maintenance schedules
for all equipment, together with control systems to record
output, down time, consumption of fuels, lubricants and
spare parts and other indicators of efficiency of operations;
(d) Select and recruit suitable staff for field-bunding and
gully control work;
(e) Devise and conduct in-service training programs for Somali
soil conservation officers and other field bunding division
staff; give broad soil conservation training to extension
agents; and



ANNEX 4
Page 6
(f) Prepare quarterly and annual written reports on the progress
of the work of the field bunding division.
Qualifications
7.        The soil conservation officer should have the following quali-
fications:
(a) At least 10 years experience in the design and construction
of soil and water conservation works preferably in a similar
ecological zone to Somalia; and
(b) Proven ability in organization and management especially in
working with local staff.
C. Chief Mechanic
8.        The chief mechanic would be directly responsible to the soil con-
servation officer and would be attached to the field bunding division.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) Prepare all tractors, equipment and vehicles for operation
after delivery;
(b) Establish and supervise preventative maintenance schedules,
the maintenance of adequate stocks of fuels, lubricants and
spare parts and the maintenance and repair of all Project
equipment and vehicles;
(c) Maintain adequate record systems on equipment operation and
maintenance, fuels, lubricants and spare parts;
(d) Establish workshop facilities at convenient points with
properly organized storage of spare parts;
(e) Select and recruit local staff for mechanical maintenance work,
-  .  and supervise their activities;
(f) Devise (in consultation with the soil conservation officer)
and supervise adequate training programs for Somali mechanics,
tractor/bulldozer drivers and related staff on preventative
maintenance and on repair of equipment and vehicles; and
(g) Submit quarterly and annual written progress reports to the
soil conservation officer.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
Qualifications
9.        The chief mechanic should have the following minimum qualifications:
(a) A qualified 'A' grade certificate or equivalent for the
maintenance and repair of heavy construction equipment,
agricultural equipmenl: and vehicles;
(b) A minimum of 10 years' experience in maintenance and
repair or agricultural and earthmoving machinery;
(c)  Wide experience in the oDeration and management of
agricultural and earthimoving machinery, particularly in
relation to earthmoving/soil-conservation/bunding work;
and
(d) A proven ability to manage labor and train technical staff,
preferably under similar working conditions.
D. Extension and Training Officer
10.       The extension and training officer would be directly tnder the
management team leader. He would be in charge of dryland extension, train-
ing, crop trials and seed multiplication division and responsible for (i)
training of extension agents, (iiL) devising and establishment of an aporo-
priate extension system for dryland farming areas, (iii) operation and
supervision of dryland farm extension activities, (iv) operation and main-
tenance of Aburin farm including the crop trials program. He would also be
responsible for the sorghum seed-multiplication farm at Geed Deeble.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) In consultation with the management team leader to design,
establish, initiate and conduct a training program for
extension agents and other local extension officials;
(b) Devise a program for extension work in bunded areas (old
and new) including the establishment of demonstration plots
on farmers' lands and ensure that the following functions
are carried out by the extension agents through personal
contacts with the farmers:
(i)  Identify suitable demonstration plot sites and ensure
all instructions from Headquarters are carried out
properly, at the right time and are accurately recorded
and reported.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
(ii) Select limited numbers of progressive farmers and assist
these farmers in all aspects of implementation of the plan
and record keeping by regular visits. Organize field days
on selected progressive farms to assist the farmer-to-farmer
exchange of ideas.
(iii)  Organize and attend farmers' discussion groups at which
new agricultural ideas would be introduced and Project
policy decisions explained. Encourage joint action for
purchase of equipment and supplies.
(iv) Constantly emphasise significant steps to improve basic
agricultural production, with particular reference to
points emphasized on monthly extension advise sheets.
(v)  Submit a properly planned tour program for the following
month to the senior extension agent.
(vi) Submit reports on all extension activities each month
to the responsible Senior Extension Agent.
(vii)  Carry out yield estimates for monitoring purposes.
(viii) Complete a daily diary recording all extension activities.
(c) Devise and establish a work plan for Aburin farm including
a crop trials program and a program for the introduction
and demonstration of improved ox-drawn equipment, and
supervise sorghum seed multiplication in Geed Deeble Horti-
cultural Station;
(d) Exercise overall responsibility for Aburin farm including
new construction work under the Project; and
(e)  Submit quarterly and annual written reports to the management
team leader on the progress of work.
Qualifications
11.       The extension and training officer should have the following qualifi-
cations:
(a) A university degree in agriculture specializing in aaronomy;
and
(b) Not less than eight years' experience with dry land crops,
extension work and management, mostly under ecological
conditions similar to those of Somalia.



ANNEX 4.
Page 9
E. _orticultural Extension Officer
12.       The horticultural extension officer would he directly under the
management team leader. He would be in charge of the division, and would
oversee horticultural extension activities in the already established and
in the new small irrigated farms, as well as the operation of the Geed
Deeble Horticiultural Station.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) In consultation with the management team leader devise,
design and initiate the establishment of 50 small-scale
irrigated farms:
(b) Devise, desiRn, establish, and initiate an extension and
training program for the existing and new small scale-
irrigation farmers and inter alia carry out the following
functions with the assistance of the deputy horticultural
extension officer:
(i) Identify suitable demonstration plot sites and ensure
all instructions are carried out properly, at the right
time and are accurately recorded and reported.
(ii) Select limited numbers of progressive farmers and design
detailed farm plans, assist these farmers in all aspects
of implementation of the plan and record keeping by
regular visits. Organise field days on selected pro-
gressive farms to assist the farmer-to-farmer exchange
of ideas.
(iii) Organise and attend farmers' discussion groups at which
new agricultural ideas would be introduced and Project
policy decisions explained. Encourage joint action for
purchase of equipment and supplies and solution of water
supply problems.
(iv) Constantly emphasise significant steps to improve basic
agricultural production, with particular reference to
the points selected on monthly Extension Advice Sheets.
(v) Carry out estimation of yields for monitoring purposes.
(c) Advise and assist the small-scale irrigation farmers in
obtaining credit and iTI selecting and purchasing irrigation
and cultivation equipment;



ANNEX 4
Page 10
(d) Devise, establish and operate a work plan for Geed Deeble
Horticultural Station including the introduction of improved
varieties of vegetables and citrus and other fruits, the
production and distribution of grafted seedlings to farmers
and the introduction and demonstration of effective crop
protection methods against diseases and pests;
(e) Select and recruit local staff; and
(f) Submit quarterly and annual written progress reports to
the management team leader.
Qualifications
13.       The horticultural extension officer should have the following
qualifications and experience:
(a)  A university degree in agriculture specializing in horticulture
(fruits and vegetables);
(b) Not less than eight years' experience in fruit and vegetable
experimentation and production preferably under irrigation,
and particularly with citrus and other fruits adapted to a
similar ecological zone as that of the Project area;
(c)  Experience with control measures for crop pests and diseases
in a similar ecological environment,
(d)  Experience in horticultural extension work and labor manage-
ment in a country where conditions are similar to those of
Somalia; and
(e) Experience with marketing of fruit and vegetable crops.



ANNEX 4
Page 11
III. PROJECT AREAS FOR FEASIBILITY STUDIES
North West Region
1.         The project area is described in the 1974 "Draft Report of the
FAO/IBRD Preparation Mission to the North West Region Integrated Agricultural
Development Project" and the IBRD Appraisal Report on the North West Region
Agricultural Development Project. Copies of Chapters II and III of each
report are attached to this invitation. 1/
Bay Region
2.        Geology and Hydrology.  The Project area consists of two main
ecological areas. The first occupies most of the Bur Acaba district and
is underlain by crystalline precambrian rocks; the "Burs", isolated granitic
and metamorphye hills, dominate this undulating plain.  The second area
includes the Baidoa plateau, which is underlain by Jurassic limestone. A
sizeable escarpment divides the Jurassic plateau area from the "Bur" area.
The major rainfall seasons occur in "Gu" (April/May) and "Der" (October/
November), and there are also scattered rains in May, June, July and December.
3.        Surface water resources in the "Bur" area are scarce.  Rainwater
is stored in "uars" (artificial reservoirs excavated in alluvial deposits
covering the basement). In the Bur Acaba district the European Development
Fund (FED) has constructed some big "uars" for livestock capable of storing
about 27,000 m3 of water each. There are a few hand-dug wells located around
the "Bur" sediments and in certain sections of the tug, adjacent to Bur
Acaba. The basement is considered impervious but fissured zones crossing it
may be waterbearing. The Jurassic Karst limestone covering the Baidoa plain
is recognized to be one of the most important aquifers of Somalia. Some
springs of importance emerge at the base of the limestone escarpment. Several
boreholes in the Baidoa area tap abundant fresh water from this important
aquifer. Water supplies for the rural population on the plateau are also
obtained by impounding rainwater in uars.
4.        Population.  According to available information, most of the
settled farmers in the Bay region are in the Baidoa and Bur Acaba districts.
These districts have a combined total area of about 5.7 million ha, 10% of
which is suitable for cultivation. Due to this relatively high percentage
of land suitable for cultivation and the relatively favorable rainfall
(average 500 mm), these districts form the major dry-land farming area of
the country. There is an estimated farming population of about 200,000,
not including semi-nomadic people.
1/   To be attached when the invitation is issued.



ANNEX 4
Page 12
5.        Agriculture.  All the soils are reported to be Grumusols with about
70% of clay and pH near 8. The cultivable areas are estimated to cover
400,000 ha in Baidoa Plain and 180,000 ha in Bur Acaba. Half of the cultiv-
able area is cropped using primitive cultivation practices, with little
or no use of inputs or ox drawn equipment. Tractors are sometimes used for
land preparation, and farmers often embank their fields in order to retain
rainwater and run-off. About 90% of the cropped lands are under sorghum; the
rest is devoted to maize, cow peas, groundnuts, and beans. Most of the farming
population owns some livestock, and these contribute substantially to farm
income. Due to uncertain seasonal rainfall, crop yields are unreliable.
Often when crops have failed, some farmers leave the region with their cattle
for three or four years, thus abandoning their fields and allowing them to
remain uncultivated.
6.        The Bonka Farmers Training Center was established in 1965 by
Government with USAID assistance, and the Center has been successful in
demonstrating the benefits of improved cultural practices. These include:
(a) Change from hand hoe to ox-drawn implements, allowing
better land preparation;
(b) Ploughing twice a year to conserve rainfall;
(c) Sowing in rows in order to facilitate thinning and weeding;
(d) Manuring with animal manure (which has proved to have a
very striking effect); and
(e) Diversified cropping patterns.
More important, however, it has demonstrated that the adverse effects of
unfavorable weather conditions can be overcome by using improved crop
husbandry methods. In poor seasons, when most farmers experience almost
complete crop failure, the use of improved methods has at least ensured a
harvest. The impact of programs carried out at the Bonka Center seems
nevertheless to have been limited by lack of suitable extension and other
organizations at the farm level and of reliable marketing outlets for cash
crops.



ANNEX 4
Page 13
7.        Cultivation of oilseeds has proved technically feasible.  Peanuts
could be selected as a priority crop, 1/ but the potential of some other
oilseed crops such as sunflower and spineless safflower varieties available
from Morocco would also be worth trying.
8.        Some form of soil conservation measures should be introduced;
these might include:
(a) ploughing on contour lines; and
(b) strip cropping with perennial crops such as castor beans
in order to reinforce moisture conservation measures,
and to provide a supplementary crop.
1/   "Peanuts appear to be one of the better producing crops which suffer
little insect damage and would make an excellent rotation crop with
sorghum. At present, there is good demand for the limited supply,
- however, without a commercial outlet - oil mill or export trade -
the market would probably soon be flooded in this region". (Francis
L. Hoffarth, Extension Adviser USAID - Bonka Training Center 1964).
"'feanuts grew better than most other oil bearing crops under local
conditions. Yields were good and farmers liked to grow them. As a
result of demonstrations at the Centre, acreage devoted to this crop
increased to where it ranked second to sorghum both in acreage and
money value". (Everett H. Burns, Extension Director - Bonka Center
1970).



ANNEX 4-
Page 14
IV. OBJECTIVE OF THE PROJECTS TO BE
DEVELOPED FOLLOWING THE FEASIBILITY STUDIES
1.        The Projects to be developed following the feasibility studies
descriped in part V would be designed to:
(a) Raise agricultural and livestock production in the project
areas, taking into account, however, the over-riding need
to check the present rapid deterioration of soil resources
by erosion;
(b) Reduce soil erosion and rainfall run-off by extending
existing and proposed soil and water conservation measures
into additional areas where they can be justified economically;
(c) Develop surface and ground water resources for irrigation
and domestic water supply;
(d) Provide an adequate infrastructure of roads, rural water
supplies, schools and medical facilities to encourage and
support the overall economic and social development of the
areas; and
(e) Ensure that the proposed development is based on sound
agricultural, technical, financial and economic principles
and that its management will be feasible.



ANNEX 4
Page 15
V. THE PROPOSED PROJECTS
North West Region Stage II Integrated Rural Development Proiect
1.        It is proposed that tihe project would include the following
components:
-    extension of the soil and water conservation measures
at present being employed in the Stage I area on to
further areas;
-    the development of surface and groundwater resources
for irrigation and domestic water supplies;
-    intensified extension services bringing to farmers
improved husbandry practices involving ox cultivation,
new seed, animal manure and, possibly, fertilizers;
as well as demonstration of new farming systems
involving sorghum diversification and integration with
livestock production;
-    the introduction of a seed multiplication program;
-    improved drinking water supplies for human and animal
consumption;
-    the development of cereal production at Tug Wajale, if
justified by the results achieved in crop trials now
being conducted under a UNDP project;
-    expanded farmer and staff training, and construction
of additional research facilities if needed;
-    credit facilities for the purchase of farm inputs and
equipment;
-    improvement of marketing facilities;
-    improved farmers' organization;
-    construction and maintenance of feeder roads;
-    improved schools, health facilities, and other
social infrastructure.



ANNEX 4
Page 16
2.        The project would aim at offering assistance to all farmers in
the project area. However, in view of financial and manpower constraints
and the lack of experience in Somalia with the implementation of a project
involving extension and credit at farm level, the project could be limited
to a part of the farming population in the area, while the rest would be
assisted in a further phase.
Bay Region Agricultural Development Project
3.        A project has been identified by the Government with the assistance
of an IBRD/RMEA mission, to develop agricultural production in the districts
of Baidoa and Bur Acaba and thereby raise incomes of the rural population.
The project would include the following components;
-    intensified extension services bringing to farmers improved
husbandry practices involving ox cultivation, new seed,
animal manure and, possibly, fertilizers; as well as
demonstration of new farming systems involving sorghum
diversification and integration with livestock production;
-    improved drinking water supplies for human and animal
consumption;
-    expanded farmer and staff training, and construction of
additional research facilities at the Bonka Farmer
Training Center;
-    credit facilities for the purchase of farm inputs and
equipment;
-    improvement of marketing facilities;
-    improved farmers' organization;
-    construction of feeder roads and maintenance;
-    improved schools, health facilities, and other
social infrastructure.
4.        The project would aim eventually at offering assistance to all
farmers in the Baidoa-Bur Acaba districts. However, in view of manpower
constraints, lack of experience in Somalia in implementing a project involv-
ing extension and credit at farm level, and the need to refine new cropping
patterns, the project could be limited in a first phase to some 20% of the
farmers in the area, while the rest would be covered by a second phase if
results from project implementation were encouraging. If, as estimated by
the IBRD/RNEA identification mission, about 20% of the farmers in the area
are included in the first phase project, total cost could be about US$4
million over a four-year period.



ANNEX 4
Page 17
5.        Project benefits would be derived from.increased subsistence
crop production (mainly sorghum), and from the development of cash crops
such as grounidnuts which could be successfully introduced on a large scale.
In addition to its economic benefits, the project would be justified by
increased farm incomes and higher living standards for large numbers of
nearly subsistence farmers.
6.        An important component of the feasibility study would be a detailed
analysis of the extent to which improved farming practices and technical assist-
ance provided by the Bonka Center and the Government extension services have
been absorbed by local farming communities and also the development incen-
tives and motivations at farm level.



ANNEX 4
Page 18
VI. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1.        Following the completion of the water resources investigations
in the North West Region, the consultants would provide technical assistance
to the Project Implementation Unit of the Stage I North West Region Agricul-
tural Development Project to locate, design and supervise construction of
the 50 small-scale irrigated farms included in the Project. The work would
include soils investigations, the detailed design of the individual irriga-
tion systems and advice to the farmers on their operation and maintenance.
2.        The consultants would also provide technical assistance during
the course of the feasibility studies; these would include:
(a) assistance to the PIU for design, procurement and supervision
of construction for the irrigation system to be installed
for the Geed Deeble Horticultural Station; and
(b) assistance to the PIU and the Water Development Agency for
the drilling and test pumping of the exploratory test
boreholes for the Stage II North West Region Project and
the Bay Region Project. It is intended that this service
would be provided by a Chief Driller to be employed by the
consultants and seconded to the Water Development Agency
to assist them in carrying out the drilling operations
under a contractual arrangement with PIU.



ANNEX 4
Page 19
VII. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE CONSULTANTS
A. Project Management
1.        The consultants will provide a team of five agricultural special-
ists who would be directly responsible to the Project Manager for the execu-
tion of the Project. The management team would comprise of:
(a)  A Management Team Leader who would serve as the Deptity
Project Manager and wio would provide the necessary
technical direction and supervision;
(b)  A Soil Conservation Officer who would be in charge of the
Field Bunding Division;
(c)  A Chief Mechanic responsible to the Soil Conservation
Officer and who would supervise maintenance and operation
of Project vehicles;
(d) A Extension and Training Officer who would be in charge
of the Dryland Extension, Training Crop Trials and Seed
Multiplication Division;
(e) A Horticultural Extension Officer who would be in charge
of the Horticultural Extension and Research Division.
A more complete description of the duties, responsibilities and qualifica-
tions of these staff is given in part II. The Government of Somalia will
provide local staff acceptable to the consultants to work with the Manage-
ment Team in positions of line responsibility. These local staff will
include two water resource engineers, an agricultural economist, two agri-
cultural officers, hydrometeorologists, surveyors and supporting staff.
2.        A program would be set up as part of the Project to train staff
in those skills which would event-ually lead to an ability on the part of
Somalia to execute future agricultural projects exclusively with local staff.
All local staff would receive training. In addition to this, both in-service
training and training outside Somalia would be provided for the local deputies
of all expatriate staff; by full development (in year 7) it is expected that
these staff would be qualified to assume full responsibility for those activi-
ties initiated under the Project. The Project training program would be pre-
pared by the consultants for submission by Government to IDA for approval
within 6 months after their appointment.



ANNEX 4
Page 20
B. Technical Services and Feasibility Studies
3.        The consultants would provide technical services both during the
time the feasibility studies are being carried out and upon their completion.
It is estimated that the consultant services would be required for a total
,of 4-1/2 years; the feasibility studies are expected to be completed in
about 2-1/2 years, and in the remaining period technical services only would
be provided. The technical services to be provided are detailed in section
VI.
4.        The two feasibility studies are to be carried out simultaneously,
but are to be presented as two separate self-contained reports. They shauld
include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following information:
A.   Description of Present Situation
1.   Physical Characteristics
(a) Delimitation of the area;
(b) Geographical and topographical description;
(c) Climate and meteorological data. Appraisal
of relevant meteorological data, computations
and previous studies to determine relevant
climatic conditions in the areas and to es-
tablish values for various crop water require-
ments and relevant criteria for irrigation
works. Where necessary additional recording
stations will be installed and operated.
(d) Soils. Lack of information about soil condi-
tions makes it necessary for the Project to
prepare a basic survey from aerial photographs
supplemented by some fieldwork. Provision
should be made for short-term assignment of a
land classifier who would assess the soil condi-
tions and study the manner in which they are
subject to erosion or sedimentation.
(e) Hydrology including an evaluation of both sur-
face and underground water resources. A major
Project task would be to survey, investigate and
evaluate the water resources of the Dur Dur catch-
ment which, at Kabri Bahar, measures 3,035 km2.



ANNEX 4
Page 21
Reconnaissance surveys to assess the water re-
sources potential would be carried out in the
Silil, Biji and Wahen catchments, the sizes of
which are respectively 3,851 km2 (at Silit well),
3,654 km2 (at Biji), and 3,103 km2 (at Faror).
The collection of hydrological cata required for
agricultural purposes needs to be improved by the
setting up of additional stations. Some stations
will be set up in the headwaters of the main catch-
ments in the North West Region, in areas such as
Arapsio, Horohadley, Amoud, etc. where irrigation
is already practiced. The local population should
be encouraged to cooperate with Project staff. The
main objective is to obtain a series of reliable
discharge meacurements over time for the main
tributary of the Dur Dur at points where water may
be used for spate irrigation and flood control. At
least two automatic reading gauges should be instal-
led at Debrawein and Kabri Bahar. There is a need
to establish the relation rainfall/runoff and there-
fore it will be necessary to install a certain number
of staff gauges and pluviometers.
(f) The water resources studies will include:
(i)  Analysis of ERTS Images.  Image coverage of
the Project areas by the Earth Resources
Technology Satellite I (ERTS) is available.
The consultants will sub-contract a computer
analysis of the tape-recorded material to map
the hydrological characteristics of the water-
sheds, to locate lineaments, fractures, fracture
traces and faults in the geological formations
and thus to identify all potential water sources. 1/
(ii)  Gophyscal Investigations.  A light seismic
geophysical survey will be carried out to in-
vestigate the most promising sources identified
by the ERTS studies. This work will be done
either by sub-contract or by the consultants'
team, delpending upon local factors.
1/   For details of the techniques to be employed see UNICEF Report, Results
of Pilot Remote Sensing Survey for Groundwater Resources in the Drought-
Prone Areas of India; S.E. Roy 1974.



ANNEX 4
Page 22
(iii) Test Drilling and PumpinL. Exploratory
boreholes will be drilled to determine the
production of aquifers revealed by the geo--
physical studies. Provision should be made
for 30 exploratory boreholes. They will be
test pumped to determine aquifer coefficients
and the amount of water stored in alluvial
areas. Hydrochemistry of the groundwater
will be studied by field and laboratory ana-
lysis. Observation wells will be selected
for long term groundwater fluctuation in
relation to infiltration of flood water and
direct infiltration of rainwater. The dril-
ling and test-pumping will be carried out
under the technical supervision of the con-
sultants by the Water Development Agency on
the basis of reimbursement of costs. The
Agency's technical resources will be supple-
mented for this work by a chief driller to
be provided by the consultants. Wells with
production potential would not be developed
for production under the Stage I project
because of the difficulty of forecasting
costs and benefits in advance of the results
of the investigations. However the results
of the investigations will be taken into
account in the preparation of the Stage II
project.
(iv) Environmental Isotopes Study. For a better
understanding of the interaction of the com-
bined groundwater/surface water regime, a
study using environmental isotopes will be
undertaken. Tritium will be used to date
water while the determination of changes of
phases within the hydrololical cycle will be
done using the ratio of 0 6 to 018. Provision
is made for subcontracting this work to the
International Atomic Energy Authority (IAEA)
in Vienna. Field studies are to be made in
the flood season of Year 2, and again in Year
3 if a further check is required.
2.   Socio-Economic characteristics
(a) Population
(i) Total population both urban and rural;



ANNEX 4
Page 23
(ii)  Emigration/iiwmigration rate;
(iii)  Average family size;
(iv)  Enployment.
(b)  Farm size and land utilization
(i)  Number of farms and farm size distribution;
(ii)  Land utilization and crop patterns;
(iii)  Livestock.
(c) Farming practices and production costs
(i) Present use of farm inputs, availability of
on-farm equipment;
(ii)  Production costs for main agricultural crops.
(d)  Crop production
(i)  Present crop yields and production;
(ii)  Average prices at farmgate;
(iii)  Gross value of production.
(e)  Farm budgets
(i) Farm budgets for representative farms.
(f) Marketing
(i) Market outlets;
(ii) Market structure and marketing costs.
(g) Processing industries
(i) Type of processing facilities and location;
(ii) Total and utilized capacity;
(iii) Processing costs;
(iv) Output prices and market outlets.



ANNEX 4
Page 24
(h) General and social infrastructure
(i)  Primary, secondary and feeder roads;
(ii) Schools, hospitals and dispensaries: number,
location, total and utilized capacity;
(iii) Electricity supply and demand;
(iv) Water points for human and livestock
utilization: number, location, capacity;
(v)  Local health conditions and food habits.
(i) Institutions
(i)  Cooperatives:  number, type, location and
membership;
(ii) Existing agricultural extension services,
quality and number;
(iii) Credit facilities, volume and type of
agricultural credit granted, conditions,
recovery rate;
(iv)  Research station and training centers:
location, program of work, present
activities and staffing.
3.   Present constraints to development.  Particular attention
should be paid, in the Bay Region studies, to the appraisal
of the Government/USAID financed project at Bonka, including:
(a)  Description of the project and of its strategy;
(b)  Areas of activity and number of farmers included
in the development program;
(c)  Developments achieved during project on various
farm types, and benefits derived from participating
farmers; present situation in the same farms;
(d)  Reasons and motivation for farmers' acceptance or
rejection of improved farming practices as proposed
by the Bonka Farmers Training Center, and ways and
means of overcoming eventual constraints.



ANNEX 4
Page 25
B.   The Project
1.   This part of the feasibility studies aims at preparing
concrete and detailed proposals for the two rural develop-
ment projects. The preparation reports could follow the
"Outline for Projects to be Presented for Financing" issued
by the FAO/IBRD CooDerative Program. In summary, the
preparation reports slhould include the following:
(a)  Project D,escription.  Summary description of project,
including project size, nature of works, measures
and policies, phasing, cost, organization and
managemenc, and benefits.
(b) Proposed WorksL Measures and Policies. Description
of actions and phasing to be undertaken under the
project, including number of additional government
staff and equipment:
(i) estimate of physical quantities of farm inputs
and equipment;
(ii) number, location and technical description of
additional water points for human and livestock
equipment;
(iii) facilities for expanded farmers' and staff
training, and continuation of research; and
(iv) marketing facilities, feeder roads, schools,
health facilities, and other social infra-
structure.
(c) Cost EstimaLtes. Cost estimates should be given with
breakdown in foreign exchange and local currency.
Items costed should specify development costs and any
recurrent costs during the construction and development
period. Full breakdown of project costs should be
included, giving the basis of estimates, unit costs,
etc.
(d) Organization and Management. Detailed proposals for
the organiziation and management of the project should
be prepared, giving staffing and organizational chart.
Procedures for credit arrangements and credit recovery
should be analysed in depth, as well as the possibility
of introducing cooperative arrangements or other forms
of farmers' organizations in the project area. Various



ANNEX 4
Page 26
alternatives for the supply of requisites to farmers
and for farmers' participation to project costs should
also be examined.
(e) Increase in farm production and farm income. The purpose
of this section is to evaluate farm income from the
farmer's point of view, with and without the project.
To this end, typical farm budgets should be prepared,
illustrating the major changes in farm costs and
revenues deriving from different land use and production
patterns.
(f) Economic Justification
Incremental direct and indirect benefits of the project
should be evaluated, as well as effect on export
earnings/savings, impact on Government budget, employment
opportunities, etc. Economic rate of return.



SOALk
NORSTHIUST RE5ION Arl1lllCULTU. OIVLOIH1       w OCT
Summry Or evel        t CStA
lae r I                        i.a  2                        Year 3                          YTsr 4                        Year 5                        t-fa-6                          Tatdf.
Local    Fbre4gn    Total    Local    Foatign    Total:   L,ol    Foreign?,- -Totm.  (Looal    Foeign    Total,  Local    ForeignI   Total    Local    Fordign    Total ---Los1   rforhign o                  Total
1.  Construotton or  ild Bunds
and Water Points
Capital Cost                    -            135      135       87         997    1,084       513       9,742    10,255                                                -
Oper-ting Cost                   122         479      601       2          726       982    2.029        2.977    5.006    2.041       3.003               2043       3 007    5.050    2.051        3.027    5.07
Sub-total      122         614       736      343        1.723   2.066    2.54        12.719   15.261    2.041        3.003    5.044    2.043       3.007    5.050    2.051         3.027    5.078    9.142    24.093    33.235
III.  S1l-tle Ir-rrigrlo                   -           -        -                                       --                    -                     AL       2S        66          92      156 s      9           92       156      145         230       395
Devslopaant
III.  Eften-ion sd Training
Capital Cost                        53        257       310        99        482       581        36        177       213       27        130       157      -           _
Ope-ating Cost                      62        197       259       150        510       660      459       1.453    1.912       476      1,509    1,985       478       1.514    1.92        229         725       954                              '
Slb-total       115         454       569      249         992    1241        495       1,630    2,125       503      1,639    2,142       478       1,514    1,992       229         725       954    2.069       6.954      9.023
IV. Brylaud Crop Trials
Satlt4 Cost                        -          -         -         41         187      228         1           4        5       -          -         -        -           -         -        -           -         -
Operating Cost                     -                                                                                                       1  56  12  68  83  1  130  1  100  83  17  100    83          17       100
Sob-total       -           -         -          7         199      296        84          21      105       83          17       100       83          17      100        83          17      100       430         271      701
V. (teed Deebbi Hortjcultoral Station
Capital Cost                       -           -        -         41         197       238      175         852    1,027                                            -                                             -
Operating Cost                     -          _         _                      5        20      152          56      208       152         56       208      152          56       208      152          56       206
Sub-total       -           _         _         56         202      258       327        9co     1.235      152          56       208      152          56      208       12                             839       1,278    2.117
VI.  Poasibliity Studies 4 Technioal  Ass3stan-e
Capital Cost                        27         360      387       32         420      452         1          11       12         1         11        12      -             2         2      -
Operating Cost                    258         914    1,172       668       2,369    3,037       486       1,724    2,210       346      1,226    1,572       245         867    1,112
SPb-total       285       1.274    1.559       700       2;789    3,489       487      1.735    2,222       347       1.237    1.584       245         869    1_4                     _         -      2,064       7,904    _9S68
Total                             522       2,342    2.864    r,445        5,905    7,350    3;935-    17,013   20e948       3,159      5,998      9,157    3,067      5,555    8,622      2,581      3.i17      6,498 t4.709       40.730   55.4i9
Contingencies
p11ysico2/                       46         204      250        128        504       632       166     1,066   i-332         214        450        661      204       405       610        156        240        396   4,014       2,869    3,883
Fri.e -                         146         654      800        4722,  2.31 -06 2.J                           n             67J    3.181      4                               7,886 2 5            1.835 2,785  4,65  7.l7      19.74 8   .2LkS
Total PsroJt Cost                 714       3,200    3,914      2,045      6,767  .10,012    5,905       25,4139  31,342     5,C47      9,629    14,675    5,157       9,370   14,528      4,572      6,942      ,51%4  23,430      63,347   86,1785        OI
.4---  ----  -        ---                                                                   --- -.... .--....  ----   -------.-----                                                         q
j/  5% on construction of field bundr, 10% on all otter de-elpent coat
J  Callauation based on revied 0O2 guddelines a  of asoeer 27, 1974.



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Construction of Field Bunding and Water Points
(So.9h. '000)
Year 1          Year 2          Year 3          Year 4          Year 5          Year 6                 Foreign
Unit    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.    Cost    Total   Exchange   Amount
CAPITAL COSTS
Vehicles and Equipment
Tractors 125 H.P. with Dozers   1   448.50               -              -        17   7,624.50          -                -               -    7,624.50      95    7,243.27
Tractors wheeled 65 H.P.          1    50.60             -               -        8     404.80           -               -               -      404.80      95       384.56
Scrapers 8,tl0 m3                 1   138.00             -              -         1     138.00          -                -               _      138.00      95       131.10
Harrows (4) Rippers (3)           1    69.00             -               -        7     483.00           -               -               -      483.00      95       458.85
Ploughs                           1     5.75             -              -         4      23.00           -               -               -        23.00     95        21.85
Lorries 7-ton                     1   115.00             -              -         5     575.00           -               -               -       575.00     95       546.25
Workshop Equipment                1   130.00              -              -        1      130.00          -               -               -       130.00      95      123.50
F.W.D. Light Vehicles             1    45.00    3       135      2      90        3     135.00           -               -               -       360.00     95       342.00
Diesel Tanker Trailers            1    12.65             -               -        2       25.30          -               -               -        25.30     95        24.03
Water Tanker Trailers             1    12.65              -              -        2       25.30          -               -               -        25.30      95        24.03
Trailers 5-ton                    1    27.60             -              -         2       55.20          -               -               -        55.20     95        52.44
Caravans Senior Staff             1    36.80             -              -         3      110.40          -               -               -       110.40     95       104.88
Caravans Medium Staff             1    27.60             -              -         2       55.20          -               -               -        55.20     95        52.44
Portable Stores                   1    18.40             -              -         3       55.20          -               -               -        55.20     95        52.44
Mobile Lubrication Unit           1    73.60             -               -        1       73.60          -               -                        73.60      95       69.92
-pumps & Piping Sets               1     1.61             -               -       50       80.50          -               -               -        80.50     95        76.47
Small Tools                                              -              -                 37.00          -               -               -        37.00     95        35.15
Tents                             1     1.47             -              _       120      176.40          -               -               -       176.40     95       167.58
Survey Equipment Sets             1     2.76             -              -         6       16.56          -               -               -        16.56     95        15.73
Office Equipment                                         -              27                               -               -               -        27.00     95        25.00
Furniture Sets                    1    16.00             -       3      48                               -               -               -        48.00     70        34.00
Sub-total                                     135            165           10,223.96                                               10523.96      95    9-;985.49
Buildings
Housing Expatriate Staff and    1   160-00               -       4     640                               -               _               _       640.00      80      512.00
Project Manager
Housing Senior Staff              1    60-00             _       1      60
Housing Junior Staff              1    15.50             -      10     155                                                               -        60;00      80       48.00
Office                                                   _       1      <4__155.00                                                                           80       124.00
Concrete Hardstandings            1 m3  0.09              _                                                                                                            5 350  31.50  -  .  1,.,on
Sub-total                m                     919                              31.50, 50                                              50          9       751.00
Total Capital Costs                                     135          1,084            10,255.46                                              11,474.46            10,736.49
010
m f-4
ro



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICILTURAI DFELOPbfENT PROJECT
Construction of Field Bunding and Water Points
(So.Sh. '000)
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3          Year 4           Year 5           Year 6
No.   Cost      No.    Cost      No.   Cost      No.   Cost       No.   Cost      No.   Cost       Total       F.E.%     Amount
OPERATING COSTS
Staff
Project Manager                            1       30       1       30       1      30       1      30        1      30       1      30         180         -          -
Management Team Leader   p                 1      372       1      372      1      372       1     372       1      372       1     372       2,232       100        2,232
Soil Conservation Officer-                 1       77       1      310      1     310        1     310       1     310        1     310       1,627       100        1,627
Chief Mechanic                   p                                          1     260        1     260       1      260       1     260       1,040       100        1,040
Deputy Soil Conservation Officer-          I        6       1       24      1      24        1      24       l       24       1      24          96
Deputy Chief Mechanic                              -                -       1      24        1      24       1       24       1      24          96         -          -
Land Use flanner/Asst. Soil
Conservation Officer2                    2        5       3       30      3       30       3      30        3      30       3      30         155         -          -
Executive/Accountant3/                              -       1        5      1       10       1      10        1      10       1      10          45         -          -
Secretary                                  1        7       1        7      1        7       1       7       1        7       1       7          42         -          -
Senior Clerk, Tracers                      1        7       3       21      3      21        3      21       3       21       3      21         112        -           -
Junior Clerks2/                                     -       5       13      5       25       5      25        5      25       5      25         113         -          -
Mechanics/                                         -               -        9      63       9      63        9      63       9       63        252         -          -
3ulldozer Operatqrs&                                -               -      18      126      18     126      18      126      18     126         504         -          -
Tractor DriversaY                                  -                -       8      40        8      40       8       40       8      40         160         -          -
Vehicle Drivers@                           3       13       5       25     12      60       12      60      12       60      12      60         278         -          -
Artisansq/                                          -               -       4       28       4      28       4       28       4      28         112         -          -
Levelters9/        10/                             -                -       6      42        6      42       6       42       6      42         168         -          -
Leveller Assistants-                                -               -      12      48       12      48      12       48      12      48         192         -          -
Plant Assistantsa/                                 -                -      18      54       18      54      18       54      18      54         216         -          -
Casual LaborL/12,                                  -                -      50     150       50     150      50      150      50     150         600         -          -
Night Allowance-                                    2                8             11               11               11              11          54         -          -
Night AllowanceL3/                                  3               10            131              131              131             131         537         -          -
Project AllowanceI/                                19               45            233              233              233             233         996           -        -
Sub-total                                     541              900          2,099            2,099           2,099            2,099       9,837        49       4,899
Other Operating Coats
Bulldozer                                          -                -            2,231           2,231            2,231           2,263       8,956         72       6,448
Tractor                                            -                -              144             144              144             144         576         74         426
Scraper                                            -                -              31               31               31              36         129       100          129
Ploughs                                            -                -               6                6                6               6          24       100           24
Lorries                                            -                -             198              198              198             198         792        60          475
Light Vehicles                                     56               75             200             200              200             200         931         50         465
Tankers & Trailers                                 -                -              18               18               18              18          72       100           72
Workshop Sxpenses                                  -                -               20              20               20              25          85         80          68
Repair and Replacement                             -                -              -                30               30              15          75        80           60
Office Expenses                                     4                7             16               16               16              12          71       100           71
Housing Maintenance                                -                -              40               43               43              43         169         50          85
Water Point Maintenance                            -                -                3               8               14              19          44        -
Sub-total                                      60               o2          2,907            2,945           2,951            2,979     11,924         70        o,323
Total Operating Costs                                 601              982           5,006           5,044            5,050           5,078      21,761        60       13,622
For 3 months in year 1.
For 3 months in year 1 at So.Sh. 10,000 a year.
P/ For 6 months in yeir 2 at So.Sh. 10,ODO -yesar.
At So.Sh. 7,000 a year.
5/ At So.Sh. 5,000 a year; for 6 months in Year 2.
At So.Sh. 7,000 a year.
7/ At So.Sh. 5,000 a year.
/ At So.Sh. 5,000 a year; 1 for 3 months in Year 1.
2/ At So.Sh. 7,000 a year.
]O   At So.Sh. 4,000 a year.
1/  At So.Sh. 3,000 a year.
At So.Sh. 6/ per diem for officers.
/   At So.Sh. 4/ per diem for others.
At 30% cost for local staff.



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGICOI AGRICULTURAL DEVTLOPlENT PROJECT
Small Scale Irrigation Development
Cap'tal Costs
(So.Sh . ' o0
Year 1        Year 2           Year 3          Year 4          Year 5          Year 6           Total
Unit      Unit Cost       _o.   Cost    No.    Cost    iio.    Cost    No.    Cost    No.   Cost    NO.    Cost           No.   Cost        P F.E.     Amount
Lend clearing and
levelling               ha           0.3          -       -                                     10       3      20       6       20      6       50      15         -
Shallow well and
piping                 each           4                                                          10      40      20     80       20     80       50     200         50           100
Reinforced concrete
tank                   each           2                                                          10      20      20     40       20     40       50     100         70            70
Motor pumps             each          1.6                                                         10     16       20     32       20     32       50      80         75            60
Total                                                                                                  79             158             158              395                      230



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
EBteaion anld           i  Capital Coats
Year I             Year 2              Year 3              Year 4              Year 5              Year 6
CAPITAL COSTS                                                   Unit     Cost        No.      Cast       No.      Cost       No.      Cost       No.     Cost        No.      Cost       No.      Cost         Total      F.E.%       Amount
Vehicles
4 wheel drive                                                 1    45,000         2    90,000         2    90,000                  2                                                           -         180,000
Motorcycles 1/                                               1      4,200                  -          1     4,200         1    4                      _                    -                   -              4
Bicycles 2/                                                  1        700                  -                         _  13      9,100       10      7.000         -                            -_10
Sub-total                                                                              90,000              94,200              13,300               7,000                  _                   _         204,500        95       194,000
Equip-ant
Or-drawn equipment                                           I      1,000                  -          5     5,000                  -                  -                    -                   -            5,000                     -
Hand-threohers                                               1        800                  -          5     4,000                  _                  -                    -                   -            4,000                     -
Electricity geoerator                                         1    18,000                  -          1    18,000                                                                                          18,000                     -
Furniture and office equipment 3/                                                                          40,000                                     -                    -                   -           40.000                     -
Sub-total                                                                                  -               67,000                                                                                         67,000        95        64,ooo
Draft Anilols
Oxen                                                         1        600                  -         10     6,000                  _                  -                    -                   -            6,000
Boildings 4/
Housing - Extension aond Training Officer
(expatriate)                                               1   160,000                   -         1   160,000                   _                 _                    _                   -          160,000                     -
Housing - Deputy Extension and Training
Officer (Grade "A")                                        1    60,000                   _         1    60,000                   _                 _                    _                   -           60.000                     -
Housing - Horticultural Extension Officer
(expatriate)                                               1   160,000          1   160,000                 -                                      -                    -                   -          160,000                     -
Housing - Deputy Horticultural Extension
Officer (Grade "A")                                        1    60,000          1    60,000                                                        - -                                      -           60,000                      -
Housing - Extension Agente (Grade "C")                        1    15,000                   -                 -          13   195,000        10   150,000                  -                   -         345,000
Housing - Clerk-Typist (Grade "C")                           1    15,000                   _          1    15,000                  _                  -                    -                   -           15,000                     -
Housing - Messenger (Grade "C")                               1     5,500                   _         1      5,500                 -                  -                    -                   -            5,500                     -
Dormitory - Trainees                                                                                       54,000                  -                  -                    -                   -           54,000                     -
Dining Room and Kitchens - Trainees                                                                        27,000                  _                  -                    -                   -           27,000                     -
Office and Lecture Hall                                                                                    40,000                  -                  -                    -                   -          40,000                      -
Oxen-shed                                                                                                    2.000                 -                  -                    -                   -            2,000                     -
Sub-total                                                                             220,000             363,500             195,000             150,000                  -                   -         928,500        B0       7114,800
Other Construction
Concrete water reservoir                                     a3       100                   -       500    50,000                  -                  -                    -                   -           50,000       80        40,000
Stock watering point 5/                                                                    _                   -                4.800                 -                    -                   -            4.8OO       60         2.900
Sub-total                                                                 _                                50,000               4,800                 -                    -                   -          54.800        78        42,900
Total Capital Costs                                                                        310,000             870                 213,100                                                                    260            83    1,0143,700
1/  Cross-country motorcycles for Senior Extension Agents (Grade "B").
2/ For Extension Agents (Grade "C").
3/  Furniture for trainees (dormitory, dining room, lecture hall), expatriates and office.
4/  Housing for Senior Extension Agents and Drivers has not been provided, as they would live in towns where
accomo3ation would be available.  All training would be done at Abuet* farm-l
5/  3,000 a  capacity.  To be constructed by Project aqWipaent.  Costs include operating costs excluding
Driver's salary and asmorti.ation charges which would be taben care of by the bunding component of the Project.
Training of Yixtension Agents to be conducted at Aburin Fain,



SOMALIA
NOBtTH NEST RIGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Extnsion andrat   COs1a
Year I 1/         Year 2             Year 3              Year 4             Year 5             Ye4r 6                                   F.E.
OPERATING COSTS                                               No.      Cost      No.      Cost      No.      Cost      No.      Cost       No.     Cost       No.     Cost       Total       F.E.%      Amount
Extension Staff
Ertension  nd Tr-ining Officer (expatriate) 2/                                1       195        1        260       1        260       1        260        1       260        1235       100          1235
Deputy Extension and Training Officer
(Grade "A") 3/                                                              1        18        1        24        1        24        1        24        1        .24         114
Horticultural Extension Officer (expatriate)              1        195        1       260        1        260       1        260       1        260        1       260        1495       100          1495
Deputy Horticultural Extension Officer (Grade             1          18       1        24        1         24       1         24        1        24        1        24         138
"A")
Senior Extension Agents (Grade "B") 4/                                        1         8        2         20       2         20       2         20        2        20          87
Extension Agents (Grade "C") S/                                                                 13        43       23        115      23        115       23       115         388
Clerk-typist (Grade "C") 7/                                                   1          5       1          7       1          7       1          7        1         7          33
Drivers (Grade "C") 8/                                    2          7        4        18        4        20        4         20       4         20       4         20         105
Meseenger (Grade "C") 9/                                                      1          3       1         4        1          4       1          4        1         4          19
Project Allowance 10/                                                7                 23                 45                  64                 64                 64         268
Sub-total                                                          227                554                707                 798                798                798        3882        69          2730
Trainina
Senior Staff 11/                                                                                        1038                1038               1038                                      zoo
Trainee Extension Agents                                                     16         13      22       3
Sub-total                                                                              13               1070                1038               1038                          3159         90         3114
Other Coost
Vehicle operation 12/                                     2         30        4         70       4         80       4         80       4         80        4        80        420         50          210
Motorcycle operation 13/                                                      1          1       2         4        2          4       2          4        2         4         17         50            9
Buildings, concrete water reservoir and
stock-vetering point masinteance 14/                                                 11                 32                 42                  49                 49        183         50           92
Ox-drawn equipment and hand thresher
nAintenance 15/                                                                                           2                  2                  2                  2          9         50            5
Oxen maintenance 16/                                                                    2                   2                  2                  2                  2          9
Furniture and office equipment
maintenance 17/                                                                                           1                  1                  1                  1          4         50            2
Office supplies                                                       1                  2                  2                  2                  2                  2         10
Electricity generator operation 18/                                   1                  5                  6                  6                  6                  6         28         50           14
Night-halt allowance 19/                                                                 2                  6                 10                 10                 10         38
Sub-total                                                           32                 93                135                 149                156                156        722                     332
Total Operating Costs                                                   259                66O               1912               1985               1992                 954      7763          76        6176
1/ Expense in Year 1 vould be for 9 months.
2/ Expense for Year 2 would be for 9 months.
3/ Expense for Year 2 would be for 9 mnths.
4/ At SoShIO,000 a year (1 for 9 months in Year 2).
5/ At SoSh5,000 a year.  13 for 8 mnths in Year 3 after successful training completion.
6/ At SoSh200 per month.  16 trainees for 4 -nths in Year 2 and 4 months in Year 3.
12 trainees for 8 months in Year 3 (807. trsinses would be successful).
7/ At SoSh7,000 a year.  For 9 months in Year 2.
8/ At SoSh5,000 a year.  2 for 9 months in Year 2 and 3.
9/ At SoSh4,000.  For 9 months in Year 2.
10/ At 30E of salary for local staff.
11/  nagement consultants to prepare detailed program.
1I/ 20,000 km a year per vehicle at SoShl.00 per km (excluding drivers' salary and asmortization churges).
For 9 months for 2 vehicle. in Year 2.
13/ 10,000 km a year for each motorcycle at SoShO.20 per km; cost for 9 months in Year 2 for 1 motorcycle.
14/ At 5% of capital cost.
15/ At 057 of capital cost.
16/ At SoSh200 per an ox per year exclusive of fodder/stover obtained from Aburin farm.
17/ At 25% of c-pitl coat.
18/ At SoSh2.00 per hr for 8 hrs a day (excluding ameortization).  For 9 months in Year 2.
19/ At SoSh6 for Grade "A" and SoSh4 for Grade "8" and "C" staff (on an average of 90 nights a year per staff member).                                                                                                1i
Note:  Training of Extension Agents to be conducted at Aburin Farm.



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Dry-land Crop Trials   Capital Costs
(So.Sh.)
Year 1           Year 2            Year 3           Year 4-           Year 5  -         Year 6
Unit     Cost    No.    Cost        No.    Cost       No.    Cost      No.    Cost       No.    Cost       No.    Cost    Total    FPE.h          Amount
CAPITAL COSTS
Vehicles
4 wheel drive                                 1    45,000       -       -        1   45,000        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -    45,000        95        43,000
Equipment
Ox-drawn equipment                            1     1,000       -       -       10   10,000        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -    10,000         -           -
Hand thresher                                 1        800      -       -       10    8,000        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -      8,000        -
Soil testing equipment                        1    16,000       -       -        1   16,000        -        -       -        -        -        -                 -    16,000         -
Furniture and office equipment                         -        -       _        -    2.000        -        -       -        -        -                 -        .      2,000        -
Sub-total                    -                 -            36,000                -                 -                                   -    36,000        95        34,200
Draft Animals
Oxen                                          1        600              -       20   12,000        -        -        -       -        -        -        -        -    12,000         -           -
Buildings
Housing - Farm Manager (Grade "A")            1    60,000       -       -        1   60,000        -        -        -       -                 -        -        -    60,000         -            -
Housing - Farm Workers (Grade "C")            1      5,500      -       -        4   22,000        -        -        -       -        -                 -        -    22,000         -            -
Housing - Driver (Grade "C")                  1      5,500      -       -        1    5,500        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -      5,500        -            -
Office/Store                                           -        -       -        -   15,000        -        -       -        -        -        -        -        -    15,000         -           -
Oxen-shed                                                                        -    4.000                 -            -            -             -            -     4,000         -
Sub-total                    -                 -           106,500                -                 -                 -                 -   106,500       80         85,200
Other Construction
Land clearing 2/                                      -        -       -        -       -         -     5,400      -        -        -        -        -        -      5,400       60         3,200
Fencing                                      1 km  3.600      -        _        8   28.800        -       _        -        -        -        _   -             -    28.800        90        26.000
Sub-total                    -                 -            28,800              5,400               -                 -                 -    34,200       85         29,200
Total Capital Costs                                     -                -            228,300              5,400              -                 -                 -   233,700        82       191,600
1/  To be conducted in Aburin  farm; additional 100 ha would be used.
100 ha for crop and fodder trials.  4-1/2 hours per ha by a 65 h.p. tractor and disc plough
at So.Sh. 12 per hour for operating costs excluding amortization and cost of driver which would
be taken care of by the bunding component of the Project.



SOMALIA
NONTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DrY-land Crop TrIals: Operating Co"ts
(So.Sh.)
Year 1               Year 2 1/           Year 3             Year 4             Year 5              Year 6
OPERATING COSTS                                                No.      Cost        No.      Cost       No.      Cost       No.     Cost      No.      Cost       No.      Cost        Total       F.E.,         Amount
Staff
2/
Far.  Manager (Grade "A")-                                                       I    18,000         1    24,000         1    24,000       1    24,000         1    Z4.000        114,000
Farm-workers (Grade "C") 3/                                                      4    13,800         4    17,000         4    17,000       4    17,000         4    17,000         81,800
Driver (Grade "C")                                                               1      3,800        1      5,000        1     5,000       1      5,000        1      5,000        23,800
Project allowance 4/                                                                   10,700              13800             13 800             13.800              13.800        65,900
Sub-total                                                                              46,300             59,800              59,800             59,800              59,800       285,500                       -
other Costs
Vehicle operation 5/                                                              1    15,000        1    Z0,000         1    20,000        1    20,000        1    20,000         95,000         50         48,000
Buildtng maintenance 6/                                                                                     5,300              5,300              5,300               5,300        21,200         50         10,600
Fencing maintenance I/                                                                                      1,500              1,500              1,500               1,500         6,000        50           3,000
Ox-drawn equipment and Hand-thresher maintenance 8/                                                 10      4,500       10     4,500      10      4,500       10      4,500        18,000         50          9,000
Oxen maintanance 9/                                                             20      3,000       20     4,000        20     4,000      20      4,000       20      4,000        19,000
Furniture and office equipment maintenance 10/                                                                 50                  50                50                  50            200        50            100
Office supplies                                                                           400                 500                500                500                 SOO         2,400
Field trials 11/                                                                        3.000              4.000               4.000              4,000              4.000         19.000         50         9.500
Sub-total                                                                              21,400              39,850             39,850             39,850              39,8950      180,800        44         80,200
Total operating Costs                                                                      67,700              99.650              99,650            99,650              99.650       466,300         17         80,200
1/ All expenses in Year 2 would be for nine months.
2/ Farm Manager Aburin arm.
/   3 at S.Sh4,000 and I at SoSh5,000 a year
4/ At 30% of salary for local Staff.
5/ 20,000 km a year at SoShl.00 per km (excluding asmortieation charges and Driver's salary).
6/ At 5% of capital costs.
7/ At 5% of capital costa.
8/  At 25 % of capital costs.
9/  At SoSh2OO each per year exclusive of fodder/stover obtained from  Aburin Faim.
10/ At 2.5 % of capital coats.
11/ Lump provision for lahour, seeds, insecticides and pesticides, chemicals for soil testing, etc -                                                                                                                                    VS



Table 9
NOR8!H WEST REGION AGRICULTOIAL DEVELORDNT PROJECT
Geed Deeble Hortoultmrul btaaton: .pl.tal Cotag
(SO.Sh-  1000-
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3
Unit     Unit Cost    No.    Cost        No.    Cost     No.    Cost      Total Costs        F.E.      Amount
CAPITAL COSTS
Land clearing and leveling             ha           0.3                 -      20        6                -            6            -           -
Irrigation
Borehole!/      21                      ea        235                                            1       235         235           75          176
Electricity Supply/                     lump        -                                                    300         300           75          225
Electric turbine pump                   ea          -                                            1        25          25           95           23.8
Distribution systems                    lump        -                   -                -                50          50           755
Sub-total                                                                            6               61o         6             7          462.3
Machinery
Tractor 65 hp                           ea         50.6                 -                -       1        50.6        50.6         95           48.o
7-ton hydraulic trailer                ea          14                   -                -       1        14          14           95          13.3
2-ton furrow reversible plough          ea         12                   -                -       1        12          12           95          11.4
Tandem disc                             ea         10                   -                -       1        10          10           95            9.5
Tine harraws                            ea          6                   -                -       1         6           6           95            5.7
4 row planter with fertilizer units   ea           18                   -                -       1        18          18           95           17.1
Tool bar cultivator                     ea          5.2                 -                -       1         5.2         5.2         95            4.9
Threshing machine                       ea         40                   -                -       1        40          40           95           38.0
Spraying equipment                      lump        -                   -                -                30          30           95           28.5
7-ton lorry                            ea         115                   -                -       1      115          115           95         109.3
Seed cleaning equipment                lump         -                   -                -                11.5        u .5         95          10.9
Miscellaneous                           lump        -                   -                -                30          30           95           28.5
Spare parts (20% including for
deep-well pump)                      lump         -                   -                -                7.9          49          95          71.2
Sub-total                                                                                           417.2        417.2         95         396.3
Equipment
Office furniture                       1 set        6                            1       6                             6           70            4.2
Farm tools                             lump         5                                    5                             5           95            4.8
Workshop tools                          lump        5                                                                              95            4.8
Sub-total1618638
Buildings
Hoises:                                          2
forticulturist                          1 (lOOm2)  60                            1      69                            60
Skilled staff                          1   50m2)  15                             5      75                            75
Unskilled staff                        1 t 50ms)   5.5                           6      33                            33
Office                                  1 ( 6Cm2)  18                            1      18                            18
Store and workshop                     1 (15cM2)  15                            1       15                            15
Implement shed                          1 (150m ) 15                             1      '5                            15
4a                            216           80         172.b
Total Capital Costs                                                                      238             1,027.2     1,265.2         83       1,045.2
i/ Drilling (lOCm x 15 in,)            So.Sh.  155,000
Mobilization and demobilization   So.Sh.   50,000
Miscellaneous works and testing   So.Sh.   30,000
Total                            So.Sh. 235,000
Transformer and 1.5 km transmission line (11 kv.)



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
Geed Deeble q.rticulttural Station: Operating CostS
(So.Sh. tXO0)
Year 2            Year 3             Year 4            Year 5             Year 6
No.     Cost      No.     Cost      No.    Cost        No.    Cost        No.    Cost       Total         % F.E.       F.E. Amount
OPERATING COSTS
Horticulturist l                      1        12        1       24        1        24        1       24         1       24        108
Tube well operat92                    1         3.5      1        7        1         7        1        7         1        7         31.5
Tractor operpO                                           1        7        1         7        1        7         1        7         28
Truck Driver4/                                           1        5        1         5        1        5         1        5         20
Skilled Laborers (class C)                               2       10        2        10        2       10         2       10         40
Farm WarkersJ   (a                                       6       24        6        24        6       24         6       24         96
Project Allowance-                              4.7              23.1               23.1              23.1               23.1       97.1
Sub-total                                 20.2              100.1             100.1              100.1              100.1      420.6          -
Other Costs
Electric power                                                    9.3                9.3               9.3                9.3       37.2          -                  _
Tractor operatiQ '                                               18                 18                18                 18         72           74                 53
Truck operationrI                                                36                 36                36                 36        144           60                86
Equipment maintenance2/'                                         15                 15                15                 15         60           60                 36
Building maintenance!2/                                          11                 11                11                 11         44           50                 22
Nursery budstock and seed                                         2                  2                 -                  -          4           90                  3.6
Fertilizers and chemicals                                        10                 10                10                 10         40           60                24
Furniture tools and office
equipmentii                                                     0.4                0.4               o.4                0.4        1.6         50                 o.8
Office supplies                                                   1                  1                 1                  1          4
Miscellaneous                                                     5                  5                 5                  5          20
Sub-total                                                   107.7              107.7             105.7              105.7      426.8         53               225.4
Total Operating Costs                          20.2             207.8              207.8             205.8              205.8      847.4         27                225.4
1/ At So.Sh. 24,000 per year, 6 months in Year 2.
At So.Sh. 7,000 per year, 6 months in Year 3.
3/ At So.Sh. 7,000 per year.
At So.Sh. 5,000 per year.
5/  At So.Sh. 4,000 per year.
S  At 30% of salary of local staff.
7/  At So.Sh. 12 per hour (Spares-So.Sh. 7/; F.O.L.-So.Sh. 5) for 1500 hours per year.
At So.Sh. 1.80 per Ica; 20,000 km a year.
/ At 10% of capital costs.                                                                                                                                                        1 3
At 5% of capital costs.
/  At 2.5% of capital costs.



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTUBAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultants',Fea,eibility Studies and Technical Assistance 1/
(So.Sh. o000)
Unit       Year 1           Year 2           Year 3           Year 4           Year 5                    F.E.
Unit    Cost     No.    Cost      No.    Cost      No.    Cost      No.    Cost      No.    Cost      Total              Amount
CAPITAL COSTS
Vehicles and Equipment
4-wheel drive vehicles                 ea        45       4      180       4      180                                                           360      95        342
Field equipment                        lump     240       lump    40       lump   200                                                           240      95        228
Office equipment                       lump      23       lump    15       lump     2              2                2                2           23      95         22
Camping equipment                      lump      12       lump    12                                                                             12      95         12
Borehole test equipment                lump     140       lump    80       lump    60                                                           140      95        133
Miscellaneous                                    40               10               10             10               10                            40      60         24
Building
Housing at Kabri Bahar and
Pebrawein                            ea        25       2       50                                                                             50      80         40
Totai                                                              38'7             452             12               12                2          865      93        801
1/ For North West Region Stage II Project and Bay Region - Integrated Rural
Development Project.
'- v



SWA1IA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultants' Feasibility Stsdies and Technical Asasitancet Operatirn  Costs
(So.Sh. 'ooo)
Unit          Year 1           Year 2           Year 3            Year 4            Year 5                   F.E.
Unit       Cost      No.      Cost     No.     Cost     No.      Cost     NO.      Cost     No.    Cost       Total       %    Amount
SPERATING COSTS
Expatriate Staffl'
Water Resources Engineer
(Team leader)                       Man-year        372      0.5       186      1       372      1       372       1        372      1       372      1,674     100    1,674
Hydrogeologist                         Man-year       310       0.5      155      1        310      0.5    155                 -                 -        620     100       620
Drilling Foreman                       Man-year       260                         1       260       1      260       1        260                         780     100       780
Irrigation Agriculturalist             Man-year       310                         1       310       1      310       1        310      1        310     1,240     100    1,240
Highway Engineer                       Man-year       310                                           0.25    78                                             78     100        78
Agricultural Economist                 Man-year       310                                           0.5    155       0.5      155                         310     100       310
Short-term Consultants                Man-year        310                         0.5     155       0.5    155                                            310     100       310
Local Staff
Water Resources Engineers              Man-year        24       0.5       12      2         48      2       48       2         48      2         48       204
Agricultural Economist                 Man-year        24                                           0.5     12        0.5      12                          24
Hydrometeorologists                    Man-year        10       1         10      2         20      2       20        2        20      2         20        90
Agricultural Officers                  Man-year        10       0.5        5      2         20      2       20        2        20      2         20        85
Surveyors                             Man-year         10                         2        20       2       20       2         20      2         20        80
Assistant Surveyors                    Man-year          7                        3         21      3       21        3        21       3        21        84
Clerks/Droughtsmen                     Man-year         7       2         14      4        28       4       28       4         28      4         28       126
Drivers3/                              Man-year         5       4         10      8        40       8       40       8         40      7         35       165
Laborers3/       4                     Man-year         4       2          4      2          8      2        8       2          8      2          8        36
Project Allovanc el-                   Man-year                           17               62               65                 65                60       269
Air travel expenses2                   lump                               19.5              29.3            29.3               29.3              26.1     133 5
Sub-total                                                            '#32.          1,703.3          1,796 3           1,408.3             96831   6,308.5            5,012
Other Etensos_
Vehicles operattoni          7                                  4         40      8       160       8      160        8       160      7        140       660      50       330
Office equipment maintenance 7                                                               0.4             0.5                0.5               o.6       2      50         1
Housing and camping equipment
MaintenanceW/                                                                              3.1             3.1                3.1               3.1      12.4   50          6.2
Aerial photographs and maps           lump            200      lump       60      lump      40                                                            100    100        100
Office expenses
Sub-total                                                            lOO              203.5            163.6              163.6            143.7      774.4   56        437.2
Sub-Contracts
ERTS imagery and computer
interpretation                      lump            400      lump      400                                                                              400    100        400
Geophysical investigation              lump           150                         lump    150                                                             150    100        150
Environmental isotope study            lump            30                         lump      30                                                             30    100         30
Drilling and testing test
boreholesi/  (deep)                  lump         1,240      lump      240      lump    800       lump   200                                          1,240     75        930
(shallow)              lump           200                         lump    150      lumP    50                                             200      75       150
Sub-total                                                            640            1,130              150                                          2,020            1,660
Total Operating Costs                                                    1,172.5          3,036.8          2,209.9            1,571.9          1,111.8   9,102.9  78        7,109.2
j/ In addition to carrying out the feasibility studies occupying 3 years spread out years 1 to 4, consultants would provide technical
assistance mainly in years 4-5, for the development of small scale irrigation.
2/ Costs of man-years include hesdouarters overheads, travel coats for self and family on appointment, termination and for leave, field-allowances etc.
3   For six months in year 1.
At 30% of salary of local staff.
5/ Air travel expenses for project officers and consultants from Hargeisa to Mogadishlu.
20,000 km a year per vehicle at So.Sh. 1.00 per km (excluding drivers salary and ammortization); cost of 6 months year 1.
v At 2.5% of capital costs.
At 5% of capital costs.



SOMALIA                              ANNEX 6
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
List of Equipment, Vehicles, and Buildings to be Financed
_  ype of Equipment                                   Number of Units
Tractors 125 H.P. with Dozers                                          17
Tractors Wheel5d-65 H.P.                                                9
Scraper 8/10 m                                                          1
Harrows                                                                 4
Rippers                                                                 3
Ploughs                                                                 4
2-ton Furrow Reversible Plough                                          1
Tandem Disc                                                             1
Tine Harrows                                                            1
4-row Planter with Fertilizer Units                                     1
Tool Bar Cultivator                                                     1
Threshing Machine                                                       1
Spraying Equipment                                                      lump
Seed Cleaning Equipment                                                 1
Farm tools                                                              lump
Diesel Tanker Trailer                                                   2
Water Tanker Trailer                                                    2
7-ton Hydraulic Trailer                                                 1
5-ton Trailer                                                           2
Caravans Senior Staff                                                   3
Caravans Medium Staff                                                   2
Tents                                                                 120
Camping Equipment                                                       lump
Electric Supply (transformer and 1.' km transmission
line - 11 kv)                                         1
Electric Generator                                                      1
Electric Deepwell Turbine Pump                                          1
Distribution System                                                     1
Borehole Test Equipment                                                 lump
Motor pumps (Irrigation)                                               50
Piping (Irrigation)                                                    50
Pumps and Piping Sets (Water P ints)                                   50
Survey Equipment Sets                                                   6
Workshop Tools                                                          lump
Small Tools                                                             lump
Workshop Equipment                                                      1
Portable Stores                                                         3
Soil Testing Equipment                                                  lump
Ox Drawn Equipment                                                     15
Hand Thresher                                                          15
Mobile Lubrication Unit                                                 I
Office Equipment and 'urniture                                          lump
Type of Vehicles!"
Lorries 7-ton                                                           6
FWD Vehicles                                                           13
Motorcycles                                                             2
Bicycles                                                               23
Type of Buildings
Housing-
Expatriates and Project Manager                                         8
Senior Staff                                                            5
Junior Staff                                                           39
Unskilled Staff                                                        12
Trainees Dormitory, Kitchen, Dining Room, Lecture Hall                  1
Others:
Office                                                                  4
Store and Workshop                                                      1
Implement Shed                                                          1
Oxen Shed                                                               2
1/ Excluding requirements for Feasibility Studies and Technical Assistance;
Consultants would provide these :items, and costs reimbursed by PIU.



ANNEX?
SOMhLIA
NORTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DOFELOPM31T PRDJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(us $ '000
IDP. Fiscal Year           Cumulative Amount             Balance of
and Quarter                  Disbursed                   Credit
1977/78
September 30                      150                     9,850
December 31                       250                     9,750
March 31                          350                     9,650
June 30                           700                     9,300
1978/79
September 30                      900                     9,100
December 31                    1,300                      8,700
March 31                       2,300                      7,700
June 30                        3,300                      6,700
1979/80
September 30                   3,800                      6,200
December 31                    4,500                      5,500
March 31                       5,300                      4,700
June 30                        6,000                      4,000
1980/81
September 30                   6,300                      3,700
December 31                    6,800                      3,200
March 31                        7,000                     3,000
June 30                        7,500                      2,500
1981/82
September 30                   7,700                      2,300
December 31                    8,000                      2,000
March 31                        8,500                     1,500
June 30                        9,000                      1,000
1982/83
September 30                   9,200                        800
December 31                    9,400                        600
June 30                        9,700                        300
10,000                       000



ANNEX 8
Page 1
SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference, Duties, Responsibilities
and Qualifications for the Project Manager
1.        The Project Manager would be directly responsible to the Project
Ministerial Committee (PMC) for Project management and organization.
Duties and Responsibilities
2.        The Project Manager would have the following specific duties and
responsibilities, some of which he would delegate to the management team
leader and other senior Project staff:
(a) Act as secretary and convener of meetings of the
PMC and as chief cf the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), and liaise with all concerned Ministries
and Government agencies at the national level;
(b) Manage, execute, operate, and evaluate the Project
in accordance with policies and procedures laid
down by PMC and in close cooperation with regional
officials (Regional Governor; District Commissioners;
Regional Agricultural Coordinator; and regional
officers of the Crash Program, Ministry of Livestock
Forestry and Range, Livestock Development Agency,
Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources, Water
Development Agency and Agricultural Development
Corporation);
(c) Advise and assist the PMC with the selection of
consultants required by the Project;
(d)  In consultation with the management team leader,
select and recruit senior local staff;
(e)  Establish an accounting section and supervise the
maintenance of suitable records and proper accounts
for all Project components in order to facilitate
Project evaluation;
(f) Prepare quarterly and annual progress reports for
submission to PIU for transmission to IDA;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(g)  Undertake the procurement of all materials, equip-
ment, machinery, and other requisites necessary for
Project implementation;
(h) Coordinate and supervise the duties and functions
of Project staff and look after their welfare; and
(i) Design and establish in-service training programs
for local officials at professional and sub-profes-
sional levels in all Project activities.
Qualifications
3.        The Project Manager should have the following minimum qualifica-
tions and experience:
(a) A university degree in agriculture or engineering,
or their equivalent;
(b) Broad professional experience covering at least 10
years in development programs in agriculture or
related sectors, and a broad knowledge of Somali
laws and Government administrative regulations in-
cluding procurement procedures;
(c) A proven ability in organization and management;
experience with staff management, supervision of
accounts and project evaluation; and
(d) A proven ability to train local senior staff in
organization, management, coordination, and super-
vision of development work in the agricultural
field.



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMET PROJECT
Farmers, Bxding and Sorghum Production
Without Project---------_____________________________ With Project ----------------------------------------
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3       Year 4       Year 5       Year 6        Year 7  Year 8-onwards
Total number of Project farmers j              2,500         2,500        9;500        2,500        2,500        2,500        2,500         2,500        2,500
Number of Project farmers whose                   -            -            -            550        1,175        1,800        2,500         2,500        2,500
fields would be bunded
Gross area (ha)                               25,000       25,000        25,000       25,000       25,000       25,000       25,000       25,000        25,000
Bunded area (ha)                                  -            -            -          5,500       11,750       18,000       25,000       25,000        25,000
Net area (ha) 3/                              25,000       25,000        25,000       24,450       23,825       23,200       22,500        22,500       22,500
Cropped area (ha)                             16,700       16,700        16,700       16,300       15,880       15,470       15,000        15,000       15,000
Sorghum production (tons)                      5,000        5,000         5,000        5,220        5,800        6,755        7,785         8,580        9,000
Incremental production (tons)                     -            -            -            220          800        1,755        2,785         3,580        4,0o0
j Farmers' holdings in the Project area are at an average of 10 ha per farmer.
10' of bunded area is taken up by bunds
j 1/3 of the cropped area is left fallow each year.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Markets and Prices
A. Markets
1.        At full development the Project would result in an annual incremental
production of 4,000 tons of sorghum, 400 tons of fruit, 100 tons of vegetables
and a small amount of alfalfa hay. In order to encourage agricultural produc-
tion and maintain consumer prices, the Government plays a major role in the
marketing of basic food crops (mainly sorghum and maize) and in the supply of
basic farm inputs. Project output of sorghum would therefore be marketed
through the Agricultural Development Corporation (ADC), a Government agency
established for this purpose. There is no central marketing agency for fruit
and vegetables, however, and these commodities would be sold by farmers them-
selves or through merchants or their agents. As the North West Region is
presently a net importer of sorghum, Project production would be consumed
locally. About 50% of the fruits and a somewhat small percentage of the
vegetables would be exported to the expanding markets of neighboring countries;
the remainder of the incremental output would be marketed locally.
2.        Average consumption of sorghum in the North West Region totals
about 30,000 tons. The level of consumption is affected by the availability
of grain from across the border in Ethiopia and by the prices set by ADC.
An estimated 13,000 tons is traded through the ADC, while the remainder
represents reserves held by farmers for their own consumption or for trading
purposes. As only about 20,000 tons of sorghum are produced in the North
West Region the production deficit is made up by imports from across the
border (para 9), and by transfers from southern Somalia - although the
high transport costs involved make the latter a relatively expensive under-
taking.
3.        ADC, the successor of the defunct Agricultural Development Agency
and the National Grain Marketing and Price Stabilization Agencv has been in
existence for only about four years, but its impact on the economy of Somalia
is already considerable. In its second year of operation, grain sales through
Government channels increased by some 80% over the previous year, and it is
expected that the proportion of grain traded in this official market will
continue to increase steadily. The corporation is headed by an Extra-
ordinary Commissioner, a Government appointee who is also a member of the
Supreme Revolutionary Council; it now employs a total of 400 persons, 30
of whom are located in the North West Regional Office at Hargeisa. (The



ANNEX 10
Page 2
present organization structure is given in Table 1). The corporation has
outlined a number of targets to guide its operations over the next several
years. These include:
(a) self-sufficiency in sorghum and maize production;
(b) build-up of a reserve stock; and
(c) production of a surplus; for export.
Although the country as a whole is self sufficient, regional deficits still
necessitate large transfers of grain from one part of the country to another
at a large cost to the economy.
4.        In the North West Region ADC buys sorghum from farmers at a fixed
price at its eight regional buyinl centers. Elmi Jama sorghum represents
over 90% by volume of grain traded by ADC in the region, and trading in maize
is of only minor importance. Normally, buying starts early November and con-
tinues until April or May with the peak buying during December/January. On
the average, it takes the farmers about half a day by camel or donkey to
deliver his produce to the buying center. The grain is held about three
days at the center and is then trucked to the storage depots. At present
the total storage capacity in the region is about 10,000 tons; this is
distributed as below:
Borama               300 tons
Hargeisa           6.500 tons
Gebile               200 tons
Tug Wajale         1,000 tons
Others             2,000 tons
After an inventory is made, ADC sells the grain to the municipalities which
in turn sell to the consumer. ADC maintains that their storage losses are
minimal, although as the operations increase in size, care must be taken to
ensure that a low level of losses is maintained.
5.        ADC operates two bank accounts, one for revenue and one for expendi-
ture, with the Somali Commercial Bank. The Somali National Bank refinances
all commercial Bank credits at 2.5%. The interest-rate charged by the Com-
mercial Bank on ADC ecuals 5% p.a. Such credits are extended directly
within a ceiling of So.Sh. 35.0 million, and with the National Bank's
approval above this ceiling In June 1974, the overdraft with the Somali
Commercial Bank amounted to So.Sh. 800,000; a normal overdraft is about
So.Sh. 500,000. The 1972/73 Hargeisa grain account illustrated below gives
some indication of regional trading activities.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Hargeisa Grain Account, 1972/73
(So.Sh)
Cost of Grain Purchases              3,672,584
Total Operating Expenses               406,890
Value of Unpaid Grain of
Crash Program                        548,080
Total Costs                     4,627,554
Revenues                             5,997,454
Total Profit                    1,369,000
ADC's overall grain trading operations appear to be doing well in financial
terms, although its success is difficult to measure due to inadequate
bookkeeping and accounting procedures (para 11).
6.        As was noted above (para 1), ADC also provides farmers with basic
agricultural inputs such as dressed seed, vegetable seeds and small equip-
ment such as knapsack sprayers. The sorghum seed is sold back to farmers
at the established price. In the first year of ADC's operations it attempted
to provide these inputs on credit, but this scheme had to be abandoned due
to the low repayment rate.
B. Prices
7.        At the beginning of ADC's operations, producer prices for sorghum
and maize were stabilized at a fairly high level in order to provide produc-
tion incentives. These grain prices are fixed annually by the ADC's Board
of Directors.  In the North where farmers can produce only one crop of sorghum
per year, the price of Elmi Jama sorghum (the predominant variety) was set at
almost twice that of red sorghum. The prices paid to farmers at the regional
buying centers can be adjusted according to the quantity delivered; there
is some doubt however, that this flexibility is actually introduced in all
areas.
8.        ADC's domestic farmgate price for white sorghum was So.Sh. 80 per
quintal, as compared to So.Sh. 88 in the previous year. 1/ ADC's sale price
to municipalities was So.Sh. 104 per quintal, while the sale price to con-
sumers was So.Sh. 107 per quintal. Sorghum produced in the South and shipped
1/   Prices in the east remained at So.Sh. 88 per quintal to encourage
production.



ANNEX 10
Page 4
from Mogadishu is sold by ADC at So.Sh. 102/ql to municipalities, which in
turn sell to the consumer at So.Sh. 105/ql. Freight costs from Mogadishu
to Hargeisa of So.Sh. 39/ql are included in these prices. The price of
sorghum used in the economic analysis was estimated by applying the 1977-84
(arithmetic average) world market price and the 1985 long-term world market
price in constant terms adjusted to the farmgate price. This price was calcu-
lated at So.Sh. 835 per metric ton - a price which corresponds closely to the
current domestic farmgate price. The calculation of import parity prices for
sorghum is set out in Table 2.
9.        In the 1971/72 buying season a large part of the sorghum purchased
in the North West Region probably originated in the interior on the other
side of the border. It has been estimated that such purchases may have
accounted for as much as two-thirds of the total sorghum bought in some buying
centers. At this time the sorghum price in Ethiopia was about So.Sh. 45-50
per quintal. In order to meet this problem, Government introduced an import
tax of So.Sh. 12/ql to be levied at the buying center on purchases of imported
grains. The identification of such grain posed no problem, as the imported
Johwarri sorghum is easily distinguishable from the locally grown Elmi Jama
variety. As a result of this tax and of drastically increased price in
Ethiopia (about So.Sh. 130/ql in October 1973), the amount of imported grain
sold by nomads declined noticeably. No further increases in such imports
are foreseen for the 1974/75 crop season.
10.       Prices of fruits and vegetables are not controlled.  Estimates of
current prices for various items are shown in Table 3 and farmgate prices for
citrus, vegetables, and peanuts were based on this information. In the
economic analysis, prices of internationally traded goods (citrus and vege-
tables) were calculated on the import or export parity price whether or not
these goods are actually imported or exported. For alfalfa and peanut hay,
actual domestic farmgate prices were used. In the economic calculation a
price of So.Sh. 2,565 per ton for oranges was applied; this represented an
arithmetic average of Aden and Djibouti prices adjusted to farmgate. This
price, which is almost five times higher than the farmgate-adjusted inter-
national price, is however justified as farmers can obtain sizeable windfall
earnings due to the specific circumstances prevailing in the area. The effect
of the expected opening of the Suez canal on prices has yet to be seen, however.
The level of citrus price used in the economic analysis has some effect on the
economic rate of return although! it is not a critical determinant of the
Project's economic viability. For vegetables, the export parity prices
Djibouti have been used for tomatoes, cabbages and onions allowing for transport
sales commission and losses. TIe average price of So.Sh. 2,800 per ton is
rather conservative as compared with the actual domestic prices in the region.
The farmgate per ton prices for groundnuts are assumed to fall gradually from
So.Sh. 1,427 in 1974 to the farmgate adjusted international price of So.Sh. 998
in 1985. The unshelled groundnut price of So.Sh. 998 which has been applied
in the economic analysis is obtained by deducting all on-farm costs and
decordication costs of So.Sh. 1,844 per ton of shelled groundnuts (converted
at prevailing market rates). The ratio of unshelled nuts to shelled nuts by



ANNEX 1 0
Page 5
weight was based at 1 to 0.7. Thus, the long-term projected international
farm price is lower than today's domestic producer price of So.Sh. 1,500 per
ton. The actual domestic farmgate price for alfalfa and peanut hay is about
So.Sh. 250 per ton.
Outlook for Future Operations
11.       From its inception ADC has encountered a variety of problems. some
of which are still hampering its operations. Due to its rapid expansion.
The Corporation has experienced management and staffing problems, and is short
of qualified and experienced staff - particularly in the fields of planning,
marketing statistics and bookkeeping. An effort should be made to determine
the optimal level of surplus sorghum, as this decision will have important
repercussions on ADC's storage policy. The estimates of current storage
losses and of theft are only crude estimates rather than statistically
derived figures; consequently no determination of the actual extent of current
losses can be made. Adequate operational records must be maintained if these
losses are to be held to an acceptable level. As the Corporation expands,
care must be taken to ensure that losses in distribution channels and during
storage, both due to inexperienced staff and a lack of suitable packing
materials are not significantly increased. ADC has a similar difficulty
in deriving accurate figures of actual and projected production and consump-
tion both for the country as a whole and for the various regions. This pro-
blem also should receive fullest attention. Finally it has been noted that
ADC's efforts to supply farm inputs on credit have been largely a failure
due to problems with repayment. Efforts should be made to overhaul and
streamline this operation.
12.       ADC faces a number of special problems associated with its operations
in the North West Region; these include:
(a) wide variation in purchases from one year to another;
(b)  variable enforcement of quality standards regarding moisture
content, cleanness and age of grain purchased;
(c) control of infestation in stored grain, particularly by
fumigation of second-hand gunny bags used for storage;
(d) high transport costs, particularly between Mogadishu
and the north; and
(e) uncertain effects of ADC's price policies on grain supplies.
Despite these problems, ADC has demonstrated its ability to successfully
carry out its assigned rsponsibilities, and the marketing of the additional
production to be derived from the Project should pose no particular problems.



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION ORGANIZATION CHART 1/
General Manager
Board of Directors
Audit Unit
Public Relations Rureau
Production and Developme   Department                                              AdminisIrative Dept.                        Purchase Dept.              Distribution      Sales Department
I       I       1-~~~t     1I7                                                                                                                                  ajid-I  _ _T
Cotton        Fanm    Forage   Planning   Pest       Building    Registry   Personnel   Purchase       Account    Transport   Oil and         Grain        Oil and      Cotton       Grain Sales
Development  Input  Unit       Unit       Control   & Storage   Unit                     and           & Budget  Unit          Seed           Purchasing   Seed Unit  Sales Unit   Unit
Unit          Unit                        and        Unit                                Acquisition                           Purchasing     Unit
Project                                                                             Unit
Unit
1/ As of June 1974.
0



AMEX 10
Table 2
SOMALIA
NORTH-WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Sorghum Import Parity Price
(per metric ton)
3197?-1980    1985
_US $       VS $
U.S. New. 2, Milo, Yellow f.o.b. Gulf ports1'                 95         87
Gulf to Berbera Ocean Freight.2/                              34           2
Sub-total : price c.i.f. Berbera                    129.0       121.0
Wharfage at 1%                                         1.3        1.3
Handling at So.Sh. 0.60 per quintal                    1.0        1.0
Sack cost:                                              g         3-5
Sub-total of above charges                             5.8        5.8
Cost in sack ex-warehouse Berbera                            134.8      126.8
Cost of transport to Hargeisa (So.Sh. 5.30/quintal)            8.5        8.5
Cost of transport to Tug  Wajale (So.Sh. 4.20/quintal)         6.7        6.7
Cost of sorghum in sack at Tug Wajale (US $)                 150.0      142.0
(So.Sh. 934.5)(So.Sh. 884.7)
1/ IBRD Commodities and Trade Projections Division,
Projected 1985 price in April 1975 dollars.
2/ Estimate: Economic Research Service USDA.



SMALI                                                      N=h
N0R'HWEIWT ReGTON AGRICUVLTNRAL DEVEJPLOPnlT PROJECT                             Table 3
Fruit andf Vegetable Marketfn   Costad MAigins (o .S    k
E a   r  kc   e    t __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
-ogadiscto      I ogadiscio
Production area and type              Borama   Hargeisa       Djibouti         (by air)         (by t rtk)
BORAXAA
Oranges - Sale price                   1.50       2.00              4.00               4.00              4.00
- Marketing costs:            0.06       0.22               0.65              2.91               0.92
. Transport             (o.06)    (0-11)             (0.29)             (2.71)            (O.31)
. Sales comsission                 (0.11)    (at 4%) (0.16)             (0.20)            (0.20)
L . osses                             -      (at 5%) (0.20)                -     (at l0%)(0.40)
- Margin over mark. costs   1.14         1.78              3.35               1.09              3.09
Lemons  - Sale price                   o.:8         -               2.00              1.00               1.00
- Marketing costs:           o.C6         -                0.47              2.76              0.46
Transport              (O.C6)        -              (0.29)             (2.72)            (0.31)
. Sales commission                    -      (at 4%) (0.08)  (at 5%)  (0.05)   (at 5%) (0.05)
. Losses                  _          -      (at 5%) (0.10)                -     (at lO%)(0.10)
- Margin over mark, costs   0.52         _               1.53             -1.76              0.54
Guavas  - Sale price                   0.75       0.75                 -                 -
- Marketing costs:           0.06       0.22                 -                 -
Transport              (0.06)     (0.11)               -                  -
Sales commission          _       (0.11)               -                  -
. losses                   _          _                 _                  _
-Margin over mark. costs   o.6"          0.53                 _                 -
Tomatoes- Sale price                   3.20         -               5.00               2.90              2.90
- Marketing costs:            0.06          -              1.49               2.81              1.08
Transport             (0.06)        -              (0.29)             (2.66)            (0.20)
Sales commission         _          -      (at 4%) (0.20)  (at 5%)  (0.15)   (at 5%) (0.15)
Losses                   _          -      (at 30%)(1.65)                -     (at 25%)(0 73)
- Margin over mark. costs   3.14            -               2.86              0.09              1.82
Cabbages- Sale price                   2.67         -               5.00               4.20              4.20
- Marketing costs:            o.06          -              0.74               2.79              0.75
. Transport             (0.06)        -              (0.29)             (2.66)            (0.20)
Sales comnission                    -      (at 4%) (0.20)  (at 5%)  (0.13)  4*  5%) (O 13)
Losses                   _          -      (at 5%) 0.25                  -     (at 10%)(0.42)
- Margin over mark. costs   2.61            -              4.26               1.41              3.45
Leeks   - Sale price                  1.71           -                - _
- Marketing costs:            o.06          -                 _                 _
Transport             (0.06)         _
Sales commission         -
. Losses                   _
-Margin over mark. costs   1.65             -                 _
Onions  - Sale price                   1.32          -              1.66               2.30             2.30
- Marketing costs:            O.06          -              0.36               2.78              0.55
Transport             (o.06)         -             (0.29)             (2.66)           (0.20)
Sales commission         _           -    (at 4%) (0.07)  (at 5%)  (0.12)   (at 5%) (0.12)
L. osses                   _-                                              -     (at 10%)(0.23)
- Margin over mark. costs   1.24            -              1.30              -0.48              1_75
HARGRSA
Oranges - Sale price                     -         2.00             4.00              4.00                4.00
- Marketing costs:               -        0.06             1.72               2.86               0.80
Transport                -        (0.06)           (1.56)            (2.66)              (0.20)
Sales commission         -           -      (at 4%)(0.16)   (at 5%) (0.20)       (at 5%)(0.20)
. Looales                  -           -                _                  _       (at 4%)(0.40)
-Margin over mark. costs         -           -                _                 _
Leons  - Sale price                      -           -              2.00               2.00              2.00
- Marketing costs:               _                          1.64              2.76               0.50
Trameport                                          (1.56)             (2.66)            (0.20)
Sales commission         _           -      (at 4%)(0.08)   (at 5%) (0.10)       (at 5%)(0.10)
1 Losses                    _          -                 -                 -      (at 10%)(0.20)
- Margin over mark. costs                    -              0.36             -0.76               1.50
Notes:
Transport:  Transport costs are basecd on costs suggested by farmers and merchants.
Truck transport cost to Mogadiscio has probably been uDdereatimated.
Air freight costs vere protided by Somali Airlines.  It may be that
significantly lover rates, can be negotiated (see marketing costs set
out below).
Sales commission: It is assumed that whenDproduce is sold at the local market
no sales commission is paid and that seUling is done by the farmer,
or a member of his family.
Losses:      Losses when selling at Djibouti are based on farmers suggestions.  For
other markcets the percentage loss has been estimatd. F1-  p..   is
carried by air, losses are assumed to be included.
In addition to the above, the following information was derived from a merchant in
Hargeisa exporting -a2I lemone to Aden:
Sale price                        3.03
Marketing costs                   1.10
- Transport to airport        (0.02)
- Handling charge             (0.02)
- Ai rfreight                 (0.50)
- Aden import duty            (0.20)
- Aden market duty at 12%   (0.36)
Margin over marketing costs       1.93
Sale price based on import deposit of So.Sh. 800 which was 15% of sale value of
80 22-kg bags. Handling was 40 c per bag,



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Model Farm bidget - Dr7-land Farm
(S..sh. t'0o)
Without Project                            With Project
------------------ Farmer-Years ---------------------
Year 1                Year 2Year-3-20
I. PRODUCTION
Total area (ha)                                                            10                     10                   10                     10
Net area (ha) /                                                             o10                    9                    9                       9
Cropped area (ha) U                                                         6.7                    6                    6                      6
Sorghum
Yield (qtls/ha)                                                              3                     4                    5                      6
Sorghum
Total Production (qtls)                                                    20.1                  24                    38                     36
Sorghum
II. FARM INCOME                             Unit     Price        Unit      Price       Unit      Price       Unit       Price      Unit       Price
Sorghum                                1 qtl       80     2O.J qtl      1,608      24 qtl     1,920      30 qtl      2,400     36 qtl      2,880
Subsistence consumption 3/              1 qtl      80        10 qtl       800      10 qtl       800      10 qtl        800     10 qtl        800
Cash income less subsistence                                              bob                 1,120                  1,600                 2,080
III.EXPENDITURE
Seed /                                 1 kg         0.80    67 kg          54      60 kg          48     60 kg          48     60 kg          48
Local land tax!                         1 farm      6                       6                      6                     6                      6
Farm equipment & tools                                                    100                   100                    100                   100
Project charges 7/                                                                     _                                                      190
Total Expenditure                                                                                154                   154                    344
IV. Total Net Cash Income                                                                            966                 1,446                  1,736
10% of farm area taken up by bunds.
E 1/3 of the area kept fallow each year.
/ At 10 qtls of sorghum per family along with meat and milk valued at about
SoSh 1,280 annually (1 litre of milk a day at SoSh 2.00 per litre and lkg                                                                                     4 M
of meat at SoSh 1.50 per kg per day on an average).                                                                                                            e
/ Seed rate at 10 kg per ha.
5/  Collected by District Government.
For costs and replacements of plow, yoke, sickle, hoes, panga, harness
averaged out.
y/ Estimated at 15% in year e (See Annex 12).



SOMALIATble 2
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVWIYENT PFIJEOT
One Hectare Irrigated Farm - Production fereloptent
(So.Sh. '000)
Witb looject
W ithout              -        --------------------------------  - (y)) --------------------------------------- --------
Project              1           2          3           4          5         6           7                        9-20
A. PRODUJCTION DEVEPMENT
Crop Areas (ha)
Citrus                                                     o.8        o.8        o.8         o.8        o.8        o.8        o.8         0.8           o.8
Vegetables                               Nil               0.2        0.2         0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2         0.2           0.2
Alfalfa                                                    0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1         0.1           0.1
Peanuts (citrus interrow)                                  i.4        1.2        1.0         o.8        o.4         -          -           -             -
Crop Yields (tons/ha)
Citrus                                                      -          -           -          -         4.o        6.o        8.0        10.0          10.0
Vegetables                               Nil               6.0        8.0       10.0        10.0       10.0       10.0       10.0        10.0          10.0
Alfalfa (hay)                                              6.o        8.0         8.o        8.0        8.0        8.o        8.0         8.o           8.0
Peanuts                                                    1.0        1.2         1.5        1.5        1.5                    -           -
Peanut (hay)                                               1.0        1.2         1.5        1.5        1.5         -          -           -             _
Crop Production (tons)
Citrus                                                      -          -           -          -         3.2        4.8        6.4         8.0           8.0
Vegetables                                                 1.2        i.6        2.0         2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0         2.0           2.0
Alfalfa (hay)                            Nil               o.6        o.8         o.8        o.8        o.8        o.8        o.8         o.8           o.8
Peanuts                                                    1.1        1.4        1.5         1.2        0.6         -          -           -             -
Peanut (hay)                                               1.1        1.4        1.5         1.2        o.6         -          -           -             -
Gross Value of Crop Production
Citrus (at So.Sh.700/ton)                                   -          -          -           -         2.2        3.4        4.5        5.6            5.6
Vegetables (at So.Sh.600/ton)                              0.7        1.0        1.2         1.2        1.2        1.2        1.2         1.2           1.2
Alfalfa (hay)                            Nil
(at So.Sh.250/ton)                                       0.2         0.2        0.2         0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2        0.2            0.2
Peanuts (at Oo.Sh.l,5O'W%t6n)                              2.1        2.1        2.3         1.8        0.9         -          -           -             -
Peanut (hay)
(at So.Sh.250/ton)                                       o4          0.4        o.4        0.3         0.2        -
TOTAL (A)        Nil               34        J.7         4.1        _3 2        4A.7      _4.                     7.0           7.0
B. PRODUCTION COSTS
1. Irrigation Costs
Fuel, oil                                                 1.6        i.6         i.6        1.6        1.6        i.6        1.6         i.6           1.6
Repairs and naintenance:                                                                                              /
- PIMP                                Nil               ^.3        0.3        0.3         0.3        0.3        1.9v       0.3        0.3            0.3
- irrigation system                                     0.1       0.1         0.1         0.1        0.1       0.1         0.1        0.1            0.1
Sub-tttal                          2.0        0.0         2.0        2.0        2.0        3.6        2.0         2.0           2.0
2. Crop Production eosts
Citrus seedlings                                          1.62/      0.231        -          -          -          -          -           -             -
Peanuts _/                              Nil               0.4        o.4        0.3         0.2        0.1         -          -           -             -
Vegetables and Alfalfa seed                               0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1         0.1          0.1
Sub-total                          2.1        0.7         0.4        0.3        0.2        0.1        0.1         0.1           0.1
TOTAL (B)        Nil              _=,,        2.5        2.4         2.3        2.2        3.,7      _2           2.1 L.1
C. NET PRODUCTION VA1/-                       Nil             i2           L. S      a  Iz =L =A 22                              .2                         4 2
1/ i60 citrus seedlings at So.Sh. 10 each.
| 200 kg/ha at So.Sh. 1.5 per kg * So.Sh. 300/ha.
3 10% of seedlings to be replaced.
Y/ Not including irrigation capitaL costs.
5/ Including renewal of pump (tSh. 1,600).



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION INTEGRATED AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPEONT PROJECT
One Hectare Irrigated Farm - Cash Flow
Projections and Financial Returns
(So.Sh. '000)
Without                                        With Project
Project     -----------------------------------years)-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
1         2          3          4          5         6          7          8          9         10          11          12-20
A. CASH FLOW PROJECTIONS
1.  Cash Inflow
Crop sales                                           3.4        3.7        4.1        3.5        4.7      4.8         5.9        7.0        7.0        7.0         7.0          7.0
Loanr/                                              10.1         -           -         -          -         -           -         -          -          -           -            -
Farmers' constributionJ/                  Nil        5.5                                                   --           -
TOTAL CASH INFLOW                                   19.0        3.7         4.1       3.5        4.7       4.8        5.9        7.0        7.0        7.0         7.0          7.0
92. Cash Outflow
Inveetment cost                                     15.6         -           -         -          -         -           -         -          -          -           -
Operating costs:/                         Nil
- Irrigation costs                                   2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0       3.6        2.0        2.0        2.0        2.0         3.6          2.0
- Crop production cost-.                             2.1        0.7         o.4       0.3        0.2      0.1         0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1         0.1          0.1
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                                  19.7        2.7         2.4       2.3        2.2       3.7        2.1        2.1        2.1        2.1         3.7          2.1
3.  Cash Balance (1-2)                        Nil       (0.7)       1.0         1.7       1.2        2.5       1.1         3.8       4.9        4.9        4.9         3.3          4.9
4. Debt Service
- Loan amortizationj                                  -         1.1        1.1        1.1        1.1      1.1         1.1        1.1        1.2        1.2          -            -
- Interest5/                                         o.6        0.6        0.5        o.4        o.4       0.3        0.3        0.2        0.1        0.1          -
5.  TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                                   o.6        1.7         1.6       1.5        1.5       1.4         1.4       1.3        1.3        1.3          -
6.  CASH BALANCE (3-5)                         Nil      (1.3)      (0-7)        0.1       (0.3)      1.0      (0.3)        2.4        3.6        3.6       3.6         3.3          4.9
B.  FINANCIAL RETURN
1.  Investment costs                          Nil       15.6         -           -          -         -                     -          -          -         -           -
2.  Net production value                                (0.7)       1.0         1.7       1.2        2.5       1 .1'       3.8       4.9        4.9        4.9         3.31/        4.9
3. Balance to be discounted
(2-1)                                         (16.3)      1.0         1.7        1.2        2.5      1.1         3.8        4.9        4.9        4.9         3.3          4.9
FINANCIAL NETuRE: 16% over 20 years.
/  65% of total investment.
2/  35% of total investment cost.
2   Renewal of pump (SoSh 1,600) is included in years 6-11-16.                                                                                                                           H z
Nine years amortization, one year grace period.                                                                                                                                   w u
J At 52% per year.



ANNEX 12
SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Analysis of Recovery of Project Costs:  Bunded Fnrm (10 ha)
Year 1        Year 2       Year 3 onwards
Gross Production
Sorghum (Qtls)                                 24             30                 36
Gross Revenue at Farmgate
Sorghum (So.Sh.)I                           1,920         2,400               2,880
Production Cost (So.Sh.)
(excluding family labor)
Seed                                           48             48                 48
Farm Equipment                                100            100                100
Local Land Tax                                  6              6                  6
Net Farm Income (So.Sh.)                      1,766          2,246              2,726
Area's Average Net Farm Income (So.Sh.,)-/    1,448          1,448              1,448
Add. Income Generated by the Project
(So.Sh.)                                      318         1,098               1,278
Project Charges (So.Sh.)3                                                         190
Disposable Family Income After Project
Charges Above Area's Average Net
Farm Income (So.Sh.)                          318         1,098               1,088
1/ At 80 So.Sh./Qtls.
2/ Without project.
3/ 15% from 1980 onwards, figures have been rounded.



ANNEX 13
Page 1
SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
1.        The internal rate of return of the Project is estimated at 11%.
Quantifiable costs and benefits stemming from the Project are presented in
Tables 1 and 2. The data from which these estimates were derived are pre-
sented in Annexes 5 and 10. Basic assumptions used in the analysis include:
(a)  The economic life of the Project was assumed to be
25 years.
(b)  The cost stream includes all economic costs stemming
from the Project (investment and operational costs),
i.e., excluding those costs which are not yield related.
A 5% physical contengency was allowed on bunds (as
an additional 5% was already included in the base
costs), and a 10% physical contingency was allowed
on all other items. This allowance was made mainly
due to uncertainties with regard to the status and
quality of the design work, and to allow for unfore-
seen additional requirements made necessary by local
conditions.
(c)  The ProJect's economic benefits from internationally
traded items (sorghum, citrus, vegetables and peanuts)
were calculated on the import or export parity price
whether or not these items are actually imported or
exported. Actual domestic farmgate prices have been
used for alfalfa and peanut hay. The economic bene-
fits attributable to incremental sorghum production
(by far the most important component of Project pro-
duction) were estimated by applying the world market
price in constant terms for the years 1977-84
(arithmetic average) and the 1985 long-term world
market price in constant terms, i.e. excluding
inflationary effects, adjusted to the farmgate value
to reflect freight, handling and other costs. These
price assumptions are conservative and if the supply
should remain tight, higher prices could prevail and
project benefits could increase.
(d)  Foreign exchange has not been shadow priced as the
official rate is considered to reflect its value
to the country. Wages and salaries are priced at
the market rate and family labor has not been shadow
priced because of its relative insignificance.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
(e) Taxes were not included in the calculation.
(f) A small salvage value of the remaining equipment
would accrue to the Project as a result of fact that
the bunding operation would be a one time investment
spread over a five year period, which would require
neither a follow-up investment nor replacement.
(g) Due to a lack of basic data, the benefit stream stemming
from soil erosion control has been excluded from the
economic analysis. The internal rate of return calcula-
tion may thus be considerably under-estimated.
(h)  No account has been taken in the analysis of the pos-
sible effect on the Project of changes in the density
of the livestock population in the Project area as a
result of the increased availability of water.
(i)  Additional benefits stemning from the new horticultural
extension service accruing to existing small scale hor-
ticultural gardens have not been included. However,
only the costs for the extension service for the new
50 irrigated gardens have been included.
2.        The sensitivity of the rate of return to changes in some of the
major basic parameters is illustrated below. These parameters have been
selected to reflect the major risks facing the Project. The general con-
clusion is that the economic rate of return is relatively insensitive to
changes in costs and benefits within probable ranges.
Sensitivity Analysis
Internal Rate
of return
The Basic Run                                                         11
(a) Bunding operation without including the irrigation
development and the horticultural extension
service components                                         10
(b)  Benefits delayed by one year                                    10
(c)  10% increase in costs                                           10
(d)  10% reduction in benefits                                       10
(e)  10% increase in benefits                                        13



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Coat in the Economic Analysis2:/
(3S.sh. 'OOO)
Year   1I            N 2         1         h          5          6          7                     9                        ,olo 11  12      y18 116                                    rs
I.  Bunding and Water Points
Capital Cost                       135     1,084    10,255         _          _          _
Operating COst                      60        82      2,907      2,945      2,951      2,979        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
Wages and Salaries                 541        900     2.099      2.099      2.099      2.099                              -                                -          -
Sub-total      736      2.066    15.261      5,044      5.050      5.078        -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -          -
II   Irrigation Development                                                                                 -               -          -          -          -                -
Capital Cost                       -         -          -           79        158        158
Operating Cost                                                      41        109        160         125       116        127        139        137        105        105        105        105          0
Sub-total      -         -          -                     267        3v1         15        TT         127        139        137        105          5        105                   105
III. Horticultural Extension Service 2/
Capital Cost                      -          -          265        -          -          -           -         -           45                                                                45
Operating Cost                                           31         43         43         43          43        43         23         23         23         23         23         23         23         2a
Wages and Salaries                 -         -          -          305        305        305          38        38         38         38         38         38         38         38         38          38
Sub-total      -          -          296        348       348        348         _1         81        106         61         61         61         61         61        106          61
Physical Contingencies S              37        103       793        299        314        321          20        20         23         20         20         16         16         16         21          16
Bunding                             37       103        763        212        252        254         -         -          -          _-                               -          -          - _
Irrigation and Horticulture       -          -           30         47         62         67          20        20         23         20         20         16         16         16         21          16
Sub-total       773      2,169    16,350      5,8l       5,979      6,065         226       217        256        220        218        12        182        182         232        lA
Less Taxes                           100        180       960      1,000      1,000      1,000          30        30         30         30         30         30         30         30          30         30
T o t a 1                            673     1,989    15,390       4,811      4,979      5,065         196       187        226        190        188        152        152        152        202         152
1/ Basis of cost estimates as of 1April 1975.
2/ Only the service for the 50 new horticultural gardens has been costed.
3/ 5% of the base cost on buning (local and foreign cost) ani 10% on irrigation and hartiultaure ebansiO5s servi .
4/  Includes import duty on fuel and lubricants (gasoline 647; diesel fuel, 577; lubricants, 13% of retail price).                                                                                 - ni
Capital items are.imported free of customs and fiscal duty' income tax 207.                                                                                                                    m x
I..



SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPET PROJECT
Benefita in the Econamic Anailyie
(So.Sh. '000)
Year          1         2          3         4           5             6          7          8           9         10          11   and foUowing years
Sorghum:  Imwrmental Production (tons)                 220        800      1,755     2,785        3,580        4,ooo      4,0o      4,000       4,ooo      4,ooo      4,0o0
lht Production Value (So.Sh. :000) /                   205.5      747.0   1.639.2   2,601.2       3,168.3       3,540      3,540      3,540      3,540      3,540      3,540
Salvage Value (So.Sh. '000)                              -         -                    -         2,463.5          -          -     _        _                 - _
Sub-total                    205        747      1,639      2,601       5,632         3,540      3,540      3,940      3,540      3,540      3,540
Net Produwtion Value (So.Sh. 1000O)
Citru* (So.SA. 2565(t)                                 -         -          -          -           -             82        287        575        780        944      1,o26
Vegetablr e (So.Sh, 2565 /t)                                     34        112        213         258           280        280        280        280        280        280
alJ.tablfSo.Sh. 2      A0t                             _          1          5          9          10            10         10         10         10         10         10
PeautNay(So.Sh. 23/t)                                  -         11         36         65          70           60          36        12          12         12         12
Parmt Hay (So.Sh. 250/t)                              __                     9        16          1.7           15          9           3          3          3          3
Sub-total                     _         49        162        303         355           447        622        880      1,070      1,234       1,316
TOTAL                                                 205        796       1,801     2,904       5,987         3,987      4,162      4,420      4,61o       4,774      4,856
1/  Farmgate Drices  1977-1980 So. Sh. 934 and 1981 onwards So.Sh. 885 per metric ton
Benefits are only ascribed to new horticultural gardens and not to the existing ones.



ANNEX 1-
Table 3
SOMALIA
NORTH-WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL PROJECT
Internal Rate of Return
(So.Sh. 1000)
Project       Total         Incremental      Incremental
Year          Costs           Benefits      Net Benefits
1             673                               (673)
2           1,989              -              (1,989)
3          15,390              205           (15,185)
4           4,811              796            (4,015)
5           4,979            1,801            (3,178)
6           5,065            2,904            (2,161)
7             196            5,987            5,791
8             187            3,987            3,800
9             226            4,162             3,936
10             190            4,420             4,230
11             188            4,610            4,422
12             152            4,774            4,622
13             152            4,856            4,704
14             152            4,856             4,704
15             202            4,856            4,654
16             152            4,856            4,7014
17             152            4,856            4,704
18             152            4,856            4,704
19             152            4,856            4,704
20             152            4,856            4,704
21             202            14,856           4,654
22             152            4,856            4,704
23             152            4,856            4,704
24             152            4,856            4,704
25             152            4,856            4,704
The internal rate of return    1      over 25 years.



SOMALTA
NORTHWEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Estimste of ProIacts Foreign Ebc&bnge Implications
(So .Sh.' 000)
Year         1         2          3         4          5          6          7         8          9        10         11.      12         13          14           15
I.  Bunding and Water Points                 614     1,723    12,719      3,093      3,007     3,027         -         -          -         -          -        -          -           -           _
4c~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
II. Irrigation Development                     -         -          -         46         92         92        70        76         83         82        63       63         63          63          63
III.  Extension and Training                   454       992      1,630     1,639      1,514        725       264c      264c       82-        76        70        75        264         264         82
IV. Dryland Crop Trials                                 199         21        17         17         17        17        60-/       17         17        17        17         17         60          17
V. Gedeblede Horticultural Station                     202        908        56         56         56        56        452-'      56         56        56        56         56        452          56
VI. Feasibility Studies                     1,274     2,789      1,735     1,237        869                              -
Sub-total              2,342      5,905    17,013      5,938     5,555      3,917       407        852       238        231        206      211        4o         839        218
Contingencies
Pbysic/l                                 204       504      1,o66       405        240        240        34        78         15         15        14        15         34         78          15
Price-                                  A7.36D,58          ZL2~2      3,181      3,410     2,785        293       673        204       215        206       226    E            1,015         279
Total Foreign Exchange Cost                3,200     8,767    25,439      9,584      9,205     6,942        734     1,603        457       461        426       432-      890       1,932         572
Foreign Exchange Value of Output              -                                2         8         16        19         32        60         99       127       150        161         161        161
Balance                               (3,200)   (8,767)  (25,439)   (9,582)   (9,197)   (6,926)        (715)   (1,571)      (397)      (362)     (299)    (302)       (729)    (1.773)       (351)
Balance US$'000                         (514)   (1,407)   (4.083)   (1.538)   (1.476)   (1,112)        (115)     (2521       (64)       (58)      (48)      (48)      (117)      (284)        (56)
a/ Calculated based on revised CPS guidelines as of Dacember 27, 1974.  frcm year 7 onwards a flat rate
of 7% p.a. hss been applied.
k/  50% of total output of citrus and 35% of total output of vegetables.
c/ and followong every 6th  year.                                                                                                                                                                       ii



SOMALIA
NORTHWEST REGION AGRICULT'URAL DEVELOPNENT PROJECT
Government Estimated Cash Flow from the Froaect
(So.Sh. 'OOO)
Cash Outflow
cat                                                    Cas  Of    kroject             Total               Net Annual               Cumulative
Year                   TDA      e      Ch1x lo            Service Charge      Repayment IDA                   iCash Outflow        Inflow (Outflow)         Inflow (Outflow)
1                   3,000    100         3,10U                 23                                3,914           3,937                  (8377                      6837)
2                   8,600    190         8 790                 87                  _            10,812          10,899                (2,109)                   (2,946)
3                  25,500    980       28 480                 Z78                  -            31.342          31,620                (3,140)                   (6,086)
4                   9,500  1,050        10')550               350                  _            14,675          15,025                (4,475)                  (10,561)
5                   9,000 1 050         1O,T50                417                  _            14 S28          14,945                (4,895)                  (15,456)
6                   6700  3,513i        10,213                467                  _            11,514                                (1,768)                  (17,224)
7                      -     _             _                  4-67                 ,             2,40            2,907                (2,907)                  (20,131)
8                      _     _             _                  4 7                                2,948           3,415                (3,415)                  (28,546)
9                      _     _             -                  467                  -             2,263           2,730                (2,730)                 (26,276)
10                      _     _                                467                  -             2,263           2,730                (2,730)                  (29,006)
11                      -     _             -                  467                 623            2,263           3,353                (3,353)                  (32,353)
12                      -     _             _                  467                 623            2,263           3,353                (3,353)                  (35,712)
13                      -     _             _                  467                 623            3,050           4.140                (4,140)                  (39,852)
14                      -     _             _                  467                 623            2,948           4,038                (4,038)                  (43,890)
15                      -                  _                   467                  623           2,263           3,353                (3,353)                  (47,243)
16                      -                                      467                 623            2,263            3,353               (3,353)                  (50,596)
17                      -     _             _                  467                  623           2,263            3,353               (3,353)                  (53,949)
18                                -                            467                  623           2,263            3,353               (3,353)                  (57,302)
19           _-                                                4t7                  623     2      ,263            3,353               (3,353)                  (60,655)
20                      -     -             -                  467                  623           2,948            4,038               (4,038)                  (64,693)
e/ Without taking into consideration the poasible cost recovery from the bunding operation (see para 6.08).
b/  Including contingencies.
c/ Includiig A salyage value of So.Sh. 2,463,000.






Olart 1
SOMALI A
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEAR                         PRE-PROJECT          1               2               3              4               5               6
QUARTER                        1  2  3  4   1  2  3   4   1  2  3  4  1  2   3  4   1  2  3   4   1  2  3   4   1  2   3  4
APPOINTMENT OF CONSULTANTS
INVITATION, SUBMISSION AND
EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS;
APPOINTMENT I   AND
MOBILIZATION                                               A AU
EMPLOYMENT OF SENIOR STAFF
PROJECT MANAGER                                            lii IM rli n "   III    ms in fll Um  msi noin In v mi nn rn  IUm m[  nnn   irtn IFnI Irins
MANAGEMENT TEAM LEADER                                     il nn rIll mmi Irn rnn -li Igl s m   ni mi i   U in    Inl ill  EE InI iEs Isuil In  lSlL nu i
SOIL CONSERVATION OFFICER                                             "to Uzar  ll sell lug II Fsilln vEU ar iw       mar los   III [ll  lolli I mol lgi  [gal l
EXTENSION AND TRAINING OFFICER                                                Inv 1gall II  aw Wm  1     Isi Iii #tt loa iiNl g l  [lol "owllhh   l os Bil ai u
HORTICULTURAL EXTENSION OFFICER                                        MI" OM m ii IT" Ii ntil nn IMI TOOl  I1i  11 nn   ANT   MII   1111 Bill u 1 n  1in III glt
awavla.    ~~Del N.r
CHIEF MECHANIC                                              -itetitdo,,         e- F.c orv glass s m  t   Sit   U  511   ii,  ii iii S  less AU J611 UlIU
to Tender             I                  INgIlgIto11111ll
PROCUREMENT OF EARTHMOVING EQUIPMENT                _I t                        I            elvNery r Site
CONSTRUCTION OF BUNDS                                     DT nnHr  | | |Awa d o                          motrc |i |iiiI ,ii l0 h  ___
ABURIN FARM                                                          Date    |                                                               -l        Awl.
GEED DEEBLE HORTICULTURAL STATION                                                    -   -  m  -   m   -  ii IU   Uliu ci ui11m66ii Ulmna          s7mi
CONSTRUCTION OF WATER POINTS                                                                  N      *   -  *                .                            0 _
SMALL SCALE IRRIGATION DEVELOPMENT                                                                           _
FEASIBILITY STUDIES                                                  l   Ron iii["xi in"  li oNl  IIia 11 i 111111     III
KEY:
_ ENNN~         CONSTRUCTION
__    ~        OPERATION                                                                                                           Wodd Bank-9467(R)






SOMALIA
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                 Chart 2
ORGANIZATION OF MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Cooperation with- -                       _       _       _  _  _  _  _                            m  m _  _  _         Secretary of State
Crash Progranmne                                                                                                               for                         ie8  omte
(President's Office)                                                                                                        Agriculture            - forNorth West Region
Ministry of Uvestock, Forestry and Rang
Livestock Developtnent Agency (LOA)                                                                                                                    Agricultural Develop-
Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources                                                                                         _                        ent Prect                                                                      Autonomous Agencies
Water Development AgencY (WDA)                                                                                            Director General                                                                                                Agricultural DeveloPment
Somali Developmena Bank (SOB)                                                                                                               l                                                                                             Corporation (ADC)
hWestural Drfelgop                                                         National Tractor Hiring
_PulturaljDevelop^                                                          Agency (ONATI
National Banana Board
Depar;;  t t                          tpanDepar m
and Locus   o                                            |   Coope a van                                      Adnnitranion 
E_tension                                 A1riculal       rrta                                                                                Peantrs        Mu  Purpose    Cooperat ve           s t  at on
and Training                                     Engineering    and                HydrlogY        Protection        Coato         Bird-Conto        Qua an on      Society           a m F g        and                Se  Cm          Personnel       Accounting
Semice          Service           Service        Service        Flood-Control                                                      Section           Un             Serti  c         S c                  t nSecon                      Secton          Section
Cmdit  ~       ~        Ago               ooeame         adAui                              egistration
and Supply     and Self-Help     Economic        Management       Investment        Section        Section
Section        SetoSeto                          Stio
World Bank--8931






Chart 3
SOMALIA
ORGANIZATION OF
NORTH WEST REGION AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTERIAL COMMITTEE
FOR NORTH WEST REGION
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT:
SECRETARIES OF STATE FOR
FINANCE AND AGRICULTURE;
PRESIDENT OF SOMALI
DEVELOPMENT BANK
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
COOPERATION WITH:                                                 UNIT                           FEASIBILITY STUDIES:
REGIONAL GOVERNOR                                                                                NORTH WEST REGION
DISTRICT COMMISSIONERS                                                                           DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL COORDINATOR                                                               STAGE II
REGIONAL OFFICE OF CRASH PROGRAMME                                       ACCOUNTING
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK, FORESTRY AND RANGE                                 SECTION                BAY REGION RURAL
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (LDA)                                                              DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MINISTRY OF MINERAL AND WATER RESOURCES
WATER DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (WDA)
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (ADC)
DRYLAND EXTENSION
FIELD BUNDING                     TRAINING, CROP TRIALS                    HORTICULTURAL EXTENSION
DIVISION                      AND SEED MULTIPLICATION                     AND RESEARCH DIVISION
DIVISION             L
DMNRIN                                 GEED DEEBLE
ADEXPESRAIMENTA                        HORTICULTURAL
FAEPRIMENALSTATION
FARM                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-8971 (3R)






44-                                                          I'm i  Amw    . 
S O MALI A
NORTH WEST REGION                                                                                               -e_r
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                             5fAd 
.~         _ PRIORITY AREAS FOR CONSTRUCTION             ROADS
12 OF FIELD BUJNDS           ..... . WATERSHED BOUNDARIES              ..            .......         7> t
FEASIBILITY STUDY AREA FOR SECOND         MAIN WADIS                                                       y
PRIORITY AREA FOR WATER RESOURCES   --    DITICT bOUNDARIES                                                 o
INVESTIGATION                       _     REGIONAL BOUNDARIES
AD C BUYING STATIONS IN THE             -
NORTH-WEST REGION                         I      O    .OUDAIE
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ti .W -. a     v.*A
: *                                                                                                        46   **~,, o,do~wmo,ot o, osoc~eo sy   o \
eilj Zeil
Gulf  of  Aden
21~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
v * r< Y 9eq;..... X:,sr.--...................                                           9  
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11
MIL ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~~I
0   t        S2   40A
,-;\I\                                                                   1-I
*   -   w =h   / GFAO                ' // 0 R Gg / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4~               ~ 
,~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ '   .
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                                                                                 416  , 






IBRD 11307
44                           4S                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OCTOBER 1974
PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
F. T. A. L                                     Gulf  of  Aden                                                                       12-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- 
J 8                              Mriit -  ~~~~~~~~~~ <   t~~~BOSASO
Mail
- NORTH WEST                                               I
Boratm                                                                         |              7
0Gebile          /                   OTH            ES
-  86X06ebRe    t  / \                  t1 O R~~N   T H)E A S T                              - 
5 -                 \8~~~~~URAof/
-..HARGA.
-   , <N)/         a          t                              I~~~~~~~~ ~       ~~~ ~~~~~~ Goirdo   J  , 
Salahleh
'    '<O~~Bohotleh                   -<ao 
-s.                                                                                            _    _      4' 
-            -             ~~~~~~~~~E T H I O'P r[ A,                          
-  -     .-   . 9GA~       ~~~LCAIO     
-  / FM   U D   G H                            SOMALIA
'PA -  ,_   -        -          j     J                \                       NORTH WEST REGION
A6RICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOCATION  OF FEASIBILITY
b 10, ' e F r  bOSTUDIES AREAS
Stage T Project feosibility study area
BELETIUEN      IBur                                  S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ay Region feasibility study area
-   ' sB T) BrExisting paved roads
H      R        N                                           Principal unpaved roods and tracks
Regional boundaries
-4Xx                                                                                                                         / X y ,    , . Rivers
Jr          >\          C                   jl        *          /  \                                 --      nternational boundaries
___                                                0         50        100        ISO       200
,         M~~~~AIDOA        /             )I ,rs
0     00          200           300
.A. i  X   < a  @    /  ~)A drale  'KCILOMETERS
KC                    < 4               -~E,/   9.IMO             -OGADISHU
z                                                                                                                    A!          SAUDI ARAA O
5U/DAN                     - UD A
  J  U   B  AX    1X /                                                         U                     50~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MALIAIYc    Ti' F,   /fDA^
-7    ANDIANV
..  ) K. XfNYA   j  O         400 5OCEAIN
iTh"ZAIkIv,,  511-    1o0 5,p0 dso
44,                                                      8        TA14ZAM4A   K/Lo                         000R



