CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 635 SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(North-West Region Agricultural Development Project)
between
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated J-U:y 7, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 7, 1976, between SOMALI DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit to be es-
tablished pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement; and
(b) "Management Team" means the team of experts referred
to in.Section 3.02 (b) of this Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) for
the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1983 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a ser-
vice charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-4-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing December 1, 1986, and ending June 1,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 1, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and agricultural practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) For the purpose of carrying out the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall establish and maintain a Project Implemen-
tation Unit ('IU) attached to its Ministry of Agriculture.
(b) The PIU shall consist of a Project Manager and a team
of euperts, collectively called the Management Team, provided by
the consultants referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement and
comprising of a Land Use Planning Engineer (Team Leader and Deputy
Project Manager), a Soil Conservation Officer, Chief Mechanic, an
Extension Training Officer and a Horticultural Extension Officer,
and such other support staff as shall be necessary.
(c) The Borrower shall maintain an adequate level of support-
ing staff attached to the PIU during the implementation of the
Project.
(d) The PIU shall be supervised by a ministerial committee
consisting of the Secretaries of State for Finance and Agriculture
of the Borrower, and the President of the Somali Development Bank.


﻿-6-
Section 3.03. For the purposes listed below, the Borrower
shall employ consultants acceptable to the Association, upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association:
(i)  the preparation of feasibility studies for fur-
ther development of soil and water resources in
the North-West and Bay Regions;
(ii)  the development of small irrigated farms;
(iii)  the development of a training program;
(iv) the establishment of quantum and criteria for
recovery of costs of land bunding; and
(v) the formation of the Management Team.
Section 3.04. For the purpose of development of the small
irrigated farms under the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Chairman, Regional Council (North-West Region) to invite applica-
tions for settlement of said farms. Allocations for settlements
shall be made in accordance with criteria to be agreed between
the Borrower and the Association by a committee consisting of
the Chairman, Regional Council (North-West Region), the Project
Manager and the Horticultural Extension Officer.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
0


﻿-7-
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
0
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives to visit the facilities and construction sites in-
cluded in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such in-
formation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
S1


﻿0
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with con-
sistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the opera-
tions, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause its Ministry of Agri-
culture to: (i) maintain separate accounts in respect of expendi-
tures under the Project; (ii) have said accounts for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles con-
sistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (iii) furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year, (A) certified copies of financial statements
for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iv) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning the said accounts and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall, after completion of the
Project, operate and maintain the water points, gully erosion
pilot area, the Geed-Deeble Horticultural Station and the Aburin
Farm, and shall continue seed multiplication program at the Geed-
Deeble Horticultural Station and the Aburin Farm.


﻿-9-
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, within one year from the
date of this Agreement, or such other date as the Association shall
agree, appoint suitably qualified candidates to the positions of a
horticulturist at the Geed-Deeble Horticultural Station and a farm
manager at the Aburin Farm.
Section 4.05. In order to facilitate implementation of the
Project, the Borrower shall make available to the PIU topographical
maps to be prepared from the aerial photographs of its North-West
Region taken on behalf of the Borrower in 1973.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall take all necessary action to
safeguard existing use of surface and underground waters and to
ensure that agricultural credit will be available to individual
land users under the Project for the development of water resources
on their holdings.
Section 4.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause PIU and the consul-
tants to undertake a study of the method and criteria to be adopted
in the recovery of the bunding costs from the farmers participating
in the Project on the basis of experience gained in the initial
period of the project implementation.
(b) The Borrower shall, by August 31, 1980, or such other
date as the Association may agree, submit for review by the Asso-
ciation detailed proposals on the quantum and method of such re-
covery, and shall recover such costs from the farmers in such
amounts and in accordance with such procedures as shall be agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:.
(a) a suitably qualified Project Manager for PIU has been
appointed in consultation with the Association; and
(b) the consultants referred to in Section 3.03 of this
Agreement have been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date October 5, 1976, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
4.03 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement, which-
ever shall be the earlier.


﻿ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary of State for Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary of State for Finance
Government of the Somali Democratic
O                       Republic
Mogadiscio
Somali Democratic Republic
Cable address:
MINFIN
Mogadiscio
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿-12                                        0
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /a/ Abdullahi Ahmed Addou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Stanley Please
Acting Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿-13-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
,amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for itefas so to be financed in each Category:
Amunt of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Vehicles, tractors,
equipment and
materials:,               3,610,000
(a) directly im-                             100% of foreign
ported                                  expenditures
(b) imported equip-                          70%
ment procured
locally
(2) Operating costs
for bunding and
water points includ-
ing extension and
training                  3,477,500          45%
(3) Salaries of                                   100% of foreign
Management Team             786,000          expenditures
(4) Feasibility
studies and
technical                                    100% of foreign
assistance                1,600,000          expenditures
(5)  Unallocated                 526,500
TOTAL          10,000,000


﻿- 14-
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expenditures"
means expenditures for goods or services supplied from, the terri-
tory, and in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower,
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount
of any such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Association may, by notice
to the Borrower, correspondingly adjust the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date
of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Cate-
gory, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallo-
cate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another
Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not needed
to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot


﻿-15-
fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percen-
tage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such awount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿-16                                       0
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's six year program of
redevelopment through soil and water conservation and other meas-
ures designed to increase agricultural production, to assist the
current trend to settled agriculture and to establish a technical
basis for future development in its North-West and Bay Regions.
The Project consists of:
A.   The construction of field bunds on about 25,000 hectares,
restoration of existing field bunds on about 2,000 hectares and
establishment of experimental gully erosion control works.
B.   The development of about 50 small irrigated farms.
C.   The improvement of crop trials and training facilities at
the Aburin dry-land demonstration and experimental farm.
D.   The extension of the Geed-Deeble Horticultural Station to
improve fruit crop trials, nursery production and sorghum seed
multiplication.
E00  The rehabilitation and expansion of extension services to
dry-land farmers.
F.   The construction of about 100 water points for human con-
sumption and about 50 for livestock.


﻿- 17 -
G.   Utilization of consultants' services to provide technical
assistance, training and preparation of two feasibility studies.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and C hereof, goods, works and
services shall be procured under contracts to be awarded in accor-
dance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   Identical or similar items of equipment shall, to the extent
possible, be consolidated in a single invitation for the purpose of
bidding by each participant.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for the construction of buildings and concrete water
tanks, dug wells and installation of irrigation equipment in small
irrigated farms may be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally in accordance with procedures acceptable to the
Association.
2.   Pumps and irrigation equipment for small-scale irrigation
farms may be procured by the farmers locally from existing commer-
cial channels.


﻿- 19 -
3.   Single units of tractors and cultivation equipment, and office
equipment may he procured locally by following usual procurement
procedures of the Borrower.
C.   Procurement Without Contracting
Construction of field bunds and water points and the extension
of the Geed-Deeble Horticultural Station may be done through force
account.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.   With respect to all contracts for vehicles, tractors and
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) Promptly after the bids have been received, the Borrower
shall inform the Association of the names of the bidders and the
respective amounts of the bids.


﻿-20-
(c) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and the reasons for the intended award and shall fur-
nish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids re-
ceived, and such other information as the Association shall reason-
ably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the
intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.
(d)  The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(e) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and
such other information as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 21 -
The Association shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.


