Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
C R. i3-f
RePort No. P-3695-GH
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THRE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
- TO THE-
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 71.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
FOR AN
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
December 12, 1983
This document hs a restricted distributio and my be used by reeiaints oly in the pelformtace of
their officid duties. Its conents may mot otherwi  be dt.'dhsed without Wold Beak athodzaion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    =    Cedis
US$1              =    30 Cedis 1/
1 Cedi           =    US$0.03 17
US$1              =    SDR 0.944037
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Ghana:  January 1 - Deceaber 31
(effective January 1, 1983)
ABBREVIATIONS AID ACRONYMS
AGC       -  Ashanti Goldfields Corporation
CSD       -  Cocoa Services Division
ERP       -  Export Rehabilitation Project
FPIf      -  Forest Products Inspection Bureau
GCMB      -  Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board
GDP       -  Gross Domestic Product
GPA       -  Ghana Port Authority
GTNB      -  Ghana Timber Marketing Board
XLUR      -  Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources
NIB       -  National Investment Bank
PUDC      -  Provisional National Defence Council
SGWC      -  State Gold Mining Corporation
SSVD      -  SwoLlen Shoot Virus Disease
TEDB      -  Timber Export Development Board
1/ Effecti--e October 10, 1983.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:             Republic of Ghana
Amount:                SDR 71.8 million (US$76 million equivalent), of which
SDR 35.9 million (US$38.0 million equivalent) will be an
allocation from the IDA Special Fund.
Terms:                Standard
Project Description:  The project aims at arresting and reversing the
declining export production and foreign exchange
earnings by rehabilitating the traditional export
industries (cocoa, timber and gold mining) through
provision of spare parts, equipment and materials and
thus generating needed supply response to the policy
adjustment measures announced in the Government's
economic recovery program; and removing the immediate
bottleneck to evacuation of export commodities by
improving the port facilities. The project would assist
the Government in sustaining its economic recovery
program, and also in implementing policy and institu-
tional changes aimed at resuscitating the export
sector. The major benefits of the project would be
Ghana's improved foreign exchange earning capacity with
net incremental foreign exchange earnings from the
project amounting to about US$42 million per annum. The
risks associated with the project are that the
macroeconomic and export sector policy and institutional
reforms are not fully implemented due to political
difficulties and generally weak institutional capability
of the public sector. The Government is strongly
committed to the recovery program and associated policy
measures and has already taken a number of actions to
improve the export sector policy framework. To minimize
the institutional risks, a substantial amount of
technical assistance would be provided in parallel with
the project.
Executing Agencies:   Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board (GCMB), State Gold Mining
Corporation (SGMC), National Investment Bank (NIB),
Ghana Port Authority (GPA).
Relending             US$52.3 million equivalent of the proposed Credit for
Arrangement:           the cocoa, gold mining and port components would be
onlent by the Borrower to GCMB, SGMC and GPA at an
interest rate of 11.6 percent with a repayment period of
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
I their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorationz.



- ii -
15 years after 5 years of grace. US$23.7 million
equivalent would be made available to the National
Investment Bank for purchases of foreign exchange by
state-owned and private companies on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association to carry out
the timber component of the project.
Two Year Requirements and Financing Plan:
…__________---------(US$Million)------          …     --
Two-year                  IDA Special   Government and
Requirements       IDA        Fund         Cofinanciers
Cocoa                   130.0          12.0         11.9            106.1
Gold Mining              80.0           9.2         14.4             56.4
Timber                   60.0          14.4          9.3             36.3
Ports                    15.0           2.4          2.4             10.2
TOTAL            285.0          38.0         38.0            209.0
Estimated Period
of Disbursement:      January 1984 to June 1986.  The IDA and IDA Special Fund
Credits would be disbursed in two tranches. US$38
million would be available for disbursement after Credit
effectiveness. The remaining US$38 million would be
disbursed after a review of progress in December 1984.
Rate of Return:       Approximately 20 percent.
Appraisal Report:    None
Map:                  IBRD 3112R



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOKMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF GHANA
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Credit
to the Republic of Ghana of the equivalent of SDR 71.8 million (US$76 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an Export Rehabilitation
Project. Of the total Credit amount, SDR 35.9 million (US$38.0 million
equivalent) would be financed from IDA and SDR 35.9 million (US$38.0 millior
equivalent) from the IDA Special Fund.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.       An economic report entitled "Ghana: Policies and Program for Adjust-
ment" was distributed to the Executive Directors in October 1983 (4702-GH).
Part I of this Report contains the principal findings of the report. Basic
economic data and selected social indicators are summarized in Annex I.
3.       The Ghanaian citizens once enjoyed a fairly high standard of living
compared with citizens of most other West African nations. However, a
declining gross national income has combined with high population growth
(estimated at 3 percent a year) to cause a substantial erosion in real per
capita income. At least 18 percent of the labor force is estimated to be
unemployed, underemployment is widespread, and almost half the population of
12 million is now estimated to live in absolute poverty. The country's basic-
needs indicators now appear to be on a par with those of other Sub-Sahara
African countries with comparable per capita incomes. Thus, despite the
growth in health facilities, modern health services are available to only
about a third of the people and fewer in rural areas; only 35 percent have
access to safe water. Although the education system is well established and
elementary education has been free since 1962, 50 percent of adult men and 70
percent of adult women have had no formal education.
4.       On December 31, 1981, Flight Lt. Rawlings replaced the Government
headed by President Limann. After a difficult first year in office during
which the new Governnent, Provisional National Defence Council (PNDC), essen-
tially pursued a holding strategy, recent policy measures announced by the
Government show a firm resolve to come to grips with the country's economic
problems.
1/   This Part is the same as Part I of the President's Report for the
Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project which is being
submitted to the Executive Directors for their consideration
simultaneously with this proposed project.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



-2-
Basic Structural Characteristics
5.       Ghana is endowed wi-th considerable natural and human resources.  The
country has valuable mineral deposits, particularly gold, but also diamond,
bauxite and manganese.  The large hydIropower potential has only been partly
tapped to getierate electric power for the country au well as for export to
neighboring countries.' Recently soeine oil deposits have been discovered and
off-shore oil exploitation is under way.  Tlhane has sufficient arable land to
grow various kinds of food cereals and starchy staples and possesses consider-
able fishing resources. The country is also rich in forest resources.
6.       Agriculture is the largest sector of the economy, accounting for
about 51 percent of GDP, although only about 11 percent of the land area is
cultivated, divided equally between cocoa and food crops.  Nearly 70 percent
of the population derive an income from agriculture or related activities.
The basic staple foods are maize, rice, millet, yam, cassava, and plantain
but, except for cassava, yields of these crops have stagnated. Food produc-
tion in 1980 was only 88 percent of that in 1975. Prolonged droughte in
1975-77 and 1982-83, inadequate support services, poor transport facilities
and lack of fertilizers and other inputs contributed to the decline. In the
last five years, Ghana has had to import 10 to 15 percent of its cereal
consumption (mainly rice and maize). Most foodstuffs other than cereals and
starchy staples are either unavailabLe or can be purchased only on the black
market.
7.       Ghana is typical of a developing country that depends on primary
products for exports. Cocoa (of which Ghana is the world's third largest
producer) contributes about 60 percent of total export earnings; production
has been declining, however, and world cocoa prices are depressed. Timber is
also an important export. Although production has been declining for the past
two decades, mining is still Ghana's second largest foreign exchange earner,
contributing 10 to 15 percent of the total. Diversification of the export
base, although emphasized by every Government over the past 25 years, has not
made much headway.
8.       Industi-ial production and services account for 17.5 and 32 percent of
GDP, respectively. i4anufacturing--including textiles, steel, tires, oil re-
fining and simple consumer goods--contributed 9 percent of GDP in 1980 (down
from 14 percent in 1971) and provided full- or part-time employment to about
12 percent of the labor force. Manufacturing in Ghana remains heavily
dependent on imported inputs, however. As a result, the goal of import sub-
stitution through industrialization has met with little success and imposed a
serious burden on the economy.
9.       Ghana used to import all of its petroleum, mostly in the form of
crude oil, which is refined domestically and used chiefly as a source of fuel
for the transport sector. Recently, some oil deposits have been discovered
and commercial exploitation has commenced. Production of crude is now about
1,200 barrels per day, equivalent to 7 percent of Ghana's requirements.
Hydroelectric power meets most of Ghana's non-transport commercial energy
needs.
BEST COPY AVAILBC



-3-
Recent Economic Developments
10.      Despite relatively abundant natural resources and human capital,
Ghana's economy has been ailing for many years. Prominent among the symptoms
are: declining per capita income, persistent high inflation, a greatly over-
valued exchange rate, widespread smuggling and other illegal economic acti-
vities, large public-sector deficits, a difficult balance of payments situa-
tion, low productivity, low domestic saving and declining investment, deterio-
rating infrastructure, severe under-utilization of productive capacity, high
unemployment, a brain drain of skilled professionals, skewed income distribu-
tion, and much-weakened institutions. Real GDP has declined every year since
1975, except for 1978, and real per capita income has fallen by 25 percent
since 1975. Per capita income in current prices was estimated at $350 in
1982. Per capita food availability is 30 percent lower than in 1975. The
reasons for these difficulties are manifold. Political instability and
persistent mismanagement ot the economy by successive Governments, an over-
extended parastatal sector, sharp increases in oil prices, adverse terms of
trade for Ghana's major exports, and declining export production are among the
most important factors.
11.      Inflation has been rampant since the mid-1970s.  The consumer price
index increased by an average of 80 percent a year after 1975, and reached the
triple digit level (116 percent) in 1981, despite extensive Government use of
price controls. Large public deficits, excess liquidity, and shortages of
goods all contributed to the rise in prices. Fixed wage earners and cocoa
farmers have suffered the most, while traders, import licensees, speculators,
and farmers with marketable crops have been the main beneficiaries.
12.      Budget deficits grew, as the Government proved unable to sustain a
program of stabilization begun in 1978, when Government expenditures were cut
by about one-third in real terms and the deficit was reduced to 5 percent of
GDP (compared with 12 percent in 1977). An increase in the minimum wage in
November 1980 and a serious shortfall in revenues--due to a dramatic fall in
cocoa duties to 5 percent of total revenues (from 47 percent in 1y78/79) and
to a narrowing of the Government tax base--widened the deficit to 04.7 bil-
lion, or 10 percent of GDP, in 1980/81. 1/ In 1981/82, the deficit amounted
to about 05 billion--i.e., 50 Dercent of estimated expenditures for the year
and equivalent to the entire revenue collection.
13.      Balance of payments difficulties persist.  Capital inflows have vir-
tually dried up, due to politicaluncertainties.  Commercial lending was not
feasible due to lack of creditworthiness and accumulation of large arrears,
while official aid was reduced in response to lack of action on macroeconomic
policy. Without capital inflows, imports and service payments were perforce
held to the level of export earnings, which were also declining in quantity
and value. Export earnings in 1981 were estimated to be 33 percent lower than
in 1980 ($766 million v. $1.1 billion). The overvalued exchange rate acted as
a strong disincentive to production for export, since the cost of production
far exceeded the price received at the official exchange rate. Overvaluation,
1/ Through 1982, the fiscal year was July-June.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 4 -
along with shortages of conswner goods in rural areas, also resulted in a wide
variety of illegal and unproductive economic activities. Domestically pro-
duced and imported goods were smuggled to the Ivory Coast and Togo for sale
against the hard CFA, with tremendous losses (unofficially estimated at over
$100 million a year) to the country's external account. International reces-
sion also contributed to the poor export performance. Because of weak demand,
world prices of cocoa plummeted and prices of other primary exports were
equally unfavorable. The international oil crisis compounded Ghana's pro-
blems. Imports of crude oil and petroleum products preempted almost half the
country's export earnings.
14.      Ghana has held its current account deficit low (it actually showed a
small surplus in 1979), but at the cost of severely restricting imports. The
import-GDP ratio, which stood at 20 percent in 1974, declined to onily 3.6 per-
cent by 1981 at the official exchange rate. This has created chronic and
extremely acute shortages of raw materials, spare parts, and investment and
consumer goods, resulting in stagnation in production and consumption and
sharp deterioration in the physical infrastructure. Production in the manu-
facturing sector is only one-fourth of installed capacity. An estimated
70 percent of road vehicles are presently out of service, while more than a
third of railway locomotives are awaiting spare parts for major repairs or
overhaul. The entire road network is deteriorating rapidly and is already
unusable in many places. All this has badly affected the export mining and
forestry industries as well as the efficiency of the ports.
15.      Capital formation was quite rapid in the 1950s, but became increas-
ingly negative thereafter. By the 1970s, gross investment averaged only
8.9 percent of GDP, suggesting that net investment may have been negative.
Gross investment is currently estimated at an extraordinarily low 2 percent of
GDP, compared to 21 percent for Sub-Sahara Africa as a whole. In an infla-
tionary environment, with very little scope for productive investment and
negative real interest rates for savers, domestic savings are also low--about
3 percent of GDP compared to 23 percent for the rest of Sub-Sahara Africa.
The binding constraint, however, is lack of foreign exchange rather than
domestic resources for investment.
16.      State enterprises have been assigned a large role in production and
distribution of goods and services ever since Independence. However, their
performance has been distressing both in terms of output and profitability.
They have generated serious pressures on fiscal and monetary policies. The
main problems are inefficient and frequently changing management, Government
control over prices, lack of required inputs, machinery and spare parts, heavy
overhead expenses on redundant labor, and lack of strict accountability.
17.      Ghana originally had a large reservoir of trained manpower, but in
recent years there has been a tremendous exodus of professional workers to
countries where salaries and living conditions are better. It is reported
that one-third of all secondary-school teachers have migrated to Nigeria,
Liberia, Sierra Leone and elsewhere. The outflow of managerial and profes-
sional personnel has further thinned the administrative talents at senior
levels of the civil service, which has been demoralized by relatively low
salaries, an economic system that penalizes them severely compared with other
BEST CoY AVAILABLE



segments in the society, and uncertain and adverse working conditions. On the
other hand, unskilled manpower is Jn oversupply, and redundancy and over-
staffing are special problems at lower levels of Government administration.
Economic Developments in 1982/83
18.      Soon after it came to power, the Rawlings Government took some extra-
ordinary measures to arrest the slide in the economy. These included demoneti-
zation to siphon off excess liquidity, and severe restraint on Government
expenditure and monetary growth. It was rewarded with somDe moderation in
inflation; the consumer price index rose only 30 percent in 1982, compared to
116 percent the previous year. The budgetary deficit during the last six
months of 1982 was contained at 02.5 billion--at least no worse than in the
preceding 12 months and lower in real terms and as a ratio of current GDP.
But this improvement was achieved at a substantial cost: the wage/non-wage
ratio of recurrent expenditures became more skewed and development expendi-
tures as a proportion of total Government spending declined significantly.
Furthermore, export earnings continued to slide (to $627 million in 1982) and
external capital flows, both official and private, slowed to a trickle. New
loans and grants from all bilateral and multilateral sources amounted to only
$45 million in 1982. Net transfers from all external sources were still
lower--$38 million, or enough to finance only 6 percent of the country's
already depressed imports. Consequently, imports had to be held to $694
million, down by 35 percent over 1980. This is less than $60 per capita, or
about half the corresponding level for Senegal and one-fourth that for Ivory
Coast. In nominal value, non-oil imports were lower in 1982 than in 1974.
19.      The foreign exchange shortage, combined with the border closing,
dried up remaining supplies of raw materials and spare parts and reduced
production levels throughout the economy still further. Inadequate rainfall
exacerbated Ghana's economic problems. Cereal production registered a short-
fall of 332,000 tons. The Volta Lake Reservoir fell to an historic low,
resulting in the shutdown of all five potlines of VALCO Aluminum Smelter and
further reducing foreign exchange earnings. Furthermore, a steep fall in
world cocoa prices meant that the unit export value of cocoa in 1982 was only
$1,594/ton, 37 percent lower than in 1981. To make matters worse, some one
million Ghanaian citizens -- about 10 percent of the population -- were
expelled from Nigeria in early 1983 as a result of Nigeria's own economic
difficulties. Their requirements added severe pressure on the economy. Food
shortages became acute and market prices shot up. Absenteeism on farms, mines
and offices became more pronounced with adverse effects on productivity that
was low to begin with.
Economic Recovery and Short-Run Outlook
20.      On April 21, 1983, the Government announced the 1983 budget, a short-
term stabilization program, and a series of economic reforms, including a long
overdue reform in the exchange rate. A new system of export bonuses and
import surcharges resulted in de facto devaluation of 809 percent; subse-
quently, a unification of the exchange rate at cedis 30 per US dollar became
effective on October 10, representing a 990 percent devaluation since April
1983; and at the same time, the interest rates were adjusted upwards by 35 to
40 percent.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



21.      The new economic recovery program ia designed to begin the process of
correctJng structural imbalances and rehabilitating the economy. If imple-
mented successfully, the program will realign relative prices in favor of
production and export sectors, reduce budget deficits and thereby the under-
lying inflationary pressures, and facilitate the flow of imports needed to
permit the growth of export production. Thus, among other important measures
announced in April were an increase in cocoa producer prices to provide incen-
tives to farmers, a doubling of gasoline producer prices as a step towards
more realistic pricing of petroleum products, greater balance in Government
budget and emphasis on productive sectors in the allocation of foreign and
domestic resources. Water, power, railway and telecommunication tariffs were
raised substantially. A price and incomes policy was instituted whereby the
minimum wage was doubled and civil service salaries were raised by an average
of 60 percent.
22.      The 1983 budget reflects the impact of adjustments in the exchange
rate and attempts to restore tax bases. Government revenues are expected to
rise from 04.6 billion in 1982 to 014.6 billion in 1983, an increase of 217
percent. The Government is also committed to eliminating subsidies to public
sector enterprises and keeping a tight rein on other expenditures. Despite
the increases in wages and salaries, therefore, the deficit is expected to
fall from 04 billion in 1982 to 03.4 billion in 1983 -- i.e., from 50 percent
of the 09.2 billion spent in 1982 to 24 percent of a projected expenditure of
018.1 billion.
23.      In the export sector, the changes in exchange rates and price incen-
tives will have a favorable impact, but it is unlikely that export earnings
will increase much in the immediate future. Cocoa exports, in particular, are
unlikely to respond quickly, since infrastructure constraints, inelastic world
demand, and agronomic problems related to past neglect will continue to
operate in the short run, and production and exports are likely to increase by
only 5 to 10 percent a year for the next few years. A more vigorous recovery
is projected for mining and timber, permitting total exports to rise from
about $582 million in 1983 to an expected $960 million in 1985, with con-
tinuing recovery thereafter.
24.      While the stabilization program will, with adequate external assis-
tance, provide some relief from the present economic crisis, it has also been
conceived as a first step in a longer-term process of returning the economy to
a more satisfactory growth path. Thus, a critical next step will be prepara-
tion of a comprehensive economic rehabilitation program to be initiated during
the stabilization period and continued for three to four years thereafter. A
program to rehabilitate the roads, ports, railway and transport infrastructure
will also be needed. Other necessary tasks include improvement of parastatal
operations, a review of the role of the private and public sectors, and
strengthening Government capacity for planning and economic management.
25.      Ghana's growth prospects beyond the stabilization and rehabilitation
phases will depend to a considerable extent on (a) the determination of the
Government to sustain the kind of economic policies it has now begun even
though some features may not be universally popular, and (b) an investment
plan that fulfills the key requirements of the economy. So far, the Govern-
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 7 -
ment has resisted all pressures to rescind or modify its economic recovery
program despite serious economic and political difficulties. But an immediate
inflow of food, fuel and other imports is essential, since shortages in these
nreas could set back the Government's efforts to arrest inflationary tenden-
cies and thus erode the success of devaluation. A minimum import program of
about $1 billion f.o.b. is needed to begin the reconstruction program with
sufficient momentum, and this will require a substantial infusion of foreign
exchange, especially in view of the need to build up reserves and reduce
arrears. Also, allocation of these imports will have to be improved in order
to appreciably augment the supply of basic consumer goods, raw materials and
spare parts that are prerequisite to increasing export production.
26.      Beyond the short term, if the Government is able to maintain a more
realistic structure of prices and costs and a viable exchange rate, restrain
growth in public consumption, improve public revenue performance, reduce the
inflationary tendencies associated with large public-sector deficits, and make
a concerted drive to expand production and exports, particularly of cocoa and
minerals, through more appropriate price incentives, support services, and
more assured supplies of necessary inputs, it should be feasible to achieve
rates of real growth in excess of 4 percent a year (or one percent per capita)
after 1985/86. The attainment of even such a modest rate of growth after two
or three years would be a major turnaround. Of course, this presupposes a
more stable political environment than exists at present. It also presupposes
that Ghana's own efforts will be supported by an augmented flow of external
assistance. Ghana's needs for external capital over the next few years are
substantial and will call for a major effort on the part of the donor com-
munity. Unless concessional assistance is forthcoming, the possibility of
successful stabilization and economic rehabilitation will be seriously dimi-
nished and could adversely affect the country's stability.
Relations with IMF
27.      At the request of the Government, an IMF mission visited Ghana from
May 1 - May 25, 1983 to negotiate ad referendum, a stabilization program which
forms the basis for a one-year standby agreement. The elements of the stabi-
lization program have been discussed in paras. 20-26 above. The Executive
Directors of the IMF discussed the program on August 3, 1983 and approved a
standby agreement amounting to SDR 238.5 million and also approved a drawing
from the compensatory financing facility in the amount of SDR 120.5 million.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
28.      An agreement on a long-term rescheduling of Ghana's medium-term
external debt was concluded in March 1974. Under this agreement, all payments
due after February 1, 1972, in respect of pre-1966 debt obligations, are to be
paid over a period of 28 years beginning 1982, after a grace period of
10 years, at 2-1/2 percent per annum. Ghana's medium and long-term external
public debt outstanding and disbursed at end-1982 is estimated at US$1,192
million representing about 3 percent of GDP. The debt service ratio of public
and publicly guaranteed medium and long-term debt is about 9 percent of
exports of goods and non-factor services and is expected to rise modestly
after the grace period on the rescheduled debt expires. Arrears on Ghana's
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 8 -
short-term debt increased from US$245 million In 1977 to US$4d9 million by
end-1978. By December 1980 these arrears had declined to US$332 million.
However, 1961 saw a relapse with arrears increasing by $142 million. By the
end of 1982, the ahort term arrears had accumulated to $5dO million. The
economic recovery program aims to reduce these arrears in a phased manner.
29.      Ghana is relying on official souroes for moat of the external capital
required to support i-ts development program, and relatively little of its
medium- and long-term borrowing is on commercial terms. Consequently, Bank
Loans and IDA Credits disbursed together represented about 22 percent of the
country's estimated public external debt at end-1982. Not transfers over the
last decade averaged $25 to 230 million per annum but were $7 million in
1982. Bank Group commitments on a per capita basis amounted to $1.76 during
197'i-82 and lending dropped to less than a project a year during this
period. Service payments on Bank Loans and IDA Credits in 1982 aocot'nted for
25 percent of the country's external debt service, but they are projected to
decline to 17 percent of external debt service by 1987 as other sourcoe of
lending revive.
30.      Ghana's extremely difficult economic conditions and its vulnerability
to fluctuations in cocoa export earnings make it desirable that future debt
service obligations be kept as low as possible. Consequently, Ghana will have
to depend on IDA resources for Bank Group borrowing over the next few years.
This is also consistent with Ghana's relatively low per capita income. At the
same time, to help ensure a more adequate flow of foreign exchange into the
country, it would be appropriate to finance some local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN GHANA 1/
31.      Since 1962, when the Bank Group financed its first operation in
Ghana, the Bank has made 10 Loans totalling US$190.5 million and 21 Credits
totalling US$279.3 million. Included in the 21 Credits is one whereby Ghana
is a beneficiary of a Bank-financed regional clinker project covering three
countries (Togo, Ivory Coast and Ghana). There are no IFC investments.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of
September 30, 1983.
32.      Powo- generation and distribution represents the largest share of
past commitments (27 percent) and the sector has been assisted by th  i power
generation projects and three power distribution projects. Bank Group in-
volvement in the sector started in 1962 with the Volta River project wh4ch
included the construction of the Akosombo dam, the country's first hydro power
plant (912 NW) and the transmission grid. The project also helped to create
the Volta River Authority (VRA), the power generating company. Subsequent
1/ This Part is the same as Part II of the President's Report for the
Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project which is being
submitted to the Executive Directors for their consideration
simultaneously with this proposed project.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 9 -
Bank involvement in power generation included the Volta River expansion pro-
ject in 1968 and Kpong Hydroelectric project in 1977. In power distribution,
three Bank Group operations (in 1968, 1971 and 1977) helped to establish and
expand a low voltage distribution network and create the Electricity Corpora-
tion of Ghana (ECG), the power distribution company. Cofinancing was a major
operation in our lending to the power sector and involved a number of donor
agencies including Arab Funds, European Investment Bank, European Development
Fund, Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), Development Loan Fund
(USA), US Exim Bank, and Export Credits Guarantee Department (U.K.). Along-
side power generation and distribution, agriculture has been a major focus of
Bank Group lending, receiving 22.5 percent of the Bank Group's lending to
Ghana. The lending program in agriculture has covered fisheries (1969).
Eastern Region cocoa (1970), sugar rehabilitation (1973), livestock develop-
ment (1974), Ashanti Region cocoa (1975), oil palm (1975), Upper Region agri-
cultural development (1976) and Volta Region agricultural development (1980).
The main thrust of the Bank Group's lending operations in agriculture has been
to assist the country in achieving greater self-sufficiency in agricultural
production, particularly food and raw materials for agro-industries, and
rehabilitating the cocoa subsector. Earlier Bank Group projects in the sector
were directed towards development of specific subsectors with emphasis on
smallholder development, while starting in late 1970's, more emphasis has been
given to a broad-based integrated agricultural development. Two such projects
are currently under implementation, one in the Upper Region and the other irn
the Volta Region, which aim to increase farm incomes and the standard of
living of a large number of smallholders by introducing improved farming
technology, providing farm support services and developing rural infrastruc-
ture. Major donor agencies which provided cofinancing in our agriculture
sector operations were Overseas Development Administration (U.K.), Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Development, and Arab Bank for Economic
Development in Africa.  The Bank Group is also executing a UNDP-financed
technical assistance project designed to strengthen the management and
operation of the Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board.
33.      Transportation is the third most important sector in the Bank Group's
program in Ghana (20.5 percent of commitments). Projects financed in the
sector include three road projects (in 1973, 1975 and 1980) and a railway
rehabilitation project approved in 1981. The road projects focussed initially
on rehabilitation and reconstruction of part of the country's main trunk road
system but, in light of rapid deterioration in the entire road sector prin-
cipally due to acute shortages of imported inputs, later emphasis was placed
on emergency maintenance to keep roads open for agricultural and export
traffic. An ongoing railway project which is cofinanced with African Develop-
ment Bank (ADB) seeks to remove the present transport bottleneck to Ghana's
traditional exports (cocoa, timber and minerals), for the movement of which
railways have a comparative advantage. A telecommunications project currently
under implementation aims at improving and expanding domestic telephone
services in Accra and major urban centers. In the field of water supply two
projects (in 1969 and 1974) have helped increase and improve the water supply
in the Accra/Tema metropolitan area and adjacent rural areas. The first
project helped expand the water supply distribution network and sewerage
system in the Accra/Tema area and the second project which was cofinanced with
ADB and CIDA included construction of a reservoir at Weija, a treatment plant
RPfT PolhlPv FieJU f.l  F



- 10 -
and a transaission pipeline. A third water supply project was approved by the
Executive Directors in March 1983 to help carry out emergency repairs and
maintenance on the pipeline from Kpong which presently provides two thirds of
the Accra water supply. The project also includes substantial technical
assistance to strengthen the management and operations of the Ghana Water and
Sewerage Corporation and to increase its capacity for improving water supply,
especially in the rural areas. In the manufacturing sector, two DFC opera-
tions (in 1975 and 1979) have financed investment projects in manufacturing
and agro-industry undertaken by small and medium enterprises. The main
emphasis of Bank Group lending in this sector has been to encourage enter-
prises using raw materials and which are capable of contributing to foreign
exchange earnings and savings. A related objective for the DEC projects was
to strengthen the institutional capacity of the National Investment Bank
(NIB), Ghana's main development finance institution. The second DFC project
which includes cofinancing under an EEC Special Action Credit is providing
foreign exchange working capital to help increase capacity utilization of
priority enterprises, in addition to long-term capital investment. An energy
project aimed at strengthening Ghana's technical capacity to accelerate
petroleum exploration was approved by the Executive Directors in May 1983.
34.      The serious economic difficulties which the country has experienced
in recent years have adversely affected implementation of a number of RBnk
Group financed projects. The dwindling revenue base of the Government has
constrained its ability to finance the local costs of projects, and the lack
of foreign exchange has resulted in a severe shortage of imported materials
and spare parts required for the operation and maintenance of projects; the
mass exodus of qualified Ghanaians to neighboring countries, and demoraliza-
tion, absenteeism and low productivity among the remaining work force have
also adversely affected project performance. The unusually adverse conditions
surrounding Bank Group financed projects and their generally poor performance
have been described in greater detail in the Project Performance Audit
Reports. Overall, the main conclusion of the Reports was that macroeconomic
and sectoral policy constraints were the major factors responsible for poor
performance of the audited projects. Because of delays experienced in the
implementation of a number of Bank Group projects in Ghana, the disbursement
performance is falling behind appraisal estimates. Annual gross disbursements
have averaged about 25 percent of outstanding Loan/Credit commitments and as
of September 30, 1983 US$162.6 million remain undisbursed. The RBnk Group has
held periodic implementation rev-iews with the Government to identify steps
which could be taken by Borrowers and the Bank Group to accelerate disburse-
ment on ongoing Loans and Credits.
35.      The principal objectives which will guide the formulation of our
assistance program to Ghana ar-: (a) to support the adoption of policies
designed to reverse the downward trend in the economy and return it to a path
of growth; (b) to help rehabilitate and improve capacity utilization of the
country's existing assets; (c) to stimulate agricultural and industrial pro-
duction, particularly for export promotion and efficient import substitution;
and (d) to improve the country's essential infrastructure (transport, water,
power) so as to relieve major bottlenecks to increased production. We also
plan a substantial increase in our economic and sector work to broaden and
deepen our understanding of the constraints which are likely to impede the
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 11 -
recovery process, to provide direction to our future lending program and the
design of project components. In both our lending and economic and sector
work, attention will be given to ways of strengthening the institutions
responsible for economic management and development spending. The proposed
Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project .s designed to support the
Government's program to strengthen the institutions responsible for Ghana's
major export industries.
36.      In addition to the proposed Credit and the Reconstruction Import
Credit recently approved by the Executive Directors, a more broadly based
program of rehabilitation of the country's economic assets will be required.
In the near term IDA would support a program to rebuild the network of trunk
roads including major bridge reconstruction and ports rehabilitation com-
ponents, and provide assistance to rehabilitate the power distribution system
and the oil refinery. In agriculture, further assistance to the development
of oil palm production is envisaged as well as for cocoa given the over-
whelming importance of this crop, at least in the short term, for foreign
exchange earnings. In brief, projects with major rehabilitation components
are likely to absorb the bulk of Bank Group resources for the next few years
as these are likely to show the highest benefits and quickest returns. For
the outer years, the Bank will begin to examine prospects for new productive
investments including support for education, health and other important
activities in the social sectors. The extent to which the Bank Group can
provide financial and technical assistance to support such a broad-based
program will be conditioned by the performance of the Government in carrying
through its economic recovery program.
37.      The Government of Ghana has requested the Bank to act as a catalyst
to help muster external assistance through cofinancing and more generally in
the context of strengthened aid coordination. At the request of the Govern-
ment, the Bank Group reconvened a meeting of the Ghana Consultative Group on
November 23 and 24, 1983. The participants of the meeting have endorsed the
Government's economic recovery program, and it is expected that the foreign
exchange requirement for 1984 under the program will be substantially met by
the donors' contributions.
PART III - THE EXPORT SECTORS 1/
COCOA, TIMBER AND MINING
38.      If Ghana's current economic recovery program is to succeed and the
Government is to be able to sustain policy reform measures recently intro-
duced, it will be essential to generate positive supply response from the
export sector to restore the country's foreign exchange earning capacity.
Sustained economic recuvery would require that the present severe shortage of
1/ This Part is similar to Part III of the President's Report for the
Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project which is being
submitted to the Executive Directors for their consideration
simultaneously with this proposed project.
BEST OPY AVAILABLE



- 12 -
imported inputs be alleviated to rehabilitate the existing productive assets
and improve utilization of the existing capacity. Since the export sector
remains the principal determinant of Ghana's import capacity, the Government's
econoLtic recovery program assigns the highest priority to increasing export
earnings by arresting and reversing declining production in key export
industries.
39.      The Government of Ghana has introduced, for the first time, an
integrated foreign exchange budget that is announced at the same time as the
fiscal budget. IDA reviewed and was satisfied with the foreign exchange
budget for 1983. The foreign exchange budget presents the estimates of
expected inflows of foreign exchange based on export projections, aid dis-
bursements and other receipts. The outflows are projected by taking into
account the import program, debt servicing and other payments. The set of
priorities reflected in the sectoral allocation of foreign exchange were
(a) export oriented sectors; (b) oil and petroleum products; (c) food;
(d) Government revenue generating activities; (e) other production sectors;
and (f) infrastructure. Of course, the foreign exchange needs of the economy
are so enormous that it was not possible to accommodate the full demands of
even these six areas. But the prioritization scheme underlying the foreign
exchange budget at least ensured that the most pressing needs were financed
adequately. The actual outcome of the budget will, however, depend on how far
the amount and the sources of financing assumed in the budget are realized.
The budgeting exercise is expected to provide some semblance of order in the
management of scarce foreign exchange. IDA has also reviewed the foreign
exchange budgets for 1984 and has been satisfied that adequate allocations of
foreign exchange are made to meet the priority needs of export-oriented
sectors, including their infrastructure requirements. IDA will review the
foreign exchange budgets for 1985 and 1986.
40.      IDA has also reviewed with the Government the size and composition of
the 1983 development budget. The criteria governing the development budget
were (a) completion of ongoing projects with special emphasis on infrastruc-
ture requirements of export-oriented and production sectors, and (b) adequate
counterpart financing of foreign aided projects. Although the amount ear-
marked for development projects is totally ou't of line with the identified
needs of the economy, the overall budgetary deficit ceilings had to be
observed while formulating the development budget. IDA has carried out a
similar review of the 1984 development budget with the Government and has been
satisfied with the budget. The main consideration in making this review has
been whether the export-oriented sectors are being provided adequate local
counterpart funds for carrying out their directly productive activities and
also for complementary investments in the supporting infrastructure. The set
of priorities in the sectoral allocation of foreign exchange as described in
the preceeding paragraph has also been a governing factor in. this review
exercise; in particular, the complementarity of export oriented sectors and
Government revenue generating activities and infrastructure has been focussed.
A similar budget review will be carried out for 1985 and 1986. A successful
review of the foreign exchange and development budgets will be a condition for
release of the second tranche under the proposed Export Rehabilitation Project
(ERP) (Schedule 1, para. 3 of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and
the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
BEST I¶PY AWT LRABLE



- 13 -
41.      Traditionally Ghana's export sector has played a significant role in
the country's economy, accounting for about a fifth of GDP and one third of
Government revenues and employing about 35 percent of the labor force. In
1980 total export earnings amounted to US$1.1 billion. Major exports are
cocoa, timber and minerals (gold, diamonds, manganese and bauxite) which
together constitute over 90 percent of total export earnings. As the table
below shows, there has been a substantial decline in the volume of exports
under these sectors during the last decade. Cocoa and gold exports in mid
1982 have been reduced to about 40 percent of the level attained in 1972 while
timber exports have declined to 10 percent. The following paragraphs discuss
the factors contributing to their decline and the Government's strategy for
overcoming both physical and policy constraints and reviving the production
and exports of these sectors.  Table 1 (page 14-18) sets out in summary the
export sector policy and institutional reforms that the Government proposes to
implement in conjunction with the proposed project and the proposed Export
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project. These reforms are discussed in
detail in the following paragraphs.
EXPORT TRENDS OF SECTORS UNDER THE ERP
Export Index
in 1982
1972     1975    1980      1982        (1972 =100)
Cocoa (000 tons)            406      341      234       178 1/           43.8
Gold (000 ounces)           737      513      337       302              40.9
Timber (000 cu.meters)   1,006       605       185      111              10.9
l/ 1982/83 season
BEST COPY ,-Dv F!e P "I E
&  Ur, I    L-- 1; L'g. e~... L.- .z.



Table I
(Cocoa Sector)
Sector Issues               Proposed Chazges                    Justificatian/Berefits                  Tlmetable for Action
Producer Price              (coa producer price to be reviewed Fiacil incntives to  ocoa farmers   Price increase proposal to mI
amwaliy In caxsultation with IA;  and increased production. Returns         by Jamary 31, 1984 and agree-
a new price to be arwuced before  from cocoa production beee more           mt with IA, by February 28,
March 31 each year.                 ccqpetitive with those from maize.      1984. Governeat iwleentation
of tie agreed price by Harch 31,
1984 is a disbursanent cndition
for the cocoa sector Credit
allocation. Similar conaitations
and agre t with MI for sibseqt
years.
An irdependent COoa Producer                                                Ccumittee to be establishei by
Price Review nmnittee to be                                                 Jarazary 31, 1984.
establiabod, with farmer aid GC0B
representatives, to review and
determine producer prices.
Foreign Exchange            MStB contimes to be alloaed to      Increased production through timly      Streamlined procedures to utilize
retain 10 of export proceeds       availabiLity of iworted Inputs (e.g.   the retention finds recetly intro-
for Inportation of rerrent          tn6ecticides) and 1nproved efficiency    duo! by the Govent will be
inputs ard essential spare parts.   In haulage.                            iwnitored by mL
Production Strategy         A long-term strategy and Swolen    Long-run economic viability of the       Production strategy, SSVD control
Shcot Virus Disease (SSVD) control  cocoa sector, with the aim of conso-    progran and compsensation plan to
progran to be estahlished, cncern-  Udating cocoa acreage by half and       be prepared by June 30, 1984 and
trating relabilitation in areas not more then doubling present average      then to be carried out according
yet infected; a cnmpensation        yields.                                 to a timetable satisfactory to  UA.
system introduced to encourage
replanting.
Sector Organization         GOB and extension services of (CD   Ixproved operating efficiency of        Restructuring has been initiated;
to be restructured as a cwmercial  (X2B; greater finanAl discipline;        ampletion of G4B reorganization
entity. Outstanding GOIB debt to   accountability of mnagement and          is a disbursemnt condition for
be switchmI to Government long-     perfomnce mnitoring. After              the cocoa sector Credit allocatiox.
term loans with a grace period to   iniatil period, Gov't revene to
enable GCM to finance development  increase thr:ugi corporate taxes
expenditures.                       sand MS dividends.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



Table 1
(Cbntinued Oocoa Sector)
Sector Issues                Propos   ages                        Justification/Benefits                   Timtable for Aetion
Staffirg                    A five-year retrenchment progran      Reduced operatirg costs of GO2B;         Staff retreichint startirg in
to be implemented, afmndg at a       increased share of cocoa nvenus          1984 In a umxer and according
substantial net xeduction of         for farmers.                             to timetable satisfactory to MhA&
employees per anuam; adjustment                                               Adjustment assistance przgram to
assistance for displaced workers.                                             be aihnitted to EDA by Harch 31,
1984.
Privatization                GOB's cocma plantations to be        Reduced operatlig costs and impnrved     Study of potentlal and pro adures
privatized by parcellin out ang   efficiency by GOB; loq-tenm ration-   to be corleted by Jne 30, 1984
present workers and/or seLling to    alizaticn of sector organization.        mu actimn takme by Dumber 31,
private investors.                                                            1984.
U'
GOB to divest its thres   cocoa                  ditto                        Study of divest prooedures
products factories md insecticides                                            to be ampleted and action talken
plant.                                                                        by above dates.
GOM to prepare a progran to                      ditto                        Progam to be reviewd with IDA
iwese  h1iap of cocoa by                                                      by June 30, 1984, and IzLmpled
private tnrckers, especiaUy                                                   in a inrr and according to tim-
fron depots to ports.                                                        table satisfactory to MA.
GOiB to prepare a stiuy exminlng                 ditto                        Sttuly to be reviewd with
alternative aoooa marketing                                                   mA by Jue  30, 1985, and
arrangaencs, sdch as privatization                                            action takai by DcmFer 31, 1985.
or multiple buying.
BEST COPY AVAIABLIE
*      ._  'a4%  t ,~. ..



Table I                   BEST COPY AVAILABLE
(Timber Sector)
Sector Is                    Proposed Cmnges                      Justification/Benefits                   Tlnutable for Action
Sector Organization          GIMB aboLishau and to be replAced    Greater freedom ai initiatives           13B to be established by
1 an independent Timber Export       for millers aid exporters to export;    April 30, 1984.
Developmnt Board (TEDB) establ-    reduction In Goverwent control
shad strictly as an export pro-    and intervention in export proce-
tion body with representation of    dures; improved muket intelligence
producirg mils as well as Gov't.   ard praotion.
Control on Industry          Minim  export price regulation       Inreased timber exports ad simpli-       kction cpleted. Effective
abolished.                           fication of export proceures;            im tti  of simplified
improved m9rket =nfidiauce in Ghana      procdures to be mxitored by ID.
products.
Prior Government approval of                      ditto                               ditto                             a'
export oontracts discontirued.
Grading and Inspection       Fbrest Products Inspection Bureau   Greater market acceptability of Ghana   lb be established by April 30,
(FPIB) to be established as a self-  products; higher foreign exchanWe        1984.
regulating professional body to      earnings thrxgh avoidance of rider-
strengthen grading and inspection    invoicing; simplification of export
of export parcels.                   procedures.
Uniform timber grading rules to                   ditto                       lb be adopted by March 31, 1985.
be adopted
Foreign Exrhange             Eudsting procedres for retention    Inreased production and operating         Procedu    have mently been
of 20% of export proceeds            efficiency of mill thraxgh timely       strenainud cosiderably. Further
streanlined.                         availab.lity of recurent iVported        simplifian to be *tudied by
Inputs.                                 Mmh  31, 1984 and implmte by
June 30, 1984.
State-cxrwnud omnpies        Alternative strategies for owner-   LIxig-run rationalization of sector       Study to be ecmpleted by
ship ad mamrgeument of state-owned  organization and Increased viability      Septmer 30, 1984; alterniative
CCCXaniea to be studied and          of the state-owned sub-sector.           strategies to be adopte by
adopted, Includirg thim possibility                                           Decaiher 31, 1984.
of privatizatim  and maugmunt
contracts.



Table 1
(Cntfied TUmber Sec*tor)
Sector Issues               koposed Qwges                        JustificationBenefits                   Thintable for Action
Cession Policy              A general reveiw of forest con-      Optimal utillzatimn of forest re-       Reulew to be carrdd out by
cession allocatiors to be carried    sours and increased export pxodwh-      Jm  30, 1985 ad artim tak
out and followp actioa to re-       tion.                                    by Dermber 31, 1985.
allocate uecoimic ,oessois,
with priority to export producs.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



BEST COPY AVAILABLE
Table 1
(Mining Sector)
Sector Issues                Proposed anges                       Justification/Benefits                   Timetable for Action
Sector Orguaization          S(2E to enter into a   ement         Increased ummagerial and tedhnical       S1iging of managenent ootract
contract with an international       capability of 9GMC thbrthi large-scale   prior co disbwseumit of the
mining ooxanqy to mumnge             injection of expatriate mnUYerS          minitvg oaponrmet of proposed
SWE mInes  a comnrciA1 entity    necessary to implemret the rebabilita--  Credt exept for $5 millian iworth
tion program.                            of urgently required Import Items;
prelmndnry wDoC h   already begun.
Foreign Ew-hange             Foreign eowhanpe retention by SMC   Increased production and operatirg        Streamlined proXKim  recently
increased fran 20Z to 35X            efficienmy thr    availability of        introduced by the Governmen  to
(about $10 million/year at preset   rwesry inmorted inputs on a tizly    utilize the retentin funs will
production levels), with S(C         basis.                                   be mmitored by IMA.
allawe direct access to retainie
funds.
Plan of Action               S(HC to carry out plan of action  Er had morker morale and                    Action to bE tae  befo re
to improve productivity includtirg    prodxctivity.                           Deanimber 31, 1984.
the introduction of work incentive
schemes, inclxLing food aid
productivity bmuses.
SGIi's Finances              Gkoernment to ownvert S(CE's debts  Improved finmaces of SW21.                Action to be taken by June 30,
to long-term loan with appro-                                                 1984.
priate grace periods.
Mbnitoring                   SW  perfonmance to be midtored   E       ring accouzitability of mnnager-     Annisi; first reviei with IDA in
and reviewd amwally by Goerrn-    ment and adequacy of policy moures    Dnnhber 1984.
ment, 9SM  and IDA. Cost of          affecting SGMC.
production of S(HC mirm to be
reviewed am alUly and required
financial. measires taken by
Gover.nnent to maintain viability.



- 19 -
A - The Cocoa Sector
Recent Trends
42.      Cocoa is the predominant sector in Ghana's economy.  It generates 60
percent of export earnings, and 10 percent of GDP. It employs 24 percent of
the working labor force and takes up more than half of the country's total
land under cultivation. Also up until 1981, the cocoa sector provided about
one-third of Government revenues. In the mid 1960's, Ghana was the leading
producer of cocoa in the world, producing some 566,000 tons (1964/65), about
one-third of total world supply.
43.      The next ten years saw a steady decline with 1974/75 production
dropping to some 400,000 tons. Subsequently output has declined even more
rapidly, with 1982/83 production of only 180,000 tons. Correspondingly, Ghana
is now the third largest cocoa producer in the world, accounting for about 12
percent of output. The immediate objective of the proposed project would,
therefore, be to arrest this declining production. The impact of this
declining production on Ghana's economy was made even more acute by a falling
off of international cocoa prices between 1977 ($3,790 per ton) and 1981
($1,800 per ton).
Sector Constraints and Issues
44.      Government policies in the past have been largely responsible for
poor production performance of cocoa in the past decade. The main factors
responsible for the decline of cocoa output were inadequate producer prices,
high marketing costs and institutional weaknesses of the Ghana Cocoa Marketing
Board (GCi'B), the lack of imported inputs and deteriorating transport infra-
structure as discussed below.
45.      Price Policy.  The cocoa producer price is determined by the
Government and the adjustments allowed in the past have been far short of
general price increases, making cocoa farming increasingly unprofitable both
absolutely and relative to other crops. If the Government had followed a more
realistic price policy and let the producer price increase at the same rate as
the export price from mid 1960s onwards, the rate of decline in the real
incomes of cocoa producers could have been arrested. Instead the instrument
of price policy was used to exact more taxes from the industry which increased
from an average of 18 percent of cocoa export proceeds in the early 1960s to
more than 50 percent by the late 1970s. A growing divergence between the
official producer price and prices prevailing in the neighboring Ivory Coast
and Togo provided increasing incentive to smuggle cocoa out of the country.
Furthermore, the erosion of real income from cocoa has led to a shift of
family labor to food farming and has contributed to labor shortages, as
farmers are unable to hire casual labor during peak demand periods.
46.      Input Supply Policy.  The availability of insecticides and spraying
machines has been erratic and in 1979-81 the absolute amount available
declined sharply. Repair facilities and spare parts for spraying machines
have also been almost non-existent. Surveys in 1974 and 1978 revealed that
BEST G(OPY ftu jqni



- 20 -
47 percent of the farms infected with capsids were not sprayed at all, 36
percent once, 13 percent twice, only 4 percent thrice and none 4 times (which
is the recommended frequency). The output response has, therefore, been
disappointing.
47.      Deteriorating Transportation System.  Lack of adequate vehicles and
spare parts and deteriorating roads and bridges increased difficulties in
evacuating cocoa to the ports. The weakness of the transportation system led
to deterioration in the quality of cocoa beans purchased (storage facilities
being deficient), difficulty in moving merchandise and farm inputs to cocoa
growing areas and depressed morale among cocoa farmers.
48.      Marketing and Extension Costs.  The basic institutional setup for
marketing, input supply and extension lacks efficiency and effectiveness.
Staff of GCMB and Cocoa Services Division (CSD) which provides extension
services has increased enormously over the years. The work force of CSD has
grown from about 4,000 in mid-1960s to about 44,000 at present though cocoa
production is now only 32 percent of the level in mid-1960s. A recent study
estimated that of the total of over 100,000 staff of GCMB (all divisions and
subsidiaries) and CSD, an estimated 46,000 were surplus costing 0377 million
annually. While there is surplus field and administrative staff, there is an
acute shortage of qualified accounting and workshop staff.
Government Strategy and Short-term Rehabilitation Program
49.      Given the importance of cocoa in the national economy, the Government
considers rehabilitation of the cocoa industry as a priority and an essential
element of Ghana's economic recovery program. Although the long-term projec-
tion indicates that the real world price of cocoa is likely to fall, to which
the Government is beginning to respond with an export diversification strategy,
in the short to medium term the cocoa sector offers substantial potential for
recovery of exports, given the country's overwhelming reliance on cocoa for
export earnings. Ghana has a comparative advantage in the production of cocoa
and Ghana's cocoa has traditionally enjoyed quality premium in the interna-
tional market. With proper policy framework, especially adequate producer
price and input supply policies, and removal of evacuation bottlenecks, Ghana
can, as a short-term objective, arrest and reverse the decline in cocoa output
and, as a medium term objective, restore production to the level achieved
during the mid 1970's (i.e., 400,000 tons) through rehabilitation of existing
farms and improved capsid control and husbandry practices.
50.      In recognition of the importance of the cocoa sector, the Government
has prepared with the assistance of IDA a comprehensive study for the rehabili-
tation of the cocoa sector. 1/ The study examined all major aspects of the
Ghanaian cocoa industry and proposed policy and institutional measures to
improve producer incentives, marketing efficiency and extension effectiveness
including restructuring of GCMB. The study also identified required inputs,
equipment, and materials for rehabilitation of the cocoa sector, which the
1/ Cocoa III Prefeasibility studies (in 12 volumes) carried out in
1982 by Peat, Marwick and Mitchell (U.K.).
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 21 -
Bank Group origJnally intended to help finance under a third cocoa project.
However, in view of the urgent need to initiate early measures, the Government
has prepared on the basis of the study a short term rehabilitation program
which aims at implementing essential policy changes and providing required
inputs to cocoa farmers and GCMB for a period of two years (1984-1985). The
program would be supported by this proposed project and the proposed Export
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project. In contrast to the earlier two
cocoa projects financed by the Bank Group which were confined to specific geo-
graphical areas, the modified strategy under the proposed project would be to
deal with the major issues in the cocoa sector on a broad-based sectoral level
and attempt to implement a comprehensive reform package as discussed in detail
in the following paragraphs.
Cocoa Sector Reform Measures
51.      Producer Price Adjustment.  Past studies on the cocoa sector have
shown that GhanaJan cocoa production is influenced mainly by real producer
prices. In recent years, substantial increases in nominal producer prices for
cocoa have taken place. In 1981, the producer price was raised from 04,000
per ton to 012,000 per ton. However, high domestic inflation rates largely
eroded the impact of this three-fold increase and in 1982 the cocoa producer
price was still only one-third of that in 1963 in real terms. In May 1983 the
cocoa producer price was again raised from 012,000 to 020,000 per ton.
Assuming realistic exchange rates in the future, improvements in real cocoa
producer prices are possible with the recent increase in world cocoa prices,1/
possible reduction in marketing costs and gradual decrease of Government
reliance on cocoa for revenues.
52.      The spurt in food prices over the last few years, particularly of
maize, has improved relative financial returns from food farming and therefore
its attractiveness, as compared to cocoa, though returns to the economy from
cocoa are much higher than those from foodcrops. The market price of maize
increased from 066 per ton in 1963 to 020,000 in 1982 while the producer price
of cocoa increased from 0220 per ton to 012,000. With the drought in 1982 and
bush fires in early 1983 and acute foreign exchange shortage, prices of maize
now range from 040,000 to 060,000 per ton. It is reasonable to expect that
after the harvest this year and improved availability of imported foodstuff as
a result of external support, the present high prices of foodstuff will come
down. Assuming the maize price settles at 020,000 per ton, the return per
manday from maize (traditional cultivation) will be 0145 compared to 0118 from
rehabilitated cocoa at the present producer price of 020,000 per ton. With a
25 percent increase in cocoa producer prices from the present level, the
return per manday from rehabilitated cocoa would equal that from maize.
53.      A regular review and adjustment of producer prices is essential to
maintain farmers' incentives for cocoa production. In view of the uncertain-
1/   Recently world cocoa prices have risen to $2,500 per ton.  Assuming
the f.o.b. Accra prices ranging from $2,100 to $2,400 and an exchange
rate of 0 30 to US$1, cocoa producer prices are 28 to 32 percent of
f.o.b. prices.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 22 -
ties of the international coooa market and of the domestic inflation rate,
particularly the prices of competing foodatuffe, it in not considered desirable
to provide for an automatio adjustment of ooooa producer prioe based on a
predetermined formula.  Instead, an annual review and adjustment would be
undertaken.  Given the Jmportance of cocoa to the eoonomy and possible oon-
flict between the commeroial objectives of a restruotured GCMB (paras. 54-56)
on the one hand and produoor inoentive. and prioe otabilization on the other,
a Cocoa Producer Prcoe Review Committee, independent of OCMB, would be estab-
lished by January 31, 1984 to review and determine now producer prioes
(Schedule 5, para. B 1 (b) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and
the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). The Committee would be ohaired by
the PNDC Secretary for Financo and Eoonomio Planning with membership of the
Chief Executive of GCCB and at leart one representative of coooa farmer.
Beginning in 1984, and each year thereafter, the Government would submit its
proposed prices by January 31 to IDA for review, would agree on the prices by
February 28, and would announce them by March 31 (Schodule 5, para. B I (b),
of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Speoial Fund
Credit Agreement). The announcement of the 1984 oocoa prices would be a
condition of disbursement of the cocoa component of the Credit (Schedule 1,
para. 2 (d) and para. 2 (c), respectively, of the draft Development Credit
Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). On the baiu of the
current estimates of domestic inflation in 1983 and the necessity to provide
enough incentives to farmers, a cocoa producer price increase of at least 50
percent seems warranted for 1984. In reviewing proposed prices, special
attention would be paid to maintaining adequate incentives for cocoa
producers.
54.      Reorganization of GCMB.  The restructuring and reorganization of GCMB
is crucial to cocoa sector rehabilitation. It is proposed to integrate CSD,
which is responsible for providing extension services to cocoa farmers, with
GCNB. This is needed in the interests of integrated sector planning and
operation, tighter control over CSD activities, economy in the use of central
support services leading to a reduction in operating costs and easier avail-
ability of resources for CSD.
55.      The GCMB, which has previously operated virtually as a Government
department, would be reorganized as a commercial body running on a profit-
making basis. This is considered essential if the efficiency of GCMB is to be
improved, performance criteria worked out and accountability of senior manage-
ment ensured. The basic principle is to give GCMB control over its resources
(with effective monitoring by the Government through its representation on the
Board of Directors) so that it can institute proper planning and financial
management and be judged as to its performance at the end of the financial
year. The Government will continue to have its revenues from cocoa through
corporate taxes and dividends paid by GCMB. However, GCMB should build up its
equity so as to be able to finance its development expenditures. Until GCMB's
revenues start to improve, its outstanding debt would be converted to Govern-
ment's long-term loans with an appropriate grace period.
BEST COPY AVILASoLE



- 23 -
56.      The proposal for the restructuring of GCMB was conveyed to IDA by the
Government at negotiations. Subsequently a cabinet directive has authorized
GCMB to proceed with the restructuring. The restructuring proposals are the
work of a Steering Committee chaired by the PNDC Coordinating Secretary with
membership of PNDC Secretary for Finance and Economic Planning and Chief
Executive of GCMB. The Steering Committee will also oversee the
implementation of the restructuring of GCMB, which will have to be legally
accomplished prior to disbursement under the cocoa component of the Credit
(Schedule 1, para. 2 (d) and para. 2 (c), respectively, of the draft
Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
57.      Although cocoa is the most important foreign exchange earner, the
failure by the Government in the past to provide sufficient foreign exchange
to import essential recurrent needs (particularly insecticides) has been one
of the major reasons for declining cocoa output. Given the importance of
assuring timely inputs to cocoa farmers and essential spare parts for the
cocoa evacuation vehicles, the Government has already authorized GCMB to have
access to at least 10 percent of its foreign exchange earnings through a
foreign exchange retention scheme, and has agreed to maintain this scheme
(Schedule 5, para. B 1 (g) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and
the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). Guidelines for the proper use by
GCMB of retained foreign exchange would be evolved by the Government.
58.      Reduction in GCCB Operating Costs.  In order to allo-w cocoa farmers
to have a progressively greater share of f.o.b. value and to ensure that GCMB
remains commercially viable, serious efforts would be made to reduce GCMB
operating costs. Several steps would be taken in this regard during the
project period:
(i) Plantations run by both GCMB and CSD are a heavy burden at present
accounting for over 20 percent of the operating costs of GCMB, CSD,
Produce Buying Division (PBD) and Produce Inspection Division (PID)
combined and employing about 18,000 staff. The Government has taken
initital steps to parcel out the plantations among the workers
presently employed there (who would no longer be GCMB employees)
and/or sell these plantations to private investors or retain only a
minority share. In order to assess the potential of these planta-
tions and criteria and procedures for eventual divestment, a study
would be completed by June 1984 and, based on the results of the
study, action by the Steering Committee completed by December 1984
(Schedule 5, para. B I (d) of both the draft Development Credit
Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
(ii) There is a need to assess fully the financial viability of the three
cocoa products factories and the insecticide formulation plant
presently operated as subsidiaries of GCKB and to examine how these
subsidiaries should be set up as separate companies with private
investment. Although the Government has taken initial steps for
divestment, an in-depth study of these subsidiaries and procedures
for their eventual divestment would be completed by June 1984 and
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 24 -
action by the Steering Committee on the recommendations of the study
completed by December 1984 (Schedule 5, para. B 1 (d) of both the
draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement).
(iii)  Serious overstaffing exists in almost all the Divisions of GCMB and
CSD, which has been one of the important factors contributing to high
operating costs. Under the project, a five-year program for staff
reduction would be undertaken. The annual target for net reduction
(net of essential new recruitment) of the current staff on the
payroll of GCMB and CSD has been initially agreed to be 5,500 for
1984 (this excludes employees of plantations, cocoa products
factories, PBD district organization and formulation plant for which
action will be taken after studies are co.pleted (see (i) and (ii)
above). As an important element of the economic recovery program,
the Government is strongly commit+ed to reducing overstaffing in the
public sector and has established a Mobilization Committee to retrain
redundant workers for redeployment to productive sectors especially
in food farming. An adjustment assistance program for displaced
workers of GCMB is under preparation by the Government and this
program would be submitted to the Association for its review and
comments by Narch 31, 1984 (Schedule 5, para. B I (c) of both the
draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement). Progress in implementing the staff reduction program
would be one of the performance criteria for release of the second
tranche of the Credit (Schedule 4, para. (iii) of both the draft
Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement).
(iv)  Significant possibility of reduction in operating costs exists
through greater reliance on private haulers, particularly from depots
to port. At present about 30 percent of long distance haulage is by
private haulers. Although the Government has taken steps for further
increase of private haulage, GCMB would prepare a program to increase
further private sector haulage of cocoa by June 30, 1984 for review
with IDA (Schedule 5, para. B 1 (d), of both the draft Development
Credit Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
(v) GCMB should be able to reduce costs by improving its storage of cocoa
and cocoa products before export. Assurances were given that GCNB
would prepare a study on the procedures for receiving at ports,
storing and shipping of cocoa and cocoa products by June 30, 1984 and
implement the results by December 30, 1984 (Sci':dule 5, B 1 (d) of
both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special
Fund Credit Agreement).
(vi)  To operate efficiently as a private institution, GCMB would undertake
a study to develop a corporate planning and management information
system. Assurances were given that this study would be completed by
August 31, 1984 and the results implemented by February 28, 1985
(Schedule 5, para. B. 1 (d) of both the draft Development Credit
Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
BEST COPY AVAILASLE



- 25 -
(vii)  A long run possibility of reducing marketing costs through privati-
zation of cocoa marketing and introduction of multiple buying system
exists. However, the full implications of privatization and intro-
ducing the multiple buying system need to be carefully studied. A
study of alternative systems for marketing would be completed by June
1985 for review with IDA and the results carried out by December 31,
1985 (Schedule 5, para. B 1 (d) of both the draft Development Credit
Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
59.      Production Strategy.  Implementation of the production support
components of the proposed project would be within the framework of a long-
term strategy for cocoa rehabilitation and replanting. This strategy involves
consolidation of cocoa acreage to about half of the present acreage which are
not infected with Swollen Shoot Virus Disease (SSVD) with efforts to obtain
more than twice the present average yields. The rehabilitation under the
proposed project would concentrate on the selected areas with about two-thirds
cf the resources going to these areas and the remaining one-third to other
areas (even this one-third would be carefully allocated to areas which are not
infected with SSVD and have some potential). Additionally, a two-year interim
strategy for SSVD control would be mounted, emphasizing control of isolated
outbreaks in priority areas for rehabilitation and forming a buffer zone
between the Eastern and Central Regions on the one hand and the priority areas
on the other. After this operation is completed, the strategy would be to
move into Eastern and Central Regions gradually for SSVD control, consistent
with availability of resources. For successful implementation of the interim
and longer-term strategy for SSVD control, the Government would formulate a
policy of compensation payments to cocoa farmers for replanting the trees cut
down. Agreement has been reached at negotiations regarding strategy discussed
above and assurances have been given that the Government would prepare such a
strategy and a plan of compensation payments for review with IDA by June 30,
1984 (Schedule 5, para. B 1 (f) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement
and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
B - The Timber Sector
General
60.      Forests represent a very significant national resource in Ghana.
Covering about 8.2 million ha., some 34 percent of total land area, they
contain valuable redwoods and other species, highly prized in European and
other markets for veneer, plywood and lumber. In addition, Ghana's rural
population (about 7.2 million people or 68 percent of the population) depend
on the forests for fuelwood, building poles, and timber for housing. Fuelwood
consumption is estimated at 10 million m3 annually, or six times industrial
log consumption. The forests also play a crucial role in protecting water
catchment areas and preventing soil erosion, sedimentation of reservoirs and
downstream flooding effects.
BEST COPY RAVAV11P"-LE



- 26 -
61.      Historically, the sector has generated about 5 percent of total GDP
and 8 percent of foreign exchange earnings, ranking third (behind cocoa and
minerals) in exported commodities. However, in recent years production and
earnings from the sector have been declining. In 1965 log production was 1.5
million m3; by 1972 this had decreased to 1 million m3-  However, during the
past decade production has further fallen off and now stands well below the
1972 level e.g., 0.1 million m3 in 1982. Exports of wood and wood products
were valued at US$20 million in 1965 and had increased to US$90 million by
1976 but had fallen to less than US$20 million by 1982.
62.      A number of constraints have adversely affected the ability of the
forestry sector to make its full potential contribution to Ghana's economic
development, the most serious of which have been the grossly overvalued cedi,
government controls and regulations on the timber industry, weak supporting
institutions and infrastructure, lack of managerial and professional manpower,
and the shortage of spare parts and imported inputs. Although currently the
world timber trade is depressed, there is a large and increasing demand for
tropical hardwood products, a significant proportion of which is expected to
come from Africa. The high proportion of Ghana's timber products which were
exported in the 1960's and 1970's confirms that Ghana's products were well
received. The dramatic decrease in export sales during the last few years has
not been due to a decline in export demand so much as to a combination of
steadily reducing log production and mill outputs due to factors discussed
above. Appropriate government policy, and technical and financial assistance
are now required to reverse this trend and restore the sector to its former
productivity and profitability.
Structure of the Timber Sector
63.      The sector comprises a private subsector, with some 150 logging firms
and more than 80 mills, which have traditionally supplied more than 60 percent
of Ghana's total timber exports, and a state-owned subsector consisting of
four major companies, representing the balance of exports. Altogether the
sector employs about 70,000 people, or about 15 percent of the employed labor
force.
64.      The private subsector is engaged in all aspects of production, from
logs through lumber, plywood, veneer, and remanufactured items. While, in
general, the private sector exhibits better management, sounder financial
practices and overall better physical facilities than the state-owned com-
panies, these firms continue to suffer from lack of spare parts, materials and
other imported inputs. As a result capacity utilization averages less than
50 percent; vehicle and equipment maintenance is impossible in the absence of
spare parts; and thus, production and exports have declined in recent years.
65.      Of the four state-owned companies, two (African Timber and Plywood
Company and Gliksten West Africa Company ) are operating under poor management
and with extremely outdated equipment, often inappropriate for the given line
of production. The rehabilitation of these two firms will require consider-
able long-term capital investment. The other two firms (Mim Timber Company
and Takoradi Veneer and Lumber Company) are better managed and on sounder
BEST COPY AVAMLABLE



- 27 -
financial footing and assistance of a shorter term nature could likely restore
much of their profitability. However, a thorough study of the viability and
alternative strategies for the state-owned companies is warranted.
Government Strategy
66.      Government policy for the forestry sector is to increase productivity
to the maximum extent, consistent with environmental protection, including
safeguarding cover on water sheds, maintaining animal life and the welfare of
the population, and the long-term preservation of the forests, including
reforestation as necessary. Government strategy for the private subsector is
to facilitate rehabilitation of selected mills to generate foreign exchange
quickly, and for the state-owned mills to rehabilitate them seeking minority
participation from the private sector, both domestic and foreign, including
the possibility of entering into management agreements with large inter-
national companies.
67.      Several studies have been carried out by the Government as a basis
for rehabilitating the timber industry. These include a FAO study on the
forestry sector which identified a project to help rehabilitate the state
owned companies, to establish pulpwood plantations and to strengthen the
forestry sector institutions; an EEC study on Ghanaian timber marketing
organization and procedures undertaken by P-E International Operations (U.K.)
which recommended specific policy and institutional changes required to
promote Ghanaian timber exports; and a timber industry rehabilitation study
carried out by a consortium of three international banks to assess
rehabilitation requirements with emphasis on the private sector timber
companies. On the basis of the above studies and with assistance of the Bank
Group, the Government has prepared a short-term timber sector rehabiliation
program which aims at increasing the utilization of the existing production
capacity especially among the private companies through provision of spare
parts, equipment and materials. The program would be supported by the
proposed Credit.
Timber Sector Policy and Institutional Reforms
68.      Zany of the policies and institutions dealing with the sector have
been counter-productive to the objective of increasing timber production and
exports. Indeed, the principal factors contributing to the sector's marked
decline during the past decade stem from excessive and/or inappropriate
government controls. Until recently, the Ghana Timber Marketing Board (GTMB)
exercised complete control over timber export production and prices. GTMB's
principal functions were: (a) to control and supervise production of wood
products whether for export or domestic sales; (b) to determine which species
must be turned into finished or semi-finished products prior to export; (c) to
set prices; (d) to approve and allocate import and export licenses, including
contract approval; and (e) to inspect export parcels to ensure correspondence
with approved export contracts. In addition, GTNB had responsibility for
export promotion and research and statistics. In effect, these assistance
functions suffered from GTMB's overwhelming preoccupation with its control
functions.
BEST COPY AVmyLE



- 28 -
69.      In order to alleviate immediate physical constraints, the proposed
project would provide spare parts, materials and equipment to enable selected
timber companies to increase production and exports. However, there would be
critical bottlenecks to increasing timber exports unless timber marketing
organizations and procedures were restructured so as to enable timber
companies to export with a minimum amount of Government control and regula-
tion. Specific changes in the timber sector to be implemented in conjunction
with the proposed Technical Assistance Project are as follows.
70.      Restructuring of Marketing Organizations and Procedures.  GTMB has
been abolished, and an independent Timber Export Development Board (TEDB)
whose membership would include both concerned Government Ministries and
representatives of mills producing for export, would be established by April
30, 1984. In the interim period, the Ministry of Forestry would carry out
essential functions for timber production and exports (Schedule 5, para. B 2
(a) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement). The primary function of TEDB would be to obtain, collate
and disseminate to the industry, information concerning Ghana species, export
markets and current prices, export opportunities and prospects. The TEDB
would operate solely as a market promotion and market intelligence advisory
body to serve the industry and would not be responsible for controls on the
industry. Various negative controls on timber exports hitherto exercised by
the Government have been abolished. These consisted mainly of the practice
of requiring Government's examination of draft timber export contracts and the
minimum export price regulations. In order to assist the Government in
setting up TEDB, the proposed Technical Assistance (TA) project would provide
consultant studies to assess the initial requirements of TEDB as well as an
internationally recruited expert to help establish TEDB and train staff
(Sections 3.02 and 3.03 (a), the draft Development Credit Agreement for TA
Project).
71.      Inspection and grading of timber products would be strengthened by
the establishment of a Forests Products Inspection Bureau (FPIB) as a self-
regulating professional body overseeing all functions of grading and grading
regulation. The FPIB would establish standard grading rules to facilitate
grading and inspection, improve claim handling and minimize fraudulent
practices. The FPIB would be established by April 30, 1984 (Schedule 5, para.
B 2 (b) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special
Fund Credit Agreement). Necessary consultant services for the proper estab-
lishment of FPIB and technical assistance to help manage this new institution
and train staff are included in the proposed TA Project (Section 3.02, the
draft Development Credit Agreement for TA Project).
72.      Foreign Exchange Availability.  The present Government policy allows
timber exporters to retain 20 percent of export proceeds to be used for impor-
tation of spare parts and materials, which has helped to obviate the need to
apply for normal import licenses to procure recurrent imports. In practice,
however, there were considerable procedural dplays due to the requirement to
obtain specific approval from the Ministries of Trade and Finance and the Bank
of Ghana before the exporter could utilize the funds. The Government has
recently streamlined the procedures and now allows all items judged to be
necessary for the exporters' work to be included in the automatic import
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 29 -
license acquisition. This is an improvement over the previous system under
which the utilization of the funds was limited to the import of urgently
needed spare parts and consumables. A proposal on further streamlining
procedures would be reviewed by IDA by March 31, 1984 and the recommendations
of such review would be carried out by June 30, 1984 (Schedule 5, para. B 2
(e) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special Fund
Credit Agreement).
73.      State-owned Companies.  With one or two exceptions, the large state-
owned timber companies suffer from management weaknesses and under-capitali-
zation and their rehabilitation would require restructuring in the ownership
and management of the companies. Given the potential of the state-owned
companies in Ghana's timber exports, a study would be carried out to examine
the viability and alternative strategies for the future of the state-owned
companies including the possibility of privatization and management contracts.
The study which would be financed under the proposed TA Project would be
completed by September 30, 1984. Government would review the results of the
study with IDA and adopt alternative strategies for these companies before
December 31, 1984 (Schedule 5, para. B 2 (c) of both the draft Development
Credit Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). In order to
optimize the utilization of forest resources there is a need to rationalize
the allocation of concessions. Government would, with technical assistance
provided under the proposed TA Project, review with IDA concession allocations
by June 30, 1985 with a view to cancelling those concessions which are
uneconomic and reallocating them to other producers, with priority given to
export producers. The Government action on the reallocation of the conces-
sions would be completed by December 31, 1985 (Schedule 5, para. B 2 (d) of
both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement).
C - The Mining Sector
General
74.      Ghana's mineral industry is the second most important foreign
exchange earner after cocoa, with mineral exports accounting for about 15
percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings. The sector has a signifi-
cant impact on communication, power and transportation demands, and provides
education and social services throughout the country. Although a complete
assessment of Ghana's mineral wealth is impossible because of the low level of
exploration carried out so far, the country is well endowed with mineral
resources. In addition to gold which is by far the most important mineral
providing nearly 90 percent of total mineral exports and employing over 16,000
people, diamonds, manganese and bauxite are the major minerals produced for
exports. Diamonds of industrial quality have been extracted from alluvials in
the Akwatia area in the Eastern province since the 1920's. However, produc-
tion has been declining due to the depletion of existing reserves and the
existing low price of industrial diamonds. Manganese ore reserves have been
estimated at 20 million tons in the Nsuta mine in the Western region, where an
oxidization plant is being constructed to process about 400,000 tons of
BEST COpy A



- 30 -
carbon-based ores annually. Bauxite has been mined since 1943 in Awaso in the
Western region, and reserves are estimated at 16 million tons.  Increased
production of bauxite has been constrained by the inadequate rail capacity on
which shipment of bauxite has to depend.
Structure of Gold Mining
75.      The country's known deposits of  ol4, with proven reserves of about
5 million oz, are in the Ashanti Region at Obuasi and Dunkwa) and in the
Western Region (Tarkwa and Prestea). Gold is produced by two companies:
Ashanti Goldfields Corporation (AGC), a joint venture between Government and
Lonrho (U.K.) which operates an underground mine at Obuasi, and the State Gold
Mining Corporation (SGMC), a wholly Government-owned company, which operates
two underground mines (at Tarkwa and Prestea) and an alluvial dredging mine
(at Dunkwa). The SGMC was created in 1961 to take over the ownership of
several gold mines which were about to be closed down by their private owners
who were operating at a loss due to low gold prices. The SGMC decided to
continue operation of the mines and maintained the existing workforce of about
8,600 workers despite loss of productivity and overall efficiency. At present
about 65 percent of Ghana's gold production comes from AGC while the SGMC is
producing the balance.
Sector Issues and Constraints
76.      Ghana's gold production has steadily declined for a number of years
and the decline was most marked during the last decade when total gold output
decreased from 740,000 oz in 1970 to less than 360,000 oz in 1980. Major
factors contributing to the decline were: (a) erosion in the finances of the
mining companies resulting from the grossly distorted exchange rate regime in
the past and the spiralling inflation which have critically affected the
financial viability of the companies; (b) lack of management autonomy which
has not permitted operating the individual mines of SGMC as commercial enti-
ties, resulting in lack of definition of responsibilities and performance
targets and inadequate mine planning and financial control; (c) shortages of
foreign exchange which have not permitted to meet recurrent imported inputs
such as maintenance, spares, replacement equipment and necessary rehabilita-
tion of existing mines and plant facilities; (d) progressive departure of most
foreign management and technical personnel resulting in poor management and
low productivity and high absenteeism of mine workers due to generally severe
economic conditions; (e) the use of over-aged production equipment in opera-
tion with low productivity, health and safety standards; and (f) lack of
financing necessary to explore promising deposits and to develop new mines.
Generally, the erosion caused by overvalued exchange rates and inadequate
retention of foreign exchange from exports have led to rapid decapitalization.
Government Strategy and Rehabilitation Program
77.      Ghana's gold subsector has the potential to significantly increase
its role as a major foreign exchange earner for the country owing to the
relatively high grade of its known deposits, and va3t gold mineralization
including relatively shallow alluvial type deposits. Als',, gold mining can
achieve high profitability due to present gold prices, the recent devaluation
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 31 -
of cedi, and the structure of mineralization quite favorable for mining.
Although gold mining in Ghana has been on the decline for about two decades,
it can be resuscitated to its potential if satisfactory management autonomy
and necessary financial and technical assistance are provided. The Government
has recognized the serious economic implications of the decline of gold pro-
duction in Ghana and, as an important element of its economic recovery
program, has prepared a short-term program for rehabilitation of the SGMC and
AGC mines. The program for SGMC aims at restoring SGMC's gold production to
the level achieved in 1979 by increasing output from the present 72,000 oz to
165,000 oz per annum over a three-year period through rehabilitation of under-
ground facilities, mining equipment, dredges, processing mills and provision
of spares and consumables. Specific production targets for each of the SGMC
mines and rehabilitation input requirements are shown in Annex IV of this
President's Report. The mining component of this proposed project would
provide foreign exchange to support the SGNC rehabilitation program. A
program for increased gold production from the AGC mine has also been prepared
which envisages increasing output from 250,000 oz annually at present to about
350,000 oz over a period of four years. It is expected that this investment
program would be implemented with commercial sources of financing and IFC's
participation is currently under active consideration. The future of the
mining industry in Ghana will depend to a considerable extent on the invest-
ment of new capital. In order to promote foreign investment and ensure that
investment conditions in the country as a whole and in the mining industry in
particular are comparable or better than in other countries, an investment
code was promulgated in 1981.
Sectoral Policy and Institutional Reforms
78.      In order to address major sectoral issues which have constrained
efficient operation of the SGC, the Government has in principle agreed to
implement the following policy reforms in conjunction with ERP and the
proposed TA Project.
79.      Foreign Exchange Retention.  In order to ensure that SGNC does not
have to rely on normal Government foreign exchange allocation to meet its
recurrent imported inputs and to enable SGNC to meet part of the financial
requirement for its rehabilitation out of its own resources, the foreign
exchange retention by the SGMC has been increased from the previous 20 percent
to 35 percent of its export sales. At the current level of production this
will allow SGMC to retain about $10 million per annum, which will enable the
SGMC to meet its recurrent import needs from its own resources. The Govern-
ment and the SGC would maintain the policies and procedures for the renten-
tion funds satisfactory to IDA (Schedule 5. para. B3 (c) of both the draft
Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit Ar-eement).
80.      Management Autonomy.  The SGMC would be given full management
autonomy and its mines would be allowed to run as a commercial entity under a
management contract. Given the presently wealc institutional capability of the
SG3C, the Government has agreed to engage an internationally experienced
mining management company to run the SGMC and train the local counterpart
staff. It is envisaged that a total of about 60 man-years of such managerial
and technical personnel would be financed under the proposed TA project. The
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 32 -
progress under the management contract would be monitored periodically by the
Government and IDA. The necessary planning and preparation work required
before the Government would be in a position to invite management contract
proposals from international mining companies has already started with funds
provided under a Project Preparation Facility advance. The appointment of an
international mining management company and signing of a management contract
satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of disbursement of the Credit for the
mining component with an exception of $5 million which would be needed
initially to meet urgent import requirements (Schedule 1, para. 2 (f) and
para. 2 (d), respectively of the draft Development Credit Agreement and the
draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
81.      Work Incentive Scheme.  There is an urgent need to improve the living
conditiLn of the mine workers as the scarcity of food has caused serious
absenteeism and low productivity among mine workers and it is evident that the
rehabilitation of the mines would be impossible without improvements in the
food supply situation. The SGMC would introduce a plan of action to improv,e
productivity in its mines specifying, inter alia, a work incentive scheme
including direct provision of food and special bonuses to reward higher
productivity. Such a scheme would be carried out before December 31, 1984
(Schedule 5, para. B 3 (a), of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and
the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
82.      SGMC's Finances.  The Government recognizes that the poor financial
performance of the SGMC has been partially due to the grossly distorted
exchange rate regime in the past. While the recent devaluation has signifi-
cantly corrected the distortion and the new exchange rate should initially be
sufficient to restore the viability of the company, its effects will have to
be carefull- assessed once the cost-price relationships in the economy
following the measure have settled down. In order to enable the restructured
SGMC to start with an improved financial position, the Government has agreed
to convert SGMC's outstanding debts into a long-term loan with terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA by June 30, 1984. In addition, the cost of
production of SGMC mines and the profitability of the company would be
reviewed not later than December 31, 1984 and thereafter annually (Schedule 5,
para. B3 (b) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
83.      The proposed Export Rehabilitation Project (ERP) was identified early
in 1981 jointly by the Government and the Bank. It had been designed as the
Bank's primary response to an economic recovery program then under preparation
which the Government would implement with tne support of an IMF standby
arrangement. Originally the ERP was appraised by a Bank mission in August
1981.  Further processin, of the project had, however, been held in abeyance
due to the delay by the Government to act on the economic recovery program and
the change of Government in December 1981. Early in 1983 a delegation of the
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 33 -
new Government led by the Secretary of Finance reached an understanding with
the IMF on major elements of an economic recovery program to be supported
under a Fund standby arrangement and approached the Bank with a request to
reactivate the ERP. Given Ghana's urgent need for quick-disbursing assist-
ance, the Bank agreed to a two-stage approach under which the Bank would first
respond to the recovery program with a Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC) and
then follow up with the ERP. While the HIC aims at helping the authoritiee to
cope with immediate problems of introducing macroeconomic reform measures with
quick-disbursing support to the agriculture and transport sectors, the ERP
would have the objective of sustaining the momentum by facilitating the supply
response from the export sector and thus setting in motion the recovery
process. A $40 million Credit for the RIC was approved by the Executive
Directors on June 28, 1983 and is making satisfactory progress. The RIC is
expected to be fully disbursed by end-June 1984.
84.      Following the Government's announcement of the economic recovery
program late April 1983, the ERP was reappraised by a Bank mission which
visited Ghana between May 16 and June 6. The negotiations of the ERP took
place in Washington between November 7 and November 14, 1983 with a Government
delegation led by Mr. J. G. Renner, Secretary for Lands and Natural Resources,
and included representatives from the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources,
SGMC and GCMB. There is no separate staff appraisal report for the proposed
Credit. A Credit and Project Summary is presented at the front of this report
and supplementary data and information are contained in Annexes III, IV, V and
VI.
Project Objectives
85.      The primary objective of the proposed project is to support and
sustain the Government's economic recovery program by strengthening the
country's foreign exchange earning capacity through the rehabilitation of the
export sector. The Government's recovery program assigns the highest priority
to reversing declining production in the export industries, in particular,
cocoa, gold, and timber exports, which together account for almost 90 percent
of the country's foreign exchange earnings. In order for these export
industries to be able to respond effectively to the recently announced
macroeconomic policy measures (paras. 20 to 23 above), the present severe
shortage of imported inputs should be eased through quick-disbursing foreign
exchange to the sector, coupled with improved performance and retention.
Specifically, the proposed project seeks to increase export production of
cocoa, gold mining and timber industries by carrying out most urgent short-
term rehabilitation needs and improving utilization of the existing capacity
through provision of spare parts, materials and equipment. The project also
seeks to address a number of policy and institutional issues which have
adversely affected output of the export sector and to strengthen the institu-
tional capability of various export sector organizations. In parallel with
the proposed Credit, approximately 120 man-years of technical assistance would
be provided to strengthen the institutional capability of the cocoa, gold
mining and timber sectors under the proposed Export Rehabilitation Technical
Assistance Project as described in the accompanying President's Report.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 34 -
Project Description
86.      The proposed project would include: (a) providing foreign exchange
for importation of material inputs (spare parts, materials, and equipment)
required for the rehabilitation of the cocoa, gold mining, and timber induat-
ries as well as the cargo handling facilities at the ports of Takoradi and
Tema; and (b) carrying out reforms in the policy and institutional framework
of the export sector to address the present policy constraints and short-
comings as discussed in Part III of this report.
87.      Specifically, the proposed project would finance the two-year (1984
and 1985) import requirements for the following rehabilitation activities.
Detailed requirements of imported inputs are set out in Annex IV.
(i) Cocoa Sector - The rehabilitation program would include improving
GC1Bf's storage facilities, workshops and transport capacity and
expanding capsid control and input distribution activities, con-
centrating on areas not infected with SSVD. To support this program,
the Credit would provide essential inputs (insecticides and sprayers)
for cocoa farmers, and vehicles, workshop equipment and building
materials for GCMB;
(ii) Timber Sector - Logging and mechanical wood-processing facilities of
about 24 privately-owned timber companies and two state-owned com-
panies (Mim and TVLC) would be rehabilitated and their timber trans-
port capacity improved with provision of spare parts, materials and
balancing equipment;
(iii) Gold Mining - The program would include rehabilitation and mainten-
ance of three state-owned gold mines (Prestea, Tarkwa and Dunkwa) of
SGMC with emphasis on repair and overhaul of underground ore extrac-
tion and haulage facilities and equipment, rehabilitation and modifi-
cations to increase the capacity of the processing mills and repair
of the dredges through provision of spare parts, equipment and con-
sumables; and
(iv) Ports - Improvement works at the ports of Takoradi and Tema would
include rehabilitation of the cargo handling equipment, provision of
floating craft and improvements of the existing port superstructure
to enable the ports to handle cocoa and timber traffic more effi-
ciently. Due to lack of maintenance and the nonavailability of spare
parts in recent years, the present loading rates for exports in the
Ghana ports is very low, resulting in high shipping costs which
inhibit exports. While the proposed ERP financing (US$4.8 million)
would arrest further deterioration and make some improvement, an
additional amount of about US$10.0 million would be urgently needed
during 1984 and 1985 to make a more significant impact on port
efficiency. The IDA has identified these additional needs which
cover tugs, barges, cargo-handling equipment like tractors, trailers
and forklift trucks, dredging and some civil engineering works
(Annex IV, Page 7). Government is making efforts to secure
cofinancing for these items. To the extent these efforts fail, the
IDA would consider financing some of these items under a transport
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 35 -
rehabilitation project oovering both ports and highways, presently
under preparation.
Estimated Cost and Finanoing
88.      The total foreign exchange requirement for the two-year rehabilita-
tion program as descoribed in para. 87 above is estimated at approximately
$285 million in mid-1983 pricoe, consisting of S130 million for coooa,
$80 million for gold, $60 million for timber and $15 million for ports. Thoes
estimates include both capital costs of rehabilitation and improvement and the
i.ecurrent requirements of imported inputs. The proposed Credit would provide
$76 million, of which US$38 million equivalent would be from the Special Fund,
representing about 27 percent of total foreign exchange requirement. Ghana is
expected to finance about half ($143 million) of the total financing require-
ment from foreign exchange generated from the resopective export industries.
The balance of about $66 million would need to be provided through other
external financing, both offioial and private sources. The Government has
embarked on a major effort to secure additional financing from other donors to
support this project, and a number of donors have ahovu considerable interest
in cofinancing this project during the Consultative Group meeting held in
Paris in November, 1983. In antic;pation of such cofinancing, a standard
croes default clause has been included in the draft Credit Agreoments (Section
4.01(f) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special
Fund Credit Agreement). Even in the unlikely case of cofinancing not materi-
alizing, financing from the IDA and the Government alone would make the
project viable but the scope of the program to be financed under the project
would be reduced proportionately. However, because of the importance of
technical assistance especially in view of training and institutional building
aspects of such assistance, the Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance
Project would be fully implemented even if the scope of the program under this
proposed project is reduced.
Credit Allocation
89.      The sectoral foreign exchange requirements for short-term rehabilita-
tion, proposed allocations under the proposed Credit, the agencies responsible
for implementation and the beneficiaries are summarized in Table 2 below.
TABLE 2: SECTORAL ALLOCATION OF EEP
(US$ millions)
Two-Year     Allocation    Agency Responsible
Requirements  under the EBP  for Implementation  Beneficiaries
Cocoa              130.0         23.9             GCMB          Cocoa farmers
Gold Mining 1/      80.0         23.6             SGMC          SGMC
Timber              60.0         23.7             NIB           Timber companies
Ports               15.0          4.8             GPA           Cocoa farmers,
timber companies
TOTAL         285.0         76.0                           and other exporters
and importers.
1/   State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC) only.
BEST COPY AVAIUBLE



- 36 -
Project Implemontation
90.      The project would be implemented by the respective sector agenciea:
the Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board (GCOB) with respect to the cocoa component;
the National Investment Bank (NIB) in collaboration with the Miniatry of Lands
and Natural Resources for the timber component; the State Gold Mining Cor-
poration (S0MC) for the gold mining oomponent; and the Ghana Port Authority
(GPA) with reopect to the port component. A substantial (about 120 man-years)
amount of technical assistanoe would be provided under the proposed Technical
Assistance Project to ensure adequate management capability. US$52.3 million
equivalent of the propoood Credit for the ooooa, gold mining and port com-
ponents would be onlent to GCMB, SGMC and OPA at an interest rate of 11.6
percent per annum with a repayment period of 15 years after 5 years of
grace. US$23.7 million equivalent would be made available to NIB for purchase
of foreign exchangs by timber companies on terms  nd condition. satisfactory
to IDA to carry out the timber component of the project. Execution of
subsidiary agreements between the Borrower and the respective implementing
agencies aatisfactory to the IDA would be a corMition of effectiveness of the
proposed Credit (Section 5.01(b) and (c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement and Section 5.01(b) and (d) of the draft Special Fund Credit
Agreement). Proceeds of the Credit for the Technical Assistance project would
be made available to the respective implementing agencies as loans with a
repayment period of 15 years after 5 years of grace. Such loans would be made
on an interest free basis until such time as the respective implementing
agencies become financially capable of paying appropriate interest on the
loans (Section 3.01(c), (d) and (e) of the draft Development Credit Agreement
for the TA project). The financial situation of the agencies would be
reviewed annually by the Government and IDA. In order to enable the restruc-
tured GCOB and SCMC to start with an improved financial position, the Govern-
ment has agreed to convert the outstanding debts of these agencies into long-
term loans with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (Schedule 5, paras.
B 1(a) and B 3(a) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement).
91.      In order to provide interministerial coordination and policy guidance
on all matters related to the project, and to monitor its progress, an Inter-
ministerial Export Rehabilitation Committee has been established, headed by
the PNDC Coordinating Secretary and consisting further of the Secretaries for
Finance and Economic Planning, Lands and Natural Resouz as, Transport and
Communication, Governor of the Bank of Ghana, Chief Executive of the GCNB and
the Chairman of the National Policy Implementation and Monitoring Committee.
A project coordinating unit has been established in the Office of the PNDC
L.oordinating Secretary to ensure an early start-up of the project activities
and to coordinate with the project implementing agencieL. In order to ensure
an early start-up of the project, the Ministry of Trade has issued 50 percent
of the import licenses required for imports under the cecoa and timber cectors
of the project. Upon completion by the consultants of the detailed procure-
ment lists for the gold mining and ports sectors, the Ministry of Trade would
issue necessary import licenses for these sectors promptly. The remaining
import licenses necessary for the project implementation would be issued in a
timely manner (Section 3.07 of both the draft Development Credit Agteement and
the Special Fund Credit Agreement).
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 37 -
92.      To be eligible for assistance under the timber component of the
project, an application must: (a) be in respect of an ongoing viable enter-
prise; (b) relate exclusively to the short-term rehabilitation of firms; and
(c) be capable of generating foreign exchange earnings within six months after
delivery of equipment and thereafter be capable of generating foreign exchange
earnings of at least 30 percent of the credit allocation per annum. In addi-
tion, for the state-owned timber companies (i.e., Kim and TVLC) to participate
in the project, they would have to continue to employ technical assistance for
the duration of the project and five man-years of such technical assistance
would be financed under the proposed Technical Assistance project. The
applicaut firms would need to obtain a commercial bank guarantee that counter-
part cedi funds would be available to finance imported items as well as to
cover required working capital. A Technical Evaluation Committee would be
established in the NIB to review applications and ensure that the above-
mentioned criteria are applied. NIB would also be responsible for monitoring
progress of the timber component of the project. NIB would be paid a nominal
administration fee (the Schedule, para. 9, the draft Project Agreement). In
order to facilitate disbursements under this credit component, a special
account would be established by NIB with a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 2.07, the draft Project
Agreement). An amount of US$3 million would be withdrawn by the Government
and deposited into the special account upon effectiveness of the Credit. On
receipt of satisfactory evidence that expenditures financed out of the special
account were eligible for financing, the special account would be replenished
by IDA through further disbursements. The establishment of the special
account would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (Section 5.01 (d) and (e)
respectively of the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special
Fund Credit Agreement). The detailed implementation mechanism for the timber
component is shown in Annex V of this report.
93.      Items for the cocoa sector under the project (Annex IV, Page 3) are
based on the Cocoa III Prefeasibility Study and the UNDP Technical Assistance
Project for GCNB for which the Bank Group is the executing agency. In the
mining sector the SGMC has engaged the services of Rio Tinto Zinc Consultants
(RTZ) with financing provided under a Project Preparation Facility advance to
help   'C in finalizing a detailed list of items to be procured under the
proposed project as well as specifications, procurement schedule and implemen-
tation plan. Similarly in the ports sector, even though the list of items to
be procured has been agreed between the Government and the IDA, the list needs
to be further refined and the specifications and installation schedules
provided with the help of port consultants to be engaged by GPA. Some of the
equipment and spare parts in the ports sector (approximate cost US$1.8
million) to be financed by the Credit are intended for use by the Ghana Cargo
Handling Company (GCHC) which is a public sector company providing
compiementary port services. Details of these components will be finalised
when the procurement lists and schedules, as noted above, are agreed with
IDA. GPA, as executing agency for the ports sector, will procure these items
and pass them to GCHC. The value of these items will be treated as Govern-
ment's equity contribution to GCHC, with necessary adjustments being made in
GPA's accounts. Under the relevant subsidiary agreement, Government will
ensure that GCHC will use the equipment and materials provided efficiently to
improve port operations in cooperation with GHA.
BEST GOPY AVAILABLE



- 38 -
Procurement and Disbursement
94.      For the cocoa sector component of the project, contracts for goods
costing $100,000 equivalent or more would be procured through ICB according to
the Bank Guidelines. Goods costing less than $100,000 equivalent but in the
aggregate not to exceed $2 million equivalent, may be procured through
negotiated purchases after obtaining at least three quotations from estab-
lished and reliable suppliers. For the timber component, equipment and
vehicles costing $500,000 equivalent and more, and spare parts costing
$250,000 equivalent and more, would be procured through ICB according to the
Bank Guidelines. Equipment and vehicles and spare parts costing less than the
above amounts, respectively, may be procured through negotiated purchases
after obtaining at least three quotations from established and reliable
suppliers. For the gold mining component, goods costing $300,000 equivalent
or more would be procured through ICB according to the Bank Guidelines.
Contracts for goods costing less than $300,000 equivalent but up to the
aggregate amount of $3 million or contracts for goods which can be supplied
only by a limited number of suppliers, may be financed through direct
invitation to bid issued to such suppliers; the aggregate amount of these two
types of contracts shall not exceed $10 million. For the ports sector,
contracts for goods costing $100,000 equivalent or more should be procured
through ICB according to the Bank Guidelines. Contracts costing less than
$100,000 equivalent, but not exceeeing $500,000 equivalent in aggregate, may
be purchased through negotiated purchases after obtaining at least three
quotations from established and reliable suppliers. Proprietary items under
the project (including proprietary items for the gold mining sector up to the
aggregate amount of $10 million equivalent) may be procured on a negotiated
basis on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Contracts of less than
$10,000 equivalent would not be eligible for financing under the Credit. The
Credit would be disbursed against 100 percent of foreign expenditures against
full doeumentation.  The Credit is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
L966.
95.      Proceeds provided under the IDA Special Fund Credit for the project
may be used to finance expenditures for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, any of the following countries: a) any Part II member of the
Association and b) those countries who at the time of signing the Credit
Agreement had notified or advised the Administrator in writing that they
intended to make a Special Fund Contribution in a minimum amount conforming
with paragraph 4 of the IDA Special Fund Resolution, or c) which had notified
or advised the Association in writing that they intended to make a Special
Fund Contribution in such minimum amount to the FY84 Account and had advised
the Association in writing that such Special Contribution was to be treated in
the same manner as a Special Fund Contribution for purposes of any future
adjustment of the voting rights of the members of the Association.
Mid-term Review
96.      The proposed Credit including US$38.0 million equivalent from the
Special Fund would be disbursed in two tranches: US$38 million of the proposed
Credit would be available for disbursement after the Credit is declared effec-
tive; the remaining US$38 million would be available for disbursement after
review of performance in carrying out specific xudertakings under the project
(as set out in Schedule 4 of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and
BEST OgPY AVAILABLE



- 39 -
the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). The review would take place end-
December 1984 (Section 3.04 of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and
the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement). The release of the second tranche
would be subject to satisfactory review by IDA. The review would, in rarti-
cular, examine the following performance criteria: (a) size and composition
of the FY85 Development Budget and the Foreign Exchange Budget and their con-
sistency with the medium-term investment program; (b) maintenance of an
adequate level of cocoa producer prices; (c) reduction in staffing of the
GCNB; (d) formulation of alternative strategies for the state-owned timber
companies; (e) achievement of managerial and financial targets set for the
SGMC under the management contract; and (f) progress in appointment of tech-
nical assistance personnel under the proposed Technical Assistance Project
(Schedule 4 of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft
Special Fund Credit Agreement).
Accounts, Audit and Evaluation
97.      The project implementing agencies (i.e., GCKB, NIB, SGNC and GPA)
would maintain records and separate accounts in respect of the respective
sector components and have the accounts and financial statements audited each
fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The
audited accounts and the audit reports would be furnished to the Associaton
not later than four months after the end of the fiscal year. The project
implementing agencies would also maintain records adequate to record and
monitor the progress of the respective sector components and prepare and
furnish quarterly progress reports to the Association. There would be a
quarterly review of progress of the project by the Interministerial Export
Rehabilitation Committee, which wculd also prepare and submit to the
Association within six months of project completion, a completion report on
the costs and benefits resulting from the project.
Counterpart Funds
98.      Local currency funds generated by the sale of foreign exchange
provided by the proposed Credit would be deposited into a special counterpart
funds account to be established in the Bank of Ghana. An assurance has been
obtained at negotiations that such counterpart funds would be utilized to
finance part of the recurrent or capital cost of priority projects included in
the Government's Development Budget (Section 3.03 of both the draft Develop-
ment Credit Agreement and the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement).
Benefits
99.      Two sets of benefits are expected to flow from this proposed project:
(i) net incremental foreign exchange earnings of about US$42 million per annum
from the cocoa, gold mining, and timber subsectors, and (ii) strengthening of
domestic institutions to sustain the export expansion effort in the post-
project period; the concurrent Technical Assistance Project has been designed
to ensure that all relevant institutions in the four subsectors are suffi-
ciently strengthened that a reversal in the export expansion would be
unlikely.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 40 -
100.     The estimated incremental foreign exchange earnings represent
conservative estimates. In the cocoa subsector the projet would finance the
rehabilitation and inputs requirements of about 300,000 acres, and an
incremental annual production of about 12,000 tons has been estimated; this
would result in net foreign exchange earnings of about US$12 million per
annum. This is a conservative estimate since it does not take account of the
improvements in the quality of the cocoa from the better evacuation and
storage facil]Lties financed by the project. In the timber subsector, total
export production is estimated to increase from 110,000 m3 to about 450,000 m3
per annum, resulting in net foreign exchange earnings of about US$10 million
per annum. In the gold mining sector, the SGNC mines are expected to increase
their annual gold output from about 72,000 oz to about 165,000 oz over a
three-year period as a result of mine rehabilitation under the project. Net
incremental foreign exchange earnings from the gold mining component would
amount to about US$20 million per annum. The investment for improving the
capacities of the ports of Takoradi and Tema are complementary for facili-
tating the export expansion effort, particularly in cocoa and timber sectors,
and would result in savings in operating costs of exporters and demurrage
charges as well as speeding up delivery of Ghanaian exports in the foreign
markets. It is not possible to accurately calculate the rates of return for
each component of the project. However, on the basis of foreign exchange
costs and benefits, and assuming that the total local cost of the project
would be about 20 percent of the total foreign exchange cost, the economic
rate of return for the entire project is estimated to be approximately 20
percent, and even with extreme assumptions should not be less than 15 percent.
Although these are crude estimates, these calculations are useful in defining
the downside risks, and the substantial human resource input through the
Technical Assistance Project has been designed to minimize these risks in the
immediate future while creating the required capacity in the relevant domestic
institutions to sustain the export promotion drive over time.
Risks
101.     In spite of the above, the project is not free of risks.  This
residual risk is to be expected considering the gargantuan nature of the
tasks: (i) to reverse the rapidly declining production through asset rehabili-
tation, new management structures, adequate producer and staff incentives, and
new investments; (ii) to convert this additional production into foreign
exchange through improved domestic logistics and world market penetration;
(iii) to create new and streamlined institutions; (iv) to develop credibility
in the stability of the policies underlying the Economic Recovery Program; and
(v) to carry out all these activities in a coordinated fashion. The other
residual risk would be that the Government may be unable to implement the
economic recovery program or that it may modify and alter it in midstream or
take other policy actions that may counteract the attainment of its main
objectives. So far the Government has demonstrated its commitment to the
recovery program by fully implementing a number of drastic policy reform
measures in spite of severe economic and political difficulties. A mid-term
review would take place in December 1984 to ascertain continued progress under
the ERP and the release of the second tranche of the proposed Credit would be
contingent on satisfactory progress.
BEST COPY AVAIABLE



- 41 -
102.     There would also be a number of project-specific risks.  The poten-
tial risks of the cocoa component mainly center around the political and
practical problems of large-scale staff reduction. The Government is strongly
committed to reducing operating costs of GCMB and is expected to design
acceptable adjustment assistance programs for displaced workers. The reduc-
tion program would be phased over five years to ease the transition. The
principal risk of the timber component would be that commercial banks may not
be willing to increase lending to timber companies because many of them had to
operate on substantial overdrafts in the past. With the recent adjustment in
the exchange rate and the institutional reforms proposed under the project,
the finances of export timber companies are expected to improve. The Bank of
Ghana has indicated that sufficient cedi funds would be available for the
purchase of inputs and if necessary it would introduce a "pool" system to
ensure a timely supply of cedis.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
103.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Ghana
and the Association, the draft Special Fund Credit Agreement between the
Republic of Ghana and the Association acting as the Administrator for the
Special Fund, and the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Administrator on one hand, and GCMB, NIB, SGMC and GPA on the other hand and
th- Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d)
o. the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
104.     In addition to the special features of the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Special Fund Credit Agreement and Project Agreement which are
referred to in the text and summarized in Section III of Annex III of this
Report, the conditions of the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agree-
ment and the Special Fund Credit Agreement are: (a) execution of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement for the Export Rehabilitation Technical Assistance
Project; (b) execution of the Project Agreement between the Association and
the Administrator and the project implementing agencies; (c) execution of
subsidiary agreements between the Republic of Ghana and the project imple-
menting agencies; and (d) the establishment of the special account mentioned
in para. 92 above. Conditions of disbursement would be: (a) SGIC to enter
into a management contract with an international mining company to manage SGMC
mines except for expenditures not exceeding $5 million; (b) a successful
review by IDA of performance in carrying out specific undertakings under the
project at the end of December 1984 for disbursement of the second tranche of
the Credit; and (c) completion of restructuring of GCMB and putting into
effect a revised cocoa producer price.
105.     I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 42 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
106.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed deve-
lopment credit.
A.W. Clausen
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
December 12, 1983
BES J Pra^y P 



tAu111 I
- 43  -                                           Page  1 of  5
T AIBL r. u
GHANA                 -SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
GHANA                               REFERENCE GROUPS (EIGHTED AVERACES) a
HOST                    (HoST RECENT ESTIMATE) lb
lr/b      lb  RCENT  lb          LOW TNCOHE            NIDDLTtNMCOIE
1 9 WI-b-    1970- CTESIATR-      APRICA S. OP SAHARA    AFRICA S. OP SAHARA
ARu (THOUSAD SQ. DI
TOTAL                             238.5      233.5      233.5
ACRICULTURAL                       65.4       61.4       62.1
cMP PER ClC:TA (115)                190.0       260.0      400.0             254.6                   1147.9
ClNl COINION PER CAPITA
(ICILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)   104.0      266.0      268.0              79.8                    724.2
MOI.ATIOI MU VITAL STATISTCS
POPULATION,HID-YEAR (THOUStANDS)   6804.0   R614.0    11o30.0
URBAII POPULATtON (2 or TOTAL)    23.3        29.1       36.6              19.5                     28.5
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                         24.2
STATtONARY POPULATION (KILL)                           85.4
YeAk STATIONARY POP. REAOIED                         2135
POPULATION ThENSITY
PER SQ. DI.                      28.5       36.1       48.2              29.5                     56.5
PER SQ. KM. ACRI. LAM)         104.0       140.2      I34.6              94.1                    131.8
POPU.LATION AGE STRUCTURE (2)
0-14 YRS                        44.5       45.R       46.8              45.0                     45.9
15-64 YES                        52.9       51.6       50.5              52.1                     51.2
65 AND ABOVE                     2.6         2.7        2.7               2.9                      2.8
POPuLATION cROirII RATE (2)
TOTAL                             4.4        2.6        2.9               2.8                      2.8                     l
URBAN                            9.2         4.6        5.0               6.2                      5.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUS)      50.2        50.2       49.3              6 7.9                    47.6                   C
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUS)      20.3        16.9       13.4              19.2                     15.2
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE            3.4         3.4        3.4               3.2                      3.2
FAMIY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANRIAL (THOUS)          .         8.3       33.5/c
USERS (E OF MARRIED WOMEN)        ..         1.5        4.071r             *-                       *
=D AM  NUrRMON
INDEX OF FOOD PRO. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100) _                   93.0       101.0       72.0              87.8                     95.7                   7_
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF                                                                                                       lX
CALORIES (2 OF REQUIREU4ENTS)   92.0        98.0       88.0              88.0                     97.1                    0
PROTESIiS (GRAMS PER DAY)       43.0        51.0       44.0              51.2                     56.0
OF WHICH APIXL AND PULSE        13.0       17.0       15.0/c            18.1                     17.2
CNITLD (ACES 1-4) DEATH RATE      30.6        24.6       18.9              25.7                     23.6                    3m
WJLTSIc
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)     44.8        49.9       54.5              47.4                     51.9                   LI
INFANT MIRT. RATE (PER THOUS)    142.9       121.6      101.0             126.5                    117.6                     C
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (%PoP)
TOTAL                              ..       35.0       35.0/.            24.7                     25.4
URBAN                              .. 86.0             scoW              56.8                     70.5
RURAL                                       1 14.0     16.07e            18.3                     12.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(2 OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ,,       55.0       56.0/e            28.1
URBAN                             ..        92.0       95.07o7           65.7
RURAL                              ..       40.0       40.0re            21.9
POPULATION PER PHYSICWIY        21600.0    12910.0/    7630.0           27420.6                  12181.6
POP. PER NURSING PERSON          5430.0/f   1070.0/     780.0            3456.2                   2292.0
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          1290.0      760.0      660.0/c          1183.2                   1075.4
URmAI                           300.0/f    770.0      830.07i           330.6                    402.3
RURAL                         47590.07f    890.0      730.07;T         3177.5                   3926.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..          ..
AVERSGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..        4.7
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
AvERACE NO. OF PERSONSIROCH
TOTAL                              ..         ..
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..
ACCESS TO MLECT. (S OF DNPJLtNCS)
TOTAL                              ..         ..         ..                ..                       .
URBAN                              ..         ..
RURAL                              ..         ..



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A B L E 3A
GHANA                  - maCIA INDICATORS        S T
GHNA                                 REPEREICE COUPS (WEIGHITD AVERAGES) r!
HOST                     (MOST RCCENT ESTLIATC)A
/bICN          Low INCOME             EIDDLEIUChh
1960Jb    E1970- ESTIMAT11J        AFRICA S. OP SAMABA    AFRICA U. OP SARAI
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARYt  TOTAL                   36.0       64.0        69.0              63.9                      97.2
MALE                   32.0        73.0        77.0              73.6                    103.1
FU1IALF                25.0        54.0       60.0               51.6                     68.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                   5.0       14.0        36.0              12.5                      17.2
MALE                    9.0        21.0       44.C               16.7                     23.5
FEMALE                  3.0         8.0       27.0                6.1                     14.2
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)         12.6       23.3         3.5/d             7.3                       5.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          31.0        30.0        27.0/d            46.4                      42.9
SECMtARY                          16.0LL     17.0        19.07;            25.1                      23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (2)            27.0/h      30.2          *-              36.5                      37.1
WUNPrIION
PASSENCR CARS/THUUSAND POP          3.0         4.6         6.8/c             3.3                      18.8
RADIO RECEIVERS/THOUSAND POP       42.7        81.6       162.6              43.3                     97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAPD POP           0.1/i       1.9         5.0               2.2                      18.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION            30.0       48.2        30.5               4.7                      13.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA     1.6         2.2         0.4               1.0                      0.6
LABO FORCE
L&I           TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOMS)         2919.0      3421.n     4396.0
_ imi           FEMALE (PERCENT)                 42.6        62.1        41.1              34.5                      36.1
ig;Am           ACRICULTURE (PERCENT)             64.0        58.n        53.0              76.9                      56.6
INDuSTRY (PERCENT)               14.0        17.0        20.0               9.8                      17.5
a          PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
_001001          TOTAL                             62.9        39.7       37.2               40.9                     37.0
KALE                              50.0       46.6        44.0              ;3.0                      47.1
=____            FEMALE                            36.0        33.0       30.4               28.9                     27.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO           1.1         1.2         1.3               1.2                      1.3
-=u         DINCNI DUISTRI3IOU
-               PERCENT OF PRIVATE I NCQIE
RECEIVED Sy
3                 HIGHEsT 57 OF HOUSEIHOLDS           ..
HIGHEST 20z  OF HOUSEHOLDS          ..
LOWEST 202 0  BOOS EHOLDS          ..
LOWEST 40? OF NOUSIHOLDS            ..
__iiWI TAtCgT GROUNS
C013        E~~STIMTED ABSOLUTE fOVERTY INICQIE
LEVEL (USS PER CPTA)
UR3AN                               ..         ..       307.0/d            165.9                    534.2
RURAL                                          * *      150.07;d           87.4                     255.9
ESTIMATED REDATIVE POVERTY INCCPE
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..       156.0/d           100.8                     491.5
RURAL                              ..          ..       130.07i            66.6                     188.1
ESTIMATED POP. BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOE LEVEL (2)
UR BAN                             ..          ..          ..              39.5
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..              69.0
NOT AVAILABLE
HOT APPLICABLE
N 0 T E S
/a The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of contrie among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted. "Data for 1960- refer to any yesr between 1959 and 1961; -Data for 1970" beteen 1969 and
1971; and data for Mlost Recent Eatimte" between 1979 and 1981.
/c 1977: /d 1978; /e 1975; /f 1962: fg Registered. not all practicing In the country; /h Age 6 and over; /I 1964;
/i Public Schools only.
May 1983



7VX 
- 45 -                                                                       Page 3 of 5
eAFlfllTlIi OF IaCtAL IUlCATl3
klei;,nitklleesb lb. det. ate dri- ve  ra -.ines  m-eRm'y Jedged lb- Want ethefilliv  sod reliable. Ii  hkvi4 else be eeld fbi  Iby sep  mgt be leraw"ttenlly
superabl  becme eflblee   t   i,eiiie  delentllio.med asuesple  sead bi dii ferLe  oastrlee Inc vlleOim    the dale.  The dais ea,. leathibles. meesictoi
desc rIbe   Madet  at edavllcie  ledlel  trede        rr.. A hrtlmlll    areail  "J.r dl rfereec    blmtie Caesirlad.
ITh.e emv   rave. ire II) lb  ease  -etery pgrep If tie *ebjsm   meetly  di (2) C litver   slep slth eAnkI  tlhgier 'circa   seeo  lbsn lbe  -Mery area  ef iel
eubjeet emestry leoc-pite   lUIst. fI..-' Oil fepetrler   ar-p metrs  ilddla immes  twith Uri.. asd MIddleK Ia La c                w absebe ofs5  elroer eaoei-evttsrat
ifflailIC.11),. I Li.s lefrsre" pry1 diti lIme ev.eree r.r pepelstias nelatled eritbelttoane.el far mee twiedleer and .l1mv esty hac sejerit o7f ib. AJvet,lem leea
*rep Jis deli ref thAt lWItelr.  Stile the ra-ersem  ci --erlles eas tlb  Irelmlele-r  *dP--ds -n Itsl ivileblIty .1 dali med to eel enilIs. intlet east be
eserelmad Is retells. emeremee et -e. Icltleer vs -eetbef.w m.Th.  e ns,An  "mIF vBook Is emorenl tb  maIm of as ISIsLear si -t lime s                            tlw memairy aid
rsferarm. gramps.
Aiftt-tBeei e.bed .flyleecsThflt    - FPee1telse divIded  by MAsbr .1 prmleelele
..w 1910 a t..                                              Y.   1.         A.,   !12L         ~~~~~~~~~~~~er;as  maslsteaL dvefebem -b    o praslalvrs,aid
7u Ii~    elare, -111adku aelGd..  c                    fIt..tes   MAO.                   vufele,.. emelele..
liii med tea dtl..1t;is    e   ehlbd-hd    yit  n ,let 2                                                                                                    Psysleie  (Istlet
urbs. mjrurl)  Ivded by 'bel nest          Mebr.,t toCpLIal bde
g5PinC7tplTGA(fL_. U  - anl psr -epit. etliasec t e .. eers  meka  pritcee                ..emllebte Is peklle esi prIve. aeverel med spasleilsad bepttell  aS
~ilieliiiii. 5    ,seerslm   melhnd cm Worl  Sick AItes. (tin9-al bemle                        rehbetliLmetle  leetsnc  11"iaslel  en mmtabllabsmts pm,eAsMlsAtyceft
logo. 14110. cod tIl  diii.                                                                        by it Iceel IMa  itIkiela.  ltmlbkllhbeolm  proaWlica prJfttpellp  memdial
vaman ir  vt Isaltds.  Ptare  baptitel. beave. iulsele hmttb a
taseti otAsaPrT1t rum CiSl1A   -Mte  eppi...mt reapemmpltee .i aeverlce1                              Ineiled.. etorm  MeL pmrsma.MLlky east td bye  phymletee (bot bye godg       I
prleely e-erp   Lee   S   gta,  cr -ee   tie  aes cad bydre-. AWeIser                              ieeleieei  bmae. clil1l1e  OLCc  s.tick etter Ik-pittet elvinSclesha cm
N=siiere  eleIrCI.top) BeUW klgm. v            Ia eqtm lPm? Capitel                            Presid. A 1ltaIl  renne at sedleI teeiileUs,  ftr eia.tiiAat perpeme,
Ilile  liP, ai 191.  dot..                                                                         orbis beeptials lfeeoted  1111  prlsatpmigeerel basytitas. med rWara
hoeplltml. local or or.ri bePiete1 iS OWLeet end maltreLty Anlasre.
pipotf la   a  cl    claland TL,1pIceti1i md belpiiteL  ire teIded sIp meder lite..
WiiN I IT-TIN L! T1Fii-iILi!en45!I- Am.v  Is J1t It IWO. tile. ead let1            ~        il !l l ieim   - Totle  sm"te  of  "aistactma to BP ilebeftm
d.t..                                                                             .11, ~~~~~~~~~~~~eretjibtI. rl  lb  sm-bBr at beds.
1krb.. PsetLtim. meped- t  lelet    - PeLlt. ef erbee Is leta  pi.i.Lelte-
dlfiv   4-.1s ole   atB art  irmee -y if tat emeperaktiity .f J.ti                        ausmat
me._ etril_   tba. 1910. mad lulL dtla.                                                     matc  iei   bmebi(ecl   e besesteid   -  ut  cle   med  ore
fr.3ijjev   in  Hetm -9        1:    ..-k             PJ1-e--~ad             AI                   I   beesel  IIcr            ci'    i allay s-flevtdua I  BAY flaent ttcl umecteI.
lelet poPsLelCia  by icecadee  eBa  Mctr v aly  And lsrttltty                                  lb  bemembidts   ttalieckl plerbemem.
fume.  'eswrts pcreor. far vrtlltyp rile, ae-prIeso   ba                                      ee.eee   tera    e rm-hd    Iy    Ste!eaeauai
lieecme   ieepceteeey et bilPt ime-mmqL  lith -te lryepe't.er e pe   isIsatsts,ciree   mspe                                                          cowllee
tepi.  vi.   tBeet  Bad temet  itt. eepitcec  ileballlele   et 711.                            4meltlq, repaltively.  obottlea  emet.c  me-psMesama  mirsevea  an
ym-n   Thc piriatler   ti, tei&tilly rile etve. h-n ti-m liocl                                 vetmpled Parlt.
omatgdeeima Ia firttLy1 iterd tom          . I   ce   lve  aS  pent festly              acesIcimIroi tetelv   mltel    ie.  erkes. i     MeIR 
plieslma perterwet.  bob  -eimry tc tbe 4eelamid as  at ibma sty                                                                                               anaelee  mila    h    lalliyb   timqett   em PIladto
tebimeltee !If meret.,tly  i  fmnhlllp  ,.W.d Jel vrsjartls pepaPs--                           ef Intet. orbe.. sad rura  4imtis5e  repeellely.
1155-ar,!rEfiretime - Is i scot icear  pepj.lel teiben  le -   rSmith
Ists. ito birthlet,      esa    sl   mi   ie    i etasl   mAP                              tUCATfeM
Stfmele,e lsmci MemtiSM.  T'hisI   etoiii   te   etil   mele                            31iilted lE.-I-5fl        MCeIji
dcliv. r  lb  r;fple.s I  eL ...  atI ..tt -tlerpre.titee  -ile. alt-s                         rrr~tmfE!L t-iiut4ct  este                     ress Cetel. ses am female
meet *c..nltm   e--c. repta-   ileslf ema               h-y Pts  lletsry                          raccl tes  mlil   egcm   t   Imr=CY t At mepeeisiemm.1 wre"mpetiv
ylolllt sIms.         t beel Isd ye . lb kelt   lb  p%rejtdi  eemtlo-                           prImary mabe-ape pepeteilema  teesett  i-Lnetes   mIdr. line ad 6-1t
etos CIt lb. pieatee. Im Ikeper    e  eed lb.  fil  If dmetla  of                                psi  beC  djetdli 1.1 dfttcr        Lesothod Bt pricwrey  dvatimi tor
f-rlllify rule is r-pl-ee-e   coot.                                                              Imectrian  Ltehl?. eIve l eductes cere   ..tei mayV caem  Igo psresac
flit  leltoe= 7 pccsele          t -Lreehs  - rts Pee? ekes s.ismary                               cIsri is  peillm  en  ble1t or1e  lb. Lk.  ffateL1 matmt ely.
'Usclelil    Itbrsed                                                                  Sefeide, mAbel- tle   mat:., a  femal  - Caspeced as ievoi metosiay
Inietmllc  tee                                                                                     Simectimanrqls   cvItl                 r m  eear It eppm     prtiasy ieelf. tentes
- mi-vee ;         p.Ipelt  per P. alm  kat-Imele  C teo te..enm) et                         Prsoic  aanterI * vCaitioal. er ivieber lldtimaI leetrvitheec tEW
inIiriii      4lIk. 190. mend 1655  dl.7                                                          PUpil. BALMILY' If 12 tc 11 yealm ii mail torrepmsAAtle tyrant in
!!pYrc.b.criutrlle   - Captelc is iB.- I., amrctstimra  lcad                                        eamiortl  seetidd.VMt-LMCe an
ccl~~ littI. l~~~tf ad  d111011 diii.                                               lelat5-Ioset  ael leas  (mecel ft.  ,1  neaIery 11-  Iialtimma  Ip.-L.ci1omed
IspelcilmeMs lineelee (cer tesi   4  -Jilre  10""-I   pas)   eelka-iai let-                   i        IIide paeb tal,isotrtaF  as abder     preffit r t lckeprie  idped
po petrel, ca 1leD Irs  lvi pIn   Ser   spreiemc   l-srityo   eipwssmi    aedr                                                                    ?..Lle  b ta. . ..1al1
Cr-hlasiesi mietre  cl)-level -  -MsmI em 8-              me it-    hd  mid .-               -IiiipL~i~l,sti57    ssame   eebr   eiete
year pepeWtate   for I950-0. 190-P.uad 1910-mit.                                                 t..Peadlug teal..
Psuat.ie. fretel Aie fp sre- ) - ce.0e  - A-Icmlal1  rith       et-.  srbs                      MeIl Itlsr,e  tl  teec Lat         - tIlaeI   Smile  tibIa  i -liedc -i mt.) me
yep.eial-aI tir t.ii-bu. 1S-Il.  n d 1911-41                                                        -- -.P--M..a etoaea   ii   elp a  lea e     11 Y-e" ad bear.
,Cr..i  biril sido iemr ib-ccc    - Ae1m Ive kirth. pal Ltemeed If st4-
peel pepei.Clmel tin0. Lt 'a. Bed lull da.L                                                  cowIIHPTiII
feed  besotf Rfete (cm  lhcI-IadJ)     I- A     h.eat per iheanniet of edu-year                   ec-a- -eR- C.-ir. (e rbssccd cemeailes   F--Pseer Cerc teepr&Ia  solr
Pe.jtiMtie     tin0. typo. iA  lm   iIa                                                          IIen  asefea siee  lbs. vl Iak  peresmetaeliOdee mekeAAItAtm    teereem  gS
Fr."Pmrdets Pot- e Pats - ivifef  ra`ter of danghttil  I ses  sill beaf to                      miIltry mebitte.
brecdUepidtie   pelte  It  hb esil.oepoceemi4 ea-epotlefdi5escr .e ibeme  vse                                                        ALe)      I ippem   f feisore few radIo
f Lrittp riles: eceetl  f Isya  toereaslno imtl  iIi1980, tilt, aW                             trere   agarlp11   e  bma t pqpstelinA"t solsm   te
lu1ll,                                                                                           flcesan  rec1osr  is teeriemt  ast gn peers  eest reaC.telfelte           c adle
fet -  Whel1y   -h esposra hey!fi             -AIme  - A-eal -b.te  mf metePL                      -Crme  Mee Is atfatf  deic tsr 'eves  pairs asp mat be Conoirbte si.. seet
If btrles-coetrcl teviom   .so  ecepien  itmelosa  idlyF plemaa                                  f-AIciri, ibitebd II.masicS.
poar-sm..                                                                                        lefeiosrm (ear Iesim  emitiec   - 'IV ra-e,er   tsr treedleel t5
Peetty Plamais  - II.-1  tIpn7llit Isrrted i--It - tr-ch-le. It malld ISplca   vtc  e  teei                                          ettte  Bi-lido  melItoee An T  receiver
Cs ithttl=tLeet  aieIik    eee   t n  _ I        klrth- tl.rl ic,l-m  t.                      in c-astiLo aid Is poere ft.  rIlltrtimea it TV male -s  to of tai.
linde. a  lead ltisrtl..  per C.elm ttla~l-i. .,W- td   ef per cel110                po1bleceiv  defotc  plt1crily t. leocrLlc  -eo-I  -e.  It In easmidori
aecit  eadle am  f eI Ied   ediiim    trisolismeesee-eiaII,- "d                     itf It Iappian sL Intlte L"oe              ek
fe-d iSa le. IIealairy- peal ins.  CcItte    etpieyaae(g                                        imebt          lcSleatt    c Cati. P.w  Mer - tiend ii lb. "Bife  S1
a"eov  elSo   eil  ko   r    I'ecd  emelil PlociImea  10.1.1lkl   ei de                                                er.imtdicGT eh-iemmm   C. iliv-ic .1iase   ad
til p  e   1m  ele-  eilvidd.  98c cgate pedettism  ef  -esttsr C' Is L                           -bit. -ill..
bei  cc  ivvl-.L cleri. p1miW-  price -.ctete; 1liklSi. 1971, ind l9lt
dale.                                                                                        Li5S rme
Perccii em1t    ealy it calorIe  (P.cev .t rcivlrM .el)     Cso.Iad [Me                  ~U wPlt  Imam   ftmmeICc1,p atIve peeas. teiftlelos cmos
icn   qmtoatiu  otma  tie  cepylti  eolkl  le -sir  per tapite per                           Itecamepes   i  oeultkeeloi*sadm                             .l tlei. eIemiqn
day . dmible "e'plte  oewtua  d-seto. pred-coias. tqtpre  iee                                Ppepelcoto  of aL cam.sW.  ettlias  Is  arLe.. cmanotlm-e erase
mprle, Is   bce   oelt.   llm1pteeeu.meoifs,mSs                                                 mprbe  11061. 1970 tand till die.
jecelloleece Ai  s   ttee   itoccs..ca  lees- -InI itelbeuttien.  Madep.ee)-Pselbe   ot                                                  eisls  flIdlkrfre
L.cI-1 Bed bells  teeliIis  corese -e Ie.pe.rmlere   edy mael,tcig  mpraig   efb.te  lane  tnt -                                           1680, 1970 mry taliLt. fd.
maeABL_ .Mm..itlIlli  of  PeAtO Is.. md Miptycleg tO1 -Weoq  fe   st                              ieto(          cint) - tubertot  ton sIen c faoLtetreliry. meafmalcrtmso
ecl.tiaseBad teat   ild-ti  typ  m--bad 1990boale                                                   *rd sle Irtl.me,a    S eprelgstItltarteetU
Icr ccciii mimety sf ereltln islcse eel Jay) M- PlelolIflelleeltat per teplte  1911 lad tI= die.
eel mnepi it feedl"t pe da.  Sovt eyty itd 65  a.  totesm  akiaac. fIal-tett,atim   isl     ZL brfel  9- Ioa!  male cI.A    tsls  -n bcrltelpcitiaem
r.  plso prolel.a sBIc -tO  K er    Beli"y -e diet.j   mt roeis    ra                             lIpi, 1970, itd M[5  data.     Tesartose    t.ptipgsclm
sted.enlee ipo  ibme e1   71 5tme  ord lof cipretee ad -1piartole   e-c   lvlr   fl    eec  o,atm   11t  irP,a   -v£
si eats.! pelats me m  evarime for lb  vend    priei   by   Is_ btesslae -4c free seme Ieros
Th.IrdIII-ti;Pa  ¶mevey -1911k.tp   c    Wdl.fmmi  es                                                            y tile -bykilo ot psys...elies aster 1) abi Seedser
deft                                                                                         lImIt S.MM  A   .,L.  yFA   .  btimat-mvrteitinalBem.
Th0ir leen t-4lSil PIale le9  iteis1ed) - dtecIdcten  imeatoeemc   v  PIJi    la as  btl If meeMt alo  -" Pceld   by "   MrIbl "
PlaLPII                                                                            rIvalry TSGt~~~~~~~~~~r.1...  Gaminae  E
Wei et tat 161cr  IrsIfOl i              .er L.io Ba total. eftee mad -trea                        eIltmlyeael   Ilpt                      etlel-lead lreaeinee  Vacastot
s.brit- peipi  tieletd. ..Ltm. cdtsr-. 1)0 c 1i 70eeceatd e19 v1 d     Ii- eat                   i   l dkt.
mate  cep?ictdefeldmle   tlnm   slee    cfimii ecleIemcloelvlIn)mlcsl)-uksane 
FmitesliMlysi  mIe   repnie    eees,strc   a                                            motel leilO   pearlyr tees  tehveld.I6m ec-ib4lf-.          rlepr  yl
sam.  rtn a ptil Vti.el eh         samipee    dterc  eel Inten. hee .r5 Aoln                      ln e.  `dmaCec  fir~ bleerfelt  tSo-i-Mq  scrm   mee.
teemi.  t wutl irn  reeecste acee s9..d 19 pl0 iand  its1 d emif                         e   tIrc P- Pe.ec  01I.tet    ob    s             cl e   l
eabes o  tbrbembeI I  e - eel tan  is1- o-ei   e iopepellsed   petL -itftBL  dBC   btp---te  nta    "AM"    .
rurar -pply (I-"1 p     tpl  (.eCtA  Ilnee-. ce  ro  I)  eet td by oceweids:-1                                                                        A
Ibcepeesat ee potticteem    it It    Zf-repeot -   d pep nale lem .   prolald iicpeec
maye  melien bae ostIC"'tLee    AL basepsal  stit or  ibel. Irmle. If thattasvit eat Smilel Palmll                                        rtlr              jpiolei
basic oonta md vemi-l  blel b      see-toe     eplyme  at lb. h-Iot ft    rceMae --epsls        tamitlies  Seppiese
pblltIf C a     bs=eilaw thLu           Cclo .                                                                                                      tidtp.Pot  tetaFes-
tb. day I. f.hing                                                                                BEST  COPY  AVAILABLE.



- 46 -                                    ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
GHMa BOUIC DM
MiP PE CAPITA m_ 19B2: US3E02/
MM  NATIICL PELJRO     3 1982                                           A.NUAL RATE CF cMcWM
Constant Prices)
Cedis Min.             %                      1977-2
IP at Mazmt Priems                   113,240           100.00                     -0.86
Gros Domestic Investmnt               1,472               1.3                    -16.40
ross Natimal Saving                   i,5E5               1.4                    -16.45
Current Account Balace                -16.6             -0.09                        -
Ecport of Goods, NE                  2009.0              1.77                     -9.44
Ihport of Goods, NF3                 1959.0              1.73                   -20.22
aW1R AND IALR FRCE
Oatput in 192                                 Iabor Force, 1 92
Cedis Mn.               %                       Min.
Agricultur                          44,Q31              51.28                    2.59       57.2
Iuut1y                               6,440               7.50                    0.671      15.3
Services                            35,395              41.22                    1.206      27.5
Tata1                               85,866              100.0                    4.3E6     100.0
_entral Goveriet
Cedis Min.    % of GDP in 19B1    CedisXin.    %ofGIPIn19
Totva Reveme and Grauts            4,855.3             6.33          5253.2             6.12
Total Ependitue and Net Iending    9,702.9            12.66          922.1             10.74
Overall Deficit g-)               4,847.6             -6.32         -3966.9            -4.62
MM,  MI AND PRICES
1976     19g7     1978     1979      198)     19B      192
I!y and Quamsirey                  1,903    3,044    5,131    5,942    7,949   12,0(    15,072
Bik Credit to Pablic Sector        1,966    3,203    5,636    6,537    8,481    14,043    1,714
k    Credit to Pxivate Sector       3E5       560      739      796      940    1,342    1,559
(Pecentages or Index Numbers)
Non  sand Quasi-mmey as   of MP     29.2     27.3     24.4     21.1      19.4     15.7     17.6
General Price Index (IgmiC0)       46.2    100.0    173.1    267.3    401.2    868.6   1062.4
I/ Staff estimte
S1ptaXer 193



ANNEX I
Paoe 5 of 5
- 47-
BAIANE OF PAYMEN0S                                           MCH3ANDE EXPORTS (AVGE l-?)
1990     1981      1932/                                  IN Mix.      %
(ll$~ion)-
Cocoa Den &Products  654.5         72.9
Trade Balance            184.3      22.3     98.2            Timber Ito  & Products   3B.2        4.3
Exports                16B29 iU              7.2             Gold                   135.1       15.0
Imorts                -1024.6   -78B.7   -529.0             Diammds                   10.3       1.1
I.gaese                  9.6        1.1
Invisibles (Net)        -16B.0   -140.4   -114.8             All Other Goods          50.1        5.6
Services               -24.7.7   -223     -197.2
Transfers                79.7      82.9     82.4             Total                  897.8      100.0
Cuzent Balance            16.3   -162.7    -16.6
Capital Accounts
Official Capital (Net)   187.9     57.3    149.7             =MMUAL DM , ES4BE  1932
Private Capital (Net)    19.8      26.3     31.7
Arrears Paments           78.9    141.4     35.2                                             DMS Min.
Overall Balance           81.5   -262.5      56.4            Total Oatstadin  and
Gross Intemnational                                            Disbused  Y&I                   1648.6
Reserves (End of Period) 197.6    189.8    223.9            Total Outstanding srd
]Isbxred id. Shot--term          1163.6
Fbevary 1973 - June 18, 1978                                 IW  SEICB RATIO 1OR 1991
t  - =01.15                                                                             %
Since Augst 26, 1978                                         Total Diatsta ig and
U9$  02.75                                         and Disbursed N&T                10.7
Total OutstadirAg and
Distirsed inml. z.ment arTears   17.9
JH/IDA ILENG (V%rch 31, 1983)
I3D        EiDA
Oatstardi   and
DMibrsed              13).2     122.1
Utdisbirsed              18.9      94.2
Oatstandixig, il.
'                -                                   Undisbursed           149.1     216.3
1/  Provisial estinates sabject to cbange.
W   Includes errors and omissions.
3/  Actal data not available. EStiMtes only.
Sepember 19B3



- 48 -
AN= II
Mi SLOE O BANK (Ga3P OIERM E IN ]GM                 Page 1 of 1 page
Sra       COF BANIK  AN AN) M  CRED1IS (rA-of Septuber 30, 1983)*
Toan or                                                                       hut (US$)
Credit       Fiscal                                                       lTAS tAe tion  1
Nuber         Year         Rorraur                   Purpe                iank   MA        disbued
Six loans armi twelve credits fully disbursod                          118.5  89.9
531-QG       1975 Republic of *=a            Oil PaLn                          13.6      0.6
1122-G       1975 Post & Teleimnunications  Telecoumricationr           23.0             9.2
1180-QI      1975 Republic of Quna           Nat'l Ttment Bank        10.0              0.4
1182-QI      1975 Pepublic of Ghan           Second Hlguy               18.0             0.1
1291T-Q      1976 Republic of Guna           Agricultural Dev.          21.0              5.8
901-G        1979 Republic of Ghana          Second NIB                        19.0      12.6
1009-GH      1980 Republic of hana           Agricultural Dev.                 29.5     25.9
1029-Q       1980 Republic of Ghana          Ttird Highway                     25.0      7.1
1170-QG      1981 Republic of Ghana          Railway                           29.0     28.2
1327-GI 3/   1983 Repuic of Ghaia            Reconstruction CADW                9.3      9.1
1342-QI3    1983  lepublic of Ghana          Water Supply                      13.0     13.0
1373-QG      1983 Republic of Ghana          Energy Project                    11.0     10.6
1393-Qi      1983 Republic of Qwa            Reconstruction Import     -       40.0     40.0
Total                                               190.5 279.3
of wich has bee paid                                 4       2.9
Total noW outstanding                               144.5 276.4
Aunt sold                         0.4
of which has been repaid          0.4                 0.0   0.0
Total no held by Bat* and IDk                       144.5 276.4
Tbtal undisbursed                                    15.5 147.1    162.6
The status of the projects listad above is described in a separate report an all BmAk/MA financial projects
in execution, which is uldated twice yearly ard circuated tO the Executive Directors m April 30 and
October 31.
* 'ere has been no IFC operatoim in Ghama.
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
2/ Interest ssidy fund (Third Wind).
3/ Not yet effective.
BEST COPY AVAILABLE



- 49 -
ANNEX III
Page i of 2 pages
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:     Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Date of first presentation to the Bank       April 1981
(b)  Date of departure of appraisal mission       August 1981 (original)
May 1983 (reappraisal)
(c)  Date of completion of Negotiations           November 14,1983
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness                January 1984
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a) Execution of the Development Credit Agreement for Export
Rehabilitation Technical Assistance Project as a condition of
effectiveness (para. 104);
(b)  Execution of the Project Agreement as a condition of effectiveness
(para. 104);
Cc) Execution of subsidiary agreements between the Borrower and
implementing agencies as a condition of effectiveness (para. 90);
(d) Establishment of special account as a condition of effectiveness
(para. 92);
(e) The State Gold Mining Corporation (SGMC) to enter into a management
contract with an international mining consortium to manage SGMC mines
as a condition of disbursement of the mining component (para. 80);
(f) SGMC and GPA to finalize procurement lists and schedules satisfactory
to IDA (para. 93);
(g) The Borrower to review with IDA FY85 Development and Foreign Exchange
Budgets and other performance criteria prior to release of the second
tranche of the Credit (para. 96);
(h) Establishment of the Counterpart Funds Account (para. 98);
(i) Maintenance of the Interministerial Export Rehabilitation Committee
(para. 91);



- 50 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2 pages
(j)  SGMC to carry out a plan of action to improve its gold mines (para.
81);
(k)  The Borrower to restructure the Ghana Cocoa Marketing Board (GCHB)
(paras. 54-56);
(1) The Borrower to propose, agree with IDA and implement a cocoa
producer price for 1984 as a disbursement condition for the cocoa
sector allocation of the Credit and carry out an annual cocoa
producer price adjustment In a manner satisfactory to IDA (para. 53);
(m)  The Borrower to carry out a five year GCMB staff retrenchment program
and an adjustment assirtance program for the displaced GCMB staff
(para. 58);
(n)  GCHB to carry out studies and recommendations of the studies on the
financial viability and divestiture procedures of GCMB's cocoa
plantations, cocoa products factories and insecticides formulation
plants (para. 58);
(o)  GCMB to carry out studies and recommendations of the studies on its
corporate planning and management system, alternative cocoa marketing
arrangements, and the procedures for receiving at ports, storing and
shipping of cocoa and cocoa products (para. 58);
(p)  GCHB to prepare and carry out a program to increase haulage of cocoa
through private trucking (para. 58);
(q) The Borrower to establish an independent Timber Export Development
Board (TEDB) (para. 70); and
(r) The Borrower to establish a Forest Production Inspection Bureau
(para. 71).



- 51 -                          ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 7 pages
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
COCOA SECTOR
Short-Term Rehabilitation Activities
To be Supported Under ERP
(i)      Shed Building and Rehabilitation
1.       Due to the lack of funding in recent years, there are a large number
of locations where new sheds need to be built or existing sheds
rehabilitated. As a result of the poor quality of storage facilities for
cocoa, considerable quantities of cocoa are at risk of deterioration if not
evacuated before the rainy season. It has been estimated that up to 10,000
tons of sub-standard cocoa could be avoided each year if good storage
facilities were provided at all buying centers. Assuming the loss in value of
sub-standard cocoa to be 50 percent of the selling price, this represents a
potential increase in export earnings of $10 million a year. It is important,
therefore, that provision be made for the supply of at least roofing sheets
for shed building so that the most urgent repairs and rebuilding can be
undertaken during the ERP program.
2.       The schedule of shed building and rehabilitation assumes that 90 new
sheds will be built and 140 sheds rehabilitated each year. The existing
development department of GCMB would not be capable of undertaking such an
ambitious program. The anticipated technical assistance program includes an
expert in this field and until he has been able to implement the necessary
operating and control procedures and assist in the training and'ar recruitment
of the necessary staff, it is unlikely that more than 20 new sheds would be
built and 50 sheds rehabilitated in each of the first two years.  An alloca-
tion of $0.5 million each year for the purchase of roofing sheets would ensure
that this program could be completed, subject to assurances from Government
for the allocation of locally produced cement and reinforcing rods. Priority
should be given to the provision of sheds and rehabilitation in the area
designated by CSD for special attention.
(ii)     Vehicle Workshops
3.       The provision of adequate vehicle workshon facilities would result in
an annual saving of $2.8 million in replacement vehicle costs. It is
essential, therefore that the workshop building program is undertaken. Under
the ERP program it Ls suggested that regional workshops be built at Koforidu
and &gona Swedru. The mobile workshops and lubrication units should also be
provided. In- addition, the spare parts for all workshop vehicles should be
provided for the two year period of ERP. The reduction of the building
program to this level would reduce costs to $2,350,000.



- 52 -                         ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 7 pages
(iii)    Capsid Control
4.       For the introduction of an effective capsid control program, an
effective distribution system has to be established for the sale of insecti-
cides, mistblowers and fuel oil mixture. Also, effective mistblower repair
facilities have to be established. Hence, the expenditure of $1.9 million has
to be included under ERP.
5.       Failure to include these items will have a twofold effect.  Firstly,
if no distribution and repair and maintenance facilities are established, the
utilization of $8 million for insecticides and mistblowers, under RIC, is
likely to be ineffective. Secondly, if the insecticide is misapplied the
incremental increase in cocoa crop will not be achieved. This would result in
a loss of revenue of:
1984/85          -          $36 million
1985/86          -         $80 million
At the higher level forecast the losses would be even greater.
6.       It is estimated that insecticides already imported in 1983 (including
those financed under the Reconstruction Import Credit) would be sufficient to
meet the demand until the end of 1984. However, for 1985, assuming that about
one million acres would be a realistic target for spraying and half of this
acreage will be sprayed with Unden (four sprays a year totalling 1.7
liter/acre) and half with Gammalin (four sprays totalling 2.27 liter/acre),
the total requirement would be 850,000 liters of Unden and 1,135,000 liters of
Gammalin.  The proposed credit would finance about 30 percent of this require-
ment (250,000 liters of Unden and 340,000 liters of Gammalin). The total
requirement for spraying machines is estimated at 90,000; there are about
40,000 serviceable sprayers in the system and an additional 25,000 would be
imported in 1983 (including 20,000 financed under the Reconstruction Import
Credit). The shortfall is, therefore, about 25,000. The proposed Credit
would finance about 15,000 sprayers (60 percent of the gap) split equally over
1984 and 1985.



- 53 -                            ANNEX IV
Page 3 of 7 pages
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Cocoa Sector
Short-term Rehabilitation Requirements
Lai
Two-Year (1984-85)      ERP                          a
Requirements       Funding          Deficit
Storage                                                                               U
Roofing sheets                     29.6              1.5             28.1
Workshops
Base Workshops                       2.0               -              2.0
Regional Workshops                   2.1             2.1                -
Volta Workshop                      0.3                -              0.3
Workshop Equipment                   1.5             1.5                -
Workshop Vehicles                    1.3             1.3                -
Spare Parts                         0.6              0.6                -
Capsid Control
Insecticides                       21.1              5.1             16.0
Sprayers                           13.1              4.8              8.3
Spares                              3.4              3.0              0.4
Workshops                            1.9             1.9
Input Distribution
Warehouse and Equipment             2.4              1.5              0.9
Distribution Vehicles               4.8              0.6              4.2
Spares and Tyres                    1.8                -              1.8
Non-Haulage Vehicles
New Vehicles                        11.7               -             11.7
Spares and Tyres                    5.4                -              5.4
Crop Related Costs
Bags                                4.4                -              4.4
Haulage                             4.2                -              4.2
Miscellaneous Recurrent Costs          20.0               -             20.0
131.6            23.9            107.7
Other Sources of Financing
Foreign Exchange Retention                                           55.1
Stabex                                                               10.0
Insecticides in Stock                                                10.5
Sprayers in Stock                                                     4.5
80.1
Additional Funding Required                                             27.6



GHANA                      BEST COPY AVAILABLE
EXPORT KEHAtILITATION rNOJIC1 - 1`ISTert COItrONtN
SOlRT TERM4 CAPITAL ACOUIRMEWNT tiTIlATE ($00011
CApIE     eit l nipnt                                  SlahabIlltatloii                                       Preventelve Spares                                   Support ServfIces
Forest         ILluiNAc               General        Sub-       forest         Haulage                 Sub-      Fordst         Haulage                 General        Sub-                    Work     Coawasy
Cusaany                         Kaulnant       Velaleee      111       TrenaPort      Total      14tulment     Vehicles      ti1i      Total      *tulpnIt       VeY icles a   1il      Transort       Total      Matieral                 Total
Prtvutely-uw.ael Cowal,les
A E Sa  d ltd.                    S11.0 U        611.1)        'I.           0.    1,072.0            0.            0.         110.0   13S.0        810.0         6.0         330.11       511.0        21.0           0.         30.0   3,Z11.0
A.0  Turber  Ltd                L,91l.13      1,1j0n0         44.1       6tb7,      1,354.0           0.            0.            0,      0.        292.0         112.1        211,S           0,      622,0            0.       Ill.%   6,288.3
AsakytrL lItber Ltd.               2   o.11                     U.           1.       101.0           0.            J.            0.      0.         14.0          10.0         20.0           0.        64.0          U.           0.      161.0
AhaiMll TMbers Cu.                   o.         I0.11           U.        U1n        212.0           0.            0.            0.       0.           U.          80.0       300.0           1.0      38.0            0.        s1.o       461.3
AlIuI  TIabers                    955.0         126.4           0,         26.0    1,707.6          98.0          (0.0            0.   151.0        191.0         145.3         90.0          1.2      431.5            0.         10.0o   ,127.1
Dupdul Xiiod TreAteelt Ltd.       120.0         191.00          0.           0.     1s1o.0            0.            0.           0.       0.         48.0          10.0        IS0.0           0.      228.0           0.           0.      138.0
(astern  lardeouQd. Ltd.          220.10         10n.11        10.           0,      600.0            0.          6n.0           0.    40.11        100.0          60.0         1s.0           n.      233.0           0.           0.      896.0
ilte. Vureet ProductI Ltd.            1.           II,          1.           ml.         0. 0o                      0.           0.       0.        100.1         100.0        210.0           0.      410.0           0.         10.0      480.0
r.m. Oppong4 Sawmille Ltd.        31U1,         26U.1           n.           0. n12.1                 0.            0.         16.0n   71.0          11.1         130.0         81.0           0.      211.1            0. o.               a03.0
Ghabco T14bers Ltd.               248.0         104.0         10.0           0.       622.0           0.          20.0            0.    20.0         11.2          43.6         90.5           0.       121.3           0.           0.     811.1
Chana Prleewoud Prodiucts Ltd. 1,116.0          6913.0       6U14          26.0    2,491.0          50.0            0.         281.0   331.0        16.4          1:S2.1       416.0          6.0       988.9           0.        140.0   3.951.9
Jolin altar Co.                   128.0         4*8.0        30l1.0        £0.0    1,136,mI         11.0          G0.0            0.   113.0         49.2          11.2        111.0         30.0       211.1           n.         10.0   1.S10.1
Logi, and Lumbar Ltd.           1,661.1            U.        £12.4           U.    4,69S1.         240.0            0.         121.6   161.6        413.4            0.         90.1           0.       s21.7       436.4            0.   6,017.4
Luobe-  Proeeseldn Ltd.           181.0         5611.U          0.           0.    114.0              0.            0.        100.0   100,0          81.0            0.        300.0         90.0      4711.0           0.         10.0   2.1S0.0
N4a  Oasvid Yeneer
A Plywued Ltd.                  1,481.0         891,1 o1410.n              62,0    1,246.n            0.            0.            0       n 0.      221.6         134.0        120.0          9.0      486.6        620.0            0.   4,252.6
MNuvotx Ltd.                         II.        200.10          0.           0.       20'10           0.            0.            0.      0.           0.          10.0        310.0           0.       360.0       21S.0            0.     616.0
ODA taud Coalax                 2 170.U1.     1,S00.1l         9.2        20110.0    4,019.2       191.1            0.         200.0   191.1        100.0            0.           n.         11.4       111.4        200.0           0.  1,165.1
Poku Transport Veneer
& Plyiood Ltd.                                     0)          0ml          1n,          II. O.                     0.            0.      0.           0.         169.0         96.0           0.       261.0        192.0           0.     451.0
PrIA Wuods Supply Ltd.               n.         110.4        235.1           0.       146.3           0.            0.           0.       0,           0.          80.0        11S.0           0.      313.0          72.0        30.0   1.063,1
imuud Erus. A Suns Ltd.              U.         270.0           U.           0.       210.0           0.            0,            r.      0.           0.          40.1         10.0           0.        90.1           0.         10.0     410.S
S.C. ArAnkwah tlaber Ltd.          3.13         140,U           0.           0.       1S2.r        300.0          10.0         100.0   250.0         10.0          60.0           0.        100.0       210.0           0.         30.0     842.0
Star SAwRill Prod, Ltd.              0.         140.11       25100           0,       $90.0           0.            0.            n,      0,          n0.          3.0          31.1S          0.       188.s           0.         60.0    £38.1
Std. Xde  Prueeclntg                 0.          16.0        100.0           0.       116,0           0.            0,            0.      n.           0.          I0.0 6O.0                   0.        11.0           0.           0.     251.0
're sawvills Ltd.                    0.         19(11          1.0           0. n240,0                0.            0.            0.      0.           0.          30.0         80.0           0.       110.0           0.           0.     160.0
rlIbers 6 Transpurt C 1K.          26.0         64S.0         60,0         26.0      717.0        100.0            0.            0.   300.0         101.4         346.8        IS0.0          3.9      406.1           0.          S0.0   1.123.1
Wosd In4ustrIes Ltd.                10.11       200.0           0.           0.       210.0         10.0            0.            0.    10.0         37.5         30S.0         11.0           0.       217.1           0.           0.      Sl.S
Wlod Complea I(sat  Ltd.             13,        210.0        300.0           0,       100.0           0.            0.            0.      0.           0.          m.o          80.0           0.        10.0           0.           0.     43o.0
Sub-TotAl Prlvately-Owned Covisllee                                                                                                                                                                                                      t,J1v
Illesu.I1e1 l b the  1MInIstry '1 lAnds and Natural Ileeaurcee lIItng, but vith no capital reXutreeentt  (tven, was Anthony Timber Co.
Atatu-niied Co.penlee
4i1l fisher Co. Ltd. 51         2,411,11 nIsa 150                         3110,0 o   ,610,0        600,0         9011,31       300.0 3,400.0        10,0          300,0        300.0        400.0       700.0        250.0        300.0   8,300.0
rFatrudl Vdneer * AJ
Luober Cu, LU4.                 ,1sl.5s            II.    I239,S          211,0    4,437 .1        100.0         2w43.0        600,.3  1,100.0      277.6             0.       261.9         13.0       152.3        100.0        210.6   6.460,3
147160.3
Sub-tutu I Ytits-ownQd CulRilla                                                                                                                                                                                                            60,053.3
alrM. iw,us:nsri:o sbpmr-rtlJi .PITAI, uwnIInv1iur (NIilr e) Privately 4nd Publicly owned  ubanheas                                                                                                                                                 )1
1  kIrat  arluriLy tar .alsdt.nLv 31 ruIieolt.Iot                                                                                                                                                                                                   V.X
!J  iucvaiid jarlairity l  r asioa t.in,ee In rmalmnillalln 
'J  Jla9 rveaulwi.lsd ftr relasbilit.Ioun                                                                                                                                                                                                          0O
0.
p3



ANNEX IV
-55-      *-
Page 5 of 7 pages
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
SGKC Short-Term Rehabilitation Program
Production Targets
Year 0         Year 1          Year 2
Prestea
Tonnage                      180,000        240,000         360,000
Recovery Grade                  4.5             4.5             4.5
Fine Ounces                  36,000          48,000         72,000
Footage Developed             9,600          18,COO         18,000
Tarkwa
Tonnage                      180,000        240,000         360,000
Recovery Grade                   3.5            3.5             3.5
Fine Ounces                  31,500          42,000         63,000
Footage Developed            10,800          18,000         24,000
Dunkwa
Yardage Dredged           3,456,000       4,608,000      5,760,000
Recovery Grade                   1.5            1.5             1.5
Ounces Recovered              10,800         14,400          18,000



-56-                            ANNEX IV
Page 6 of 7 pages
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
SGMC Short-Term Rehabilitation Program
Funding Requirements
(US$000's)
Prestea                        Tarkwa
Program          ERP          Program           ERP
Requirements     Funding      Requirements      Funding
Underground Plant
and Machinery                 2,835         1,600          4,311           3,000
Treatment Plant
and Machinery                 1,327           900          2,553           2,000
Surface Plant
and Machinery                 1,052           800            654             600
Vehicles and Trucks           2,319         1,400          1,636           1,000
Housing and Amenities         1,673           400          1,702             400
Spare Parts and Consumables  8,821          3,000          8,635          3,500
lO27    8   :100                         10040
Dunlwa
Program          ERP
Requirements     Funding
General Capital Expenditures             3,130           1,000
Replacement Parts
Spare Parts and Consumables              4,258           3,400
General Dredge Rehabilitation            2,000
Housing and Amenities                      600             600
_2,988         5.202



- 57 -
ANNEX IV
Page 7 of 7 pages
GHANA
Export Rehabilitation Project
Port Sector: Short Term Rehabilitation
Requirements and ERP Details
Immediate Requirement      ERP FUNDING
During 1984/85
TOTAL FUNDS BY AGENCY                                  US$(O0)
Foreign           Foreign
A. Ghana Ports Authority (GPA)
Cargo equipment and spare parts                    1,055            1,055
Marine equipment and spare parts                   4,370              270
Civil works                                        1,000              800
Dredging (contract dredging & spare parts)         2,100              200
Takoradi dry dock and slipway - repair             1,000              300
Subtotal                                           9,525            2,625
Contingencies                                      1,195              275
Total                                             10,720            2,900
B. Ghana Cargo Handling Company (GCHC)
Cargo handling equipment and spare parts           2,805            1,730
Contingencies                                        365              170
Total                                              3,170            1,900
C. Takoradi Lighterage Company (TLC) 1/
Floating craft and spare parts                       830
Equipment and spare parts                            155
Subtotal                                             985
Contingencies                                        125
Total                                              1,110
TOTAL FUNDS                                       13,315            4,355
CONTINGENCIES                                      1,685              445
GRAND TOTAL                                       15,000            4,800
1/   These TLC needs are additional to the suppliers' credit of t2,000,000
already arranged by TLC.



- 58 -                           ANNEX V
Page 1 of 5 rages
GHANA
EXPORT REHABILITATION PROJECT
Proposed Implementation Mechanism for the Forestry CDmponent
1.       Although overall responsibility for implementation and administration
of the proposed Credit would rest with the Ministry of Lands and Natural
Resources (MLNR), the National Investment Bank (NIB) would be responsible for
the administration of the input supply sub-component.
2.       NIB would establish a Technical Evaluation Committee (TEC) which
would include the Chief Economist, MLNR, and a Forestry Adviser to be financed
under the project. A Loan Review Panel consisting of the Principal Secretary,
MLNR, and the Managing Director, NIB, would also be established and the
Forestry Adviser would act as secretary.
3.       The procurement process would start when MLNR invite executives of
the forest products exporters to a presentation advising them of the project
criteria and loan procedures. At the same time, NIB would invite representa-
tives of the commercial banks to a meeting for a briefing on procedures.
4.       Applications must fulfil the following criteria to be eligible for
financing under the project:
(a)  the application must be in respect of an ongoing viable
enLerprise;
(b) the investment must relate exclusively to short-term
rehabilitation of the borrowing company through funding mobile
equipment, with spares, vehicles spares, and occasional key
machine replacements; and
(c) the investment must be capable of generating foreign exchange
earnings within six months after delivery of equipment, and,
thereafter, the investment must be capable of generating foreign
exchange earnings of not less than 30 percent per annum of the
total amount of the loan.
5.       Forest products exporters would submit their applications for loans
for the purchase of approved inputs to their commercial banks who would
appraise financial and technical aspects, using technical consultants as
necessary. Applications recommended by the commercial banks would then be
forwarded by the commercial banks to NIB for sanction under the project; at
the same time, the comercial banks would guarantee the availability of
working capital and undertake to pay NIB in cedis on presentation of import
documents. The NIB Technical Evaluation Committee would, within seven days,
evaluate the applications for compliance with project eligibility criteria and
attach its recommendations for consideration by the Loan Review Panel. The
Loan Review Panel would, within seven days, approve or reject the applica-



_ 59 _                            ANNEX V
Page 2 of 5 pages
tions, and forward approved applications to the Bank of Ghana, at the sate
time notifying NIB and the commercial banks of its decision. On receipt of
advice from the Bank of Ghana of the value of foreign exchange funds the
commercial banks, in conjunction with their client exporters, would proceed tn
open letters of credit as necessary. The suppliers would be informed in the
usual way and arrange supply according to the contract and present shipping
documents through their bankers. Disbursements would be made against c.i.f.
costs of eligible imports, subject to documentary evidence that expenditures
had been incurred on or after signing of the Credit. To facilitate disburse-
ments a special account would be opened by NIB with a foreign correspondent
bank satisfactory to the Association. Establishment of this account would be
a condition of effectiveness. Cedi payments would be made upon receipt of
goods into a counterpart funds account to be established by NIB for the
Ministry of Finance. The Ministry of Finance would use these funds for
priority development projects included in the economic recovery program. All
local charges, like duties, transport and handling fees would be financed by
the importer directly.



- 60 -
ANX V
Page 3 of 5p.gQ
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDIULE
Task                        Year                  1984                 1985
Quarter   4    l   2    3    4    l   2    3    4
Finclization of Implementation
Procedures by ML&NR, NIB
and World Bank
Technical Assistance                 _
Package Personnel Hiring
vi)    ML&NR - Loan Procedures
Dnta to Exporters
i;)   NIB - Loan Procedures Data     _
To Commercial Banks
Ili)   Exporters - Applications                  - _    .    __
To Commercicl Banks
Commercial Bank Evaluations                _    -        .__  _
iv)   Comm. Bank Applications              .          , -  -    ___
and Guarcntees to ERP Techniccl
Evaluation Committee at NIB
v)   Tech. Eval. Committee Review     _       __
and Recommendation
vi)   Loan Review Panel                     _   _         ---  - _
Approval and F.E. Release
to Bank of Ghana
vii)  Bank of Ghana Forwards                 _           __  - _.
FiE. Releases to World Bank
Viii)  World Bank Allocates                                - __
F.E. to Commercial Banks and
an to Exporters via L!C's
Progress Payment Relecses                        -   -         __   _   _  _ ___
NIB Quarterly Reports                    1    2    3    4                     8    
Equipment Delivery                                    - .                  _
F.E. Generation                                            -    -    -    -
*For numbered items refer to Diagram 12-1 Flow Chart.



-61-                           ANNEX V
Page 4 of 5 panos
DIAGRAM  12-1   ERP LOAN ADMINISTRATION AND FLOW CHART
_                  Yt~~~~ORLD BAN4K
Foreign Exchange Funds
I ,   _  _ X    _     ~~Releases
ML&NR                            BANK OF GHANA
ERP LOAN
COORDINATING                                 1v) Approved Loan
Applications
LOAN REVIE'N PANEL
i()  ERP Loan Procedures           Minister of Lands &          Quarterly
Information to Selected       Natural Resources,           Reports
Forest Products Exporters   M.D. NationI Inv. Bank
(4  Loan Applications in
i o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ompliance with ERP Criterici
i  Foreign Exchcnge          _                                         E    C
Al locations
NATIONAL INVESTMENT BANK
ERP TECHNICAL
| EVALUATION COMMfITTEE        I  ERP LOAN    I
(ii)            I - ML&NR Economist                 ACCOUNTING
RP Loan              _ - NIB Economist             I  AND           I-
rocedures          I - Loan Administration Officer   I  REPORTING  I
information         I  (Technical Assistance Package)    SECTION
to Commercial         - Other Staff as req'd.
L.     ______  ._-_.*_.                    __    .
(iv) Commercial Bank
(iv)        Approved Applications
Cedi Fund Guarantees
T                  j               S ~~~~~~~~~~and Import Licence
Applications
COMMERCIAL   COMMERCIAL   COMMERCIAL   COMMERCIAL
_~~~BN                   BAN              BANK     -       BANK
_ _   H4_              H               >       I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(viii) 
Application                                                     L/Cs to
|   Re'e ted                                I           Suppliers
_     Appli ton_L__      _                                 Banks
Iejected 8                                            1 Abroad
FOREST PRODUCTS EXPORTERS
lL…                                           -… ___  __ _ _ _ _ _ - _ _-_ _   _ __ _



- 62 -
ANNEX V
Page 5 of 5 pages
EXPORTERS' PROCURlEMEW SCHEDULE
Task                        Year                  1984                 1985
Quarter   4    1   2    3    4    l   2    3    4
*1    .'.
1)   ML&NR -Loan Procedures
Data to Exporters
Exporters Obtain
Pro Forma Invoices
Exporters Develop
Economics and Prepare
Applications for ERP
Loan Funds
iii)  Exporters Applications *                       - _ _
to Commercial Banks
v)  Tech. Eval. Committee
Review and                                 -    -   -   . -
Recommendation
Exporters Release                 .                   - _
Purchase Orders
Suppliers Ship Goods                                 - __    -    -   _
Exporters Receive                                           -.
Goods *2
Progress Payment                                 -    -     .__. _   . ___
Releases
F.E. Generation *2                    _=
* 1  For numbered i.ems refer to Diagram 12-1 Flow Chart.
*2   Dotted line on left indica.es optimistic position.



GHANA: EXPORTS OF PRINCIPAL COMMODITIES
(Volume)
Actual                   Estimated           Projected
Product                Units         1975     1979      1980      1981       1982        1983      1984     1985
(thousands)
Cocoa                Tons             341      229       234      204         255         190      225       240
Gold                 Ounces           513      368       337       335        302         340      342       412
Diamonds             Carats          2372     1007       897       944        650         785      850       950
Manganese            Tons             373     N.A.      N.A.       143         97         272       363      363
Logs and Timber      Cu. Meters       605       285      18)       219        111         242       454      489
Prices $
(USe Per Unit)
Cocoa                                1648     3222      3385     2179        1594        1750      1850     1700
Gold                                  181      206       564       472        385         400       446      497
Diamonds                              4.6     10.8      11.1      8.7         7.2         6.8      7.0       7.0
Manganese                            39.9     N.A.      N.A.      55.9       32.0        55.0      55.0     55.0
Logs and Timber                     111.1    148.8    181.6    164.4        144.1       150.0    175.0    180.0
Value
(Hillions of US$)
Cocoa                               562.0    738.0    792.7    434.8        406.5       332.5    416.3    408.0
Gold                                 72.9     75.8    190.1    158.3        116.4       144.0    153.0    205.0
Diamonds                             11.0      10.9     10.0       8.2        4.7         5.3      6.0       6.7
Haugallese                           14.9      10.6      9.6       8.0        3.1        15.0      20.0     20.0
Logs and Timber                      67.2     42.4      33.6     36.0        16.0        36.3     79.6      88.0
TOTAL         731.7   1041.0   1159.6    766.0         872.7       533.1    674.9    728.7
c



~~-   PLR                          "                A
LIU  -e P  P  E           R E  G       y   --      X%              -
Sis,&l.- Z , rin   o0 RT  H                E R                        N \.H'°.
>.   ; \ X \  f   6   (    \ J                          J ?mA\q. 
$'    ' t0 t<^ko;    *'/ -       '    -.\    A2         ~\ -          X    f
\5. *i"
O       R    D -----   -
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
.eqm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~p
CRA~~~~~~~~~LI
SEKSONDI                                   .. --*       - -  * -     -
RO-AD*



