CREDIT NUMBER 1435-1 GH
Development Grant Agreement
(Export Rehabilitation Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
Dated F;Z,&AA1         , 1986


﻿CREDIT NUMER 1435-1 GH
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     ( >6, 1986, between the
REPUBLIC OF GHANA (the Borrower) And INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION, acting as Administrator on behalf of the GOVERNMENT
OF CANADA (the Administrator),
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the assistance of the
lnternational Development Association (the Association) and
of the Government of Canada in the financing of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement dated
February 9, 1984 between the Borrower and the Association (the
IDA Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS the Association has granted a development credit for
this purpose out of its own resources (the IDA Credit) on the
terms and conditions set forth in the IDA Credit Agreement, and
the Government of Canada has authorized the Administrator, to
extend for the same purpose a development grant out of the
Canadian Government development aid funds on the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS the Borrower acknowledges that the financial assis-
tance extended to the Borrower under this Development Grant
Agreement shall be considered as part of the bilateral develop-
ment aid extended by the Government of Canada to the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated January 1, 1985, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the Association acting as Administrator of


﻿-2-
Canadian Government development aid funds pursuant to the Agree-
ment dated April 22, 1977, as amended by the Agreement dated
March 8, 1978, between the Government of Canada anO the Associa-
tion (hereinafter called the "Canadian Co-financing Agreement");
(b) the term "Canadian Dollars" and the letters and sign
"Can$",mean the currency of Canada;
(c) the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Grant hereunder;
(d) the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the account opened by the Administrator in its
books in the name of the Borrower to which the amount of the
Grant is credited;
(e) the term "Development Credit Agreement" whenever used
in the General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agree-
ment;
(f) the term "Grant" means the grant provided for in this
Agreement;
(g) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03,
4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 are deleted;
and
(h) in Sections 2.01 and 6.02, the term "Association" shall
include also the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement and in the
IDA Credit Agreement have the respective meanings therein set
forth.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to extend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions herein set forth or


﻿-3-
referred to and subject to the receipt of the funds to be made
available to the Administrator pursuant to Section 2 of the
Canadian Co-financing Agreement, a grant in the amount of
four million nine hundred fifty thousand Canadian Dollars
(Can$4,950,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account for expenditures made (or, if the
Administrator shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost of spare parts, materials, equipment and vehicles
(including the reasonable cost of services associated with such
procurement) required for Part C of the Project.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a)
above, no withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) expendi-
tures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services
supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and (ii) payments
for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods and services, or on the importation, manufacture, procure-
ment or supply thereof.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in
the respective currencies in which the expenditures to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in Canadian
Dollars.
Section 2.03. (a) Except as the Administrator shall other-
wise agree, contracts for the purchase of spare parts, materials,
equipment and vehicles to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Grant shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 6 to the IDA Credit Agreement, provided, however, that
such spare parts, materials, equipment and vehicles shall only
be procured from Canadian manufacturers and that any notifica-
tion and advertising required pursuant to the provisions of said
Schedule 6 shall be limited accordingly.
(b) If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined
that the procurement of any item is inconsistent with the pro-
cedures set forth or referred to in subparagraph (a) above, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Grant, and the Administrator may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Administrator under the Development Grant Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Grant as, in the


﻿-4-
Administrator's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financ-
ing out of the proceeds of the Grant.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1987 or
such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The National Investment Bank is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project; Remedies
Section 3.01. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein,
Articles III and IT f the IDA Credit Agreement are hereby incor-
porated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as if
they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that all
references in such Articles III and IV and in the Project Agree-
ment to tha "Association" shall be deemed to be references to the
Association acting as Administrator on behalf of the Government
of Canada under this Agreement and all references to the "Credit"
shall be deemed to be references to the Grant hereunder.
Section 3.02. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Grant Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause the National Investment Bank to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the letter agreement
of even date herewith between the Administrator and the National
Investment Bank all the obligations therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of
funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the National Investment Bank to perform
such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Grant
available to the National Investment Bank under arrangements


﻿-5-
satisfactory to the Administrator. The Borrower shall exercise
its rights under such arrangements in such manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower and the Administrator and to
accomplish the purposes of the Grant.
Section 3.03. All spare parts, materials, equipment and
vehicles purchased pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement
shall be sold by the Borrower to the private and public sectors.
The local currency funds generated by such sales shall be
deposited in the CIDA counterpart funds account to be opened and
maintained by the Borrower in the Bank of Ghana. The Borrower
shall operate such counterpart funds account in accordance with
the provisions of the administrative agreement - CIDA counterpart
funds between the Borrower and the Government of Canada.
Section 3.04. Section 4.02 of the IDA Credit Agreement is
teleted for the purposes of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Representation
Section 4.01. The date 120 days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04
of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The representative designated in Section 6.01
of the IDA Credit Agreement shall be the representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 4.03. The addresses specified in Section 6.02 of the
IDA Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Canadian Co-financing
Agreement, the rights and obligations of the Administrator under
this Agreement may be transferred to the Government of Canada, or
one of its agencies designated by it. The Borrower accepts and
agrees that, upon notice by the Administrator to the Borrower to


﻿-6-
that effect, the Government of Canada (or the agency designated
by it) shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in such notice,
be substituted in all rights and obligations of the Administrator
under this Agreement as if the Government of Canada or such
agency had been an original party to this Agreement, without any
further action or formality required on the part of any party,
and from such date the Administrator shall cease to have any
rights or obligations as a party under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By/5/                  o, L  L t-
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
LRegional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I -hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of(-
198 I.
FOR SECRETARY


