Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17995
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2377-CV)
June 11, 1998
Private Sector Finance Group
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit         Cape Verde Escudo (CVE)
US$1    =    68.90 CVE (as of May 14, 1992)
US$1         I100.00 CVE (as of June 10, 1998)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANV                     Agencia Nacional de Viagems (Travel and Customs Agency)
ARCA VERDE              Compania Nacional de NavegaVdo Arca Verde (Inter-island Shipping Transportation)
BCV                     Bank of Cape Verde
BCA                     Banco Commercial de Atlantico
CABMAR/CABNAVE    Shipyard Assets and Management Companies
CBPPSP                  Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion
CERIS                   Sociedade Caboverdeana de Cerveja e Refrigerantes (Company for Beer and Soft Drinks)
CGTM                    Conselho Nacional de Meio Ambiente
CORREIOS                Correios de Cabo Verde (Cape Verde Postal Services)
CTT                     Empresa Pub lica dos Correios e Telecommunicacoes (Postal and Telecommunication Company)
CVT                     Cabo Verde Telecom (Cape Verde Telecom)
ECOWAS                  Economic Community of West African Countries
ELECTRA                 Empresa Publica de Electricidade e Agua (Public Company for Electricity and Water)
EMPA                    Empresa Publica de Abastecimento (Public Procurement Company)
EMPROFAC                Empresa Nacional de Produtos Farmaceuticos (National Company for Pharmaceutical Products)
ENACOL                  Empresa Nacional de Combustiveis (National Company for Fuels and Lubricants)
ENAPOR                  Empresa Nacional de Administraq o dos Portos (National Company for Port Administration)
ERSO                    Economic Reforms Support Operation
EWRDP                   Energy and Water Reform and Development Project
FAMA                    Fabrica de Massa de Cabo Verde ( Food Processing Company)
GARANTIA                Companhia de Seguros (Insurance Company)
GARSEE                  Gabinete de Apoio o ReestruturaSoo do Sector Empresarial do Estado (PTAP Implementing Unit)
GOCV                    Government of Cape Verde
IDA                     International Development Association
IFC                     International Finance Corporation
INTERBASE               Empresa de Comercializavoo de Produtos do Mar (Cold Storage and Freezing Enterprise)
METALCAVE               Metalmecaninca de Cabo Verde (Aluminum Products & Metal Fumiture)
PE                      Public Enterprise
PERP                    Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization Unit (GARSEE)
PESCAVE                 Empresa Caboverdian7a de Pesca (Industrial Fishing)
PESRAB                  Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization Advisory Board
PROMEX                  Centro de Prom oq'o do Investimento e das Exporta4'es (Investment & Export Promiotioni Agency )
PRCBP                   Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project
PSRCBP                  Public Sector Refonn and Capacity Buildinig Project
PTAP                    Privatization Technical Assistance Project
SIDA                    Swedish Internationial Development Agency
SITA                    Sociedade Industrial Tintas (Company for Production of Paint and Varnishes)
TACV                    Transportes Acreos de Cabo V erde (Cape Verde Airlines)
TRANSCOR                Einpresa de Transporles Rodoviorios tic Passageiros (Urban Passentger Transport Company)
Vicc-Prcsidcnlt       :Jeanl-Louis Sau-hib
Counjtry Director        MaJlitnllood .A. AN yub
Sector Manager       :  I'lioiias W. Allen
Task''" 'c.n I,cadcr  :J.Irn-Jlicbel N. Iliappi



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2377-CV)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ..................................ii
Evaluation Summary .....................................                             iii
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background ...I
B. Statement/Evaluation of Objectives ......................   2
C. Achievement of Major Objectives .......................    3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project  .....................   10
E. Project Sustainability .12
F. Bank Performance .......................... 12
G. Borrower Performance  .........................   13
H. Assessment of Outcome .......................                          13
I. Future Operations ..........................                        .  14
J. Key Lessons Learned .......................... 14
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table I   Summary of Assessments .......................   15
Table 2   Related Bank Loans/Credits .....................   16
Table 3   Project Timetable .........................                     17
Table 4   Credits Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ......   17
Table 5   Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation . ......  1 8
Table 6 : Studies Included in Project .......................   22
Table7: Project Costs  ............................   24
Table 8   Project Financing ..........................   24
Table 9   Status of Legal Covenants ......................   25
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................   29
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Missions ...................  29
APPENDICES
A. ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire   ........................   31
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR: PTAP Final Assessment .... .....   34
C. Implementation Status of the Privatization and Restructuring Program  . . .   45
MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
IFC authorization.



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2377-CV)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Privatization Technical
Assistance Project (PTAP) in Cape Verde, for which Credit 2377-CV in the amount of SDR 3.1
million (US$ 4.2 million equivalent) was approved on June 4, 1992, and made effective on
December 1, 1992. The Credit closed on December 31, 1997, six months behind original
schedule. The last disbursement took place on April 17, 1998, at which time a balance of US$ 0.10
million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Jean-Michel Happi and Lucy Fye, Private Sector Finance
Group, Africa Region, and Roy Pepper, Enterprise Unit, Private Sector Development Department.
It was reviewed by Messrs. Loup Brefort, Principal Economist, Enterprise Unit, Private Sector
Development Department, Noel Tshiani, Financial Specialist, and Thomas W. Allen, Technical
Manager, Private Sector Finance Group, Africa Region.
Preparation of this ICR started during the Bank's final supervision and completion mission
of February 23, 1998. It was based on materials in the Project file, including the Staff Appraisal
Report, Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, progress reviews and monitoring
reports by the Borrower. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by supplying
views reflected in the final mission's aide-memoire, preparing its own evaluation of the Project's
implementation and commenting on the draft ICR.



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2377-CV)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
i.    Following independence in 1975, the Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) adopted a
centrally-planned and inward-looking development strategy. This strategy promoted the State's
central role in the economy and resulted in a rapid growth of public enterprises (PEs) in virtually
all sectors, including manufacturing, trade, fishing and financial sectors, in addition to transport
and basic utilities in telecommunications, electricity and water. In 1991, there were nearly 40
wholly State-owned and mixed-economy enterprises, including 30 enterprises with State-majority
shareholding. The PE sector employed more than 6,600 persons, accounting for 20 percent of total
modem employment, and generated about 25 percent of GDP. The sector's performance was
characterized by low productivity, high losses and rising debts, which placed a concurrent burden
on the banking system, public finances and the balance of payments. This poor performance was
mainly due to lack of economic and financial viability of investment projects, inadequate legal and
institutional framework, unclear delineation of responsibilities between the Government and the
enterprises, inappropriate incentive systems (e.g., govermment-determined pricing, investment and
personnel policies, and "soft budget" facilities), and poor enterprise management.
ii.   In April 1991, a new Government took office following the country's first multi-party
elections since independence. This Government was elected on a platform of market-oriented
economy and a reform agenda aimed at liberalizing and opening-up the economy, and promoting
the private sector as the main engine of growth. GOCV policy gave the highest priority to: (a)
privatizing as rapidly as feasible most productive activities that could be operated more efficiently
by the private sector; and (b) creating an enabling environment to attract higher levels of private
investment, both local and foreign, and increasing the competitiveness of the economy. The
Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PTAP, Credit 2377-CV) was prepared to help
strengthen GOCV's institutional capacity to design and implement its reform program to
rationalize the PE sector, increase overall efficiency and promote private sector-led growth of the
economy.
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
iii.   The main objectives of the PTAP were to assist the GOCV in: (a) building its capacity to
implement a wide-ranging PE reform program; and (b) designing and implementing its policy of
promoting the private sector as the main vehicle for economic development. These objectives
were pursued through: (i) privatization of selected PEs; (ii) liquidation of non-viable PEs; (iii)
improvement in operational performance and profitability of other PEs that did not lend
themselves to privatization during the course of the project; (iv) creation of a legal and regulatory
framework conducive to private sector development; and (v) identification and promotion of new
private sector activities.



iv
iv.    PTAP's objectives to improve GOCV's capacity to manage the PE sector were attainable
and realistic. Objectives with respect to privatization and liquidation were clearly defined and
supported by monitorable indicators consistent with GOCV's strategy. The Project's overall
divestiture targets were also realistic. However, GOCV's plans to privatize major utilities and
transport companies were overly ambitious, given the absence of appropriate regulatory
frameworks and the lack of tradition of utility regulation. The Project objectives to improve the
performance of selected PEs were supported by time-bound indicators to review these enterprises'
operations and corporate governance systems. They lacked, however, tangible benchmarks to
measure progress in the enterprises' technical or financial performance, and analytical information
for comparison between actual and expected outcomes. The Project targets to improve the
investment climate and stimulate new private sector activities were not fully attainable under this
operation. Their intermediate goal was, however, to fmance diagnostic studies of business
regulations and feasibility studies of investment opportunities, in order to build the foundation and
establish the institutional capacity for proceeding with larger scale programs in support of private
sector promotion, which could be funded under follow-up operations. (paras. 7-8)
Implementation Experience and Results
v.    The Project substantially achieved its overall objectives and its outcome was rated
satisfactory. At the outset, the Project helped GOCV design an enabling Privatization Law (Lei
471IV/92 of July 6, 1992), which defined the general framework for divestiture and provided
transparent procedures, guidelines and appropriate flexibility to handle operations. GOCV's
enforcement of this Law and public information campaigns were instrumental in the transparency
of the reform process. (paras. 11-13)
vi.    The Project strengthened the operational and managerial capacity of the Public Enterprise
Reform and Privatization Unit (GARSEE), under the MIinistry of Economic Coordination, by
improving its skill levels, procedural approaches and general operating efficiency. GARSEE
demonstrated its ability to conduct the reforms with timely and satisfactory results. It successfully
conducted discussions with key stakeholders, including labor unions, PE employees and line
ministries, to develop a broad consensus for the reforms, particularly during the early years of
implementation. Overall, GARSEE acted efficiently and with high professional standards, and
ensured effective ownership of the reform process.  It benefited from long-term privatization
advisory services to overcome its lack of experience in this area. This resident assistance was
critical at the beginning of the Project, but became less cost-effective as GARSEE developed its
internal capabilities. The GOCV decided, however, to maintain the assistance throughout the
Project, in order to accelerate the pace of privatization. (paras. 14-15)
vii.   By PTAP closing, the divestiture of 28 enterprises had been completed and 10 other
transactions were in progress. The PE sector was reduced to 30 enterprises, including 19 with
majority State shareholding. In the process, over 41 new, fully private companies were created
from the fragmentation of former PEs into separate companies which were then divested. The
program generated about US$ 53.0 million (ECV 5.3 billiion) of gross proceeds. A review of the
performance of privatized enterprises showed that most of them improved following their transfer
to the private sector, in terms of sales, gross value added, investments and, in several cases, profits
before taxes. The overall performance of enterprises remaining in the public sector also improved.
From a deficit of ECV 600 million in 1991, PEs' aggregate earnings before taxes became positive
in 1993 and steadily increased to a surplus of over ECV 640 million in 1996. In the meantime, the
Government slashed direct budgetary transfers to most: PEs and increased their hard budget



v
constraints resulting in tighter control of their operating and financial costs. Only a few remaining
loss-making enterprises continued to benefit from indirect transfers, notably through forgone or
unpaid taxes and arrears to GOCV, and GOCV's assuming their debt obligations to foreign
creditors and domestic banks. (paras. 17-19)
viii.   Moreover, the share of PEs in domestic credit decreased from an annual average of 24
percent in 1990-94 to less than 4 percent in 1995-1997. Employment in the PE sector was reduced
by 20 percent to 5,300 workers, and the sector's value added decreased to about 10 percent of
GDP in 1996. The 19 enterprises remaining with majority State shareholding included: (a) utilities
operating in water and electricity, manufacturing and transport companies; (b) trade-related
companies providing food aid distribution, drug import and postal services; and (c) financial
institutions providing banking, insurance and venture capital services. The Project helped GOCV
prepare a comprehensive action plan to complete their privatization in 1998-2000. (para. 20)
ix.    The Project provided extensive formal and on-the-job training to over: (a) 32 officials
from PE line ministries and GARSEE, in order to strengthen their PE reform and project
management skills; (b) 296 PE executive and senior officers, to build local capabilities for
improving PE performance; and (c) 220 retrenched PE workers, to facilitate their redeployment in
the private sector. This training was well managed and resulted in quantitative and qualitative
skill development of beneficiaries. The Project also helped GOCV manage the labor liabilities to
mitigate the social impact of retrenchment under the PE restructuring and privatization program.
This program had so far created twice as many jobs as were lost during the divestiture process.
Over two-thirds of the 544 PE employees laid off under the program were successfully redeployed
in the private sector. GOCV paid the mandatory separation benefits to retrenched workers
according to the Labor Law, for a total amount equivalent to US$ 3.6 million. (paras. 16, 21-25)
x.     However, PTAP performance was unsatisfactory in other areas, including implementation
of performance improvement and privatization action plans of a dozen PEs, and strengthening of
their regulatory frameworks. The Project also failed to achieve its objectives of improving the PE
corporate governance system. GOCV dealt with this issue on a case by case basis, prior to
privatization.  As a result, there still remained an unclear delineation of ownership and
management functions between Government and those enterprises with majority State
shareholding. It was therefore recommended to further strengthen the executive bodies of these
enterprises, in order to grant the enterprises full autonomy in their day-to-day management and
make their board more effective and accountable. (para. 21)
xi.    Project execution was affected by various factors, including: (a) gaps in utility sector
policies and regulations; (b) rigidity of the Labor Law, heavy costs of laying-off employees, and
GOCV's delays in allocating the privatization revenues to PE staff retrenchment funds; and (c)
resistance from some PEs (e.g., ELECTRA, EMPA, TACV). Although this resistance was
partially addressed thanks to GOCV's political commitment and GARSEE's communication and
stakeholder consultation efforts, these factors had a moderate impact on the Project. (paras. 29-31)
xii.   The sustainability of the PTAP is likely. The Project strengthened the GOCV's capacity in
PE reforms and privatization, and PE managerial expertise. It helped improve sector performance,
introduce financial discipline, enforce hard budget constraints, and alleviate the PEs' crowding-out
of private borrowing from the banking sector and their burden on public finances. Moreover, the
Project brought intangible benefits to the economy, inter alia, in the form of improvements in the
legal business environment, redefinition of Government's role in economic activities and the



vi
increased prominence of the private sector as the main vehicle for growth and employment
creation. The long-term success of the Project will, hovvever, depend on the pursuit of sound
macroeconomic policies, implementation of a well-functioning regulatory framework to monitor
private participation in utility, transport and infrastructure sectors, and completion of the
remaining operations. GOCV's strong commitment enhanced the prospects of lasting benefits of
the Project. Follow-up projects prepared with IDA assistance in the areas of, inter alia, policy
reforms for macro-economic stabilization and private sector development (e.g., ERSO),
privatization and regulatory reforms (e.g., PRCBP), and private and financial sector reform
(CBPPSP) provided additional vehicles for sustaining the achievements of PTAP. (paras. 32-34)
xiii.  The Bank's performance was satisfactory in the project identification and preparation
stages, and highly satisfactory in appraisal. The Project was designed in a timely fashion to
respond to the GOCV's most urgent needs for accelerating the country's shift to a market-oriented
economy. It provided adequate technical assistance to overcome the GOCV's limited absorptive
capacity and lack of PE reform  and divestiture experience.  Bank performance during
implementation was also satisfactory. Bank staff were able to maintain a constructive dialogue
with the authorities throughout the Project, which further facilitated the preparation of follow-up
projects to complete the unfinished PE reform agenda. The Bank carried out a total of seven
supervision missions and closely worked with other donors involved in PE reforms in Cape Verde,
particularly the European Union and USAID. (paras. 35-36)
xiv.   Borrower performance  was satisfactory  during  both  Project preparation  and
implementation. The GOCV identified itself with, and deimonstrated a strong commitment to, PE
reforms. The project financial management and GOCV's compliance with the covenants of the
Development Credit Agreement were satisfactory. (paras. 37-39)
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
xv.   GOCV is implementing a private sector development program supported by, inter alia,
four projects prepared with IDA assistance: (a) Capacity Building Project for Private Sector
Promotion (CBPPSP, Cr. 2864-CV); (b) Economic Reforms Support Operation (ERSO, Cr. 3027-
CV); (c) Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project (PRCBP, FY99); and (d) Energy
and Water Reform and Development Project (EWRDP, FY99). (para. 42)
xvi.  The PTAP incorporated important lessons from the Bank's privatization experience,
which enhanced its chance of success, including: (a) ensuring prior political commitment and
support to privatization; (b) ownership building and stakeholder participation in the process; (c)
enactment of an enabling privatization legislation at the outset; (d) empowerment and appropriate
staffing of the privatization implementing unit; (e) communication campaigns to build public
support and ensure transparency; (f) arrangements to address the labor retrenchment issues in a
timely fashion; (g) management of other PE liabilities in tandem with divestiture; and (h) parallel
reforms to improve the private sector supply response, which ultimately would provide the
necessary sources of economic growth, investment financing for enterprise development, and job
opportunities for retrenched workers. However, the Project's design did not include adequate
analysis of the regulatory framework constraints which hampered private participation in utility,
transport and infrastructure sectors. This lesson was applied from the beginning in the follow-up
PRCBP.



REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2377-CV)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  BACKGROUND
1.    Cape Verde is an archipelago of ten arid islands located some 650 kilometers off the most
western coast of Africa, with a land area of 4,000 square kilometers. Nine of the islands are
populated by fewer than 400,000 residents; however, it is estimated that almost twice as many
Cape Verdeans live abroad in the United States and Europe. The emigrants' close ties with their
homeland are evidenced by significant remittances, which averaged 20 percent of GDP over the
last decade. Following independence in 1975, the Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) adopted a
centrally-planned and inward-looking development strategy. This strategy promoted the State's
central role in the economy as a practical solution to the non-existence of private sector initiative
and its infant stage of development. It resulted in a rapid growth of public enterprises (PEs) in
virtually all sectors, including manufacturing, trade and financial sectors, in addition to transport
and basic utilities in telecommunications, electricity and water.
2.    In 1991, there were 40 wholly State-owned and mixed-economy enterprises, including 10
enterprises with State-minority shareholding. Ten other PEs were further created during the
reform process from the restructuring of large enterprises (e.g., separation of postal and
telecommunications services into two companies) and the corporatization of State-run operating
assets or commercial services. The PE sector employed more than 6,600 persons, accounting for
20 percent of total modern employment, and generated about 25 percent of GDP. The sector's
performance was characterized by low productivity, high losses and rising debts, which placed a
concurrent burden on the banking system, public finances and the balance of payments.
3.    Although no PE, except for the electricity and water utility, received direct subsidies from
Government, a significant number of enterprises owed their viability to: (a) receiving credits from
the banking system, amounting about one-third of total credit extended to the economy during the
1980s; (b) obtaining grants and foreign loans, which accounted for more than 60 percent of
external debt obligations serviced during the 1980s; and (c) accumulating internal and external
arrears. The PE poor performance was mainly due to lack of economic and financial viability of
investment projects, inadequate legal and institutional framework, unclear delineation of
responsibilities between the Government and the enterprises, lack of proper PE corporate
governance, inappropriate incentive systems (e.g., govemment-determined pricing, investment and
personnel policies, and "soft budget" facilities), and poor enterprise management.
4.    In April 1991, a new Government took office following the country's first multi-party
elections since independence. This Government was elected on a platform of a market-oriented
economy and a reform agenda aimed at liberalizing and opening-up the economy, and promoting
the private sector as the main engine of growth. The Government policy gave the highest priority
to: (a) privatizing as rapidly as feasible most productive activities that could be operated more



2
efficiently by the private sector; and (b) creating an enabling environment to attract higher levels of
private investtnent, both local and foreign, and increasing the competitiveness of the economy.
5.    GOCV started to implement this agenda in 1991 thlrough, inter alia: liquidation of five
small PEs, adoption of an action plan to sell its minority shareholding in a number of mixed-
economy companies (MECs), and launching of preliminary studies to determine suitable strategies
to privatizing other enterprises and contracting out to the private sector some activities carried out
by ministries, such as road maintenance. GOCV also adopted measures to liberalize the price,
trade and exchange rate systems, deregulate key economic sectors, separate the Bank of Cape
Verde (BCV) into a Central Bank and a commercial bank (BCA), and liberalize the financial sector
and enable private participation in banking and insurance businesses.  The IDA-financed
Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PTAP, Credit 2377-CV) was prepared to help
strengthen GOCV's institutional capacity to design and implement its reform program to
rationalize the PE sector, increase overall efficiency and promote private sector-led growth of the
economy.
B.    STATEMENT/EVALUATION iOF OBJECTIVES
6.    The main objectives of the PTAP were to assist the GOCV in: (a) building its capacity to
implement a wide-ranging PE reform program; and (b) designing and implementing its policy of
promoting the private sector as the main vehicle for economic development. These objectives
were pursued through: (i) privatization of selected PEs; (ii) liquidation of non-viable PEs; (iii)
improvement in operational performance and profitability of PEs that did not lend themselves to
privatization during the course of the project; (iv) creation of a legal and regulatory framework
conducive to private sector development; and (v) identification and promotion of new private
sector activities.
7.    PTAP's objectives to improve GOCV's capacity to manage the PE sector were attainable
and realistic. The Project included comprehensive technical assistance to strengthen the GOCV's
institutional capacity. Objectives with respect to privatization and liquidation were clearly defined
and supported by monitorable indicators consistent with GOCV's strategy. The Project's overall
divestiture targets were also realistic. However, GOCV's plans to privatize major utilities and
transport companies were overly ambitious, given the absence of an appropriate regulatory
frameworks and the lack of tradition of utility regulation. The Project objectives to improve the
performance of selected PEs were supported by time-bound indicators to review these enterprises'
operations and corporate governance systems. They lacked, however, tangible benchmarks to
measure progress in the enterprises' technical or financial performance. The Project targets to
improve the investment climate and stimulate new private sector activities were not fully attainable
under this operation. Their intermediate goal was, however, to finance diagnostic studies of
business legislation and regulations, and feasibility studies of new investment opportunities, in
order to build the foundation and establish the institutional capacity for proceeding with larger
scale programs in support of private sector promotion, which could be funded under follow-up
operations.
8.    The PTAP was important for both GOCV and the IBank, as it sought to rationalize the PE
sector and lay the ground for creation of a market-oriented economy, two objectives at the core of
GOCV's political and economic reform agenda. The Project was prepared following a diagnostic
study of the PE sector financed by the USAID in 1991. It also followed past Bank experience in
energy and transport sectors through the Infrastructure Rehabilitation and Technical Assistance



3
Project (Credit 1954-CV). The PTAP was the first attempt to carry out such reforms on a
comprehensive basis in Cape Verde. It was designed in a flexible fashion, in order to: (a) respond
to the GOCV's most urgent needs for accelerating the shift to a market-based economy; and (b)
learn as the situation evolved, in a gradual way. As a result, PTAP's outputs were used as key
inputs for the development of follow-up projects.
9.    Implementing the Project was very demanding on the Government, given its limited
administrative capacity. This responsibility was entrusted to the Public Enterprise Reform and
Privatization Unit (GARSEE) under the Ministry of Economic Coordination. GARSEE was
staffed with qualified and experienced Cape Verdeans, and fully supported by Project-financed
technical assistance. Its operational and managerial efficiency was instrumental to the Project
success. GOCV also created the Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization Advisory Board
(PESRAB), to advise the Authorities on policy reform and project issues. This Board met
frequently and provided valuable guidance and stakeholders' view points to GOCV at the
beginning of the Project. However, it became less effective as of 1996, when the authorities
discontinued this consultation mechanism.
10.   A  critical risk associated with the Project was GOCV's failure to pursue the
implementation of its macroeconomic policies necessary to complement the PE reforms, especially
price, trade and labor deregulation and financial sector liberalization. Since 1993, GOCV carried
out a home-grown economic reform program with specific measures in these areas, which helped
mitigate this risk.  There was also a risk of potential resistance from vested interests within
Government and the affected PEs to the proposed restructuring and divestiture reforms. GOCV
addressed these issues through, inter alia: (i) extensive consultations with key stakeholders; (ii)
communication campaigns to improve public understanding, build consensus and secure public
support to the reforms; and (iii) enforcement of the privatization legislation which provided
appropriate transparency to the process. GOCV paid severance benefits and provided retraining
incentives to retrenched PE employees, in order to facilitated their redeployment in the private
sector. GOCV also made privatization more appealing to workers by: (a) promoting management
and employee buy-outs of small-sized PEs; (b) providing employees with options to buy up to five
percent of their enterprise's capital, once it was put up for sale; and (c) publicizing job creation
opportunities following privatization. Moreover, there was a risk that implementation of the PTAP
might prove too demanding for the limited capabilities of the Cape Verdean Administration. This
risk was mitigated by the efforts made by the Project executing unit, the consistent support it
received from the highest authorities, and the technical assistance provided under the Project.
C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF MAJOR OBJECTIVES
11.   The Project substantially achieved its overall objectives. Key performance indicators for
project implementation are listed in Table 5 of Part Il of this Report. They included time-bound
execution schedule to monitor the project progress. They lacked, however, tangible benchmark to
measure its outcomes, and quantitative and analytical information for comparison between
expected and actual results. The PTAP had five components: (a) institutional development to
design and implement the reform program; (b) privatization and liquidation, (c) PE performance
improvement; (d) accompanying measures to address labor issues; and (e) promotion of the
development of the private sector. Following is an assessment of achievement of each of these
components.



4
(i)    Institutional Development
12.   This component aimed to: (a) reorganize and strengthen the capacity of GARSEE, under
the Ministry of Economic Coordination, to conduct PE reform and divestiture and monitor the
performance of the sector; and (b) train officials responsible for the monitoring of PE performance
within the MEC and technical ministries. Achievement of these objectives was substantial.
13.   At the outset, the Project helped GOCV design an enabling legislation for divestiture. The
Privatization Law (Lei 47/IVl92 of July 6, 1992) defined the general framework for divestiture and
provided transparent procedures, guidelines and appropriate flexibility to handle operations. This
Law required, inter alia, the valuation of property by independent private experts, public
advertisement of sales, and divestiture through open, competitive bidding. Under the umbrella of
the Law, the divestiture of each enterprise was authorized by a specific privatization decree-law,
which prescribed the method and procedures for the transaction. The public announcement of the
divestiture constituted the formal offer for sale and invited bids and investors. GOCV's
enforcement of this Law, in addition to public information campaigns, was instrumental in the
transparency of the reform process.
14.   The Project strengthened the operational and managerial capacity of GARSEE, by
improving its skill levels, procedural approaches and general operating efficiency. GARSEE
demonstrated its ability to conduct the transactions with timely and satisfactory results. It advised
GOCV on enterprise and sector policy issues, and implemented the privatization program
successfully. It also developed a PE database and management information system, which
facilitated the monitoring of the sector's performance. GARSEE prepared a divestiture manual
which was an effective guideline to its operations and helped publicize its working methods. It
successfully conducted discussions with key stakeholders, including labor unions, PE employees
and line ministries, to develop a broad consensus for the reforms. Overall, GARSEE acted
efficiently and with high professional standards, and ensured effective ownership of the reform
process.
15.   The Project financed short-terrn consultancy services and specialized expertise in PE
reform and privatization, in addition to equipment and operational support. It also financed long-
term privatization advisory services to GARSEE, in order to overcome its lack of experience. This
resident assistance was critical at the beginning of the Project, but became less cost-effective as
GARSEE developed its internal capabilities. The GOCV decided, however, to maintain the
assistance throughout the Project, in order to maintain the pace of privatization.
16.   The Project provided extensive training to officials from PE line ministries and GARSEE.
This training consisted of: (a) on-the-job-training by the technical specialists and consultants; (b)
study tours abroad to learn from other countries' experience (e.g., Mauritius); (c) two in-country
seminars on PE restructuring and privatization, organized jointly with UNCTAD and USAID, and
attended by around 125 participants; and (d) 18 short-term professional courses overseas in
divestiture and project management issues, which involved 40 participants. These training
programs were well-organized and resulted in both quantitative and qualitative skill development
of beneficiaries. However, the outcome of study tours abroad, in particular the two trips organized
to Mauritius, could have been more effective if GOCV had pursued more actively the agreements
reached with the Mauritius officials during these visits. Interesting proposals were made on further
training exchange programs and technical partnerships between institutions from both countries



5
(e.g., vocational training centers, export and tourism development agencies, stock markets).
However, these opportunities did not materialize due to lack of follow-up.
(ii)   Privatization and Liquidation
17.   This component was to support the design and implementation of the GOCV's
privatization and liquidation strategy and action program. GOCV's initial objectives were to: (a)
sell the State-minority shareholding in five MECs; (b) privatize 11 PEs, including two hotels, six
manufacturing and service companies and three agro-industrial enterprises, through sale of shares
or assets; (c) liquidate two maritime transport and freight companies; and (d) evaluate the reform
options of six other PEs, including opening up the capital of telecommunications and airline
companies to private sector, and designing divestiture strategies of four other enterprises operating
in petroleum distribution, shipyard and industrial fishing. Further reforms for the remaining PEs
were to be defined in the course of the Project.
18.   These objectives had been substantially achieved. By PTAP closing, the divestiture of 28
enterprises had been completed and 10 other transactions were in progress1. Divestiture methods
used included public offering of shares (14), sale of assets (3), management/employee buy-out (3),
and liquidation (8). The PE sector was reduced to 30 enterprises, including 19 with majority State
shareholding. In the process, over 41 new, fully private companies were created from the
fragmentation of former PEs into separate companies which were then divested. The program
generated about US$ 53.0 million (ECV 5.3 billion) of gross proceeds, 75 percent of which
accounted for the privatization of the petroleum distribution and telecommunications companies
(ENACOL and CVT, respectively). A review of the performance of privatized enterprises showed
that most of them had improved since their transfer to the private sector, in terms of sales, gross
value added, investments and, in several cases, profits before taxes. A notable feature of the Cape
Verdean divestiture experience was that it had so far created twice as many jobs as were lost
during the process.
19.   The overall performance of enterprises remaining in the public sector also improved.
From a deficit of ECV 600 million in 1991, PEs' aggregate earnings before taxes became positive
in 1993 and steadily increased to a surplus of over ECV 640 million in 1996. In the meantime, the
Government slashed direct budgetary transfers to most PEs and increased their hard budget
constraints through tighter control of their operating and financial costs. Only a few remaining
loss-making enterprises continued to benefit from indirect transfers, notably through forgone,
unpaid taxes and arrears to GOCV, and GOCV's assuming their debt obligations to foreign
creditors and domestic bank (e.g., BCA). The GOCV also settled PEs' liabilities to the Treasury
within the framework of their privatization. These liabilities amounted to ESC 3.1 billion of non-
performing loans granted by BCV to ENACOL (ECV 1.7 billion), ARCA VERDE (ECV 0.25
billion) and CABMARJCABNAVE (ECV 1.13 billion). GOCV assumed these debts in 1994, to
"clean-up" this bank's balance sheet. The privatization of ENACOL and the sale of ARCA
VERDE's long distance ships generated over ECV 2.3 billion and ECV 0.2 billion, respectively,
which offset most of their debts to the Treasury and yield substantial net fiscal revenues.
20.   Moreover, the share of PEs in domestic credit decreased from an annual average of 24
percent in 1990-94 to less than 4 percent in 1995-1997. Foreign loans to PEs, on-lent or
'See Appendix C for detailed list of PEs that have been privatized, liquidated and those still in progress.



6
guaranteed by GOCV, were discontinued, except for a few infrastructure-related companies (e.g.,
ASA, ENAPOR, ELECTRA). Employment in the PE sector was reduced by 20 percent to 5300
workers, and the sector's value added decreased to about 10 percent of GDP in 1996. The 19
enterprises remaining with majority State shareholding included: (a) utilities operating in water and
electricity, manufacturing and transport companies; (b) trade-related companies providing food aid
distribution, drug import and postal services; and (c) financial institutions providing banking,
insurance and venture capital services. The Project helped (,OCV prepare a comprehensive action
plan to complete their privatization in 1998-2000. GOCV will implement this plan under the on-
going Economic Reforms Support Operation (ERSO, Credit 3027-CV), and the forthcoming
Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project (PR.CBP), for which GOCV had requested
IDA financing (para. 43).
(iii)   PE Performance Improvement
21.   The Project achieved mixed results in implementing the different elements of this
component:
(a) PE Performance Improvement: GOCV's initial intentions were to devise and implement a
restructuring and performance improvement prograim for those PEs that were not due to be
privatized under the Project. This involved two groups of enterprises:
(i) The first group consisted of seven utilities providing essential public services,
including:
C1T (Postal and Telecommunications Company). The Project financed a study
which guided the separation of CTT into a postal services company (CORREIOS)
and a telecommunications company (CVT). This separation was effective in
February 1995. GOCV subsequently privatized CVT. A major private operator
(Portugal Telecoms) was selected under a competitive bidding process and bought
40 percent of CVT capital. GOCV further divested 21 percent of shares to
employees and the public, reducing its participation to 39 percent of capital as of
December  1997.   GOCV  also  adopted  new  sector legislation  for
telecommunications, liberalized the value-added services, and signed a
concession contract with CVT to manage the fixed network.  However,
enforcement of these regulations has been weak, mainly due to GOCV's limited
capacity and inadequate regulatory institutions.
The Project also helped design a plan to improve the postal services. It financed
consultants specialized in new product development and postal services
modernization, accounting and financial management, and human resources
development. It also funded short-term training of 23 staff in these areas, and
computer equipment to strengthen CORR1EIOS' management information system
(MIS). To consolidate these achievements, GOCV plans to further: (a) sell its
remaining shares and keep only a "golden share" in CVT by 2000; (b) strengthen
the regulatory framework for telecommunications; and (c) develop operational and
financial performance targets for postal services, which would be monitored under
performance contracts to be signed with CORREIOS. Completion of these
activities would be monitored under the PRCBP.  Achievement of Project
objectives under this component was substantial.



7
*  TACV (Airline Company). The Project financed a restructuring and privatization
study of TACV  in  1994.   TACV  partially implemented the study's
recommendations aiming to improve its technical and air safety operations, but
the Authorities failed to take steps towards its privatization. Implementation of
privatization is now scheduled under the forthcoming PRCBP, together with the
improvement of civil aviation regulations. PTAP's achievements under this
category were partial.
*  ARCA VERDE/CGTM (Maritime Transport and Management Companies). The
Project helped restructure these companies and liquidate their long distance
transport vessels. ARCA VERDE continued, however, to operate inter-island
maritime transport services. GOCV plans to liquidate the companies in 1999,
under the PRCBP. PTAP's achievements under this category were partial.
*  ELECTRA (Water and Electricity Company). The Project financed a restructuring
and privatization study of ELECTRA. Privatization is to be carried out within the
framework of the Energy and Water Reform and Development Project (EWRDP),
under preparation with IDA support. PTAP's achievements under this category
were negligible.
*  EMPA (Food Aid and Basic Product Import and Distribution Company). The
Project financed a preliminary diagnostic of EMPA to evaluate the potential for
divestiture of its peripheral activities (e.g., fleet maintenance, warehousing,
laboratory) and further privatization of its core import and marketing functions.
Implementation of these measures was postponed mainly due to GOCV's decision
to restructure EMPA in parallel with the overall reform of food aid management.
This reform started in 1997 with European Union support, and would be
completed in 1999, in parallel with EMPA's full privatization. PTAP's
achievements under this category were negligible; and
*  ASA (Airport Management Company). The Project did not finance any technical
assistance to ASA, given its satisfactory financial performance over the last five
years. GOCV plans, however, to further improve this company's efficiency
within the framework of the air transport sector reform and ASA's performance
contract to be implemented under the PRCBP. PTAP's achievements under this
category were negligible.
(ii) The second group of PEs targeted for performance improvement comprised eight
loss-making PEs in severe financial situation. The Project financed their viability
assessments and helped implement their reforms, as follows:
* ENACOL (Petroleum Distribution Company). The Project financed a study which
helped GOCV reform the petroleum distribution sector and privatize ENACOL.
Petroleum import and distribution used to be carried out in duopoly by ENACOL
and Shell Cabo Verde. The latter enjoyed, however, a 20-year exclusive right to
operate on SAL island, where most of the jet fuel revenues were generated from
the International Airport's operations. This right expired in December 1996.
GOCV discontinued its exclusivity and opened up SAL's operations to ENACOL,
which helped recover its profitability. GOCV subsequently privatized 65 percent



8
of ENACOL's capital, generating over US$ 20 million of gross privatization
revenues. This operation turned out to be the second most important divestiture
transaction of the program, after CVT's. GOCV plans to further divest its
remaining minority shareholding in ENACOL under the PRCBP. PTAP's
achievements under this category were substantial.
*  GOCV fully divested four other loss-making PEs through liquidation and/or sale
of assets: PESCAVE (Industrial Fishing Company), METALCAVE (Metal
Workshop), ONA VE (Wooden and Plastic Boat Repair Yard) and MAC
(Construction materials). In addition, GOCV partially privatized ANV (Travel
and Customs Agency), through management/employee buy out of seven out of its
nine regional agencies. The two remaining agencies would be divested in 1999.
PTAP's achievements under this category were substantial.
*  GOCV  decided to  privatize CABMAR/CABNAVE  (Shipyard  Asset and
Management Companies) through leasing or concession. Their implementation
was, however, postponed mainly due to lack of resources to prepare them for
privatization, including funding for labor retrenchment, cleaning-up of balance
sheet, and GOCV's assuming the State-guaranteed foreign loans on-lent to
CABNAVE. These reforms would be completed under the PRCBP. PTAP's
achievements under this category were negligible.
(b) Improvement of PE Legal and Institutional Framework.  This component aimed at
improving the PE corporate governance system, separating ownership and management
functions, and reinforcing management autonomy and accountability. GOCV did not
implement these reforms in a global fashion, but rather dealt with them on a case by case
basis. GOCV commercialized each PE prior to divestiture, with the intent that corporate
management issues would be addressed by the new private owners. GOCV dealt with this
issue on a case by case basis, prior to privatization. As a result, there still remained an
unclear delineation of ownership and management functions between Government and
those enterprises with majority State shareholding. PTAP's achievements under this
component were negligible.
(c) Training of PE staff This component was to support the design and implementation of a
comprehensive training program aiming at building up local capabilities for improving PE
performance. The Project financed local training courses for PE executives and senior
officers in such areas as business administration, corporate and financial management,
MIS and computer technologies. It also funded short-term training abroad in specialized
issues such as international standards on maritime and air safety, telecommunications and
procurement. In-country training was contracted out to a national professional training
institution (IFAAG). IFAAG organized a total of eight training sessions, representing
about 80 weeks equivalent of courses, for over 296 PE staff, and produced relevant
training materials. Most sessions were organized on cost-sharing basis and courses were
well-received by participants. This training helped strengthen the expertise and managerial
capabilities of PE staff. Substantial capacity was also built in IFAAG, which managed the
training program. Achievement of PTAP objectives under this component was substantial.



9
(iv)   Accompanying Measures
22.   This component aimed to mitigate the social impact of labor retrenchment under the PE
performance improvement and privatization programs. Its main objectives were to: (a) support on-
the-job training of retrenched PE staff recruited by private employers; (b) promote the organization
of private sector-operated, demand-driven and work-oriented training for former PE staff; and (c)
provide advisory services to match the supply of labor created by reduction of staffing in the
restructured PEs and the demand of labor in the private sector.
23.   To facilitate the retraining of retrenched PE workers, the Project made funds available to
reimburse the private employers 40 percent of the salary they would pay a retrenched PE staff
whom they hired, for a period not exceeding six months. This payment was intended to contribute
to the cost, to the private employers, of providing on-the-job retraining to employees who, coming
from the public sector, might not immediately prove operational and fully productive in privately-
managed firms. Under this scheme, the Project financed the retraining of 225 PE staff hired by
private firms, at total cost amounting to US$ 100,000 (i.e., average costs of US$ 444 per
safeguarded job). At Project closing, more than 60 percent of the PE retrenched staff who
benefited from this aid were employed in the same private firms which trained them. The other 40
percent of staff had left these enterprises, but some of those who left established their own business
after the training. In retrospect, this Project-funded facility provided private firms with additional
incentives to recycle/retrain their staff coming from the PE sector. However, there was no
evidence to suggest a causal relationship between the recruitment of former PE workers by private
firms, on the one hand, and the six-month salary the Project re-funded to these firms, in order to
help them retrain these workers, on the other hand.
24.   The Project also financed demand-driven, on-the-job training for a total of 516 employees,
including over 200 former PE staff, working in 33 private firms created out of the divestiture
program. This training was mainly to help privatized small and medium-sized companies and
entrepreneurs who purchased former State-run operating assets, to quickly upgrade their staff's
skills, strengthen their entrepreneurial capacities, and enhance the prospect of their business
development. The Project also funded a labor redundancy study which helped GOCV design a
plan to further reduce excess labor in the enterprises remaining in the State portfolio. This study
was completed in 1997. It included detailed proposals for early retirement, voluntary departure
and recycling of about 1000 redundant employees. Its implementation would be monitored under
the PRCBP.
25.   Overall, Cape Verde's privatization program had so far created twice as many jobs as were
lost during the process. Over two-thirds of the 544 PE employees laid off under the program were
successfully redeployed in the private sector. Some 41 new private firms were created out of the
divested PEs. These firms employed more than 1,200 workers, of whom about 12 percent were
former PE staff. GOCV paid the mandatory separation benefits to all retrenched workers
according to the Labor Law, for a total amount equivalent to US$ 3.6 million. GOCV's
management of labor liabilities successfully mitigated the social impact of retrenchment.
Achievement of PTAP objectives under this component was therefore substantial.
(v)    Private Sector Promotion
26.   This component consisted of studies and advisory services to: (a) review the legal and
business environment to make it more responsive to private sector development needs; (b) design



10
and refine the legal, institutional and regulatory framework required to open up new sectors of the
economy to private sector initiative; and (c) promote private sector development areas offering
good prospects for growth and a potential for export, such as tourism, fishing, non-traditional
labor-intensive and high value-added light manufacturing or cottage industries, and accounting and
auditing services.
27.   The Project financed seven studies whose recommendations were implemented under
separate, follow-up projects, including:
(a) study of the legal business environment. GOCV monitored the implementation of this
study's recommendations (e.g., revised commercial code, commercial and civil procedures
code and labor code) under the IDA-financed Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building
Project (PSRCBP, Credit 2566-CV);
(b) three investment promotion studies on: (i) market potential in ECOWAS countries; (ii)
feasibility of relocating Portuguese industries to Cape Verde; and (iii) feasibility of
industrial parks and export processing zones in Praia and Mindelo. These studies were
managed by PROMEX and their implementation monitored under the IDA-financed
Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion (CBPPSD, Credit 2864-CV);
(c) feasibility study of a private shipping company. This study led to the creation of two
shipping companies in joint venture with private investors, with Dutch Cooperation's aid;
(d) study of capital and stock market development. This study helped GOCV design a stock
exchange system for simple transfer of shares, under a Swedish-funded project; and
(e) diagnosis study of accounting and auditing norms and regulations. This study helped
GOCV modernize the accounting and auditing framework, under a World Bank-financed
Project for Reviewing Accounting and Auditing Standards (IDF Grant 28865-CV).
28.   The status and impact of these studies are detailed in Table 6 of Part II of this Report.
Achievement of PTAP objectives under this component was partial.
D.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
29.   Project implementation was affected by two series of factors:
(i)    Factors Subject to Government Control
30.   Factors under this category had a moderate impact on the Project. They included:
(a) Utility Regulations: Weak utility sector policies and regulations hampered the
implementation of these enterprises' privatization. CJOCV's limited capacity and the lack
of clarity of the current regulatory framework on such matters as pricing policies,
competitive market structures, regulatory enforcement and "public service" obligations and
financing, delayed the process of inviting private participation in most transport and utility
companies. The case of telecommunications (CVT) was instrumental in educating GOCV
about the difficulties that sale prior to definition of the regulatory regime could bring.
These issues would be addressed under the forthcoming PRCBP;



11
(b) Labor Regulations and Retrenchment Funding. The Labor Law forbid dismissal of
workers because of labor redundancy, and closure of a company required until recently
massive severance pay. This rigidity of the Law, the heavy costs of laying-off employees,
and GOCV's delays in allocating the privatization revenues to PE staff retrenchment funds
delayed the implementation of the divestiture process. GOCV opened a "Divestiture
Account" where privatization proceeds were deposited. These proceeds were intended to
fund in priority, inter alia, the safety net of employees detrimentally affected by the
reforms (according to the Privatization Law). However, the proceeds often went straight
to the Treasury and were not made available for severance payments in a timely fashion.
As a result, GARSEE was unable to carry out the staff reduction required prior to
privatization, which in turn delayed the process (e.g., ANV, SONACOR). GOCV further
reviewed the Labor Code to introduce more flexibility in the labor market and bring the
mandatory end-of-service benefits to levels comparable to international standards. While
this excessive law was revised in 1993, all those employed before that date were
"grandfathered" and remained eligible for the prior law's generosity; and
(c) Vested interests: PEs operating in socially sensitive sectors (e.g., ELECTRA), and those
characterized by strong unions (e.g., EMPA) or by powerful management (e.g., TACV)
tended to resist the reform more successfully than others. These issues were partially
addressed thanks to GARSEE's success in dealing with the detailed tactical, legal, labor
and managerial issues of privatization, and its communication and stakeholder consultation
efforts, particularly during the early years of implementation. The political commitment to
the reform was also a necessary ingredient to support GARSEE's actions vis-a-vis the
most resistant PEs.
(ii)   Factors Subject to the Implementing Agencies' Control
31.   Factors under this category had a negligible impact on the Project. They included:
(a) Institutional Arrangements for Privatization and Restructuring: GARSEE was empowered
and had an appropriate mandate to carry out the divestiture program. However, its
responsibilities regarding the design and implementation of PE restructuring plans were
unclear. These responsibilities were entrusted to the PEs managers and their technical
ministries, who had vested interests and often resisted executing painful, though necessary,
restructuring decisions. PE restructuring objectives became, however, less important and
focused on few reforms required prior to privatization (e.g., labor retrenchment and
management of other liabilities), once GOCV decided to divest most of its remaining
portfolio. As a result, GARSEE's lack of an adequate mandate to handle the restructuring
process had only a negligible impact on the Project; and
(b) Project Implementation Pace. A Bank supervision mission reported that the pace of
project execution slowed down during 1996 due to, inter alia, GARSEE's uncertainties
concerning the continuation of the PE reform program (Supervision mission report dated
March 1997). GARSEE's staff commitment to its work program was apparently affected
by the prospect of Project closing. It regained to some extent its reform momentum in
1997, after GOCV reiterated its resolution to continue the PE reforms and prepare follow-
up operations to the PTAP.



12
E.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32.   The sustainability of the PTAP is likely. The Project strengthened the GOCV's capacity in
PE reforms and privatization, and PE managerial expertise. It helped recover the PE sector's
financial performance and alleviate its fiscal burden, making it a net contributor to the Budget. It
also helped improve financial discipline in the sector, enforce hard budget constraints, and alleviate
the PEs' crowding-out effect on the banking sector. In addition to the these quantifiable results,
the Project brought intangible benefits to the economy, inter alia, in the form of improvement of
the legal business environment, redefinition of Government's role in economic activities and the
prominence of the private sector as the main vehicle for growth and employment creation. These
achievements are likely to be sustainable.
33.   While the divestiture process has progressed well, there have been major gaps in the sector
policy and regulation of public utilities, particularly in water, electricity, telecommunications, port
and transport. These utilities and a few other enterprises providing essential public services
constitute the bulk of the remaining State portfolio. Some of them have continued to incur severe
losses and need forceful restructuring and/or outright divestiture. The long-term success of the
Project will therefore depend on the pursuit of sound macroeconomics policies, implementation of
a well-functioning regulatory framework to monitor private participation in utility, transport and
infrastructure sectors, and completion of the remaining operations. To address these issue, GOCV
prepared, with IDA assistance, the ERSO, which aimed at strengthening macroeconomic
stabilization efforts, and the PRCBP, which aimed at supporting the design and implementation the
second generation of privatization and regulatory reforms. Other IDA-financed projects in the
areas of private sector development (e.g., CBPPSD), water and energy (e.g., EWRDP), and
transport and infrastructure (e.g., TIP) also provided additional vehicles for sustaining the
achievements of PTAP.
34.   The completion of the divestiture program  is a priority of the GOCV's National
Development Plan for 1997-2000. Privatization remains bothl politically desirable and feasible in
Cape Verde. It was built on a broad consensus and supported by a large constituency. GOCV
secured support from key stakeholders whose cooperation was essential to success, including
parliament, unions and the civil society. Privatization policy reversal is therefore improbable.
GOCV's strong commitment also enhanced the prospects of lasting benefits of the Project.
F.  BANK PERFORMANCE
35.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory in identification and preparation, and highly
satisfactory in appraisal. The Project was designed in a timely fashion to respond to the GOCV's
most urgent needs for accelerating the country's shift to a market-oriented economy. It also
provided adequate technical assistance to overcome the GOCV's limited absorptive capacity and
lack of PE reform and divestiture experience.
36.   Bank performance during implementation was also satisfactory. The Project had a prompt
start-up thanks to the comprehensive preparatory work that vvas undertaken during identification
through appraisal. Bank staff were able to maintain a constructive dialogue with the authorities
throughout the Project. The Bank teams ensured that the Project was on track through effective
monitoring and consistent policy advice to key Government officials. The quality of the Bank's
dialogue with GOCV further facilitated the preparation of follow-up projects (e.g., ERSO and
PRCBP) to complete the unfinished PE reform agenda. The Bank carried out a total of seven



13
supervision missions, which were well-detailed. The last supervision mission also helped GOCV
identify and prepare the PRCBP. The Bank closely worked with other donors involved in PE
reforms in Cape Verde, particularly the European Union and USAID.
G.  BORROWER PERFORMANCE
37.   Borrower performance  was satisfactory  during  both  Project preparation  and
implementation. The GOCV identified itself with, and demonstrated a strong commitment to, PE
reforms. This was reflected by various factors, including: (a) GOCV's success in building broad
consensus on these reforms among the population; (b) its political commitment to the program,
including during the election periods; (c) enforcement of the privatization legislation; (d) prompt
appointment and continuity of GARSEE staff, which enhanced its institutional stability and
effectiveness; and (e) privatization of over half of the PEs, including important utilities (e.g.,
telecommunications), and enforcement of PE hard budget constraints and financial discipline.
38.   The project was well managed from the start. Although the pace of implementation was
slow at the beginning, it picked up as soon as in-house capacity and public support to privatization
were built. GARSEE adequately handled labor liabilities to prevent social unrest from the reform.
Its ability to create socially acceptable solutions to divestiture, mainly through
managementlemployee buy-outs of small-sized PEs, prompt payment of mandatory end-of-service
benefits, retraining/recycling support to retrenched workers, and pro-active assistance to the newly
privatized enterprises in the initial phase, was commendable.
39.   The project financial management was satisfactory. The project's accounts and financial
management system were audited annually, and the statement of expenditures semi-annually. The
audit reports were sent to the Bank in a timely fashion, and all of them were unqualified. GARSEE
consistently implemented the auditors' recommendation to improve its financial records and
information system. GARSEE also drafted periodic progress reports and budgets on a regular
basis, which facilitated the preparation of the joint GOCV/Bank supervision, mid-term and final
project review missions. GOCV's compliance with the covenants of the Development Credit
Agreement was highly satisfactory.
H.    ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.   Measured against the initial objectives of the PE reform program, the Project outcome is
rated satisfactory. Positive achievements under the Project included: (a) strengthening of GOCV's
institutional capacity to carry out this program; (b) human resource development through training
of PE and Government officials; (c) building of foundations for a comprehensive divestiture
program, including political acceptance of the program by key stakeholders, enactment of an
enabling legislation, completion of 28 divestitures and launching of over 10 others; (d) recovery of
the PE sector and alleviation of its burden on the banking system and public finances; and (e)
sustainability of these achievements.
41.   However, some measures envisaged under the PTAP were not completed, including: (i)
privatization of the remaining PEs, including utilities, and development of their regulatory
frameworks; (ii) retrenchment of these enterprises' excess staff, estimated at 1600 workers,
representing 20 percent of the sector workforce; and (iii) improvement of the corporate governance
system of those enterprises that would remain in the public sector. These reforms would be
completed and reinforced under the on-going ERSO and forthcoming PRCBP.



14
I.    FUTURE OPERATIONS
42.   As indicated above, GOCV is currently implementing a private sector development
program supported by, inter alia, three projects prepared with IDA assistance:
(a) Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion (CBPPSP, Cr. 2864-CV). The
CBPPSP Credit, in the amount of SDR 7.9 million, was approved on May 21, 1996, and
became effective on September 13, 1996. It aimecl at supporting the GOCV's efforts
to implement an export-led development strategy and create an environment
conducive to private sector growth by: (i) removing obstacles to the development of
private enterprises; (ii) developing Mindelo's export processing zone; (iii) providing
support to private sector institutions; and (iv) liberalizing and strengthening the
financial system, including through privatization and improved regulations;
(b) Economic Reforms Support Operation (ERSO, Cr. 3027-CV). The ERSO Credit, in the
amount of SDR million 21.80, was approved on December 23, 1997, and became
effective on May 4, 1998. It was intended to provide balance of payments financing in
support of the GOCV's home-grown adjustment program aimed at promoting private
sector development by: (i) accelerating privatization; (ii) further liberalizing the
economy; and (iii) maintaining a viable and stable macroeconomic framework. Under
ERSO, GOCV views privatization as a means of generating fiscal revenues in order to
reduce its domestic debt, in addition to improving the economy's efficiency; and
(c) Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project (PRCBP, FY99). This project is
parallel to ERSO and would help implement its accelerated privatization component,
which is the second phase of the reform program started under the PTAP. The PRCBP
intends to provide technical assistance in support of thte GOCV's policy of: (i) reducing the
size of the State in productive sectors, through an accelerated divestiture process; and (ii)
increasing private participation in economic sectors, including utilities, transport and trade,
through the development of effective policy and regulatory frameworks.
J.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
43.   The PTAP incorporated important lessons from the Bank's privatization experience, which
enhanced its chance of success, including: (a) ensuring prior political commitment and support to
privatization; (b) ownership building and stakeholder participation in the process; (c) enactment of
an enabling privatization legislation at the outset; (d) empowerment and appropriate staffing of the
privatization implementing unit; (e) communication campaigns to build public support and ensure
transparency; (f) arrangements to address the labor retrenchment issues in a timely fashion; (g)
management of other PE liabilities in tandem with divestiture; and (h) parallel reforms to improve
the private sector supply response, which ultimately would provide the necessary sources of
economic growth, investment financing for enterprise development, and job opportunities for
retrenched workers. However, the Project's design did not include adequate analysis of the
regulatory framework constraints which hampered private participation in utilities, transport and
infrastructure sectors. This lesson was applied from the beginning in the follow-up PRCBP.



15
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(Credit 2377-CV)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II -- STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives::  Substantial     Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomics policies           O               EJ              O               O
Sector policies           E.                      u [                             O
Financial objectives              OO
Institutional development         El              O               0               O
Physical objectives               o               E                               21
Poverty reduction          .                      E O                             21
Gender concerns                    0                                                l tl  el
Other social objectives    .         O1 El                        Ol
Environmental objectives    .     o                               El 2
Public sector management   .          El          0               [3
Private sector development   .                     el            E                E
B. Project Sustainability         Likely              Unlikely              Uncertain
.__ _ _ _ _ _   21            0                     0
C. Bank Performance          Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification             .                             2e                    0
Preparation assistance               El                  El                    0
Appraisal                           21                   0                     0
Supervision                          l                   E1                   0
D. Borrower Performance     Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory            Deficient
Preparation                         0                    21                    0
Implementation                      0                    2 1
Covenant compliance                 21                   0                     0
Operation                           0                     1                    a
E. Assessment of Outcome         Highly       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory     Highly
Satisfactory                                  Unsatisfactory
*.             21              E                03



16
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title .                  Purpose                       Year of    Status
Approval !
Preceding
Operation
To assist GOCV in: (i) improving the efficiency of the    1988  Closed
Infrastructure     transport and power sectors; (ii) encouraging private
Rehabilitation and    sector participation  in  the transport sector; (iii)
TA Project (Cr.    strengthening the operational, management and financial
1954-CV)           planning capabilities of TRANSCOR and ELECTRA;
(iv) assessing the feasibility of utilizing indigenous
sources of energy; and (v) preserving capital investment
already made in the Borrower's road network.
Following
Operations
To help  GOCV: (i) modernize  port operations,   1993    Ongoing
Transport and      reorganize the shipping industry and develop of offshore
Infrastructure     information industries; (ii) streamline transport sector
Project (Cr. 2466-   investment planning; (iii) set up a road maintenance
CV)                organization; and (iv) implement a four-year road
maintenance program.
Public Sector      To assist GOCV in the carrying out of its program for   1994    Ongoing
Reforrn and        economic and social reform through implementation of
Capacity Building    public sector institutional development and capacity
Project (Cr. 2566-    building activities and enhancement of the environment
CV)                for private sector development.
Capacity Building    To assist GOCV  in: (a) creating an appropriate   1996    Ongoing
Project for Private   framework  for private  sector development and
Sector Promotion    implementing an export-led development strategy; and
(Cr. 2864-CV)      (b) liberalizing and expanding its financial system.
Economic Reforms   To help Government restore macroeconomic stability  1997  . On-going
Support Operation    and consolidate private sector development reforms.
(Cr. 3027-CV)
Privatization and  To  help  Government implement its  accelerated   FY99        Under
Regulatory capacity  privatization program and develop effective policy and    preparation
Building Project   regulatory frameworks in key sectors, including utility
and transport.
Water and Energy    To help GOCV: (a) improve the supply of power, water   FY99  Under
Sector Reform and   and sanitation systems; (b) increase operational and end-  preparation
Development Project! use efficiency in power and water sectors, including
through privatization of ELECTRA; (c) lessen barriers
to development of clean, renewable energy; and (d) .
foster the sound management of water resources.



17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Program Cycle               Date Planned                Date actual
Identification                             September 1991             September 1991
Preparation
Appraisal                                  February 1992              April 1992
Negotiations                               May 4, 1992                May 8, 1992
Letter of Sector Policy                                               April 28,1992
Board presentation                        June 4, 1992                June 4, 1992
Signing                                                               June 22, 1992
Effectiveness                              September 1992             December 1, 1992
Project completion                         December 31, 1996          December 31, 1997
Credit closing                             June 30, 1997              December 31, 1997
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
USD(million)        1992  .  1993       1994      1995      1996      1997      1998
Appraisal estimate         0       0.80      2.00   .  3.00      3.80      4.20      4.20
Actual                    0.01   1  0.35      1.25   .  2.88     3.68   .  4.05      4.10
Actual as % of estimate  .         44%       63%   .  96%        96%   .  96%        98%
Date of Last Disbursement: April 17, 1998



18
Tables 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operations
Major Activities                   Timetable               Status
1. Institutional Development
(a) Organization of the PE Reform and Privatization  June 1992   Done
Unit (GARSEE) in the Ministry of Finance
(b) Appointment of GARSEE Director, recruitment of   September   Done
long term advisor to GARSEE                   1992            Done
(c) Adoption of rolling one-year action program of  1992-995
GARSEE                                                        Done
(d) Seminar on procurement of services for       October 1992
Government officials and PE managers                          Done
(e) Training program for staff of line ministries  As of February
1993
2. Privatization and Liquidation
(a) Improvement in the legal business environment  Not later than    Done
December 1992
(b) Privatization of eight PEs not performing an  Throughout the  Substantially achieved. Six
important economic or public service: (SONACOR,  project      out of the eight PEs identified
MACSOBIL, HOTELMAR, CERIS, CABETUR,                           were divested (except
MORABEZA, SITA and HOTEL ATLANTICO).                          SONACOR and CERIS). In
Identification of minimum of two, three and three             addition, GOCV fully divested
other companies to be divested the first, second and          four other PEs (CONCHAVE,
third year, respectively                                      ULTRA, HOTELMAR and
HOTEL BELORIZONTE)
(c) Privatization of four agro-industrial enterprises  June -December  Done. GOCV fully divested
(AGRIPEC, ENAVI, FAP and Justino LOPEZ)       1993            these four agro-industrial PEs.
* Design of privatization strategy and action plan
* Implementation of recornmended strategy
(d) Preparatory work for privatizing two PEs                     Not implemented.
performing an important economic or public
services, including MOAVE and EMPROFAC
* Definition of minimum service to be performed
* Definition of privatization strategy, and initiation
of privatization process
(e) Liquidation                                                  Done. GOCV sold ARCA
* Liquidation of ocean shipping activities of ARCA   March 1993  VERDE's long distance
VERDE and CGTM                                               vessels, and liquidated six
* Liquidation of other loss-making PEs                        others loss-making enterprises
(PESCAVE, FAP,
CREOULA, EMEC, SCAPA
and SOCAL CONGEL)



19
Major Activities                   Timetable               Status
3. PE Performance Improvement
(a) Performance improvement of strategic PEs     1993-1995       GOCV sold ARCA VERDE's
performing an essential economic or public service,           long-distance vessels;
and not likely to be privatized in the short-term
(e.g., ARCA VERDE, ASA, EMPA)                                 EMPA designed an internal
* Privatization of peripheral activities                      reorganization plan, which
* Preparation of 3-year performance agreement for             was not implemented;
remaining core activities
* Implementation of performance/productivity                  GOCV took no action
improvement measures                                         regarding ASA.
(b) Performance improvement and assessment of     1993-1995      TACV partially implemented
privatization potential for other strategic PEs               its study's recommendations
(TACV and CTT)                                                to improve air safety
operations. GOCV, however,
(c) Recruitment of short term specialized experts for  1993-1995  did not carry out its
improvement of operations and management.                     privatization plan.
(d) Decision on future of eight unprofitable PEs not             CTT's operations were
performing a public service (ENACOL, PESCAVE,                 separated into a postal services
MAC, ANV, CABMAR/CABNAVE, ONAVE and                           (CORREIOS) and a telecoms
METALCAVE)                                                    company (CVT) which was
* Viability assessment of CABMAR/CABNAVE      May 1993        privatized.
and ENACOL
* Decision on PEs' future (restructuring/divestiture)  July 1995  ENACOL was successfully
* Implementation of selected solution         1993- 1995      privatized.
* Viability assessment of other companies and  No later than
decisions on their futures and implementation of   1994      Five others PEs were fully or
selected solution                                            partially divested (PESCAVE,
MAC, ANV, ONAVE and
(e) Improvement in the legal and institutional    1992-1993      METALCAVE). However,
framework for PE management                                   GOCV took no action
regarding CABMAR and
(g) Training of PE managers, staff and board members            .CABNAVE.
Throughout the
project         GOCV corporatized each PE
prior to its privatization, on a
(h) Financial audits of ASA, ARCA VERDE, EMPA,    1993-1995      case by case basis, but failed
CTT and TACV                                                  to improve the overall legal
framework governing the PEs.
GOCV provided extensive
training to PE staff, which
achieved its expected skill
improvement objectives.
GOCV also carried out the
required PE audits.



20
Major Activities                   Timetable               Status
4. Accompanying Measures
(a) Organization of communication campaigns      December 1992  Done
(b) Organization of retraining for retrenched PE staff    1993 - 1995  Done
5. Promotion of Private Sector
(a) Improvement in legal business environment - by  December 1992  Done
reviewing the administrative procedures of
implementation of the legal business environment
including labor law and design of improvements
(b) Studies to "open up" new activities/sectors to  1993 - 1995  Done. GOCV carried out the
private initiative                                            following studies: (i)
* Action plan for promotion of private operations m           ECOWAS market study; (ii)
fishing sector, including recommendations                   Study on feasibility of
regarding future of PESCAVE and INTERBASE                   relocating Portuguese Industry
* Study for identification of labor intensive, high          to Cape Verde; (iii) Industrial
value-added manufacturing investment                        Park/Export Processing Zone
opportunities                                               study; (iv) feasibility study of
* Design of regulatory framework for: (i) security            a private shipping company;
of private stock holder; (ii) opening up the                (v) capital market study; (vi)
telecommunications and drug import sectors (iii)            Shell negotiations study; and
off-shore banking; (iv) intemational maritime               (vii) diagnostic of auditing and
registration center                                         accounting standards.
Operational Plan to Complete the Privatization Program (ERSO)
GOCV plans to divest a total of 30 small, medium and large enterprises and financial institutions
between 1998 and 2000, including some enterprises whose privatization programs began under the PTAP. In
1996, the combined gross assets of these PEs (excluding the commercial banks) totaled CVE 29.18 billion
(US$ 291 million); they employed over 5300 people and their value added represented about 10 percent of
GDP. The bulk of the privatization transactions will be carried out in 1998 and 1999, and the final tranches
of State shares in larger companies will be sold in 2000. At thal: point, all the State shares in the 30
enterprises and financial institutions will have been disposed off, except for "golden shares" which will be
retained in a small number of enterprises in which the Government retains a strategic or public service
interest.
A time-bound privatization action plan for 1998-2000 was agreed with GOCV under the Economic
Reforms Support Operation (ERSO, Credit 3027-CV). GOCV will implement this plan with IDA-financed
technical assistance under the forthcoming Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project (PRCBP).
Accordingly, in 1998, GOCV will undertake 22 divestiture actions as follows:



21
(a)  completion of the sale of the State's shares in: MOAVE (39 percent, flour mill company), FAMA
(14.1 percent, pasta processing company), SONACOR (100 percent, automobile servicing and
import company), ANV (100 percent, travel agencies in Praia and Mindelo), CVC (23.3 percent,
civil works company), and CERIS (30 percent, brewing and soft drinks manufacturer). Preparatory
work to launch these transactions was completed under the previous PTAP, including valuation,
advertisement of sales and public announcement of their divestiture;
(b) finalization of the divestiture of: INTERBETAO (construction material assets) through sale of
assets, INERF (civil works and hydraulic institute) through corporatization and sale of 100 percent
of shares, and OFICINAS (equipment and vehicle repair facilities) through sale of assets;
(c) sale of at least 51 percent of shares in: GARANTIA (insurance company), CECV (commercial
bank), and ELECTRA (power and water company);
(d) sale of the State's minority shareholdings in: CVT (telecommunications company, 24 percent), and
ENACOL (25 percent, oil distribution company). This will further reduce GOCV's minority
shareholding in these companies to 15 percent and 10 percent, respectively;
(e) divestiture of: CABMAR/CABNAVE (shipyard asset and management companies) through
concession or leasing; TRANSCOR (urban passenger transport company) through municipalization;
INTERBASE (refrigeration and cold storage plant) through leasing; the ports of Praia and Mindelo
from ENAPOR (port management and operation company) through concession; and ARCA
VERDE (inter-island maritime transportation company) through liquidation; and
(f) design and implementation of performance contracts with CORREIOS (postal services company)
and ASA (airport management company), and restructuring of EMPA (food import and distribution
company) so as to separate its food security and commercial activities.
In 1999, the Government will privatize the following enterprises through public share offerings:
EMPROFAC (99 percent, pharmaceutical imports and distribution company); TACV (at least 50 percent,
airline company); BCA (at least 50 percent, commercial bank); CECV (at least 24 percent); and EMPA (at
least 51 percent of the shares of EMPA's commercial activities, and sale of its subsidiary activities in Cape
Verde and real estate in Paraguay);
Finally, in 2000, the Government will complete its privatization program by divesting all public
shares, with the exception of a very limited number of shares to be held as "golden share" provisions in a few
"strategic" and public service companies.  The following companies are scheduled to complete their
privatization in 2000: BCA, CECV, GARANTIA, PROMOTORA (100 percent, venture capital company);
TACV, ENACOL, CVT and ELECTRA.
By the end of 2000, when the privatization process would have been completed, only the postal
services, the airport authority and possibly the small ports would remain in the public sector. For these
SOEs, the postal service and airport authority would be managed through performance contracts, while the
small ports would probably be run by their respective municipalities. GOCV will also maintain golden
shares in GARANTIA, TACV, CVT, ENACOL, ELECTRA and BCA.



22
Table 6  Studies Included in the Project
Study          .          Purpose              Status             Impact
1. Feasibility study for an  Creation of new opportunities  Done    The study presented the
industrial park and export  for economic development and        feasibility of establishing an
processing zone (EPZ)   employment creation;                    EPZ, taking into account other
promotion of exports of goods          countries' experience and the
and services.                          Cape Verdean environment.
An EPZ was created in
Mindelo and 1 1 enterprises are
currently operating in this
Zone, mostly in manufacturing
of shoes and textile for export.
ECOWAS market study    To generate practical           Done    The study provided
information on structure and           information to Cape Verdean
conditions of selected markets         businessmen on access to
in ECOWAS                              ECOWAS markets, and helped
.          . GOCV address institutional
bottlenecks.
3. Feasibility study of a  Design of legal and regulatory  Done    The study analyzed the demand
private shipping company  framework for International           and supply of long distance
Maritime Registration Center           shipping services, following
the liquidation of ARCA
. VERDE ocean shipping
activities. It led to the creation
of two joint-venture shipping
companies (SEA LINE and
SEA INVEST) with minority
State's shareholding.
h Capital market study     Design or regulatory           Done    The study examined the
framework for security of              opportunities for, and
private stock holder.                  constraints to, establishing a
stock market in Cape Verde. It
helped GOCV create a stock
market for simple exchange of
shares, with Swedish aid. The
stock exchange is planned to
open by 1999.
5. Shell negotiations study    Valuation of fixed assets and  Done    This study helped GOCV: (a)
the "exclusivity license" issued       negotiate the 20-year old
to Shell in 1977.                       concession of Shell over fixed
assets for oil distribution in
SAL; (b) reorganize the oil
distribution sectors; and (c) a
conducive environment for the
privatization of ENACOL.



23
Study                     Purpose              Status
6. Diagnostic of accounting  I To review existing accounting  Done    The study helped GOCV
and auditing standards,    and auditing standards and           design a project to modernize
norms and regulations   practices in Cape Verde.                the accounting and auditing
framework.
7. Legal business          To prepare a diagnosis of the  Done    The study helped GOCV
environment study       legal business environment.             review the business legislation,
including commercial code,
commercial and civil
procedures code and labor
code.
8. Feasibility study for   To examine possibilities of    Done    The study examined the
relocating Portuguese   relocating Portuguese clothing          possibilities of relocating
industries to Cape Verde   and shoe making industries           Portuguese clothing and shoe
making industries to Cape
Verde by comparing costs and
benefits of relocation. As a
result, 15 enterprises expressed
interest in the incentives
provided and, by December
1997, eight of them had
relocated part of their
production in the Mindelo
export processing zone.
9. Restructuring and/or    To review the operations and   Done    The studies' finding helped
privatization studies (e.g.,  financial situation in order to   I  GOCV design and implement
TACV, ELECTRA,          improve their performance               specific actions plans to
EMPA, ENAPOR)           privatize these PEs                     restructure and/or privatize
I these enterprises.
10. Study of excess labor in   To assess PERP's database on  Done    Study's findings and
11 State-owned          human resources of PEs,     .           recommendations will help
enterprises and its     determine excess labor,                 GOCV implement the
reinsertion in the labor  recommend programs and                retrenchment program prior to
market                  instruments to reduce labor             the privatization of the
redundancy and advise on               remaining PEs.
reinsertion of the excess labor
in the market



24
Table 7: Project Costs
(tUS$ '000)
Project component             Appraisal estimate    R           Actual
|| Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Institutional Development          344       456      800       344       756     1,100
Privatization and Liquidation       86       402      488        86       634       720
PE Performance Improvement          36     1,436     1,472       36       454       490
Accompanying Measures              580        70      650       420        70       490
Promotion of Private Sector          0       360      :360         -      499       499
Operational Costs                    -         -         -      841       460     1,301
Total Base                       1,046     2,724     3,770     1,727    2,873     4,600
Contingencies                      254       676      930                                l
Total Project cost        1,300     3,400    4,700     1,727     2,873     4,600
Table 8: Project Financing
(US$ '000)
Financing Plan               Appraisal estimate                Actual
____________________________ ||Local  I Foreign I  Total   Local   Foreign I Total
Government                         500         0       500      586         -       586
IDA                                800     3,400     4,200     1,141     2873     4,014
Total                1,300  | 3,400     4,700     1,727     2873     4,600



25
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Credit   Covenant  Present2
Agreement   Type     Status              Description of Covenant                  Comments
Section  __ ___
3.01. (a)   Project .   C    The Borrower declares its commitment to the   The Project was
Impl.            objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule  designed and
2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry  implement with
out the Project through  MOFP  with  due  Borrower's strong
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with  commitment.
appropriate  technical,  administrative,  and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
3.01. (b)   Project    C     Without limitation upon the provisions of .
Impl.            paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the
Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project
in  accordance  with  the  Implementation
.                   Program  set forth in  Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
3.02.    Procur.     C     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
.        .         . be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
4.01. (a)  Acc. &  .   C     The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be .
Audit.            maintained records and accounts adequate to
reflect in accordance with sound accounting
practices  the  operations,  resources  and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any
part thereof.
4.01. (b)  Acc. &      C     The Borrower shall:                           Audits of Project
* Audit            .                                             . accounts were carried
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in  out in a timely fashion
paragraph (a) of this Section including those  and all audit reports
for the Special Account for each fiscal year  were unqualified.
audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors  acceptable  to  the
.________  ____Association;
2  Present status: C  = complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



26
Credit    Covenant   Present
Agreement    Type      Status               Description of Covenant                     Comments
Section             _ _ _ _ __                                                   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
4.01. (b)   Acc. &  .   C      (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as
(contd.)    Audit                available, but in any case not later than six I
months after the end of each such year, a
.                       certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail  as  the  Association   shall  have
reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association  such other
.                   .   information   concerning   said   records,
accounts  and  the  audit thereof as the
Association  shall  from   time  to  time
reasonably request.
4.01. (c)   Acc. &      C    IFor all expenditures with respect to which
Audit  I           withdrawals from  the Credit Account were
made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, M
accordance  with  paragraph  (a)  of this
Section, records and accounts reflecting such I
expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal I
from the Credit Account or paynment out of
the Special Account was made, all records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and  other  documents)  evidencing  such
expenditures;
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and
(iv) ensure that the said accounts and records
shall be audited on a semiannual basis by
said auditors, who shall prepare audit reports
accordingly  and  furnish  them   to  the
Association, not later than three (3) months
after the end of such  semiannual audit
.   period, along with an opinion as to whether I
the  statements of expenditure  submitted I
during  such  period, together  with  the I
procedures and internal controls involved in
their preparation, can be relied upon to
support the related withdrawals.



27
Credit   Covenant  Present
Agreement   Type    Status             Description of Covenant               Comments
Section
S4 1-(a)  Project    C     The Borrower and the Association shall, not GARSEE prepared
Impl.           later than October 31, 1993 and, thereafter, not detailed progress
later than October 31 of each subsequent year, reports as required,
undertake a joint review of the Project or, as the  which facilitated the
case may be, not later than October 31, 1994, a I joint Government/Bank
mid-terrn review, during which they shall Isupervision, mid-term
exchange views generally  on  all matters  and final reviews of the
relating to the progress of the Project and the  Project.
performance by the Borrower of its obligations
.                . under this Agreement; including, in particular,
review:
(i) the progress of the Project for the current
fiscal year, the performance of consultants I
under the Project, the progress of the training
program, the progress of the Privatization
.                    program   and  its  actual  record  of'
transparency, and the performance of public
enterprises and those enterprises that have
been  privatized, having  regard  to  the
performance indicators agreed upon to this                     l
*.               *.  effect between  the  Borrower and  the
Association, and
(ii) the proposed budget and work program for
the forthcoming fiscal year, including key
monitorable outputs and a schedule of
proposed procurement actions.
S.4.1 (b)  Project    CP    Not later than one month prior to each such IGARSEE furnished all
Impl.           review, the Borrower shall furnish to the  necessary reports in a
Association, for its comments, a report, in such  timely fashion.
detail as the Association shall reasonably  However, they were
request, on the progress and status of the  not endorsedby
Project, and giving details, in particular, of the  PESRAB, which was a
proposed budget and work program  for the  consultative Board with
.                 . forthcoming fiscal year, as submitted by PERP  no executive mandate.
Unit and subsequently endorsed by PESRAB.
S.4.1 (c)  Project    CP   IFollowing each such review, the Borrower  Progress of reform
Impl.           undertakes to act promptly and diligently, in  actions in PE corporate
order to take any corrective action deemed  governance system,
.  necessary to remedy any shortcoming noted in  utility restructuring and
the implementation  of the Project, or to  sector regulation has
implement such other measures as may have  been slower than
Ibeen agreed upon between the parties in  anticipated.
furtherance of the objectives of the Project.



28
Credit   Covenant . Present
Agreement   Type     Status              Description of Covenant                  Comments
Section
S.4.1 (d)  Project    C      Without limitation to the preceding paragraphs   GARSEE submitted such
Impl.            (a), (b) and (c) of this Section, the Borrower  reports, as required.
shall, throughout the period of implementation
.        .          of the Project, submit to the Association, for its
review and comments, semiannual reports on
the progress of implementation of the Project.
S.4.2.    Project .  C      The Borrower shall assign responsibility for the  GARSEE was
Impl.           .day-to-day implementation of the Project to a  responsible for day-to-
restructured  Public Enterprise Reform  and  day inplementation of
Privatization (PERP) Unit of MOFP, consisting  the project, and had
of a  Director, having  qualifications  and  adequate staffmg.
experience acceptable to IDA, and the requisite
number of suitably qualified and experienced
local professional and support staff.
S.4.3.    Project    CP    The Borrower shall set up a Public Enterprise .Such consultations
Impl.            Sector   Rationalization   Advisory   Board .continued up to 1996.
(PESRAB), to be chaired by the Minister of  However, private
Finance and Planning, and consisting of the  sector representatives
Director of the PERP Unit, who shall be the  were not included.
secretary thereof, and of suitably qualified and
experienced   public  and   private  sector
representatives, which shall advise the Minister
of Finance and Planning on all policy issues
relating to the Programn.
S.4.4    Project .   C    .The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,  GARSEE carried out
Impl.            1993, launch a public relations campaign aimed  communication
.                 . at explaining  to  the  general public  the  campaigns to promote
objectives and other details of Part B of the  the privatization
Project, and mobilizing investors' interest.  process and mobilize
investors' interests.
S.4.5.    Project    CP    The Borrower shall:
Irnpl.
(a) have an environmental assessment carried   Environmental
out, by its National Commission for the       assessment was carried
Environment, of all enterprises that are due to    out only for
be privatized under the Project; and          ELECTRA, in 1997.
(b) in the case of those enterprises that are
classified by the said Commission as being a
threat to the environment, (i) have an
environmental audit thereof carried out, and (ii)
take such measures as may be required in order
to mitigate the potentially adverse
environmental impact resulting from the
activities of such companies.



29
Credit    Covenant I Present
Agreement    Type        Status                  Description of Covenant                          Comments
Section
S.4.6.    Project        C       The Borrower shall, not later than December            GOCV adopted a
Impl.                31, 1992, adopt a Procedures Manual,                   divestiture manual at
acceptable to the Association, governing the           the beginning of the
.         . procedures for the privatization of its public         project.
.                       enterprises, or the assets thereof, under the
.        .Project.
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staff- Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                              Planned                        Actual
Through appraisal        (Preparation, Preappraisal)                 n.a.                           11.5
Appraisal 4  Board    (Negotiation)                                  -"-                            10.5
Board +  Effectiveness
Supervision                                                           28                            65.1
Completion                                              .                                            5.0
Total                                                                                               92.1
n.a.: not available
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Missions
Performance  Rating
Stage of     Month I   Number   Days    Specialized Staff                                             Types of
Project Cycle   Year        of   .  in       Skills Represented   -Implementation   Development         Problems
. Persons . Field            .         ,    Status            Impact
Through        09/1991       5    .      .12    Senior Public                                       Use of
appraisal                                   Enterprise Specialist,                                  privatization
02/1992                      Principal Economist,                                   proceeds,
3 Consultants                                          retraining and
severance costs
Appraisal 4    02/1992 ,    5         12    Senior Public                                           Phasing out of
Board                                       Enterprise Specialist, '5                               subsidies to PEs
06/1992                     Principal Economist,                                    that will not be
3 Consultants                                          privatized,
transparency of
privatization
_____ _____   ____ ____   _____ _   ___ _____ _____ ___   _ _____ _____ _____ _____ ____ p ro cess
Board 4        06/1992       6            ISenior Public                                            Conditions for
Effectiveness                               Enterprise Specialist,                                  effectiveness
12/1992                       Principal Economist



30
Table 11: Bank Resources: Staff Missions (contd.)
Performance  Rating
Stage of    Month l   Number  Days  Specialized Staff Skills                                  Types of Problems
Project Cycle    Year     of      in         Represented       Implementation   Development
Persons   Field                           Status         Impact
Supervision
I       06/1992       I    I 12   Senior Public               HS              HS        Project organization
Enterprise Specialist                               and launching, and
support to consensus
building
II     . 04/1993      I       12   Senior Public               HS       .    HS        IReassessment of long-
.  I     *      * Enterprise Specialist                              . term technical
assistance needs.
III      06/1994      2    I 14    Senior Public               HS       .    HS          Review of divestiture
Enterprise Specialist,                              action plans.
Economist
IV       06/1995        I    14   Senior Public               HS             HS       IProject mid-term       l
.         .         .      . Enterprise Specialist                               review.
V       05/1996       2       14   Principal Industrial        HS       .    HS         Review of PE
.              .Economist,                           .              I corporate management
.       .        Economist                           .               system, divestiture
operations and labor
liability management.
VI       03/1997      2       17   Principal Industrial         S              S         Slow riplementation
Economist,                                          progress, and review
Economist.                                          of regulatory and
policy constraints to
utility and transport
*                            .                                   * .  .  .       sector reforms.
VII      10/1997       2       14   Principal Industrial         S       .      S        Preparation of policy
Economist,                                          framework for the
Economist           .                               second generation of
privatization.
Completion   02/1998 I   3         14  IPrincipal Industrial         S              S        ICR preparation
Economist,
Economist, Public
Enterprise Specialist
3   Key to status as shown in Supervision Form 590: ratings are S (satisfactory) or from I (highest) to 4
(lowest).



31
APPENDIX A
ICR Mission's Aide-Memoire
Privatization and Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2377-CV)
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
Mission's Aide-Memoire
March 11, 1998
1.    This Aide-memoire summarizes the findings and conclusions of a World Bank mission
comprising Mr. Jean-Michel Happi (Mission Leader) and Mme. Lucy Fye (PE Specialist) that
visited Cape Verde between February 23 and March 11, 1998, to prepare the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) on the above-mentioned Project. This mission was combined with
another pre-appraisal mission of the Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project, the
aide-memoire on which was issued separately. The mission wishes to thank the Authorities,
particularly the Minister of Economic Coordination and the Director of GARSEE, for their support
and assistance in this endeavor.
2.    The mission provided advice and support to Government for preparing its own
contribution to the ICR. Government's retrospective evaluation of the Project is attached.
GARSEE reviewed the draft ICR, and its comments were incorporated in the revised report.
A.    Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
3.    The major objective of the Project was to assist the Government in: (a) building its
capacity to implement a wide ranging public enterprise (PE) reform program; and (b)
implementing its policy of promoting the private sector as the main vehicle for economic
development. The Project included five components: (i) divestiture of selected PEs; (ii) liquidation
of non-viable ones; (iii) improvement in the operational performance and profitability of other
enterprises that did not lend themselves to privatization during the course of the project; (iv)
creation of a legal and regulatory framework conducive to private sector development; and (v)
identification and promotion of new private sector activities.
4.    Project objectives with respect to privatization were clear and supported by monitorable
activities whose implementation sought to promote transparency in all the phases. Objectives
aimed at improving Government's capacity to manage the PE sector were attainable and realistic.
The divestiture and restructuring plans for key PEs were also attainable, since the project gave due
consideration to Government's limited institutional capacity and lack of privatization experience.
B.    Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The Project substantially achieved its overall objectives and was rated satisfactory
throughout implementation. It helped Government design the legal and institutional framework of
reforns, including an enabling legislation for divestiture, and strengthened the operational and
administrative capacity of GARSEE. It also provided extensive training, both on-the-job and
formal, to over 32 official from GARSEE and technical ministries, 296 PE executive and senior



32
officers, and 220 retrenched PE workers who were redeployed to the private sector. This training
resulted into both quantitative and qualitative skill development of the beneficiaries.
6.    At PTAP closing, 28 PEs had been divested and 10 other transactions were in progress. In
fact, 20 PEs were fully or partially privatized; 8 non-viable enterprises and on-going concerns were
liquidated. These reforms resulted in, inter alia, the creation of over 41 new private firms out of
the former PEs, which employed 1218 workers, 12 percent of whom were former PE staff. Under
this program, 544 PE workers were declared redundant, of whom 50 percent received retraining to
facilitate their redeployment in the private sector.  The PE sector improved its financial
performance averaging at 5.5 percent per annum producing a huge turnaround from the equivalent
of US$ 1.0 million losses to about US$ 2.0 million profits within a period of five years - 1992 to
1996.
7.    However, the Project performance was less satisfactory in other areas, including
implementation of performance improvement and privatization action plans of a dozen of PEs,
strengthening of their regulatory frameworks, and improvement of the PE corporate governance
system.
8.    Sustainability of the Project's achievements is rated likely. The Project helped recover the
PE sector situation, improve the sector's financial discipline, and alleviate its crowding-out effect
on the banking sector and its burden on public finances. The long-term success of the Project will,
however, depend on the pursuit of sound macroeconomics policies, implementation of a well-
functioning regulatory framework to support the private participation in utility, transport and
infrastructure sectors, and completion of the remaining operations.  Government's strong
commitment enhanced the prospects of lasting benefits of the Project. Follow-up operations
prepared with IDA assistance in the areas of policy reforms for macro-economic stabilization,
privatization and regulatory reforms, transport and infrastructure, and private and financial sector
reform provided additional vehicles for continued development of PTAP activities.
9.    Overall Bank performance was satisfactory. The project had a prompt start-up thanks to
the comprehensive preparatory work that was undertaken during from identification to appraisal
stages of the Project. The Bank's dialogue with Government on PE reform was constructive and
facilitated the preparation of follow-up operations to complete the unfinished agenda. The Bank
carried out a total of seven supervision missions and worked closely with other donors involved in
the PE reform program, particularly European Union and USAID.
10.   Borrower performance  was satisfactory  during  both  project preparation  and
implementation. The Government clearly identified itself with, and demonstrated a strong
commitment to, these reforms. Government's compliance with the covenants of the Development
Credit Agreement was satisfactory, including timely provision of counterpart funds, sound project
financial management, timely preparation of audit reports on project accounts, and substantive
execution of the agreed reform program.
C.    Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
11.   The Government is implementing a private sector development program supported by,
inter alia, five projects prepared with IDA assistance: (i) Capacity Building Project for Private
Sector Promotion; (ii) Transport and Infrastructure Project; (iii) Economic Reforms Support



33
Operation; (iv) Privatization and Regulatory Capacity Building Project; and (v) Energy and Water
Reform and Development Project.
12.   Four main lessons can be learned from the PTAP's experience: (i) strong Government
commitment throughout the project's life was a major factor to its success; (ii) this success also
owed to GARSEE's managerial and operational efficiency and the expertise it developed on PE
reform; (iii) public awareness and consensus building campaigns throughout the Project were
instrumental to facilitate public understanding, stakeholder acceptance and prompt implementation
of the proposed reforms; and (iv) structural and institutional changes required long time to
materialize; this was illustrated by Government's delays in introducing a new institutional set up
for PE corporate governance.



BORROWER CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



34                             APPENDIX B
MINISTPRIO  DA COORDENAq.3O  ECONc5MICA
GABIN'ET Dg APOZO A REESTRUTURAgAO
DO SECTOR EMPRESARIAL DO ESTADO
TEL.: 6123 19/61 4748-FAX  1 2334
C. P. 323 - PRAIA-CAbO VERM
PRIVATIZATION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FINA'L ASSESSENIENT
t. The Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PTAP) was signed on June 1992
between IDA and the Govemment of Cape Verde and thereafter known as Credit
2377-C.V.
The total cost of the Project %%as 4.7 million [USD, of which 4.2 million was financed
by IDA and 500.000 USD by Cape Verde.
2. A final report was prepared by the Unit in charge of the implementation of the
project (GARSEE) which includes three annex's: i) annex I Sununarizing the results
of the implementation; ii) annex 2 indicating how the continuation should be; iii)
annex 3, about all 67 legal activities necessary to implement the project; iv) annex 4,
a financial analysis to show the improvement of public companies.
An Executive Summarv of 7 pages illustrates the main contents of the final report.
. I have been saying that one of the best things that happened to Cape Verde is the
privatization project, insofar as it opened up the economy, too much tied to public
enterprises. and envisioned a new future of market oriented economy where the role
of the government is to set the rules and let the private sector take all the initiatives
on economic activities.
4. The objectives were all met ( see pages 50/5 1). the design of the project by the
World Bank staff was impeccable. The implementation of the project was carried
with a good performnance, if we take into account that no experience on the
execution of World Bank projects existed at the time, neither on privatization.
5. The implementation of the project took place inmmediately atler all the conditions for
effectiveness were met, i.e. once we had an auditor, and a Divestiture Manual was
prepared. This Divestiture Manual was the Guide that enabled GARSEE to execute
with transparency all the activities of the project.
All public enterprises with bad performance and no future were liquidated.
Ali the companies listed for privatization were indeed privatized with a few
exceptions like TACV and GARALNTIA.
6. Restructuring of SOEs and performance improvement measures were taken for
ELECTRA, ENIPA. CA&BMARJCABNAVE, ENAPOR. TACV, TR.ANSCOR;
ASA,CCV.



35
As can be seen in annex iv. as a combined result of privatizations. liquidation and
performance improvement activities ( including trainini) SOEs went from a
combined loss of 1 160.090 ( one million, one hundred and sixty thousand and
ninety contos) during 1987191 to a combined profit Of 1 884.808 ( one million, eight
hundred and eighty four thousand, eight hundred and eight contos) during the period
of the project (1992-96). (one conto = I,ooo escudos)
All this, despite the fact that banking credit to SOEs decreased from 26.3 million
USD in 1991 to only 4.83 million USD in 1995.
Training was part of the success. As a matter of fact, there were 40 participants in
the Institutional Development efforts, 296 for the performance improvements of
SOEs and 220 participants as measures of accompanying.
Total of 556 participants for almost all the SOEs (page 25).
7. Under the item Mteasures of Accompanying this project monitored the dislocation of
the labor force from the public to the private sector along with privatization and
liquidation.
Besides training. all dislocated workers that started their own business were
eligible to receive 40% of their salaries for 6 months.
This  measure  was  relevant  insofar  it  raised  the  opportunities  for
employee/management buy out (ENIBO)
Our main concern was to prevent a sudden increase in unemployment and that is the
reason why the Government fostered the acquisition of small companies bv their
own workers and managers.
About 300 jobs were saved, costing only USD 442 each. To create each new job
usually it costs USD 25,000 in the newly created Exporting processing Zones (EPZ)
8. Private Sector Development was part of our project. Under this item we are proud to
show that many studies undertaken along with PRONEX resulted in new projects for
Cape Verde, with the creation of several enterptises in Mlindelo and Praia.
i)  Study ott the Legal Envirotnment, resulting in a new. more flexible Labor Law
and the oncoming new Commercial Code;
ii) Study ot (CEDEA0 .0 Markets;
iii) Stuhdv on) Relocation of Portuguese Indtustries, with the creation of garment and
shoes companies in Cape Verde;
iv) Study of EP7. actually 7 free zone companies with a rising demand for
establishment.
v) Stud of Private Shipping Companies, whose results are 2 more companies on
Shipping . one joint-venture Cape Verde/'American, one capeverdeaniincluding
immigrants,
vi) Two sttdy vi.sits to Mauritius, involving 24 people, including entrepreneurs.
labor unions, journalists, politicians, local government, tourism  oriented
l



36
business, banking and insurance representations This \isit w%as desiined to
show a successiul case in Africa;
vii) A new Accotunting and Auditing Framtework Project was designed to improve
this sector of activities;
viii) Study otn Cpital .Marokets Dev elopment., which is at its last stage with the
creation of a stock Exchange in the next six months.
9. Our perforrnance during the implementation of the project was fair. non-obstant the
inexperience in World Bank Projects and for the fact that vested interests were part
of the system.
From the start we knew that there was no consensus for privatization for labor
unions and managers were not in favor of it. They spreaded the word that
privatization was akeen to unemplovment and a way of concentration of wealth.
We convened several seminars and workshops with journalists. jurists, managers.
labor unions, entrepreneurs. the public in general, until consensus was finally
reached by 1994/95.
We learned that the resistance to changes was also ideological, since all the non-
liberal politicians, parties and institutions were against privatization.
The flow of information ( radio, newspapers, television) helped our project because
all over the wvorld privatization was the talk of everyday business.
Several lessons were learned, such as:
i)  labor laws needed to be flexible, as they are a little better now;
ii)  institutional capacity for the unit GARSEE. was a great endeavor and we must
not dismantle the experience of 5 years of doing this project.
iii) Several methods of privatization took place: selling of shares of SOEs by public
floatation; workers/managers buy out. public bid for whole companies. private
negotiations, liquidation with selling of assets;
iv)  Several financial engineering for workers participation in privatization of SOEs.
v)   The need to change the nature of SOEs, by commercializing them prior to
rivatization;
vi)  The African experience in privatization with a Seminar in Praia co-tinanced bv
World Bank/CNU9CEDIUSAID with 85 participants from 8 afrcan countries. in
November 1993.
At that time. *we were not acquainted  with many problems of low  liquidity
and weak participation of nationals in the privatization of crucial SOEs.
vii) Without a niajor restructuring and modernization of the financial sector the
capeverdian private sector will not be prepared to seize the opportunities of
the privatization process and will not be able to take all the challenges of the
modem times
Without financial instruments/products our inmuigrants were not capable of
participating as well. Only Cape Verde Telecom and MOAVE brought interests



37
to our immigrants. There are only 35 newv shareholders living in United States.
Macau, Angola, Senegal. Portugal Holland.
10. During these five years of the Project. GARSEE and the Task Mtanagers (Loup
Brefort and lean Michel Happi) had a perfect partnership. The liaison between the
two sides were the best from all points of view: effectiveness. quickness,
responsiveness. professionalism, competence and, why not, friendship.
All our concerns were attended and we learned a very important lesson, after all.
which is one should learn with other's experiences. The staff at the World Bank and
the World Bank gave all the information denmanded, introduced us to the relevant
literatures on similar projects. reports, staff aplpraisal reports of similar projects.
USAID, CN-UCED, PNUD participated and co-financed a few training projects.
SIDA (The Swedish Development Agencies) also co-financed the establishrnent of
the stock exchange. This wide participation helped, mostly, in showing the general
public that the World is with us.
I1. One major lesson learned with this Project is, without a doubt, that Privatization is a
political issue which must be addressed beyond its economic and financial borders.
It is a political issue as long as it was the beginning of the liberalization of the
economy  and its detractors  elected privattization as a political fact of every
campaign for national and municipal elections.
However, once there is a broader consensus on its needs and achievements it will
fade away as a political issue and will become a necessity of life.
The next steps, with the extension of the Privatization Project towards the year
2000, will be easier to be undertaken due to the fact that the country has
accumulated enough experience in the field which will permit the Government,
enterprises, municipalities to be wiser in all the decision making process in the
ftuture.
Praia, March 10, 199 V
gCenteio
(ex- Director GARSEE)



*  ...*.....                  38~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....
Lf ~ ~ EU9IOCPEED                                                                 J
FRI ATIZATION ,TECNIUCAL 
ASSISTANCEPOEC
(Creit 27   V
~~~~~~~~  ..-.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .~~~~~~~~.....
'-. . -.-._~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ..   ... . .
If-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-z



* ............ . . ..                                            Final  Report
39.
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
This report was prepared to provide the Government of Cape Verde (GOCV) and the World
Bank, the financial partner for the Privatization Technical Assistance Project (PTAP), the
necessary information to assess the achievement of the divestiture program.
The program, which started in January of 1993, will be completed in June of this year.
During the four and a half years, during which this project took place, the Public Enterprise
Reform and Privatization Unit has carried out a plan. The main results of this plan are
presented in this executive summary. In addition, an overview of the project's impact is
provided.
However, the implementation of the privatization and restructuring program has also
encountered some difficulties. Consequently, those constraints are discussed and analyzed.
In fact, it will be necessary to remove these constraints in order to continue the
irnplementation of the divestiture program -as presented at the end of this executive
summary- in an effective and efficient manner.
1. Implementation Status
Overall, the State of Cape Verde had a portfolio composed of 40 enterprises. Of these, 25
were State-owned Enterprises (SOEs), and 15 were mixed enterprises. It should be noted that
prior to the beginning of the divestiture program, 5 enterprises: Congel, Creoula, Emec,
Mac, Scapa, Socal were liquidated. Today, the State's portfolio is made up of 25 enterprises,
of which 16 are SOEs.
Privadzadon
With regard to privatization, 16 enterprises were fully privatized. They include: Agripec
(animal feed production), Cabetur (travel agency), Conchave (shipping petroleum products)
Enavi (poultry production), Fap (agricultural and dairy products), Hotel Atlantico, Hotel
Belorizonte, Hotel PraiaMar, Justino Lopes (agriculture and hog farming), Macsobil (mirror
and glass products), Metalcave (furniture and kitchen utensils, Morabeza (garment), Onave
(naval repair), Sita (paint and varnish production), Ultra (tuna fish processing), Warehouse
(real estate property).
Operating in various sectors, these enterprises were privatized through the use of various
privatization methods, including public offering of shares (Cabetur, Macsobil, Metalcave,
Sita), sale of assets (Agripec, Morabeza, warehouse), and management/employee buy-out
(Fap, Justino Lopes, Onave). In some three cases -Fap, Justino Lopes, Onave- the enterprises
were first fragmented before being sold.
Additionally, 4 enterprises were partially privatized: ANV (maritime travel agency), CTT
(telecommunication services), Emprofac (production and distribution of pharmaceutical
products), Interbase (deep-freezing warehousing). For ANV, all the agencies -except 2- were
sold to the company's employees. The remaining 2 will be privatized in 1997. Regarding
CTT, the company was first fragmented into two companies: Cabo Verde Telecom
(telecommunication) and Correios de Cabo Verde (postal services) and then its
telecommunication segment was partially privatized.



*.                   .~~~~~~~~~~~:. ..Final Report
As of today, the State only holds 35% of Cabo Verde 1'elecom's shares. As far as Emprofac
is concerned, the State divested from all the distribution, while maintaining its presence in
the whole-sale component. Interbase was also partially privatized following its fragmentation
into two separate warehousing units. The restructuring and privatization of the Mindelo unit
is currently being analyzed.
The State also divested from long course maritime transportation after selling many of Arca
Verde's vessels (Ilha do Komo, Santiago, and Santo Antio). Nowadays, Arca Verde's
services are confined to the inter-island transportationi.
It is also worth mentioning that, currently 6 privatizations of mixed enterprises are being
prepared: Ceris, CVC, Fama, Moave, Sociedade Caboverdiana de Sab6es, Sodigas. At the
same time, the negotiations for the privatization of two SOEs: Enacol, Sonacor is underway.
The partial and full privatization of these respective companies should be completed by April
of 1997. Finally, the privatization of Garantia, an SC)E is also being prepared.
Restructuring/Performance Improvement
Regarding restructuring, the Public Enterprise and Privatization Unit (PERP) has started to
implement a restructuring of Arca Verde, Correios de Cabo Verde, Electra. For Arca Verde,
PERP has drafted a financial restructuring plan, and provided financial support to train 95
employees from this company. This has enabled Arca Verde to meet the qualification
standards for sea persomel established at the International Maritime Convention. At Correios
de Cabo Verde, the PERP has helped design a new organizational structure and train 23 of
Correios' employees. Regarding Electra, the Project assisted Electra, in the reorganization
of its accounting system.
Accompanying Measure
In order to attenuate the potential negative impact of reducing the workforce in the SOEs
during their privatization, two main measures were adopted. In essence, both were tailored
to alleviate any worsening of the unemployment rate. The first one is aimed at providing
financial resources to promote on-the-job retraining for retrenched employees of SOEs.
Under this measure, funds were made available to 21 enterprises "born out" of the divestiture
program.This accompanying measure contributed towards safeguarding 220 jobs, at the cost
of USD 97, 241 or USD 442 per job. As a reference, it should be noted that the average cost
for the creation of one job, through foreign investment, is about USD 25,000. Moreover,
given that the average foreign investment brings about 40 jobs, the accompanying measure
has certainly been very cost effective.
Another activity planned under this project to alleviate the potential negative impact of the
reduction of redundant labor in SOEs is the implementation of a labor redundancy and
displacement study. The objectives of this study are to design specific plans for implementing
the strategy to reduce the surplus labor currently present in SOEs. Additionally, the study
will design government intervention to help labor albsorption into the private sector.
This study is scheduled to start February 17, 1997 and be completed by May 1, 1997. During
this period, an analysis of the human resources of 11 SOEs, with approximately 4,000
employees will be analyzed. The SOEs included in this studies are: Arca Verde, Asa
Cabmar/Cabnar; Correios; Electra; Enapor; Empa; Emprofac; Interbase; TACV; Transcor.



The second measure was designed to promote the brganization of a demand driven, work
oriented training workshop for for both SOEs and private sector employees and staff. Under
this measure, funds were made available to 33 SOEs or enterprises "born out" of the
divestiture process, for a total of 516 employees.
Pnivate Sector Development
In this component it is worth distinguishing between two aspects: (i) the studies undertaken
either to attract foreign investment or to make the legal business framework more responsive
to private sector development needs; and (ii) the enterprises "born out" of the divestiture
process, and their subsequent contribution to the development of the private sector.
Regarding the studies the most important include: the Study of the Legal Business
Environment; the Ecowas Market Potential Study; the Study on the Feasibility of Relocating
Portuguese Industry to Cape Verde; The Industrial Park/Export Processing Zone Study; the
Feasibility Study of a Private Shipping Company; the Study Trip to Mauritius; the Capital
Market Studies.
As far as the assistance to the enterprises "born out" of the privatization process, the project
has provided two types of assistance. The first one was to help the privatized enterprises train
their staff. To that end the project has financed training in the following areas: accounting
I & II, customers relations, marketing, record keeping, inventory management, etc.
Overall, the privatized enterprises have presented much better results than when the State was
one of its shareholders or its only shareholder. Their revenues, gross value added, profit
before taxes, have constantly increased since their privatizations. Compared to their revenues
the year of their respective privatization Agripec and Cabetur improved their revenues by
109% and 92%. Their profit before taxes, as well as that of other privatized enterprises has
also increased substantially, as exemplified by Prolacta (+ 85%).
Moreover, the privatization of these enterprises did not have a negative impact on the
unemployment rate. In fact, some of the privatized enterprises actually increased their staff
following their privatization: Agripec (+3), Metalcave (+6), Sita (+2), while others:
Cabetur, Coopechaves (ex-Fap), Prolacta (ex-Fap), Sociave (ex-Enavi) maintained the
number of employees.
H. lmpact of the Project
Assessment of the SOEs Performance
The consolidated revenues of the sector have increased by 16.7% over the four year period.
The mixed enterprises contributed slightly more (23.5%) than the SOEs (16.7%) to this
overall increase in absolute terms. However, this represents a yearly increase of 5.56%. Such
an increase is relatively modest. In fact, when the average rate of inflation for that period
(9%) is taken into account, the SOEs revenues shrank by some 3.43%, in real terms. This
is an indication that the State's divestiture is starting to lead to a lesser importance of the
SOEs in the economy. Actually, the 1996 results, that should be available in early April, will
probably show a faster rate of reduction. Actually, both the mixed enterprises and the SOEs
are likely to show a significant reduction in their revenues due to the privatization of Enavi,
Macsobil, Metalcave, Ultra. However, dramatic changes in the revenues will still not be felt.
Such a transformation will occur only when core SOEs, such as EMPA, Cabo Verde
Telecom, TACV, Enacol, are fully privatized.



.'................... .... ?.  .   .A .r. .. %......... ..F inal   R eport
Regarding the profitability of the SOEs, a substantial improvement can be seen between 1992
and 1995. In fact, the results before taxes have shot up a mind boggling 2,796.17%.
However, the situation worsened first between 1992 and 1993, prior to the subsequent
improvements of 1994 (438.56%) and 1995 (169.85%).
This result should be contrasted with the spectacural decline in profitability that characterized
the public enterprises results at the end of the 1980's. Actually, between 1985 and 1989, the
consolidated after tax profitability of public enterprises decreased by 275 %, and cumulated
losses totalled more than 242 million of Capeverdean Escudos in 1990. Following a period
of recovery and stabilization from 1991 to 1993, during which the liquidation of loss-making
SOEs helped improve the financial performance of the sector, a sizable profit (CVE 225
million) was made in 1994.
In addition to the liquidation of some loss-making enterprises- MAC, PESCAVE, ONAVE,
the management of some SOEs should also be credlited for managing better. They not only
succeeded at controlling operating costs so they do not drastically erode the operating profit
margins, but they also increased their revenues. Some of those enterprises include Ceris,
Enapor, Enacol, TACV.
Macro Economic Impact
Overall, the State domination of the economic activity has significantly lessened. This trends
can be seen when analyzing the indicators shown below. The SOEs contibution to the gross
domestic product appears to have decreased. However, at the time of the drafting of this
document, the data to sustain such a claim was not available. It should be avaivable next
week, and included in the final version of this report.
Additionally, the SOEs and mixed enterprises are not acting as a agent that leads to the
crowding out of investment in the economy. Actually, bank credit to the SOEs and mixed
enterprises have decreased an astonishing 82% from 1991 to 1995. In 1995, the SOEs
obtained only about 4.83 millions USD form the financial institutions. This has to be
contrasted with the 26.3 millions USD that was made available to the State enterprises in
1991. In percentage, the amount of loan drawn by the State enterprises from the economy
evolved from 24% of the total credit in 1991 to 3.75% in 1995.
The importance of the State as an employer as also decreased. In 1995, the State was
employing some 5,300 employees, a 15 % reduction when compared to 1991. As a percentage
of the overall work force the State's importance has been even more reduced.



......  .... ...  ...    .Final  Report
,,,e. .;;  0g:m : ;,,,- 'k'@:g"-:;',: '.............................................   . ...   ...................  ....':'FnlRpt
m. Constraints and Coordination
Overall, five type of constraints were encountered in implementing of the privatization
program: (i) the lack of sectorial regulation; (ii) the limitations of oversight institutions; (iii)
the insufficiencies of sectorial policies; (iv) the lack of a complete control in the management
of the divestiture program by PERP; and (v) the burden resulting from the labor laws.
The lack of sectorial regulation originates from the fact that for a given sector, the legal
framework that establishes the statutes, regulations, or other texts that regulate the operation
in the respective sector is nor adequate or does not exist. This lack of regulation makes any
successfully privatization difficult, and poses some concrete problems, such as aircraft safety,
urban transportation safety, etc.
This need to strengthen the regulatory framework needs to e addressed in order to improe
create an adequate framework for the privatization, and help improve the quality of services
provided. However, this measure needs to be coupled with the establishment or strengthening
-through capacity building- of the oversight institutions. The existence of well functioning
oversight agency will not only allow to establish the regulatoruframework, but also address
some of the sectorial issues (tariffs, provision of goods and servives at a reasonable price)
that often undermine the ability of SOEs to plan and operate in a predictable environment.
Finally, under this chapter, the impact of the labor laws in the divestiture process needs to
be mentioned. The Privatization Law Decree, in its article 17, establishes that the employees
of the enterprises to be privatized retain all of their rights during the privatization process.
When this law is coupled with the labor laws - which establish that the employee is entitled
to stability in employment, and the severance payments - the cost for the dismissal of SOEs
employees is very high. This high cost for the dismissal of employees has been a constraint
to the divestiture process.
TV. Financial Status
Overall, 88.35% of the disbursed amounted made available under the Credit Agreement that
finances the major part of the project activities was disbursed as of January 31, 1997.At least
three inferences can be drawn form this fact: (i) the project has been carried out almost to
its fullest extent; (ii) the budget estimates during the project appraisal were quite accurate
(iii) the realocation of funds made at mid-term has proven to be quite appropriate.
Moreover, it is estimated that at the project completion date, about 91 % of the funds would
have been disbursed. Thus, only 9% of the total amount budgeted under this project for
disbursement will not be disubursed.
The project's Special Account has been audited annually, while the Statement of
Expenditures has been audited semi-annually. Moreover, all audit reports were sent to the
World Bank in a timely fashion. As of January of 1997, none of the auditing reports were
qualified.



44
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ............   . .  ... ...
Final Report
V. Activities to Develop
Despite, the good results obtained through this project, all the objective set under the
Privatization Law, 471IV/92, of July 6 are not fully achieved. In order to do so the
divestiture and restructuring program needs to continue. More precisely, the following
activities need to be undertaken:
a) For the mixed enteprises
* The completion of the sale of the State's minority shares in mixed enterprises, including
Ceris, 30%; CVC, 23,3 %; Moave, 39%; SCS, 30%; Sodigas, 30%;
*The signing of the sale contract for Belorizonte and HotelMar;
b) For the State Owned enterprises
- The assessment of the results of the second phase of the sale of shares of Cabo Verde
Telecom, and the determination of the sale of additional shares;
The implementation of the sale of 90% of the shares of Enacol;
*The completion of the privatization of Sonacor;
*The signing of the sale contract for the hog farming activity of Justino Lopes;
c) Accompanying measures
Additionally, the recommendations of the "Labor Redundancy and Displacement Study" will
need to be implemented. In fact, if the performance of SOEs is to continue improving, the
Privatization Unit would need to strongly assist all SOEs in reducing their costs of salaries.
Meanwhile, precautions should be taken to gather all the resources (financial, human, ...)
prior to the implementation of the study's recommendations.
d) Recommendations on the new relation between the State and SOEs
However, all these measures will need to be impleimented in a different framework that the
present one. The current institutional framework for the supervision of the SOEs will need
to be changed. In fact, the tutelage mechanism needs to be replace by a framework that will
be similar to the control mechanisms existing in private enterprises.Consequently, managers
of SOEs will be more accountable to a board of diirectors.
The setting up such an institutional framework for the supervision of the SOEs is a also a
must if the SOEs are going to improve their financial proposal. The study for this new
relationship has already been completed. Now, its recommendations need to be implemented
in order to start setting up the framework for a SOE where actual performance can be
objectively monitored and rewarded.



45
APPENDIX C
Implementation Status of the Privatization and Restructuring Program
1992        1995         1997
Beginning of   Midterm    End of project
project     review
Number of public enterprises          40           30           24
1. Wholly owned PEs                   25           19           16
2. Mixed PEs                          15           11            8
Number of PEs liquidated               6           8             8
Number of PEs fully privatized         0           10           20
Number of PEs under divestiture process  0         11           10
Liquidated PEs:
CONGEL, CREOULA, EMEC,SCAPA, SOCAL, MAC, FAP & PESCAVE.
Privatized PEs:
AGRIPEC, CABETUR, JUSTINO LOPEZ, MACSOBIL, METALCAVE,
MORABEZA, ONAVE, SITA,ULTRA, WAREHOUSE, HOTEL ATLANTICO,
HOTELMAR, ANV, ARCA VERDE (7 agencies), EMPROFAC (5 retail pharmacies),
INTERBASE (Sal), CONCHAVE, ENAVI, ENACOL, CABO VERDE TELECOM.
Ongoing Privatization:
ANV (2 remaining agencies in Praia and Mindello), CVT, CERIS, CVC, ENACOL,
FAMA, GARANTIA, MOAVE, SONACOR, TACV.



MAP SECTION



Villa Grande0   25'                                                             24'                                                              23'
Ribeiro do Cruz0               0JcineIo
SANTO ANTAO
TarroFol de    0VJia do P6rto Novo
0Monte Trio
S5,1manaso
CoUou
S&o p9                                                                                                                                  potnie407dr  '
SO VICENT    " < SANTA LUZIA                                                                                                                                 do
IRANCO    Prola Sranea' jr  
<)    garrA0    o                                                                                                   Mom
Tarraf frweui>)1t
sAo N1OLAU
CAPE VERDE
o   $LTED 'T'ES ANQ TQWNS                                                                                                                      ViIado S*Rei
*    NATIONALCAPITAL                                                                                                                                            0RabiI    0F      os
-----INTERN UONALRQUNDARIES                                                             A  T 1. A  N  T I                                       BOA VISTA
jlarr
0
0    10   2)   30   40    SOIUtOMEIERS                                                                                                                                   CiWtOI Voiho    16'
2)( AI
The boundariqs, colors, denoq,inqtions and a,y olber in1 rrnaton
on bi mp do not imply, on the port oF The World on Groop,
onz jud9menl on the lel status of any terrftu) or any endorsemest
or acceptance of wcls undories.
FORMER           ,.l          I
SPA IlSH                            N
I        'N
SAHARA    ...I                            N
2
CAPE VERDE             MAURITANIA                                                                                     Torrofol 
I  MAIl                                                                     de Sontioga0                                           rto Antonio
(SENEGAC9                                                                                        SANTIAGO            x,Archodo d Monte  Colheta    0
UlNEABISt,.J        '          /BURKNA                                                               Ribeiro do Borc             olbeto de       Marr0          MAIO
ThE GAMBIA
   GUINEA                FASO                                                                     Santo C torino                                   Fgueiro do tiorto
SIERRA                             5                                                             Porto                                     Moo
loojozinh                                Rin'o                      Teves     il do  -'
C                            -./.D'IVOIRE                                                                                                        Nos# Senhoro de tux
LEQNErF.,0 COrE   2                                                orvo                       Porte Goveta0          7                                                            15'
(                                                                0'
)                                              "   >  "'                  SoFilip              FOGQ                           Cidode Velio0 -A'RAIA
('F                                                                               N   Potim
UEIA'            TOGO         *Oiurno         0   o         Covo Pigueiro
Cocho>,- BRAVA               AAlcotroz
'0
(iF



