Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2377 CV
(Privatization Technical Assistance Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 1992
CREDIT NUMBER 2377 CV
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1992, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of 
Page  2
Section 3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"fiscal year" means the Borrower's fiscal year;
 
(b)
"MOFP" means Ministry of Finance and Planning;
 
(c)
"PERP Unit" means the unit established pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(d)
"PESRAB" means the Advisory Board established pursuant to paragraph 3 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
"Program" means the Public Enterprise Sector Reform Program described in 
a letter, dated May 6, 1992, addressed to the Association by the Borrower; and
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies
equivalent to three million one hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
3,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and 
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank of Cape Verde on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1997 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Page  3
Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing September 15, 2002 and ending March 15, 2032. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2012 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay 
twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some 
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at 
an annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of 
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) 
above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through
MOFP with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, 
administrative, and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Page  4
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, a certified 
copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope 
and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; 
and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account or payment out of the Special Account was 
made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing 
such expenditures;
 
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that the said accounts and records shall be audited on a 
semiannual 
basis by said auditors, who shall prepare audit 
reports accordingly and 
furnish them to the Association, not 
later than three (3) months after the end 
of such semiannual audit 
period, along with an opinion as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such period, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Borrower 
shall carry out the program, or a significant part thereof; and
(b)
the Public Enterprise Reform Act (No. 6/IV/91) of the Borrower, dated 
August 8, 1991, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so 
as to affect materially or
adversely the Borrower's ability to perform any of its obligations under this 
Agreement.
Page  5
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely: any event specified in paragraph (a) 
or (b) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The PESRAB has been established, and all its members duly appointed.
 
(b)
The PERP Unit has been restructured, and its Director and other 
professional and support staff duly selected.
(c)
The Borrower has selected an independent auditor, acceptable to the 
Association, to audit the Project accounts in accordance with the requirements of 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower has submitted terms of reference, acceptable to the 
Association, for the elaboration of the Procedures' Manual referred to in paragraph 6 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, and has selected a consultant, having qualifications 
and experience acceptable to the Association, to prepare the Manual.
(e)
The Borrower has adopted a model consultancy contract, acceptable to the 
Association, including a sample letter of invitation, for the recruitment of 
consultants under the Project.
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Planning of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Planning
C. P. 30
Praia
Cabo Verde
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANCAS
6058 MCECV
CABO VERDE
Faxsimile:
(238) 613897
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  6
INDEVAS
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By /s/ Carlos A. Santos Silva
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Technical                 1,120,000        100%
     assistance
(2)  Studies                     230,000        100%
(3)  Auditing and                290,000        80%
     valuation
     services
(4)  Training                    720,000        100%
(5)  Vehicles and                 90,000        100%
     equipment
(6)  Operating costs              40,000        30%
(7)  Unallocated                 610,000
         TOTAL                 3,100,000
                              ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "operating costs" means the 
incremental costs arising under the Project on account of office rent, supplies and 
Page  7
utilities, and maintenance of vehicles, fuel and office equipment.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, or (b) expenditures under category (4) of paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
unless the Borrower has submitted to the Association, for its approval, a proposed 
training program, giving full details of all training proposals to be financed under 
the Project, including appropriate justification for the training, terms of reference 
and budgetary requirements.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower (a) in building its 
capacity to implement a wide-ranging public enterprise reform program, and (b) in 
developing and implementing
its policy of promoting the private sector as a main vehicle for economic development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development
 
1.
Reorganize and strengthen the capacity of the PERP Unit of MOFP to conduct 
public enterprise reform and divestiture, and monitor the performance of public 
enterprises.
2.
Train officials responsible for the monitoring of public enterprise performance 
within MOFP and other technical Ministries. 
Part B:
Privatization and Liquidation
 
Design and implement a privatization and liquidation strategy and action 
program.
Part C:
Public Enterprise Performance Improvement
 
1.
Conduct a viability assessment of a number of public enterprises in order to 
determine whether they are to be restructured, privatized or liquidated.
2.
Devise and implement a restructuring and performance improvement program for 
those enterprises that are not due to be privatized under the Project.
3.
Improve the legal and institutional arrangements governing the relations between 
the Borrower and public enterprises generally.
4.
Train public enterprise executives and other senior staff in such areas as 
corporate planning, setting and monitoring of performance objectives and performance 
contracts, financial
management, audit and control, management information systems, marketing, and 
personnel planning and administration.
Part D:
Accompanying Measures
 
1.
Provide advisory services to (a) match the supply of labor created by reduction 
of staffing in the restructured public enter- prises and the demand of labor in the 
private sector, and (b) review options for promoting the creation of business 
enterprises by retrenched staff of public enterprises.
2.
Support on-the-job training of retrenched public enterprise staff recruited by 
private employers.
3.
Promote the organization of private sector-operated, demand-driven, 
work-oriented training workshops and evening courses for former public enterprise 
staff.
Page  8
Part E:
Private Sector Promotion
 
1.
Review the business law environment and, in particular, the legislative 
provisions and administrative procedures governing labor markets, commercial 
activities, investments, taxation, property (both real and intellectual), and the 
establishment and operation of companies, with a view to adapting them and making them 
more responsive to the need of private sector development.
2.
Design and/or refine the legal, institutional and regulatory framework required 
to open up new sectors of the economy to private sector initiative.
3.
Promote private sector development in areas, such as (i) fishing, (ii) tourism, 
(iii) non-traditional, labor intensive and high value added, light manufacturing and 
cottage industries, and (iv) accounting and auditing services; which offer the best 
prospects for growth and a potential for export.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 
or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $270,000, may be 
procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three 
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to 
the Association.
2.
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $20,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed 
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part 
of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Page  9
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of 
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be 
selected in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association 
on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and 
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
The Borrower and the Association shall, not later than October 31, 1993 
and, thereafter, not later than October 31 of each subsequent year, undertake a joint 
review of the Project or, as the case may be, not later than October 31, 1994, a 
mid-term review, during which they shall exchange views generally on all matters 
relating to the progress of the Project and the performance by the Borrower of its 
obligations under this Agreement; including, in particular, review: (i) the progress 
of the Project for the current fiscal year, the performance of consultants under the 
Project, the progress of the training program, the progress of the Privatization 
program and its actual record of transparency, and the performance of public 
enterprises and those enterprises that have been privatized, having regard to the 
performance indicators agreed upon 
to this effect between the Borrower and the Association, and (ii) the proposed budget 
and work program for the forthcoming fiscal year, including key monitorable outputs 
and a schedule of proposed procurement actions.
(b)
Not later than one month prior to each such review, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the 
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and status of the Project, and 
giving details, in particular, of the proposed budget and work program for the 
forthcoming fiscal year, as submitted by PERP Unit and subsequently endorsed by 
PESRAB.
(c)
Following each such review, the Borrower undertakes to act promptly and 
diligently, in order to take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any 
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to implement such other 
measures as may have been agreed upon between the parties in furtherance of the 
objectives of the Project.
(d)
Without limitation to the preceding paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall, throughout the period of implementation of the Project, 
submit to the Association, for its review and comments, semiannual reports on the 
progress of implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall assign responsibility for the day-to-day implementation of 
the Project to a restructured Public Enterprise Reform and Privatization (PERP) Unit 
of MOFP, consisting of a Director, having qualifications and experience acceptable to 
the Association, and the requisite number of suitably qualified and experienced local 
professional and support staff.
3.
The Borrower shall set up a Public Enterprise Sector Rationalization Advisory 
Board (PESRAB), to be chaired by the Minister of Finance and Planning, and consisting 
of the Director of
the PERP Unit, who shall be the secretary thereof, and of suitably qualified and 
experienced public and private sector representatives, which shall advise the Minister 
of Finance and Planning on all
Page  10
policy issues relating to the Program.
4.
The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 1993, launch a public relations 
campaign aimed at explaining to the general public the objectives and other details of 
Part B of the Project, and
mobilizing investors' interest.
5.
The Borrower shall:
 
(a)
have an environmental assessment carried out, by its National Commission 
for the Environment, of all enterprises that are due to be privatized under the 
Project; and
(b)
in the case of those enterprises that are classified by the said 
Commission as being a threat to the environment, (i) have an environmental audit 
thereof carried out, and (ii) take such measures as may be required in order to 
mitigate the potentially adverse environmental impact resulting from the activities of 
such companies.
6.
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1992, adopt a Procedures Manual, 
acceptable to the Association, governing the procedures for the privatization of its 
public enterprises, or the assets thereof, under the Project.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
Page  11
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association 
such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
