Document of
The World Bank                      ILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY             fIL        
Report No. P-2947-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
(POWER II)
January 21, 1981
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979                     December 1980
Currency Unit  =  Yemeni rial (YR1)              YR1
$1  =  YRls 4.50 1/                  4.50
YR1  =  $0.22                         0.22
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30 (prior to 1980)
July 1 to December 31 (1980)
January 1 to December 31 (from 1981)
ABBREVIATIONS
CPO         Central Planning Organization
NEP         National Electrification Program
YAR         Yemen Arab Republic
YGEC        Yemen General Electricity Corporation
YOMINCO     Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF.
All exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate
which has been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Yemen Arab Republic
Beneficiary:             Yemen General Electricity Corporation (YGEC)
Amount:                  Special Drawing Rights 9.4 million
(US$12 million equivalent as of date of
negotiations).
Terms:                   Standard
Relending Terms:         The proceeds of the IDA credit would be onlent by
the Government to YGEC at an interest rate of
7.5 percent per annum for a period of twenty years
including five years grace. Payment of interest
would be deferred during the grace period and the
corresponding amount capitalized. The foreign
exchange risk would be borne by YGEC.
Project
Description:             The project represents the first phase (1981-1983)
of YAR's 18-year National Electrification Program
(NEP) for extending public supply of electricity
throughout the country. It would enable YGEC to
extend its service at least cost by introducing
improvement to and expansion of existing distri-
bution systems, which would lead to more efficient
use of generating capacity in the urban areas and
outlying villages thus complementing the work begun
under the First Power Distribution project (Credit
837-YAR) and enhancing the viability of YGEC. The
project is the Government's first major rural
electrification effort and would smooth the
transition from the existing system of isolated
generation to the interconnected system. It would
bring the benefits of adequate and reliable
electricity service to about 17,000 new customers
and upgrade the quality of service for another
5,200 existing customers. The major project
components include:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(a) expansion and connection of the distribution
networks in 17 priority villages to nearby existing
generating facilities with underutilized capacities;
(b) installing relatively small generating units and
constructing distribution networks in the towns of
Zabid, Hazm Al Jawf and Marib;
(c) establishing and reinforcing the distribution
networks in the farmers' markets in the main cities
of Sanaa, Hodeida and Taiz;
(d) construction of a subtransmission line and
distribution network in Bani Hushaysh and Mabar
whose future connection to the national grid would
be economic;
(e) technical assistance and training;
(f) consultant services for energy and electricity
pricing studies.
There are no major risks associated with the
project. However, there is a possibility of delays
in the completion of generation and transmission
facilities which would deprive Bani Hushaysh and
Mabar of power from the central station. This
would not be significant since Bani Hushaysh would
be served from Sana'a and Mabar from Damar through
a transmission line included in the project.



ESTIMATED COST:                             Local     Foreign   Total
--------  Million--------
(a) Subtransmission & Distribution
Equipment & material                      -        7.40       7.40
Erection & installation                  1.39      2.80       4.19
Civil works                             0.96       0.40       1.36
Engineering                              0.17      0.80       0.97
Construction supervision                0.30       0.59       0.89
Studies                                 0.03       0.12       0.15
BASE COST                           2.85      12.11      14.96
Physical contingencies                  0.30       1.13       1.43
Sub-total                           3.15      13.24      16.39
Price contingencies                      1.72      2.21       3.93
Sub-total Distribution              4.87      15.45      20.32
(b) Isolated Systems
Equipment & material                      -        0.60       0.60
Erection & installation                 0.06       0.04       0.10
Civil works                             0.08       0.05       0.13
Construction supervision                0.03       0.02       0.05
BASE COST                           0.17       0.71       0.88
Physical contingencies                  0.03       0.08       0.11
Sub-total                           0.20       0.79       0.99
Price contingencies                     0.08       0.11       0.19
Sub-total Isolated Systems          0.28       0.90       1.18
TOTAL PROJECT COST                  5.15      16.35      21.50
Financing Plan:                             Local     Foreign   Total
--------$ Millin--------
YGEC                                    0.40        -         0.40
Customers' contributions                 1.10       -         1.10
Proposed IDA Credit                       -       12.00      12.00
Government & other Cofinanciers          3.65      4.35      '8.00
5.15     16.35      21.50



-iv-
Estimated Disbursement:                IDA FY   1982   1983   1984
--…US$ Millions--------
Annual                 1.31   6.13   4.56
Cumulative             1.31   7.44  12.00
Rate of Return:          16.0 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:                Report No. 3153-YAR, dated January 19, 1981.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR
A REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION-PROJECT (POWER II)
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for Special Drawing
Rights (SDRs) 9.4 million (US$12.0 million equivalent as of the date of
negotiations), on standard IDA terms, to help finance a Regional
Electrification Project (Power II). It is hoped that the Netherlands and
the Federal Republic of Germany through the Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau
(KfW) will participate in financing the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (NO. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978, was
distributed to the Executive Directors on January 3, 1979. An updating
economic mission visited YAR in November 1979 and its report (No.2856-YAR)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 23, 1980. Country
data are attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.       Over the last decade YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. The
republican government which came to power following the 1962 Revolution
succeeded in establishing within a surprisingly short period of time the
foundations of a modern state.
4.       Political integration and the growing influence of central
authorities have provided the basis for rapid development of the public and
private sectors. A Three-Year Development Program (1973/74-75/76) was
followed by the country's First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-80/81). In their
wake, the foundations for the country's physical and social infrastructure
were laid and expanded, and first attempts were made at lifting agriculture,
the mainstay of the economy, out of its medieval setting; industrialization
was also started, albeit on a small-scale.
5.       Rapid domestic economic growth has been accompanied and enhanced by
the large inflow of remittances by Yemeni workers in Saudi Arabia and the
Gulf States. These are estimated to have increased, on a net basis, from



- 2 -
around $40 million in 1969/70 to a peak of over $1 billion in 1977/78, but
have subsequently dropped to about $900 million in 1978/79. Largely, as a
result of these cash inflows, YAR's real per capita GNP has increased
significantly over this period reaching an estimated $420 in 1978/79.
Major Development Issues
6.       Recent achievements in development, remarkable as they are, should
not detract from the fact that YAR continues to be one of the world's least
developed countries. Productivity levels are still extremely low,
especially in agriculture. Almost nine out of ten adults are illiterate
and only 35 percent of children in the age group 6-11 are enrolled in
primary school. Over 90 percent of the population reside in rural areas, a
large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation,
schools, electricity or health services. Agricultural land and water are
scarce and few mineral deposits have been discovered so far.
7.       The shortage of skilled manpower is an overriding constraint to
YAR's development. This shortage is due to the fact that the labor force
is drawn from a population pool which is characterized by very low levels
of education or training. Although the most critical shortages are in the
skilled occupations, even the unskilled work force was under strain during
the height of the labor migration to neighboring countries. However, it
appears that previous shortages of unskilled workers have recently eased
somewhat as the pace of migration has levelled off. The shortage of
skilled workers limits the capacity of the public administration to manage
and implement a growing and increasingly complex development program.
8.       Another issue concerns the proper maintenance of existing and new
capital stock. So far this question has not received sufficient attention
by the authorities, perhaps understandably so because of the newness of
most capital structures. However, as the stock of fixed capital increases,
the need for adequate maintenance of these facilities will become more and
more pressing.
9.       A special effort is required to mobilize domestic resources for
the financing of fast growing government expenditures. Although government
revenue rose rapidly during the 1970s the tax base is still very small.
Most budget revenue is derived from import duties while other sources of
taxation are still largely undeveloped. So far, budget deficits have been
covered through generous foreign aid. But this assistance is bound to
diminish in relative terms over the longer run, a development which calls
for measures to broaden the tax base, to strengthen the tax administration,
and to devise new schemes to tap the savings of the private sector.
Government Objectives
10.      The country's development objectives are enunciated in the First
Five-Year Plan which is currently in its closing year. It has endeavored
to strengthen the physical and social infrastructure, to raise the



productivity of the commodity-producing sectors, and to improve the
standard-of-living of the people giving priority to their basic needs.
Preliminary progress reports on the first three years of the Plan indicate
that, in aggregate terms, objectives have by and large been met and
sometimes exceeded.
11.      The preparation of the Second Five-Year Plan (1982-1986) is
currently underway. In this context, the Government has asked the Bank for
assistance in reviewing major development issues, and in evaluating
priorities in sectors in which IDA is involved so as to channel resources
into the most desirable areas. Much of this work has been completed.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
12.      Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in
YAR has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to
have grown at an average rate of 8 percent a year between 1972/73 and
1978/79.1/ Economic growth was strongest in the modern sectors, reflecting
the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic trade, of government services,
of transportation and finance. There was also a rapid increase of modern
cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in raising vegetables, fruits
and poultry. Subsistence agriculture, still the most important economic
sector in YAR, grew at a much slower pace.
13.      The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private
investment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures.
Initially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated
form through its Three-Year Program and the First Five-Year Plan, the
Government increased its capital expenditures from YRls 58 million ($13
million) in 1972/73 to YRls 2670 million ($593 million) in 1978/79.
Domestic and External Finance
14.      The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a substantial increase in overall savings. In 1978/79,
gross national savings are estimated to have exceeded $500 million which
would be equivalent to about 14 percent of GNP. Most of YAR's national
savings are generated by the private sector. It can be assumed that a
large part of these savings originated from remittances of workers, most of
whom are from rural areas. Savings are thus benefitting most regions of
the country and different population groups.
15.      Public sector savings, on the other hand, were negative until
1975/76, reflecting the very narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that
year). However, in the following three years tax revenue more
1/ The Government is currently revising the country's entire national
accounts series.



- 4 -
than trebled--due largely to a surge in imports and accordingly increases
in import duties. As a result, the current budget yielded surpluses which
in 1977/78 reached YRls 735 million ($163 million). Provisional estimates
for 1978/79 have this surplus shrinking to around YRls 350 million ($78
million) as a result of continued large expansion of expenditures.
16.      YAR's external financial position has changed dramatically in
recent years. While at the beginning of the past decade foreign exchange
was in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced the Government to
request the rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding commitments, the
country has subsequently experienced a phase of comfortable balance of
payments surpluses and growing exchange reserves. The principal reason for
this change must be seen in the large and growing amounts of workers'
remittances and in the substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi Arabia
and other Arab oil-exporting nations.
17.      YAR's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting the
country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of its
economy. Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million
in 1973/74 to $1405 million in 1978/79. This upsurge in import demand
reflects the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the
Yemeni rial, and the absence of import restrictions.
Capital-Flows and External Debt
18.      Since independence, YAR has received large amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifi-
cation as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the
form of grants and concessionary loans. Although a complete overview of
all assistance received by YAR is not possible because of information gaps,
it can be estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came to about $1.3
billion by the end of FY1978/79. The principal donors were Saudi Arabia,
the Gulf States, IDA, the USSR, China, Germany and the USA.
19.      About two thirds of the total assistance given so far was provided
as grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently,
budget support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program
and a number of bilateral donors. A significant part of official grants
has been made available in the form of technical assistance. Given the
extreme shortage of skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high
priority and will be needed by the country for many years to come. Besides
the grants, YAR received sizeable amounts of official loans and credits.
Drawings on these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $133
million in 1978/79. Most of the official loans and credits have been
committed for the financing of specific projects with the main emphasis on
roads; agriculture, including irrigation; and utilities. The remaining
funds were given for commodity assistance or as cash loans.



-5-
20.      The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable. Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of
China are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries
have generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest
rates charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 to 4 percent. Loan
maturities range from 5-50 years with a median of 20-30 years.
21.      YAR's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1979 was
estimated at $1075 million, of which $543 million was disbursed. The major
creditors were IDA, the Arab Fund, USSR, China, Germany and the Kuwait
Fund. IDA credits accounted for $174 million or about 16 percent of the
total debt reported. Because of their very favorable terms of borrowing,
the debt service payments amounted to $28 million for 1978/79, equivalent
to 1.7 percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances). Although service payments are expected to rise in the next
few years, the burden of such payments would continue to remain small in
relation to YAR's exchange earnings.
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
22.      The proposed credit would be the twenty-fifth to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $230.3 million. 1/ Annex II contains a summary
statement of IDA credits and Bank grants, as well as notes on the execution
of ongoing projects, as of December 31, 1980. The World Bank strategy in
YAR has been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic
institutions, skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites
for development, to develop production and income in the dominant
productive sector, agriculture, and to support the Government in its desire
to meet basic needs in rural and urban areas. To develop infrastructure,
IDA has extended three credits for highways totalling $28.2 million, a $6
million credit for a port development project, four credits for water
supply and sewerage totalling $36.4 million, and a $10 million credit for
power distribution. To assist in the development of education, IDA has
extended three credits for a total of $29 million, in support of primary
and secondary teacher training, and secondary and vocational education. To
develop rural infrastructure and to support production and distribution in
agriculture, fisheries and agro-industry, IDA has made nine credits for a
total of $106.4 million. To develop industry, IDA extended a $2.3 million
credit in 1974 for an industrial estate project, designed to stimulate
investment for small-scale industry as well as to provide a model for
1/ Including the supplementary credit of $10.3 million for the First
Tihama project, No. 376-1 YAR, and excluding the $7.0 million credit
for Textile Rehabilitation project, No. 832-YAR of 1978, which was
cancelled at the Government's request in October 1979 (see Annex II).



- 6 -
future industrial development; in FYl978 an investment of $2.4 million by
the International Finance Corporation was approved to help finance a dairy
and juice project.
23.      The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled, and the newness and weakness of its institutions.
World Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to strengthen
Yemeni institutions and manpower capabilities, through increased training
of local staff and continued technical assistance, as well as through
direct financing for education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain
substantial components for technical assistance towards institution
building. Two particularly important examples have been in the Central
Planning Organization (CPO) and the Ministry of Agriculture. In CPO, the
World Bank (through three grants totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait Fund
have financed a team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a
planning machinery. In the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), the Bank
supplies the services of seven advisors initially financed by UNDP with the
Bank as executing agency, and now financed jointly by IDA (under the Second
Tihama project), EEC Special Action Fund and UNDP. The Agricultural
Research Service at Taiz, which carries out agricultural research for the
country as a whole, is also financed as part of this institutional support.
24.      Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, rural develop-
ment, and education, and will seek to spread the benefits of development
more widely throughout YAR. Particular attention will be given to YAR's
ability to implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff
and technical assistance needed for successful implementation. A technical
assistance project for CPO and a development finance project have been
appraised; an education project, an industry project and an urban project
are in the preparation stage. Future projects are expected to include
agriculture, health, and rural development activities, as well as
assistance in the energy sector.
25.      YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency
financing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its
development expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the
least developed countries and requires special assistance through financing
of a large part of project costs, including local expenditures when
necessary. As in the past, the costs of future projects are expected to be
substantially higher than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall
continue to cooperate closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's
catalytic role in stimulating co-financing. IDA-supported projects
(excluding the textiles project), for which credits amounting to a total of
$218.3 million were made, have led to about $285 million equivalent of
co-financing from other aid donors. In addition, co-financing of up to
$8 million is expected to be provided for this project.



PART III. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Energy Resources
26.      The Yemen Arab Republic has no known conventional energy resources
except for small deposits of commercially unexploitable poor quality coal,
and is thus totally dependent on imported petroleum products for meeting
its needs of commercial energy. There are, however, large areas with
potential for oil and gas discoveries which have not yet been adequately
surveyed. A possible IDA engineering credit for geological work for oil
and gas exploration is under preparation. Traditional fuels in the form of
fuelwood and animal dung, which are mainly used for cooking purposes, play
a major role in meeting the rural population's overall demand for energy,
but their exact contribution is not known because of inadequate data.
Fuelwood continues to be the most widely used traditional fuel despite its
relatively high price. YAR has a good solar regime whose exploitation for
certain uses could be economic. The potential use of solar and other
sources of renewable energy will be assessed during 1981, with UNDP
financing. There are also some sources of geothermal energy in the area of
Damar-Radaa, south of Sana'a; the first phase of a study to assess their
potential use in the generation of electricity was begun in November 1980
under Italian financing.
Sector Organization
27.      Overall Organization  The management of the energy sector is
shared amongst the Yemen Oil and Mineral Resources Corporation (YOMINCO),
the Yemen General Electricity Corporation (YGEC), the Central Planning
Organization (CPO) and the Ministry of Electricity, Water and Sewerage.
YOMINCO, a Government-owned organization established in 1978, is
responsible for the development, distribution and marketing of petroleum
products and minerals. YGEC, a Government-owned enterprise created in
1975, is entrusted with the public supply of electricity in YAR. CPO,
under the Ministry of Development, is responsible for integrating the
development programs of YOMINCO and YGEC with the national economic plan.
The Ministry of Electricity, Water and Sewerage coordinates planning and
financing for the sector.
28.      YGEC Organization and Management  YGEC policy is set by a
Government-appointed Board of Directors with a full-time chairman and
deputy chairman. Under the general supervision of the chairman, a general
manager is responsible for operational matters, supported at the head
office by a planning manager, a chief engineer, a financial controller, an
administrative manager, and a controller of stores. YGEC operates through
three autonomous regional offices (at Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida), and 20
branch offices (in large towns). At present, each branch manager operates
the system under his control independently; however, branch managers depend
on the regions for support in system planning, supply of materials, billing
and accounting. As the interconnected system evolves, the operations of
YGEC are expected to become more centralized and structured.



-8-
The Power Subsector
29.      Historical-Development:  The development of electric power is a
relatively recent phenomenon in YAR. Before the 1962 Revolution, there was
only 2 MW of generating capacity in the entire country, used exclusively by
the Imam and a handful of individuals and institutions. During the past
two decades, the increase in installed capacity was guided by
entrepreneurship and individual need rather than a coordinated plan for the
development of the power subsector. By 1975, the installed generating
capacity reached 20 MW, divided among 21 small independent electric
utilities serving a limited number of consumers in the main cities and
villages, and individuals who generated electricity for their own use and
sold the surplus to their neighbors. The electric utilities suffered from
an acute shortage of capital and staff needed to maintain and expand their
systems, and as a result, their service was confined to the centers of the
cities and towns in which they operated. This left individuals and
institutions outside these areas no alternative other than private
generation by using small and relatively inefficient generating sets. At
that time, the predominant characteristic of electricity supply, as a
whole, was its poor quality.
30.      In 1975, the Government established YGEC in an effort to increase
access to electricity and to improve the quality of service. During its
first five years of existence, YGEC has moved rapidly to consolidate its
service in the principal demand areas, and by June 1980, it had purchased
and upgraded the systems of 11 of the 21 privately owned electric utilities
that were in existence at the time YGEC was incorporated. YGEC has also
installed isolated systems in 12 new demand centers. The Government's
long-term objective is to provide public electricity service to 80 percent
of the population by 1998, gradually reducing fragmentation of the
subsector. This would involve (a) the development of a national
interconnected system west of the transmission line connecting Saadah to
Taiz and 20 Km to the east of it, and (b) installation of isolated systems
in the remote towns and villages (see map).
31.      Present Setting:  At present, YGEC's systems have a combined
capacity of about 90 MW of which 59 MW are installed in the main cities of
Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida, while the remaining capacity is dispersed
throughout the rest of the country. YGEC provides electricity to about
81,000 consumers, of which 45,000 (56 percent) are in the main cities. In
addition, 10 privately-owned electric utilities, whose combined installed
capacity is about 11 MW, serve about 20,000 consumers.
32.      As a result of the substantial inflow of workers' remittances
since the mid-1970s (para. 5), private generation of electricity has
increased significantly, particularly in the rural areas which are either
not reached or inadequately serviced by YGEC. In 1979 alone, 38,000 small
generators were imported, ranging in capacity from 1 to 1.5 KW. While YGEC
is developing its system and strengthening its capabilities to serve the
entire country, the prevalence of a significant amount of small private
generation is likely to continue to characterize the subsector for a decade
or more.



-9-
YGEC's Development Program
33.      In 1977 YGEC engaged a consulting firm to formulate a program for
the development, during the period 1978-1990, of the generation and
transmission systems as well as of the distribution systems in Sana'a,
Hodeida and Taiz. The program for the development of the generation system
includes oil-fired generating plants at Ras Katenib and at Mocha, to be
commissioned in 1983-1984 and, after 1987 respectively. Detailed
engineering design, and the selection of contractors and suppliers for the
plant at Ras Katenib were completed in 1979, and YGEC is making preliminary
plans for commissioning the first unit at Mocha by 1987. To ensure the
electricity supply during the interim period, i.e., until the Ras Katenib
plant is commissioned by 1983, YGEC is installing 75 MW of diesel
generators of which 25 MW (20 generators) would be in isolated areas and
50 MW (12 generators) in Sana'a, Hodeida, Taiz and Saadah. When all the
units of the Ras Katenib plant are commissioned the smaller generators in
the urban areas would be transferred to other locations in the country.
34.      The program for the development of the transmission system
consists of two phases. The first phase involves the construction of two
high voltage lines (double-circuit 132-kV) which would connect the power
plant at Ras Katenib to the major load centers at Hodeida and Damar, from
which two branches would connect Damar northward to Amran near Sana'a and
southward to Taiz. The second phase would connect Taiz to the Mocha power
station, Saadah to Amran, and would close the loop with a line between
Baijil and Mufraq (see map). Initial studies for the second phase would
begin in 1981.
35.      Since the present program for the development of the distribution
systems covers only the three main cities, YGEC commissioned a study for
integrating the development program for generation and transmission with a
comprehensive long-term National Electrification Program (NEP) which
outlines a least-cost path for the development and expansion of YGEC's
distribution system. The NEP indicates project implementation priorities,
so that whether a distribution network would be developed by connection to
the national grid or as part of an isolated self-generating system it would
serve the needs of beneficiaries while imposing minimum costs on the
economy. The NEP would be implemented over a period of about 18 years. In
the interim, the NEP allows for extension of YGEC's electricity service to
the principal villages by installing generating units and the associated
distribution networks. As the various phases of the generation and
transmission development program are completed, village connections to the
national grid and transfer of generating units to villages which are not
serviced by YGEC would take place.
Energy Demand and Supply
36.      Petroleum Products.  The annual consumption of petroleum products
increased at an average annual rate of about 26 percent between 1973 and
1979, from 155,000 tons to 608,000 tons. This high rate of growth is
attributed to YAR's low commercial energy consumption base and to the
economic boom which began in the mid-seventies. Nevertheless, YAR



- 10 -
continues to be among the lowest per capita commercial energy consumers in
the world. In 1978, YAR's per capita consumption of commercial energy
reached 53 kilograms of coal equivalent (kgce), compared to an average of
161 kgce for low income countries. However, as GDP growth is expected to
slow down during the 1980s, the growth of commercial energy consumption is
also expected to decline.
37.      Electricity.  When YGEC was incorporated in 1975, electricity
sales amounted to 33,700 MWh, and the number of consumers was 30,700. By
June 1980, electricity sales reached 124,650 MWh (a 30 percent annual
increase), and the number of customers rose to 81,000 (a 22 percent annual
increase). The historical rates of growth in sales would have been higher
if not for constraints imposed by the supply capabilities of YGEC's
isolated systems. For the period 1980-1986, it is projected that YGEC's
rate of increase in sales would at least be maintained at its historic
level. This is reasonable since by 1983, the capacity of YGEC's generation
and distribution systems would be increased substantially with the
anticipated completion of a large part of its interconnected system (paras.
33 and 34).
Energy Pricing
38.      Petroleum Products.  The average cost of importing, transporting
and distributing petroleum products in YAR was $576/ton in January 1980,
compared to a sale price of $466/ton. The difference of $110/ton is due to
subsidies extended to the consumers of diesel oil, LPG, kerosene, and
aviation fuel which mostly covers the rather high handling costs in YAR.
Diesel and aviation fuel are subsidized because they are considered
essential fuels for agriculture, industry and commercial transport. The
low prices of LPG and kerosene, designed partly to discourage the rural
population from using fuelwood, have not fully succeeded in slowing down
the consumption of fuelwood which is favored in rural areas for traditional
cooking. Deforestation continues to be a serious problem.
39.      Between January and June of 1980, the total cost of the subsidy of
petroleum products to the economy amounted to about $36 million, of which
about $24 million was covered by the consumers of the non-subsidized
petroleum products and the remaining $12 million was covered by the
Government. Increasing the prices of LPG, kerosene, diesel oil and
aviation fuel to reduce, or preferably eliminate, the subsidies would
improve the efficiency with which these products are consumed and reduce
the burden on the national budget. The Government agrees with this but
would like to do it gradually.
40.      The reduction of the subsidy for petroleum products would be
undertaken as a part of a comprehensive plan for rationalizing energy
pricing in YAR, which would cover petroleum products, electricity and
coal. IDA has undertaken an energy sector review in YAR which reviews
major sectoral issues. Its recommendations are being discussed with the
Government. The Government has already agreed to initiate additional
studies which would serve as a basis for the formulation of an investment



- 11 -
program for the development and improvement of existing petroleum handling
infrastructure. In particular, the proposed project would finance
consultants to undertake an energy pricing study which would identify and
analyze alternative strategies for pricing energy to assist the Government
in formulating a comprehensive energy pricing policy. A new tariff
structure would also be formulated under a parallel tariff study that would
be financed under the proposed credit (para. 44). The Government has
agreed to engage consultants for the energy pricing study by not later than
July 31, 1981, and to review with the Association, by December 31, 1982,
its plans for the rationalization of energy prices. (Development Credit
Agreement, Section 3.04). As an interim measure, the Government agreed to
take all necessary steps by not later than July 31, 1981, to ensure that
the total bill for the subsidy extended to the consumers of petroleum
products will not exceed the level it reaches as of June 30, 1981
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05).
41.      Electricity Tariffs:  Tariffs for electricity service provided by
YGEC are set by the YGEC and implemented after Government approval. .Under
the prevailing tariff structure, YGEC's customers are classified simply as
either urban or rural and are charged a flat rate/kWh irrespective of the
kWhs consumed. At present, the rate for urban consumers is YRIs 1.0/kWh
($0.22/kWh) and YRls 1.5/kWh ($0.33/kWh) for rural consumers. In addition
to the tariff, each consumer pays an initial connection charge of YRls
1,200 ($266.67). YGEC's rural tariffs are higher than its urban tariffs
since the cost of providing electricity service is higher for rural than
for urban consumers. Smaller, less efficient generators are usually
utilized for rural systems and the cost of constructing a rural
distribution network is higher since the rural population is more
dispersed. The cost of privately supplied electricity ranges between YRls
1.62/kWh ($0.36) and YRls 2.25/kWh ($0.50) for small self-consumers and
between YRls 2.0/kWh ($0.44) and YRls 2.5/kWh ($0.56) for electricity
supplied by small entrepreneurs to their neighbors.
42.      While the tariffs charged by YGEC are relatively high by
international standards ($0.22 to $0.33 per kwh), they fall short of
providing the internal cash needed to finance the large investment program
YGEC has to undertake to develop its interconnected system. This is
because YGEC's program is in its early stages and the number of consumers
that would be served until a substantial portion of the national grid is
constructed and operational and the corresponding revenues YGEC could
derive from them will necessarily be small relative to the cost of the
constructed facilities. YGEC's tariffs are, however, low relative to what
consumers are currently willing to pay for electricity service. The
difference is large enough to justify increasing YGEC's tariffs in order to
mobilize the maximum possible revenues for financing the development of the
power subsector. A realistic objective would be to increase YGEC's tariffs
to cover the actual cost of the resources used in the production of
electricity. At present the price paid by YGEC for fuel is about 61
percent of what it costs the Government. This represents a subsidy of
about YRls 887/ton ($197/ton) which is expected to amount to YRls 42
million ($9.4 million) in total for 1980. The subsidy extended to YGEC's



- 12 -
consumers could be eliminated by setting the price paid by YGEC for diesel
oil at parity with what it costs the Government at present, and passing on
to YGEC's consumers all increases in the cost to the Government of
importing or handling the fuel.
43.      To provide a smooth transition towards elimination of the subsidy
and to avoid sudden changes in tariffs, the Government has agreed to hold
the diesel subsidy extended to YGEC at the level reached on June 30, 1981,
and pass on all future increases in the cost to the Government of importing
diesel and fuel oil to YGEC. The Government has also agreed to introduce a
fuel adjustment clause in the tariff structure which would enable YGEC to
automatically pass on to its consumers, all future increases in its fuel
bill (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05). Because of the expected
commissioning, by 1983, of the steam power plant at Ras Katenib which would
operate by burning fuel oil, YGEC's consumption of diesel oil after 1983
would amount to about 20 percent of its current consumption which would
reduce substantially (by 80 percent) the burden on the Government of the
subsidy extended to YGEC at present.
44.      YGEC's tariff structure needs to be improved.  Differentiation
between consumers solely on the basis of geographical location is not
desirable. Instead, tariffs should be based on the cost incurred by YGEC
in providing the service to each customer class (irrigation, industrial,
commerical, household users, etc.) irrespective of whether they are located
in the rural or urban areas. In addition, YGEC's tariffs should be
redesigned in order to convey to each customer class the cost to the
economy of meeting their demand and to ensure that the revenues generated
would meet YGEC's long run financial objectives. A recent study for the
formulation of cost-based tariffs underestimated YGEC's financial require-
ments since it based the proposed tariff levels on YGEC's short run rather
than long run development program (isolated generators rather than the
central steam plant and the associated transmission network). Appropriate
revisions to this tariff study should therefore be undertaken. The
Government and YGEC have agreed to recruit consultants to undertake the
necessary revisions to the existing tariff study by July 31, 1981 and to
review with the Association, by January 31, 1982, the Government's plans to
improve the structure of electricity tariffs in YAR based on the
recommendations of that study (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.06
and Project Agreement Section 2.03). At the Government's request, IDA has
provided YGEC with draft terms of reference for the tariff study.
Manpower and Training
45.      One of the most serious constraints faced by YGEC is the shortage
of technically qualified personnel. Despite its efforts YGEC has only a
few young Yemeni engineers and has had even less success in recruiting for
vacancies at the middle and senior management levels. As a result, YGEC
relies on expatriate staff (presently numbering 25) and consultants (two
consulting firms). YGEC's dependency on expatriate expertise is expected
to continue for the next five years, during which period its local staff
will be trained and will gain experience in the various functions involved
in the operation and management of a modern electric utility.



- 13 -
46.      YGEC initiated in 1976 a program for the training of various
levels of staff, both in YAR and abroad. In addition, the suppliers of the
electrical and mechanical equipment of the Ras Katenib power station are to
provide training to YGEC's staff abroad, while the contractor for the
erection of the distribution network will provide on-the-job tiaining for
the Yemeni technical staff. Beginning early 1981 training would also be
provided at YGEC's newly constructed center at Dhahban (suburb of Sana'a),
which will initially be operated by staff from Electricite de France on a
French Government grant.
47.      The training of YGEC's staff abroad is mostly financed under the
First Power project (Credit 837-YAR) and involves the training of; (a)
managers of regional offices; (b) a planning engineer; (c) engineers of
different disciplines for the operation of the new steam power plant (Ras
Katenib); (d) a distribution systems design engineer; and (e) accountants
and storekeepers. Implementation of this program has been slow, mainly
because of the shortage of trainable staff. Currently, a Yemeni engineer
is being trained in Germany, 10 technical level staff are to be sent to
Jordan for training by the Jordanian Electricity Authority, and an addi-
tional 10 will shortly be sent to France to be trained by Electricite de
France. The proposed project would also provide badly needed on-the-job
training to YGEC staff in the installation of distribution equipment
(para. 56).
Previous IDA Assistance in the Energy Sector
48.      IDA's first credit for power (Credit 837-YAR) financed a part of
the foreign exchange cost of a project involving the rehabilitation of the
distribution networks of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida, the training of the
staff of YGEC abroad (para. 46), and a study to formulate the NEP. The
project was cofinanced by the Netherlands Government, as well as by a
suppliers' credit. The implementation of the project has been delayed
because of difficulties encountered by YGEC in completing the financing
package. As a result, it is expected that the project will be completed by
the end of 1983 instead of 1981 as originally scheduled. However, YGEC has
now reached agreement with an internationally known construction firm for
the construction work under the First Power project under which 85 percent
of the financing gap would be covered by a supplier's credit provided
through the firm. The remaining gap would be covered by the Government.
Signing of a contract providing for adequate equipment supply and financing
is expected to take place shortly.
PART IV. THE PROJECT
Background
49.      The project evolved in the course of the study, financed under the
First Power project (Credit 837-YAR), to formulate a national
electrification program and was appraised in June 1980. Project
preparation was further assisted by an advance of $800,000 under the
Project Preparation Facility. Negotiations were held in Washington from



- 14 -
December 8 to December 15, 1980. The YAR delegation was headed by
His Excellency Mohamed Ahmed Al-Gunaid, Minister of Electricity, Water and
Sewerage and included representatives of YGEC and CPO. A staff appraisal
report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic: Regional Electrification Project"
(No. 3153-YAR), dated January 19, 1981, is being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The main features of the credit and the
project are mentioned in the Credit and Project Summary and in Annex III.
A map of the project area is attached.
50.      As of June 1980, only about 20 percent of the population of YAR
had access to electricity, and only 9 percent were served by YGEC. Access
to YGEC's service in the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida is 60 percent
compared to only 3.3 percent outside these cities. At the same time, there
are towns with substantial underutilized generating capacity (in some
cases, as high as 400 percent of peak demand) where YGEC would have been
able to extend its service without substantial investment if the
distribution systems were not overloaded. In the outskirts of the urban
areas, at farmers' markets, for instance, consumers cannot be served
because of the dilapidated state of distribution equipment, while in large
villages with a substantial demand for electricity for domestic uses and
irrigation pumping, the proliferation of small generating units owned by
individual households continues.
Project Objectives and Description
51.      The project represents the first phase (1981-1983) of the National
Electrification Program (NEP) and involves the extension of electricity
service to about 17 villages and to the three principal farmers' markets in
the outskirts of the cities of Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida (see map attached);
it also includes an energy pricing study and an electricity tariff study.
The project would enable YGEC to extend its service at least cost by
introducing improvement to and expansion of existing distribution systems,
which would lead to more efficient use of the presently underutilized
generating capacity in the urban areas and outlying villages thus
complementing the work begun under the First Power Distribution project
(Credit 837-YAR) and enhancing the viability of YGEC. The project is the
Government's first major rural electrification effort and would provide a
smooth transition from the existing system of isolated generation to the
interconnected system. It would bring the benefits of adequate and
reliable electric service to about 17,000 new customers and upgrade the
quality of service for another 5,200 existing customers. The project would
extend electricity service to the beneficiaries by: (a) expanding the
distribution network in the villages of Yarim, Anis Duran, Saadah, Radaa,
Zabid, Manakhah, Sherqi, Bait Shamran, Zurajah, Al Gaif, Habban, Al Khabar
and Karn Al Asad, and connecting them to nearby existing generating
facilities to take advantage of their underutilized capacities; (b)
installing small generators and constructing new distribution networks in
Hazm Al Jawf, Marib and the suburbs of Zabid to accommodate the existing
relatively high demand for electricity; (c) rehabilitating and reinforcing
the distribution networks in the farmers' markets in the cities of Sana'a,
Hodeida and Taiz to provide electricity for the existing unsatisfied
demand; and (d) constructing the subtransmission line (33-kV) and the
distribution network in Bani Hushaysh and Mabar.



- 15 -
52.      The proposed credit would finance about 66 km of 33kV lines, 190
km of llkV lines, 520 km of 220V wall-mounted cable, 74 (3-phase) and 240
(single-phase) distribution transformers (total capacity 15.5 MVA), 2,300
street-lights, 3 generating units (one 1,200 kW and two 100 kW), erection,
installation and civil works associated with these facilities, and
consultant services for project engineering and construction supervision,
and for the energy pricing and the electricity tariffs studies.
Project Cost and Financing Plan
53.      The estimated total cost of the project, excluding interest during
construction is $21.5 million, of which $16.35 million would be in foreign
exchange. These estimates, adjusted to reflect December 1980 prices, are
net of customs duties, and are based on prices quoted in contracts for
goods and works awarded on June 1980. Physical contingencies of 8 percent
for equipment and materials and 10 percent for civil works were assumed in
developing the cost estimates. These contingencies are reasonable in light
of the fact that project engineering is at an advanced state of
preparation. Price contingencies for the local cost components have been
calculated at 27 percent in 1981, 22 percent in 1982 and 20 percent in
1983. Price contingencies for the foreign cost component have been
calculated at 9 percent for 1981, 8 percent for 1982 and 7 percent for 1983.
54.      The proposed IDA Credit of $12.0 million, represents 56 percent of
total project cost net of taxes and duties and 73 percent of foreign cost;
the remaining $4.35 million of the foreign cost would be financed by other
donors, most likely Germany or The Netherlands. Of the local cost of $5.15
million equivalent, YGEC would finance $0.4 million (8 percent) from its
internal cash generation, customers would contribute $1.1 million (21
percent); and other donors, together with the Government, would finance the
remaining $3.65 million (71 percent). Both The Netherlands and Germany
have indicated the possibility of their contributing to the financing of
local costs of the proposed project as well. The signing of agreements
with cofinanciers for about $8 million to complete the financing package
for the project would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(c)). Furthermore, the
Government and YGEC have agreed to cover the balance of local cost
requirements that may not be provided by the co-financiers. The Government
has recently expressed its intention to set up a central revolving fund for
the specific purpose of assuring the provision of local counterpart funds
for IDA-assisted projects on an adequate and timely basis. The Government
is currently considering this matter in more detail and is expected to
reach a decision on its implementation shortly. In the meantime, for the
purpose of better assuring the availability of local funds for this
project, the Government agreed to establish a special revolving fund at the
Central Bank of Yemen in the name of YGEC, to be used exclusively by YGEC
to make payments in Yemeni Rials for expenditures on account of the
project, in accordance with arrangements satisfactory to the Association
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02). Establishment of this
revolving fund is a condition of effectiveness of the Credit (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(d)).



- 16 -
Engineering and Construction Supervision
55.      YGEC, assisted by consultants financed under Credit 837-YAR, has
completed field investigations, the basic engineering design for the
networks, and preliminary estimates of equipment and material required to
implement the project. YGEC has also appointed these consultants to
prepare, by January 1981, the detailed design, confirm the quantities of
equipment and material, and prepare the specifications and bidding
documents for their procurement. In addition, the consultants are to
conduct detailed surveys of all the project areas, train YGEC's survey
crews, prepare a critical path for project implementation, and assist YGEC
in the evaluation of bids. It is estimated that 36 manmonths of consulting
services at a cost of about $275,000 will be required. To expedite project
implementation, IDA has provided $800,000 from the Project Preparation
Facility to finance the foreign exchange costs of: (i) the preparatory work
for the proposed project which has been done by these consultants under
their first contract and which is not being financed under Credit 837-YAR;
and (ii) the additional work of preparation of the proposed project, to be
done by these consultants under their contract.
Project Implementation
56.      In order to ensure the orderly implementation of the proposed
project, and to develop an appropriate institution responsible for
implementing the NEP, a Project Unit would be created at the head office of
YGEC headed by a project manager and staffed with the necessary technical
and support personnel. The construction supervision consultant would also
provide on-the-job training to YGEC's staff. The establishment and
staffing of the Project Unit and the appointment of a project manager is a
condition of credit effectiveness (Development Credit Agreement, Section
5.01(e)). The project manager would report to YGEC's chief engineer and
would be assisted by the engineers of the construction supervision
consultant in supervising project implementation and ensuring that progress
of work adheres to the critical path prepared by the consultant before
initiation of project implementation. The execution of the project would
be entrusted to a construction contractor with the provision that, to the
extent possible, its local staff would be drawn from YGEC's personnel. The
total cost of the installation and erection contract is estimated at
US$6.04 million, including contingencies, of which about US$3.64 million
would be in foreign exchange. Upon implementation of the project, YGEC
would own the project facilities and operate and maintain them in
accordance with appropriate utility practices.
57.      The Government has agreed to conclude a consultant contract for
the supervision of project implementation by June 30, 1981 (Project
Agreement Section 2.03). Specifically, YGEC is currently negotiating a
consultant contract for the supervision of project implementation which
involves advisory services for materials transport, storage, handling and
inventory control, and assistance to YGEC in monitoring the program of
project implementation and preparing quarterly progress reports for IDA.
This work would require about 70 man-months at a total foreign exchange
cost of about $590,000 (about $8,400 per man-month on the average)
including staff salaries, social costs, firm's overhead and fees, overseas
allowance and international travel.



- 17 -
Financial Performance of YGEC
58.      Financial Situation.  YGEC increased its tariffs by 75 percent
between 1975 and 1980, but only achieved an average financial rate of
return of about 5 percent on its assets during this period, below its
covenanted (under Credit 837-YAR) minimum rate of return on revalued assets
of 8 percent starting from fiscal year 1979-80. This can be attributed to
a large extent to the delays experienced by YGEC in implementing the First
Power Project which adversely affected YGEC's financial position since the
poor state of its distribution systems severely restricted its ability to
generate sales and revenues commensurate with the increase in its assets.
59.      Financial Forecast.  The income statements of YGEC for 1980
(July-December), and projections for the years 1981 to 1986 show that at
present tariff levels, YGEC can achieve a rate of return of only 3 to 4
percent during the 1980-83 period. An attempt to achieve YGEC's covenanted
rate of return of 8 percent on revalued assets in 1981 is inadvisable as it
would require the imposition of unrealistically high tariff increases and
thus would encourage further proliferation of small-scale private
generation which would be wasteful of the country's energy resources.
YGEC's serious financial constraints should significantly ease after 1983
since it is expected that the central power plant and the distribution
networks in Sana'a, Taiz and Hodeida will have been expanded and
interconnected by then. YGEC would thus be able to increase sales and
improve earnings significantly. However, the structure of tariffs will,
nevertheless, be reviewed through the proposed tariff study (para. 44).
The Government and YGEC have agreed to take all measures necessary, to
enable YGEC to achieve rates of return on revalued assets of not less than
3 percent until 1983, 5 percent in 1984, 6 percent in 1985 and 8 percent in
1986 and thereafter (Project Agreement, Section 4.03(b)).
60.      In addition, the Government and YGEC have agreed to submit to IDA,
by November 30 of each year during the period of project construction, the
financing plan for YGEC's operations and expected construction activities
in the following year, which would ensure that the agreed upon rates of
return will be met. YGEC will also be asked to ensure, as was the case
under Credit 837-YAR, that its accounts receivable for electricity supply
do not exceed 60 days billings (YGEC's compliance with this has been
satisfactory thus far), and to reach a decision by June 30, 1981 on the
scope and implementation of an appropriate billing system with a view to
increasing efficiency (Project Agreement, Section 2.04).
Accounting and Auditing Systems
61.      Under Credit 837-YAR, YGEC is required to submit to the
Association its annual financial statements as audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association, and the audit report within 6
months after the end of each fiscal year. The present audit arrangements
are satisfactory. Although there have been delays in audit in the past, it
is expected that with the improvement in its accounting work, YGEC would be
able to submit its audited accounts to the Association within the
prescribed period of 6 months after the end of the fiscal year. The
existing audit covenant would be repeated in the proposed Credit.



- 18 -
On-Lending Arrangement
62.      The IDA credit of $12 million would be onlent by the Government to
YGEC for 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at an annual rate of
interest of 7.5 percent. Interest during the grace period would be capi-
talized and thus repaid over 15 years (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.01(b)). This would relieve YGEC of the burden of interest until
1986 when a more substantial proportion of its interconnected system would
be in full operation, thus generating more revenues and enhancing its
ability to meet debt service obligations.
Procurement
63.      Procurement of distribution equipment and materials financed under
the proposed credit would be under international competitive bidding (ICB)
in accordance with the World Bank guidelines. Procurement of small quanti-
ties of such equipment and material, not exceeding $200,000 equivalent in
the aggregate, would be permitted in accordance with international
shopping, after inviting quotations from at least three manufacturers.
Disbursement
64.      The proceeds of the proposed credit, to be disbursed over a three
year period, would finance: (a) 100 percent of the foreign cost of distri-
bution equipment and material (about $9.8 million); (b) 10 percent of the
total cost of the erection and installation and civil works contract
(about $0.6 million); 100 percent of the foreign cost of consulting
services (about $1.5 million).
Justification
65.      The project represents the first phase of a national program
designed to impose the least cost on the national economy. The economic
return on the investment is about 16 percent which compares favorably with
an opportunity cost for capital of about 11 percent. In estimating the
project's benefits, the consumers' willingness to pay derived by calcu-
lating the weighted average of the highest rate consumers pay for the elec-
tricity supplied by the small entrepreneurs, and the lowest cost incurred
by consumers in generating electricity for their own use were taken into
account.
Project Risks
66.      There are no major risks associated with this project.  However,
there are two possible causes of delays; (a) in the completion of the steam
power plant at Ras Katenib; (b) in the commissioning of the associated
transmission lines connecting Ras Katenib to the main load centers. These
delays would deprive Bani Hushaysh and Mabar of power from the central
power station. However, this would not be significant since Bani Hushaysh
would be served from Sanaa and Mabar from Damar, both through the 33 kV
transmission line included in the project.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.      The draft Development Credit between the Yemen Arab Republic and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the
Yemen General Electricity Corporation (YGEC) and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.      Features of special interest in the draft Credit and Project Agree-
ments are listed in Section III of Annex III. The following are special
conditions of effectiveness: (i) the signing of loan agreements between the
Borrower and the external co-financiers to complete the financing package
for the proposed project (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(c));
(ii) setting up a special revolving fund to provide local counterpart funds
fcr the project with funding and disbursement arrangements satisfactory to
the Association (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(d)); and (iii)
establishment and staffing of the Project Unit and appointment of a project
manager (Development Credit Agreement, Section 5.01(e)).
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
69.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Development Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 21, 1981
Washington, D.C.



ANNEX I
- 20 -                                                               Page 1 of 5
Page I
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF              REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEYAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                            - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            195.0                                                      MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      15.2                                 MOST RECENT          NORTH AFRICA 6           MIDDLE INCOME
1960  lb    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST        LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                     ..          .,    420.0                 818.5                   1562.9
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)       6.3         16.0      48.0                545.0                   1055.9
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      4.0          4.8       5.6
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 3.4           6.0       9.3                 45.7                     63.4
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        9.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         19.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2170
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       21.0         25.0      29.0                 40.7                     28.1
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    263.0        216.0     368.0                598.6                     81.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.3         44.1      45.8                 44.0                     41.4
15-64 YRS.                         54.0         53.2      51.0                 52.5                     54.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.7          2.7       3.2                  3.5                      3.9
POFULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.9          1.8       1.9                  2.6                      2.7
URBAN                              8.1          7.5       7.7                  4.5                      4.1
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    49.0          54.0      48.0                 41.6                     34.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     29.0         29.0      25.0                 13.7                      8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               ..          3.5       3.5                  2.9                      2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..          ..         ..                 16.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         119.0        85.0       86.0                 93.5                    106.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   88.0        78.0       91.0                103.6                    107.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          69.0        57.0       68.0                 69.8                    65.6
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       19.0         15.0      19.0                 17.5                     33.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     55.0         38.0      31.0                 17.5                      8.4
HEALTP
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   36.0         40.0       39.0                 54.4                    63.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..          ..         ..                   .,                    66.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ,,          4.0       4.0                 62.5                     65.9
URBAN                               ,,        45.0       30.0                 82.9                    80.4
RURAL                               ..          2.0       2.0                 45.1                    44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..         ..                   ..                     62.3
URBAN                               ..          ..         ..                   .,                     79.4
RURAL                               ..          ..         ..                   ..                    29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              ..      34040.0   13830.0               4688.7                  1849.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..          ..   4931.0                 1751.5                  1227.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           2901.0      1552.0    1956.0                 635.5                   480.3
URBAN                               ..          ..
RLRAL                               ..          ..
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOL')
TOTAL                                ..         ..        5.0
URBAN                               ..          ..        4.2/c
RURAL                                ..         ..        6.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                ..         ..        2.8
URBAN                               ..          ..        1.8/c
RURAL                               ,.           ,        3.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..          ..
URBAN                               ..          ..       56.5/c
RURAL                               ..          ..



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                                   Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
YEnEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC                REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAiES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE )-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NDRTH AFRICA             R MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         NDRTH EAST         LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 8.0        10.0      25.0                  76.4                    99.7
MALE                 14.0        18.0      43.0                  92.2                   101.0
FEMALE                0.4         2.0        6.0                 59.9                    99.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  0.1         1.0        3.0                 33.3                    34.4
MALE                   *-         1.0        5.0                 41.9                    33.5
FEMIALE                ..         0.1       1.0                  24.2                    34.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECONDARY)    ..          2.0       2.0                  9.8                     38.2
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           45.0        51.0      38.0                  39.2                    30.5
SECONDARY                         17.0        24.0      21.0                  25.1                    14.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        3.0           ..      13.0                 39.7                     76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ,.                  15.3                    43.0
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..        14.0       13.0                139.6                   245.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          ..          ..        ..                  29.0                    84.2
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..        10.0          .                 22.2                    63.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..          ..         ,.                  2.8
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1225.7      1361.7    1430.2
FEHALE (PERCENT)                   3.8         4.2        6.0                  9.6                    22.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             83.2        79.3       76.3                 47.0                    37.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 6.9         9.0      11.0                  23.8                    23.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               30.0        29.1       28.3                 26.1                    31.5
MALE                                57.0         55.1      53.6                 47.0                    48.9
FEMALE                               2.3          2.4       2.5                  4.7                     14.0
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.5          1.6       1.9                  1.9                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEROLDS     ..          ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ,.                 262.5
RURAL                               ..          ..    lO0.0                  140.4                   190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                 202.1                   474.0
RURAL                               ..          ..      83.0                 122.2                   332.5
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..                  22.1
RURAL                               ..          ..      80.0                  33.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-wetghted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b  Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c  In the major cities of Sanaa, Ta5z and Hodaidah.
Most re-e-t estimate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 22-                                                                           ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Not..:  Although the data or  draw  fro  sources. generally judged thu mastauthoritative end reIable. it should also be noted that they may not he i.ear-
nat1on..llyto-par..hil  bor.un  o f the lac  o~f stndorde .defiittn   ond concpts an.d by different ronntr  Iea  in 1rolleott  the data.  The data see,ne-
choices,.. usful to descoth  ardor, of ngttd.indicate trends, ad oh.ar-teria  ostain major differences. btwun coutries.
The r:fere-ug ..oo.  arel (1) the        ..ane cutry group of the suhjeet o-otry and (2) .  onr  group nith somewhat higher uveFge moo.   than the coutry group
of nhe shjet  -outey (exce.pt for  iCttal Surplus Oil fopo-ter' gr op wher  'Middle incm   North Afrira and Middle Roat" i tnhosen he rous  of stonegec
aoi-olurlffinition).  In tho ref-or... group date theargsac  population weighted artchrtic means for  -ah  odiratr snd show   only  h.se at
les   atof th   .. cutrisin    gop  n  dta f.o  that iudictor.  Niece the coverge o.f  -outrine amag the indiuscor .deperd  on the avsilability of
LAND0 AgEA (thousand sqian.)                                                                   poaai       arPhpeiuian - f'palaeoin dlvidsA by nomoa  ot practicing pOp-
Total - Tta1eurfecs acre coprising land area and inland waters.                                ali.an  qualified fl ra  amdical  -boo  at  niveosity leve.
Anri-ultu-I - EAtisair of ugrlc-Itnrlereanssd temporar ily or peraetly                      Papaletion Pst Nuredg Person - Population divided by nambar of prertiriag
foe crops, pasurs,nas  and hitcher garden .. r. to lie fallow; 1977 date.                   maletad feml  gaute  uss  practiral naross, and asoistast serase
Puniatin oa    oetlNdV  -           uetl  .luban  mad-erl - Populatiss (tstal,
OH  PER CAPITA (US$)-lPprcpt   siae  et cu  etmretpia    a-                                      ure,adrra)dvddh  their rspiotilve en"iar of heepital beds
-ulated by nam   -ovrlnathod as World BDuok Atla  (1977-79 haeie); l9bS,                       avilble te puhit o ad private geoet1 and spe-iaimed heepita   -ye
197i, and  1979duta.                                                                          habilitatian  cetr . Opitels are eetblishmsts peeanatly staffed
- A ... I --pti.. of       gy ~      ~         by at leant on  physician.  Establishmets providing principally ontod
EN:ISY,CoNNUgTlOK,PER CAITA -  oolunopino1omoileeg   ca                                          08cr 55 non  n-lsded.  NRel1 hosp itals, howve- Incuehalth and msdi.rI
and lgeit. perolsm. ntura  gas and hydra-,. .oo.na. and ""ehe-'nal a -                 retr   o   emnetyeafdb     physicte (hut bp e mdiosi asaitnam
tiriottY) to kilograme of cu..    qi.     o 1Per -apita; 1960, 1970, and 1978                 ass,mdwife, etc.) which offer to-Patient actmdatin and preside a
data.                                                                                          liitad range of mediral facilitia.FPer etatistita1 p-spesme nebe  Isept-
nels inelede OND  principal general and speislised khspitela            d eral
POPLTINAND VITAL STATISTICS                                                                      hospitals loui or mea   hospitala andmeical ad-  . maa         -t cstr.
TtlPoru,-st     --n.  Sid-ea   .....lte  . Aa  .of  uy  I; '  O, 1970, and 1970         Adalaaions Per dose1ital gad - Total .-mI   of udmlsela   no or distharge,
data.                                                                                       ft rahsitals divided by the nuber of bade.
Uba Prutin(sun ofntel) - Ratio of urbe' to totalpplain
differant definitor  of6 ors  areas7 maylaffert   -nParabtlity of data                  HOUgSIG
aman  coutrie  190, 1970, an  17  dat.                                                    Avmeea. SEetf.       shadi-eua-eknsii- tetsi. nebam. andeeS
... lot   _________ A.as.idomte et. aogf                                                                                       AtmIeitdsal  sit sh-s Stisg qa-ec
Porula2ti-o In yea  2000 - Current populnotou proje-tioa ar  ha...d on 1990                 sod ehste mano meal. A nerda  orldger map er may san is iciadad Is
total pupulatien by age sod see and thte mortality an  fertilitY rates.                   tia hsuasbad fat seP.tes          "_,ses
Projeonionpaaetc  fur sortaitY rates  uonpriee of three 1-levl   mo-                    Asaseie   fersaero   - eai. urban, and  -ees  - A ..eags 
leg lfe  epsttaryatbirth icreas ing with cot     rnprn  iaicm                       a   fpeoseprr    ueiabe   n   el.1  -ntupis  somaisool
level, and femal  lift s-p-to-ay snhilietg en  77.5 yer.    Tepr-                         daIins       W-eetivslp.  Da11issa eatlads  --parsg tm  s-starem  ss
meer  fr  etiit rtsaso bays tires.I   .... Inenin  decline to                             uauoePied parts
fertiltpaaoading  t  incom  leve  and Pant family pl.ise g pofrac.             Al=as  tO  lorcs    noato   sles   tote1, aria, and  -ueI-
Each  ..onttp is then assigned one of chess nins combinations of martality                C5mtoadvimsmnisorotpsSving qarrs -  P.r-asa.
and fertility trends fur ptojeucien porpoo.                                               of tstal, urban, and ruem  dollins. respeo-ti-  .
Statioc   populatiou_It.as.tati-nay populati`o there is eo growth store
the birch eote is aqual to the deotb ltat, and elan the nge struatare t-             EDUCATION
main ..s...taet.  Thie is achieved ul..y after fertility rotsa decline.t n              A jiuted Eutallast Ratos
the espianement leve  af uit oat P rpdotion rats, when each generation                    prmr   oaI- natal,male and f sale - Grus. total, male  -d f meal
of .wa  replaces itself  -natly.  The stationery  .poplation si- weaciunof all ages at the pri...ry leve  as parratagas of reapsotle,
matimmeed on the hesie ofhe projsuted rh-era-triatios of the population                     prmrl       colaepopulations; aemlly incladm   hbldree age  6-li
Is the year 7000, and tb   aeo   ei,o   etlt   aet   elr-yea   bar adjusted. for diff-emt length. of primary edunatie; for
ment leel                                                                                    countrie   withanv a  education enrolmet map enod 150 .plret
mar stationr   enculatiun is reached - The yea  when sttienay pnpolstto                         ic   aepuisaeblworsoeteoftra   colse
alga baa been emahed._h._ttl
sco...dary  sc  -  oa, mal  an  fam1e   Computed ne  bo;  -seconday
Populetion  Imna      .-ity              o_ i".  (00h-                .)ofd_otion  equirne et leas.t fouo years ofaprvdriryttruin
Par  o.  a. -Midyearpreatio   pe  nonre  ilomter(105bruars   ofprovides ga.eral.,voretional  or tearbat training inetrootio    fsr PpLStb
totl a.reai.ull1Iusual..  .                       -     .l.l-I..  I.                             jly nf 12 to 17 yearn of age; cerempsndmmeeas    r  gmea-
only.                                                                                     '...aninaI norl.lbat (reroent of seaondar   -Vctional inatitai
Poulation  Me Pst-uour   (ooceet) - Children (0-14 Yeast) * workin-a-ge (15-                   igoinde teChninal, indutril, or other'prgogr, whishob            en  iadp.-
64 pma T), and retire   (60 years end ove) as percetages of mid-yea  p.pu-                     dentlyora  departneats nof seondsry inetitotinne
latian; 1960. 1970, end 19178 data.pul-arsfato-riryan  aeodery   TuR   todeets enrolld in.
PParletion  Growth Rate   pret  -ttl-Anulgot  ftes of total mid-                                Primary and sondr  levels`=       divdedby numbers of t-.hohar  in ths
yeac prpulatiin   for 1950-0  1960-7, end 1970-78.                                             coreponding level.
Porulation Gr-h  gate  (percetS  -urhan -  uA=nal growt  rates  or urban poP-                  Adult ,itarac,y  ft foepoet)-    - titernte  adults (able to read and wins)
Lstt..a for I950-60. 1960-70, and 1970-79.a8                                                          eonneo t4   toeiauopplto.gdi   er   n   eo
Cond  Bicth  Rate (oar thousantd) - Annua  lIve birtha Per tbonasd of mid-year
population; 1960. 1970. and 1970 date.                                                  CONSUI10TION
Crud. Death Rats  free thous.an) - An--I deaths Per thousan.d of mId-ye-                     Pase-nge   Cats (per thougand  rpuPlgtio)-Paene   asnupiemtn
popuILaion; 1960. 1970, and 1970 data... care seti  less thc night pneegu;  nclode.s abulan.... h-sree  en
Grams  gerroduonina  Rats - Averge nuasr of da-ghtarn a  omn   il hea  in              military v-hiole..
henormlrptutv  period if abs operlances Prosent aga-aparifiOr fer-                        Ra.dio Re.eivere  Or-  thaneand   AglnOr       ll typsa of r...sires f- orod
tift    ats;uual  five-pent, eoge  enin  I  1960. 1970. end 1977.                           broad casts no general1 public per choonund of  .poplanioa; anldes uni-
PeaIr   lauieaAieetrs.Annal(thousands) -Annual nuber of ....epnue                       ceased  ei-oo  in coutries and to Years whem r9istretio    frdi  seI
of birth-uotrlL _eica_      nn  esin  of national P eily plning. program,                   was in effeut; data for rennt pears maY not be o_perble sinna met
Pamily Planieg1   Users  (o-r.ent of maried  woen  - P-e...ntage of maried                     coutries abolished lIt....ing.
woe  of child-bearing  age (15-44 pear) -hu us  birehb-natrl1 devices tc                   TN R.naiv-rs  ipr thoseand  oneulaci-a) - TV ....tIere for breadrea  to
ail_l mried wome  to sane ago gr_op.                                                         general pblifo per thousand papulinto; ...ludes uninens TV ....niv...
FOOD AND0 NUTRITIONi.oti. dI.y- h--ict..o                                                                                                                st=        .  f.t
tleerperCicultin  (eethoead  repulatice) - Show  the avengs rirna-,
laden  o  Pond  Peduotio per Ca ita(169-71-10) - Indee of pl.o cptanul                onf"diygsrlneetnwppr,dfIne   eaPeidsp-
pducaof  IIfod, coadIitos.  Productio  alodes seed and fand and                       linntiou devoted primarily to  rnoiogenrlews    ti  rniaa
is on rlsodar  our bacn.  Com-dities  royce primary goods (a.g.  udran               to be "daily" if it app.arlatInst four to .a.  awash.
inetoadoS ougr) whibgare  dible and  -utain nutrients n.      budfe   n            Cinen   Annul AttendaneprCpt   a                erDsdo  the. nomboc of
tea ooe escldnd).    ggrgt   rd lnof each coutry is  te    o                           icketsoeld duringteya,icuig    odinftoe                     d div-in i.     a
ntio             p vug   prducrprc  wght; 19165, 190, and 1970 data,admbieuis
Per  capita  sueplpjy  of. cneire  (percet  of renireets) - Compted from
enry eqivalet of nt fon  suplies avalible in notey Per .a.pita                      LABOR FORCE
per dy.  AvaILable suppliescaes  dometic prodnetion, iepsrte I..e                       Totl Lab.For ore- thousan ds,)--to         trlyative persons. innloisg
anor ts, anduhange  in  t-ck.  Set supplies mald   nmlfnd   ed,                           amd fues  anod unapinyad bteeoiebuate ..snens.                          s
qunttOn   sd in food Fpror...iog, and loean  distribution.  Emur-                    Dfntosi   aiu    onre   r   o   uprbe   960, 197  and
meets ware esuinated by PhEC b.. d on phynio1ogial nenda f- ornormal soti-           1976 data.
vity ai heath cons.idering  _nvironnota1 tenpe..ur   bdy weightst,age                   Feal   (eren) - Fan1l  lobrefocea  percetage. of totl1 lah.e foero.
nod ens distribution ofpplain,ad alloing 10 percent far wat.                   t           ictoe(cer-ant) - Labofrctoamig f                    oeanr, buntin  ad
household leve; 1961-65, 1970, and 1977 dat.                                             0 niga   eretg   ftotal blao  Porno;g 960, 1970 and 1970. data.
Pe    ait!  supply  ofprtin  (ara   pmrda) - Frotnin content of per nopin              Industry  (Perceot) - Labor force  in inin,cntrcin.mnfacturing
nut" supyof fund 'per doy.   e  supply  ffo   sddne   ssoede                             an.d   acriy,wter andgna  parre..tqgr. of tntal labnt foene; 1960.
qoirenente foral  coue...trisn  etablished by USDA poide Oar eina                         1~970 end 1978 dana.
alloanc  of 60 groa  of totl.  protein per day and 2I gra   of anma  and                Parinesio    gte   pcet.              oa,mi.adfml -- Purlinipatisa o
poles protein, of vhich 10 orm   should be animal protein.  These stand-                   autivi ty rates... a  .. nputed matotal,maean  femal  labor fucasa
arda are 1loe  then thuse of 75 gram   of totul protein and 22 grlm    f                   percentages cf tol  male end female population of alnesaepanively;
aIma   rtina       veag   o  the world,  proposed by PAO in the Third                   1960. 1970, and 197  dt.  These are TLO's p-rtinipatian  rates efla-ti
Worlld Fond Suryey; 1961-65, 1970 aod  0l7p7 data.ag-e  stucur  of th popuaintn   ogsneted                                                                      e   et
Chid   (ges1-i  Motelry   ate(ea  thusad)   Anuldeths... pee tousand  int              toheto .tal.aof Poe.pplti,sdI.ti trd    Af .t-
crire data derived from life tables; 1~~960. 170  1d9io    dt .d              im7ed  o  IITEOUU
PRSIT   ti     l..       Pvso paornt fr-ree   SO pe...                                                                            pnot10pret   a   unet6   enn
at hifth; 1960, 1970 and 19781 data..    "i.of  .pl.i.  -.l  5  .d65..
Infat  MrtaityRac  (pr  tousnd)- Anua  dethsof  nOata  nde  or  ye   PVEEt. thOU t   caooliblfl.
Numer  f popl  (tta, uban  an  rual  wih raauablucrnsto  nf                        nuritonllyadauat  dic onINCOntME                nn-fndtTqiIBUnTIisni
riFounjtainoratndos  locatednot mar tvhacS 10b5 nofse f..  eof aif house ma  bn                fperoa    non   fteuner.Oba   eets  s                          oo   h   ua
roneidered oa baing withiO  hsn.heacs   fto  bue    oua   ra                           nn  richlodloteefcb..otoflcn    nobnaes
e.fSau -tele ause tnl  implyt thatd th  boosevtf  oc menhete of the            . honeol  POEstmae P-GoPulto    eo            bouepvryInoelvl(   et                         ra
dof not hoetP     pn..mprpein                 atoftrdyt   ecig  thed                         an~t.  Ititd  eAlb   ecn  of.oplaio      (or S$ and c,pia.). wh  era "soduspo"
Anages  to pplyec   lianodal -nrua.  of  oaoltio   -to.tal   uban  andti,ld                    ffd
tnal-t  NunberIh of pole  ttl  urban, and.: rural) seve  hys_o_ureta.  RI.il   ..lyIsosL..                                                    .
disposal as pretage  ofrh -.. to- repm1ctice        . puo btins   foese.    ~l.R-                     lt-P-t dis-             oois n  Sochial Sat  Division          -pit
p ta i ma  tncldps th  .cletion  and dhspoe2si, withbor without thctm.n. e tnaly   nlyate and Peis rtio-d fapaomathut
of human encot  and.  wath-vatIs    -bywl I-ofne         "h..     ~ _ '           '          pl      ' nystttaf Or the...usel O`gnohe  1980
pit priviesC.. en    -Imilar  tseltihn. h.-f   .sbl   fI                    ..p,lyI-L                                                                        Rj t    



- 23 -
Annex 1
Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (US$-Mln)                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
1978/79 1/               (Constant Price)
(Current Prices)          FY1973-79      FY1979
GNP at Market Prices                 3810                    11           -4
GDP at Market Prices                 2800                     8            9
Gross Domestic Investments            900                    19           10
Gross National Savings                524                    13          -40
Exports of GNFS                        56                    -3          -23
Imports of GNFS                      1441                    21           24
OUPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY (1978/79) 1/
Value Added    Resident Labor Force 2/  V.A. Per Worker
USS-Mln       %    Thousand        A          ; S       h
Agriculture            1000       38        1450        76          690      50
Industry                350       14         150        8         2330      170
Services               1250       48         300        16        4170      300
TOTAL/AVERAGE      2600      100        1900      100         1370      100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YRIs Mln)
% of GNP
1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1978/79   1978/79
Current Receipts                 605      1293     1985      2188         13
Current Expenditure              617       841     1250      1839         11
Current Deficit/Surplus          -12      452       735       349          2
Capital Expenditure              361       603     1167      2670         16
External Assistance, Net         635       606      697      1904         11
MONEY CREDIT AND PRICES
---YRls Million Outstanding End Period---
Money Supply                    2028      3642     5248      6311
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector   -407       -939      -990      -609
Bank Credit to Non-Govt.
Sector                         566     1474      1555      2199
------Percentages or Index Numbers------
Money Supply at % of GNP          27        31       34        36
Annual Percentage Increase in:
Money Supply                 110       80        44        20
Consumer Price Index          17       24        19        22
1/  Tentative World Bank estimates. The entire national accounts
series is currently being revised by the Government.
2/ Includes part-time female labor primarily in the traditional sector.



- 24 -
Annex 1
Page 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Mln)
1973/74  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78   1978/79
Exports of Goods, fob             14        12        19         7          3
Imports of Goods, cif           -194      -382      -730     -906    -1,405
Trade Balance                   -180      -370      -711      -899    -1,402
Non Factor Services, net          14        21       -10       -21         19
Factor Income, net               117       479       896      1160       1007
Workers' Remittances, net   (112)    (457)    (842)   (1090)          (898)
Invesment Income, net           (5)      (22)      (54)      (70)     (109)
Balance on Current Account       -49       130       175       240      -376
M & LT Capital, net               62       153       146       165        435
Official Grants                 33       114       104       103       312
Official Loan, net              29        39        42        62       123
Disbursements                (32)      (42)      (46)     (68)      (133)
Repayments                   (-3)      (-3)      (-4)     (-6)      (-10)
Other Capital (including
errors and ommissions), net   10         -11       133      -32        144
Increase in Reserves (-)         -23      -272      -454     -373       -203
Gross Reserves (end FY) 1/       150       520       974      1347       1550
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, JUNE 30, 1979                 MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
(Average 1976/77-1977/78)
Total Outstanding            1,075          Cotton and Cotton Products        31
of which disbursed             543          Coffee                            13
Hides and Skins                  14
DEBT SERVICE RATIO 1978/79 2/               Biscuits and Confectionary         9
All Other Commodities            33
%                                               100
Total Outstanding and
Disbursed                   1.7
1/ Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
_/ Includes workers' remittances.
EM1DB
January 1981



- 25 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 6
THE STATUS OF-BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A. Statement of IDA Credits 1/
(As of December 31, 1980 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                            (less cancelations)
Number    Year           Borrower            Purpose               IDA   Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways I                  7.7          -
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture I   21.2 2/           -
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Education                  11.0          -
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply                6.3          -
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Industrial Estate           2.3         0.70
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Rural Development          10.0         3.00
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways II                 9.0          -
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply and
Sewerage               8.1         1.10
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Education                   8.0         1.12
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Grain Storage and
Processing             5.2         2.20
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic   Livestock Credit
and Processing         5.0         1.80
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply and
Sewerage              10.0         4.51
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic   Port Development            6.0        2.93
794     1978   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways III               11.5        7.36
805     1978   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture II  10.5             7.70
837     1978   Yemen Arab Republic   Power Distribution         10.0        8.20
880     1979   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture III 15.0            15.00
915     1979   Yemen Arab Republic   Education                  10.0        9.64
950     1979   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply and
Sewerage 3/           12.0        12.00
978     1980   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture
IV 3/                  5.5         5.50
1025     1980   Yemen Arab Republic   Fisheries Develop-
ment 3/               17.0        17.00
1067     1980   Yemen Arab Republic   Rural Development          17.0        17.00
Total                                                 218.3 1/   116.76
of which has been repaid                                -
Total now held by IDA                                 218.3
Total undisbursed                                                 116.76
1/ Excluding $7 million credit for textile rehabilitation project which was
cancelled on October 31, 1979.
2/ Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
3/ Credit not yet effective.



- 26 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 6
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of December 31, 1980)
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year            Obligor             Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978    Yemen Dairy and Juice      Dairy Products         2.4      -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                           2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                -                 -
Total commitments now held by IFC                 2.4              2.4
Fully disbursed
C. Other Bank Group Activities
Two Bank grants of $200,000 each, and one of $120,000 were
approved in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of
planning and economic advisors and later of a management/administrative
expert. The Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and
$425,000.
D.  Projects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 465-YAR --Industrial-Estate Project;-$2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
Key staff for the Industrial Estate Development Authority have
been appointed and advisory services for operations and civil engineering
are being secured. Feasibility studies for the planned industrial estates
in Taiz and Hodeidah are underway and the Government is seeking further
assistance in this area from the World Bank.
1/  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaulation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 6
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 17, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31; 1982.
After a slow start, progress on project implementation has been
encouraging. Project implementation has been delayed by managerial,
staffing, and financial problems, some of which still remain.
Nevertheless, these problems are somewhat mitigated by the momentum and
scope of the agricultural extension and credit programs, and the progress
in well drilling, and completing the village water supply components.
Problems of cost escalation have been met by an increase in the
contributions of the Government and beneficiaries, a reduction in the
number of loans that can be made to farmers, and to the extent of the
feeder roads component.
Cr. No. 559-YAR   Hodeidah Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1-million
Credit of June'20, 1975; Effectiveness 'Date:' December 29, 1975;  Closing
Date:   June 30, 1982.
Construction of the water supply and sewerage works is underway.
Transfer of the existing water system assets from the Port Authority has
been effected. The Government is currently shortlisting consultants for
the completion of the tariff study.
Cr. No.'611-YAR-- Second'Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of
February 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: -May 10,- 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
All construction and delivery of most of the equipment and
furniture has been completed. All twelve institutions are operational.
Technical assistance and staffing needs have been met by the appointment of
expatriates from Arab countries and good progress is now being made under
the Basic Training Scheme.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
YGGC was established in October 1976 and is implementing the
project satisfactorily. Six local staff are currently undergoing training
in the US and UK in fields of cereal sciences and bakery management. The
silo and bakeries are operational, and work on the warehouses is complete.
The final report on the National Nutrition Status Survey, carried out in
cooperation with the US Government's Center for Disease Control and USAID,
has been presented to the Government. Cost overruns on construction are
being met by the Saudi Fund for Development and the Government. The grain
storage survey has been completed and is being reviewed. A nutrition
expert has been appointed for about six months to initiate follow-up
activities to the nutrition survey.



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 6
Cr. No. 662-YAR --Livestock-Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million
Credit of November 15j 1976; Effectiveness Date:  August 22, 1977; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
Following escalation in the costs of this project, and a number of
other implementation problems, the project scope was reduced without
changing the project concept. One dairy farm and the livestock fattening
farm are nearing completion; the farms have started operations on a small
scale. The other physical works, although progressing reasonably well at
present, are about one year behind schedule. The slaughterhouse and animal
health components, in particular, are achieving their aims, and the
livestock fattening, dairy production, and village development components
will provide valuable research information and development experience for
the livestock sector in YAR. The administrative and technical problems
encountered earlier in the year are on the way to being resolved, and
project implementation is making progress.
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of-January 14- 1977; Effectiveness Date: May-16, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
All contracts for supply of materials and construction of the
water and sewerage systems have been or are in the process of being
awarded. The draft report of the tariff study has been reviewed by the
Authority and is being revised by the consultant.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Contracts for civil works have now been awarded and construction
is expected to be completed in October 1981, about nine months behind
appraisal schedule. The chief engineer and the electrical engineer have
been appointed. Other technical staff provided for under the credit are
still to be appointed. The Government is continuing its efforts to recruit
qualified staff in order to strengthen the technical services department.
Cr. NO. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date: April 4, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project aims at continuing technical and financial assistance
to the Highway Authority in the operation of effective road maintenance
practices. Other objectives of the project include the implementation of
vehicle loading controls, planning future highway development and the
inception of an overlay program to strengthen existing paved roads.
Project implementation is underway and substantial progress is being made
on all project components.



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 5 of 6
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Second Tihama Development Project-(Wadi Rima); $10.5
million Credit of May'31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: March-5, 1979; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1984
The project provides for the agricultural development of Wadi Rima
by providing technical assistance in agricultural extension and research,
agricultural credit facilities, access roads village water supply schemes,
and includes the construction of the Tihama Development Authority
Headquarters at Hodeidah. The project also provides for gabion test
structures, and funds for UNDP's institutional support to MOA and the
central Agricultural Research Service. Project implementation is slow.
Although senior staff, except for the extension expert, have been
appointed, the award of contracts for the construction of the access roads
and headquarters camp at Hodeidah have been delayed due to the necessity to
clear contract awards with the Government's central tender and procurement
committee. The agricultural extension service is proceeding successfully.
Cr- No. 837-YAR-Power Distribution Project; $10.0'million Credit of
July 25;'1978; Effectiveness Date: ~August 20, 1979; Closing Date:
January 1, 1983
Implementation is underway, and major contracts for the supply of
equipment and materials have been awarded. The rural electrification
interim study has beencompleted. Problems facing YGEC are managerial and
financial. A general manager has now been appointed, although the posts of
assistant general manager for Administration, Finance, and Engineering
remain vacant. YGEC has secured sufficient funds, from external sources,
to meet the foreign exchange requirements of its current development
program.
Cr. No. 880-YAR-- Third Tihama Development Project (Wadi Mawr); $15.0
million Credit and $3.0 million Special Action Credit of April 20, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: February 29, 1980; Closing Date: September 30, 1985
The project includes the construction of irrigation works in Wadi
Mawr; equipping and operating Surdud Agricultural Research and Production
Farm; establishing extension, plant protection and animal health services,
and agricultural credit facilities; and provision of technical assistance in
managerial, engineering and agricultural fields. After a delay in
declaring the credit effective, implementation is now underway.
Cr. No. 915-YAR - Third Education Project; $10.0 million Credit of June 27,
1979; Effectiveness Date: December 21, 1979; Closing-Date: July 31, 1986
The project aims at constructing and equipping an agricultural
secondary school, a livestock secondary school and two regional banches of
the National Institute for Public Administration (NIPA). In addition, pre-
investment studies will be undertaken of regional basic health care services
and related training, and of post secondary educational development.



- 30 -
Annex II
Page 6 of 6
Institutional support to the Ministry of Education and the school building
unit as well as related technical assistance have also been included under
the project. Construction of the agricultural secondary school is about 60
percent completed. Contracts for the livestock secondary school and the
two NIPA branches have been awarded, construction is underway. Fellowship
programs have been drawn up and candidates are being recruited for training
abroad. The pre-investment studies relating to post secondary education
are underway.
Cr. No. 950-YAR--Ibb and Dhamar Water Supply and Sewerage Project;-$12.0
million Credit of November 15, 1979; Effectiveness Date: January 13- 1981;
Closing Date: December 31,;-1984
The project would assist in the construction of water supply and
wastewater systems for the cities of Ibb and Dhamar. It would also provide
technical assistance and training to NWSA staff. Co-financing arrangements
have been finalized. Final designs have been prepared by the consultants,
and hydrogeological studies for Ibb are completed.
Cr. No. 978-YAR- Fourth Tihama Development Project (Wadi Rima II); $5.5
million Credit of-April-21, 1980;-Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective);
Closing Date:  June130, -1985
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1025-YAR - Fisheries Development Project; $17.0 million Credit of
June 6, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet effective); Closing Date:
June 30, 1986
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.
Cr. No. 1067-YAR - Second Southern Uplands Rural Development Project;
$17.0 million Credit of November 24, 1980; Effectiveness Date: (Not yet
effective); Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Action on effectiveness and project start-up is underway.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
REGIONAL ELECTRICATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key-Events
(a)  Time taken by government and              About one year (September 15,
consultants to prepare project:           1979 to September 3, 1980)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:            Government and consultants
(c)  Project first presented to Bank:          November 1979
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:  February, 1980
(e)  Departure of appraisal mission:           June 1980
(f)  Completion of negotiations:               December 15, 1980
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
Project Preparation Facility (PPF) funds amounting to $800,000 were
approved on October 30, 1980 to expedite preparation work (para. 55).
Section III: Special Conditions
1.        Conditions of Effectiveness:
(a)   Signing of co-financing agreements (para. 54).
(b)   Establishment of a special revolving fund to provide local
counterpart funds for the project (para. 54).
(c)   Establishment and staffing of the Project Unit and appointment of
a Project Manager (para 56).
2.        Measures to be undertaken by the Government include:
(a)   Appointment of consultants for energy and electricity pricing
studies (para 40 and 44).
(b)   Elimination of the fuel subsidy extended to YGEC and the
introduction of a fuel adjustment clause in the electricity
tariff and maintainance of the subsidy extended to other
consumers of energy at its level as of June 30, 1981 (para 40
and 43).
(c)   Appointment of consultants for construction supervision
(para. 57).






ISRD 15259
Ri                                                                      >Fs 1''1zW 44 46 A JGJST 0I 9
A   LOITER sU@sTk          ee   R                \   S A U D I    A R ABf I A                                    YEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
<O%               $;gXUDNAe44 A     REGIONAL ELECTRIFICATION PROJECT
N                                            NM OR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T-                   1
-($  :  /=   t g X   /  \\   it                                             * ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DIESEL P OWES STAT OR NAOOITIO ES P0004OJEC
rtŽ/          ;|                                                                                                    A NS DSTEM TOE PANT PLAN1 IWER
< ~ ~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ Ah W                                                                        RIAL POWE AT \(-h ITR ATIONTL5U TDRITE5N
L ~~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ TATNE\IIRT,AOLINTO PLANTER
X~~~~~~~~~~~~20 STNMT,SNW LNL  ATT RETWET
/ ~   ~     ~     \ D J INENTOO BOUTOON.RATIRN'/                      i;     BVrX                   ;     *
WWAI                            ~~~~~~~~Al R-Ef"
r-  ~ ~    ~      ~       ~      ~*Al AH..W
*  It~~~~~~ 20    40                                         60      TO    ITO
~~~7<               ;I;I$j                                                        20 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
hq -h1   7t w                                                           4<
it ~ ~ ~ ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ W    l 
00½ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7   t-    &~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
zaht- f~~~~!~: -%M,.o, 
K-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
TN  S                   -            o.~~~~~~~          - ~PEOPLE'S  DEMOCRATIC  REPUBRLIC   OF   YEMEN
4. rA                            00
/\ /~~~~~~~~~ 
OJ IBOUTI                                                                                               EM28Et 






r.riirssi' t4EUIRAIYEMEN  ARAB  REPUBLIC
-AoeiEzts   -^8"'gw                                                         IDA-ASSISTED PROJECTS BY SECTOR
54 bAU  ARABA 54     -t j                                                                                                  PROJECTS
a,"2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D.. Xt,.t\,. F.
j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~$7t ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~ ~Grai Storog.
C, ETrOPIA                                                                                                                         F,hM.k
HLghw-yMiteac
*      Pow- Staton
U     Water Supply
EXISTING FEATLJRES
Natina Copils
Primay Roads
'S-ord.rn Roads
Wadis~~~~~~~
ELEVATION IMs4e-rs
300
1500
W ~
h~~~~~~~~pwnganrt
ssreat-h      OZLms           550
Jf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e0550sosooaosoroaksr
OassaoAs                    e
/              obssewogrenosors           ts
'  C?           eoosrasseonsureM .soo .     o
N      Cio ~Mtooso&OEsoO            55
T-owsAm-rcn tOOftaO        ga
eTsuria -St                150
4/LFC          17A e7a555~O5e5O                                                        0



